Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
/.A/ .3 /    - C
Report No. 8040-CM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION
AND TRAINING PROJECT
FEBRUARY 12, 1990
Agriculture Operations
Occidental and Central African Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRECY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
USS1 = CFA 332  */                                                    |
WEIGH4S AND IEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMA                -     Atelier do Mat6riel Audiovisuel
CAC                -     Cridit Agricole du Ciniwroun
CAMSUCO            -     Sugar Development Company
CDC                -     Comonwealth Development Corporation
CENADEC            -     Centre National d'Agriculture de Dlv,loppseent
des Coop6rativ-s
CRA                -     Coll4ge R6gional d'Agriculture,
DCD                -     Direction do D6veloppement Coamunautaire
DEA                -     Direction de ['Education Agricole
DEP                -     D6partement des Etudes et Projets
DIRAGRI            -     Direction de I'Agriculture
ENSA               -     Ecol- Sup6ri-ure d'Agricultur-
ETA                -     Ecol- Technique d'Agriculture
FAO                -     Food *nd Agriculture Organization of the U.N.
HEVECAM            -     Soci6t6 de D6veloppment Hiv6a-Cameroun
INADES             -     Institut Africain de D6veloppment Economique et Social
IRA                -     Institut do Recherche Agronomique
KfW                -     Kreditanstalt fur Wi;deraufbau (Federal Republic of Germany)
MESIRES            -     Minist4re de l'Enseignement Sup6rieur, do I'Informatique
et de Ia Recherche Scientifique
MIDEVIV            -     Mission de D6voloppment des Semene-s et dos Cultures Vivri&res
WINAC-RI           -     Minist4re do l'Agriculture                       0
MINASCOF           -     Ministere des Affaires Sociales et de la Condition F4minin-
MINDIC             -     Ministire du Developpement Industriel et Commercial
MIDENO             -     Mission do D6velopment du Nord-Ouest
MINEPIA            -     Ministere de I'ElIvage, de Is Piche et des Industries Animales
MINFI              -     Ministere des Finances
NARP               -     National Agricultural Agricultural Research Project
NAETP              -     National Agricultural Extension and Training Project
OC                 -     Office C6r6alier
PDA                -     Provincial Delegate for Agriculture
PAFSAT             -     Promotion do Systimes d'Exploitetion Agricole Approprl6s Bas6s
sur I1 Traction Animale dons la Province du Nord-Ouest du
Cameroun
SAP                -     Structural Adjustment Program
SEMRY              -     Soci6t6 d'Expanaion et de Modernisation de la Riziculture
I Yagoua
SOCAPALU           -     Soci6t6 Camerounaise do Palmeraics
SODECAO            -     Soci6t6 de D6voloppement du Cacao
SODECOTON          -     Sociit6 do D6veloppement du Coton
SODENKAM           -     Soci6t6 de D6veloppement du NKAM
SODERIM            -     Soci6t6 de D6veloppement do la Riziculture dons
la Plains des Mibos
TLU                -     Testing Liaison Units
USAID              -     United States Agency for International
Development
ZAPI               -     Zones d'Actions Prioritaires Int6gr6es
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
*/ Exchange rate at end May 1989. The exchange rate of the CFA Franc
is fixed at 50:1 to the French Franc, which is a floating currency.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CAMEROON
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PaRe
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE .        .      ....................................   i
KEY FEATURES OF THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR .......................... . .         ii
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ........................................ iii
I.   INTRODUCTION ..................................... . . .                   1
II.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR .         .       .....................................   2
Crop Production and Constraints .         . ...........................   4
Agricultural Institutions .................................. .          7
Agricultural Research .        .     .....................................   8
Extension Experience          .. .....................................   10
Government Policies and Strategy .         . ..........................  13
The Bank's Role and Experience in Agricultural Development..  13
I. THE PROJECT ............... ...................................  14
A.  Project Rationale and Objectives .14
B.    Project Description .. ..o.n...                      ..    14
C.  Detailed Features            a.. .   .......15
Agricultural Extension               ....15
Training                   ....17
Adaptive Research s eh..  .....17
Seed Multlplication                ....18
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .................................  18
A.  Introduction  . ...... 18
B.    Provincial Organization of Extension            .....              19
Line Management                   ..... 19
Technical Supervision. ....                                       22
Transportation                    .          ....22
Provincial Coordination                . ....                     23
Research and Linkages with Extension           .....              23
Training                     ......23
Seed Multiplication                     .        .... 23
This report is based on the findings of an IBRD appraisal mission which
took place from June 6-28, 1989, consisting of Messrs. D. Mitchnik, E.
Quicke, A. Yates and Ms. L. Wardle.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                          Page
C. Central Organization and Management ...................... .    24              j
Monitoring and Evaluation .      . ..........................25
Coordination at the National Level             . . .    25
V.   PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING . ..........................            ........ 25
Cnst Estimates                     ....... 25
Financing                        ....... 26
Procurement                       ....... 26
Disbursements                      ....... 28
Reporting ........... 29
Accounts and Audits                   ....... 29
Project Impact on MINAGRI's Budget              ......  29
VI.  JUSTIFICATION, BENEFITS AND RISKS ....................              ......... 30
Project Impact on Production ............................... 30
Marketing ..............................................         32
Technological Innovation ................................... 32
Financial Benefits ......... . 32
Economic Benefits .......................................... 33
Project Risks .............................................. 34
Environmental Considerations                  .        .         35
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION                 . .... . 36
ANNEXES
1.   Agricultural Parapublic Reform Program
2.   National Agricultural Extension and Training Pilot Project
3    Extension Methods and Organization
4.   Project Phasing
5.   Adaptive Research
6.   Organizational Charts
7.   Monitoring and Evaluation
8.   Detailed Cost Tables
9.   Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursement
10.  Economic Analysis
Map: IBRD No. 21849 National Extension and Training Project (NAETP)



CAMEROON
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN TEE PROJECT FILE
A.  WORKING PAPERS
1.   FAO/CP National Extension and Training Project Interim
Preparation Report; August 7, 1987
2.   IFAD Second Northwest Rural Development Project, Preparation
Report; September, 1988
3.   MINAGRI Project Preparation Report; April 1989
B.   DOCUMENTS AND REPORTS
1.   Training and Visit Extension, D. Benor and M. Baxter.
The World Bank (1984)
2.   Cameroon Agriculture Sector Review, Report No. 7486-CH
(Green Cover); March, 1989
3.    Detailed Cost Tables



- ii -
REPtC OF Coo
NATIONAL AURI.JLTE   w MNC Aum 1RAINDNO PROJECT
KEY FEATUES OF TM AOC    RAL SECTR
1. Population (1988 *stimates)
Total /                                                    11.2 atilion
Rural *o X of Total 3/                                      61
Rural Families                                               1.63 millon
2. Economic Overview
WNP/Had of Total Population (US8 1085/8) /                         260
Agriculture  NP as X of Total  pl                                  24c8
Agriculture ONP/Hed of Rural Fopul4tion CUSS) £/                  44
8.  Land Us.-  /
Land Area (k-2)                                                   475,600
Area Perennial l Crops (he)                                       786,060
Area Annual Crops (ha)                                          1,281,000
4. Doveloment of Production (1988/84 production
Levels af s  of  14/80 production  1979/80 *100/
Cocoa                                                                  98
Robusta Coffee                                                        152
Arabic Coffee                                                          el
Maize                                                                 281
Mll et and Sorghum (bas year 1980/81)                                 100
Rice                                                                  698
Oroundnuto                                                            266
Yams                                                                  188
Cassava                                                                22
Plantains                                                             l1
Potatoes (base year 1982/88)                                          132
Sweet Banana                                                           68
5. Principal Inputs
Fertilizer (mtric tons)  l/ 165,d6S
6 3   Trade '1988)
TotiT Exports (CFAF billion (X)                                   510.9 (166)
of which Agriculture                                              248.5 (47)
Cocoa                                                               72.4 (14)
Coffee                                                             61.2 (12)
Timber                                                              27.2 (6)
Cotton                                                               9.9 (2)
Other Agriculture                                                   81.6 (6)
Total Imports (CFAF billion) (X) 1984/85)3/                       512.6 (100)
of which Food, Beverages, Tobacco A
Agricultural Equipmnt                                            46.4 (9)
7. Government Expenditures (190-91) f/
Total Investment Budget (CFAF billion)                           15A.6
Amount of Investmnts In Agriculture (CFAF billion)                80.6
Percontage of Investments In Agriculture (S)                      19.8
Sources:
s   FAO/CP Preparation Report;
§ Bank Atlas;
c/ Bank Estimate;
Ministry of Agriculture;
*/ Mnistry of Finance, National Accounts;
Ministry of Finance.



- 11I -
CAMEROON
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMM&RY
Borrower:      Republic of Cameroon
Beneficiaries: Ministry of Agriculture (MINAGRI)
Ministry of Higher Education. Computer Science
and Research (MESIRES)
Ministry of Finance (MINFI)
Loan Amount:   US$21.0 million equivalent
Termss         Standard IBRD terms, with a five-year grace period and
20 years maturity.
Proiect
Description:   The project would, over a five-year period, improve the
efficiency of, and harmonize Cameroon's agricultural
extension services, thereby contributing to increased
agricultural production and farmers' incomes. These
objectives would be achieved through:
(a)  reorganization and strengthening of national and
regional extension structures to incorporate the main
principles of the Training and Visit system, including
systematic schedules of visits to farmers, and
effective technical support to front-line extension
agents by management staff;
(b)  a training program comprising orientation and
refresher courses, predominantly in-service, and
short-term overseas training, aimed at upgrading the
manaqgement, technical and communications skills of all
extension staff;
(c)  improvement of research-extension linkages through a
more direct involvement of research staff in adaptive
research and farm tri&ls, and the active participation
of extension staff and farmers in adaptive research
field trials; and
(d) sustained availability of improved seed varieties
through support to seed multiplication activities.



- iv -
Estimated Project Costs
Local Foreian Total
----(US$ million)----
Extension                        6.66     8.39    15.06
Training                         2.53     1.00      3.53
Adaptive Research                2.06      3.05     5.10
Seed Production                  0.79     0.75      1.53
TOTAL BASE COSTS                12.04    13.19    25.23
Physical Contingencies           0.55      1.47     2.02
Price Contingencies              1.77     2.04      3.81
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS 
(Including Taxes)             14.36    16.70    31.05
Taxes                           (1.49)   (0.00)   (1.49)
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS             __
(Net of Tazes)                 12.87    16.70    29.56
Financing Plan
Local  Forelan  Total
----(US$ million)----
IBRD                                 7.26      13.74   21.00
Government                           7.09        -      7.09
Other Bilateral Cofinancing                     2.96    2.96
Total                               14.36      16.70   31.05
Estimated IBRD Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year
91     92     93     94      95     96     97
-----------------(US$ million)-----------------
Annual                   1.06  2.74   4.01    4.64   4.33    2.73   1.48
Cumulative               1.06  3.80   7.81   12.45  16.78   19.51  21.00



Benefits and Risks
Beneflts would stem from harmonizing the various extension
activities in Cameroon into a single system, which is more efficient and
less costly. Efficient extension would lead to increased agricultural
productivity, food security and increased agricultural exports, as well as
a reduction in public expenditure. In the medium-term, savings accruing
from the parastatal reform program and reduction in duplication of
extension services are estimated to be US$5.5 million annually, well in
excess of the estimated recurrent project costs of US$3.3 million per
annum. The increase in food production and the participation of women in
extension activities would directly benefit women both as head3 of rural
households and as an important labor force ir. crop production. Focussing
extension services on the small farmer rather than the progressive or more
advantaged farmer would assist in redressing the heretofore male
orientation in extension. The principal beneficiaries of the project would
be about 700,000 (60Z) small farm households. Benefits accruing to
families would vary depending on the crop and region of the country, but
results of the 18-month pilot phase launched in June 1988 indicate that
farmers frequently obtain yield increases in excess of 502, not only in
well developed farming areas, but also in areas characterized by low level
yields and basic farming knowledge.
The main project risk is farmers' low adoption rate of extension
advice resulting from irrelevant messages, lack of inputs or inadequate
market outlets. A second risk is the possibility of insufficient
counterpart funds. Risks would be minimized through: (a) improved
research/extension linkages envisaged under the proposed project and a
recently approved national research project; (b) recent actions of
Government to iunprove input distribution; (c) a proposed Bank-supported
Food Security Project which would address marketing issues; and (d) public
investment program rationalization which would provide adequate counterpart
funds for those projects and programs retained, including the national
extension program. The use of small adoption plots by farmers would
minimize the financial risk at the farm level. The pilot project has
demonstrated the capacity of the Government administration, with adequate
training of staff, to implement the project.
Economic Rate of Return: 20-40?
Hav:   IBRD No. 21849  National Extension and Training Project



CAMEROON
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01          Cameroon covers an area of about 475,000 km2 and has a
population of about 11.2 million. Extending from the Atlantic Ocean
north to Lake Chad to the rain forest latitudes, Cameroon is one of
Africa's most diversified countries, with varying climatic zones,
altitudes, topography, hydrology, vegetation and soils. Population
density is uneven with areas of high density alternating with vast tracts
of empty land. The pressure of Cameroon's high population growth,
presently at 3.12 per annum, .s a factor both in rural land use and in
the migration of youth to the cities.
1.02           Until recently Cameroon enjoyed one of the higher per
capita GDP (US$960 in 1988) in Sub-Saharan Africa due largely to oil
revenues. During the last four years GDP has decreased by 25 to 30Z in
real terms; foreign exchange earnings have fallen by 452, owing to the
fall in commodity pri ts; and the fiscal deficit is 92 and rising. Since
1985, the fall in the U.S. dollar denominated prices of Cameroon's major
exports (oil, coffee and cocoa) and depreciation of the dollar have
exposed major structural weaknesses in the economy which is in deep
recession. To address the financial crisis, the Government has
undertaken an ambitious structural adjustment program (SAP), the basic
elements of which are: (a) stabilizing public finances over the medium-
term through improved management of government resources, control over
government salaries, improved civil service management and productivity,
and increases in non-oil tax revenues; (b) restructuring and
rehabilitating the public enterprise and banking sectors; (c) stabilizing
agricultural financial and marketing structures (para. 2.03); (d)
deregulating internal commerce and rationalizing external trade
regulations; (e) improving incentives for petroleum exploration and
production; (f) reorienting health and education sectors policies to
improve the quality of services; and (g) introducing action programs to
reduce the secial costs of adjustment.
1.03          Improvement of extension services has long been a subject
of dialogue between the Government and the Bank, including possible
financing of a national project during the mid-1980s.  Follow-up
discussions between the Bank and USAID set the stage for a joint USAID-
FAO/CP preparation mission in May/June 1987 (FAO/CP National Extension
and Training Project, Interim Preparation Report, 7 August 1987). In
February 1988 a National Seminer on Agricultural Extension took place
which recommended a number of measures to strengthen extension services
(para. 2.26). However, the lack of a unified extension policy and the
uncertainties regarding the institutional framework led the Government to
postpone the launching of a national project and instead requested the
Bank to finance a pilot tcheme which would introduce in selected areas
the concept of a Training and Visit (T&V) system and set the stage for



-2-
the preparation of a National Agricultural Extension and Training
Program. In June 1988 an 18-month pilot extension and training program
financed under the ongoing Second Western Province Project (Ln.2406-CM)
was launched in four distinct climatic areas of the country: the far
North; the South, the East and the Northwest (para. 2.23). In April 1989
the Government issued a project preparation document for a naLional
extensior. and training program, incorporating recommendations based on
the lessons learned under the pilot program, the experience of successful
donor-financed extension delivery systems implemented under certain area
development projects (para. 2.21), and the findings of the FAO/CP Interim
Report. The proposed project would complement the activities initiated
under the pilot program to strengthen the institutions responsible for
delivery of extension services nation-wide.
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
2.01          The relative contribution of agriculture, including
livestock and forestry, to Cameroon's GDP decreased from 40Z in the 19609
to about 25Z during 1985/87 with the development of oil production.
Nonetheless, agriculture provides employment to 75Z of the population,
generates 25Z of export receipts, and contributes about 15 to 20Z of
State revenues. With the projp.ted depletion of domestic oil reserves in
the mid 1990s and the recent slump in world oil prices, agriculture is
again at the forefront of the economy, despite declines in world prices
for plantation crops.  The rich ecological diversity of Cameroon provides
an important potential for increasing crop and animal production,
including cocoa, Ar.bica and Robusta coffees, cotton, oil palm, rubber,
tea, banana, rice, millet, sorghum, maize and tubers, poultry, pigs, and
small and large ruminants. To date, agricultural performance has been
modest relative to the resource base. Production has stagnated since
1982, and cash crop production has declined. Consequently, Cameroon
suffers from subt:antially reduced foreign exchange earnings and
government revenues, which, in turn, have reduced the volume and
composition of the government budget. As budget decisions are not
generally made based on economic justification, but cut evenly across
ministries, the investment and non-salary recurrent budgets suffer at the
expense of maintaining salaries. The Government's budget rationalization
program now under way under the Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) will
redress the imbalance in allocations. The MINAGRI recurrent budget for
1990/91 has been restored to 1984 levels (CFA7 4.0 billion).
2.02          Since the mid-1960s the agricultural sector has averaged a
4.42 growth rate. Although its long-term average annual growth rate has
not matched that of the general economy (6.72), in some years the sector
outpaced the general economy. During the 19609 agriculture grew at a
rate of about 5.2Z per annum in real terms compared with a GDP growth of
about 1.4Z. From 1970 to 1975 the sector grew at a rate of 3.4Z p.a.,
slightly lower than the 4.2? p.a. GDP. Regaining its momentum between
1975 and 1982, the sector reached a growth rate of 7? p.a. mainly due to
expansion of export crops. The economy grew at 5.6Z p.a. after 1982,
while the agricultural sector slumped in part due to unfavorable weather
conditions between 1982 and 1984, but largely due to export crop



production responses to unfavorable prices. Between 1986 and 1988 the
sector registered a 42 p.a. growth rate due mainly to good weather and
bumper crops in 1986/87. compared with the national economy which
declined at a rate of 11 p.a. The sector showed no sign of growth ia
1987/88.
2.03          The Government's Sixth Plan (1985-1990) (para. 2.26)
contains ambitious objectives to expand and modernize the agricultural
sector to ensure food security, promote and diversify exports and
increase rural incomes. To reach. these goals, the government program
proposes support to traditional farmers and livestock owners, creation of
mode-n medium-sized farms, and an increase in the use and transformation
of domestic agricultural products. To assist the Government in forming a
program and creating an appropriate policy environment, the Bank prepared
an Agriculture Sector Review (Report No 7486-CAM, March 1989) which was
reviewed with the Government in April 1989. The major policy
recommendations in the Agriculture Sector Review are contained in the
SAP, emphasizing both price and non-price incentives. The Government is
reducing its involvement in the production and marketing of the few basic
commodities ii. which public enterprises are involved (rice, sugar, palm
oil). Marketing and production of these commodities are being privatized
or are targeted for privatization in the future.
2.04          The Government has taken measures to reduce intermediary
costs for the major export crops (coffee, cocoa and cotton), but they
have not been sufficient to eliminate the deficit or reduce it to an
affordable level. Consequently, the Government has instituted floor
producer prices for coffee, cocoa and cotton for the 1989/90 season. The
Government has a program for liberalizing marketing over time. The first
step will allow private exporters to enter into the market in competition
with inefficient cooperatives in the Northwest. Excessive interference
in the administration of cooperatives and in the delivery of inputs is
recognized as inefficient and costly. The Government proposes to
disengage from cooperatives to enhance their autonomy, and legislation is
being revised to deregulate the cooperative movement. The role of public
support agencies is being redefined to provide more effective techni-al
support. Public sector input distribution has begun to be phased out,
together with input subsidies. A food security strategy has been
developed comprising improvement of food distribution systems through
better market and pricing information, expansion of on and off-farm
storage, improvement of road links between surplus and deficit provinces,
formulation of workable plans to deal with emergencies, and health and
nutritional programs to reduce chronic malnutrition. Harmonization of
extension services is included in the SAP, as is the adoption of the
Training and Visit (T&V) extension system and stronger linkages between
extension and research. Privatization of veterinary services has
commenced. The Forestry Code is to be modified to provide a legal basis
for a rational exploitation of resources, for promoting agro-forestry,
and for integrating local populations in the program of protection for
national parks and reserves.



-4-
Crop Production and Constraints
2.05          While production data for food crops vary widely, it
appears that, until recently, the subsector has largely kept pace with
population growth. Per capita food production peaked in the mid-1970s
and has since declined. Area expansion largely accounts for the growth
in food crops although area-based growth has become more limited in the
main food producing centers in the Western and Northwestern Provinces
where land is scarce. Yield increases have been limited due to
inadequate research and services to smallholders. Despite smallholder
dominance of production and its role in ezployment creation, public
investment in agriculture has strongly favored the estate subsector. The
performance of export crops has been mixed over the past 25 years. Cocoa
production has been erratic. While low producer prices were once thought
to be a factor, a later increase in prices did not improve performance.
Non-price factors contributing to the decline in cocoa production include
restricted manpower policies, inadequate infrastructure, erratic input
supply, inadequate research, poor institutional support to farmers and
disease.
2.06          Land Availability.  Overall population density at about 20
persons per square kilometer is much lower in Cameroon than in many
African countries and varies from one region to another. While some
parts of the country are overcrowded, Cameroon remains in a favorable
position regarding land availability, although poor infrastructure
development limits access to land. In the densely populated areas, land
pressures are emerging, particularly in the high production regions of
the West and Northwest Provinces. In the absence of greater
infrastructural development, the only viable alternative may be
intensification of agriculture. The area cultivated in any year is only
about 302 of the total arable land since the maintenance of soil
fertility requires a rotation ratio of two crops followed by five to
seven years of bush fallow. Furthermore, agricultural intensification is
essential to prevent forest encroachment.
2.07          Farm Size Distribution and Characteristics.  About one
million traditional sector small farms cultivate crops on plots averaging
about 1.8 ha per farm. About 702 of farms are below 2.0 ha and operate
on 402 of the land, and about 5Z of farms cultivate areas of 5 ha on
about 201 of the land. Over the past two decades smallholders accounted
for about 90Z of total agricultural output, 802 of marketed output, and
over 752 of total employment. Smallholders play an important role in the
production of exports, producing virtually all cocoa, coffee and cotton.
Between 50 and 60Z of smallholder-produced food crops is marketed.
Production is largely determined by regional ecological diversity and
differing population densities. The main production systems are: (a)
cotton, concentrated in the Northern regions, competes with millet,
sorghum, groundnuts, and more recently, maize; (b) rice, of which 802 is
concentrated in the North, competes mainly with sorghum and millet; (c)
Robusta coffee and cocoa, typical export crops of the rain forest area,
compete mainly with plantain, cassava and yams; (d) Arabica coffee, found
in the highlands of the West and Northwest, compete mainly with maize,



- 5 -
beans, cocoyams and potatoes; and (e) palm oil, rubber and sugar, found
in areas of the rain forest zone, are mainly grown in large scale, mono-
crop plantations and do not compete directly with food crops. For the
future, Cameroon faces the dilemma of food crop versus export crop
production. Growth of export crops is vital for export revenue
generation and financing agricultural and economic development, while
pressures associated with the rapidly growing population and urban
migration place heavy demand on the food supply. Smallholders'
willingness to adopt modern inputs such as fertilizer, pesticides and
improved agricultural tools is well demonstrated. The potential for
increased yields for both food and export crops rests on the
profitability of investments, delivery of appropriate extension messages
and of timely inputs and market availability.
2.08          The Role of Women.  As in most African countries, in
Cameroon, women are the chief producers of food crops for home
consumption and for the market. As women assume greater responsibility
for family needs, including health, clothing and education, their cash
income requirements grow. Removal of existing constraints to women's
access to productivity-enhancing technology through extension programs
and other interventions, such as village water supply and self-help
income generating programs, are needed as a matter of priority. The
opportunity exits to reach women farmers through training of government
community development staff together with agricultural extension staff.
The method of reaching women farmers in the Northwest Province under the
Hission for Development in the Northwest (MIDENO) area development
project will be replicated under the proposed project. The Ministry of
Agriculture's Directorate of Community Services (MINAGRI's DCD) employs
375 community development agents and about 100 extension agents (many of
whom are women). DCDs' past training focussed on home economics. In
recent years, agricultural techniques have been emphasized. Selected DCD
staff, following initial agricultural training, could be trained together
with MINAGRI agriculture extension agents and be deployed in areas where
religious beliefs or other constraints do not permit women to receive
extension advice from male agents. An affirmative action program to
recruit women extension agents should be pursued, following the example
of MIDENO.
2.09          Farmer Groups.  Rural development in Cameroon is
characterized by a long history of informal farmer groups, about 2,000
country-wide, averaging between 100 and 400 per province. Group
membership may comprise an extended family, clan or district, or may be
established with a particular production, activity or focus: annual or
perennial crops; livestock production; storage and processing of crops;
savings and credit, known as 'tontines"; education, social services,
health; or handicrafts. These farmer groups, which comprise both men and
women, are potentially an effective contact point for dissemination of
extension messages and should be exploited.
2.10          Distribution and Marketing.  Major food crop prices are
fixed nominally at the regional level, although in practice they are
determined by market forces. While the food marketing system is



-6-
relatively competitive, the cost of distribution is high.  Farmgate
prices are less than 50Z of retail prices and as low as 302 for
perishable products.  Transport costs account for 50-602 of the profit
;          margins.  Farmgate and retail marketing is generally carried out by women
and by men at the wholesale level.  Most of the food is transported to
market in very small quantities, contributing to the high market cost and
lower farm share of the retail price.  Inter-regional trade is limited
due to the poor road network linking production to consumption centers,
inadequate transport facilities to transport large volumes of food, and
excessive controls by law enforcement officers.  Marketing of export
crops, traditionally the domain of marketing parastatals, is being
privatized gradually under the SAP, and a proposed agricultural export
promotion project is in the pipeline. A proposed feeder road project
would help alleviate rural transport constraints.
2.11          Agricultural Inputs.  Modern inputs are widely used in
certain parts of the country, particularly in the high population density
and animal producing regions. About 45Z of total farms use chemical and
organic fertilizer, and 302 applies crop protection chemicals. Most
fertilizer and chemical inputs used by traditional farmers are
subsidized, while the non-subsidized market (40Z of fertilizer consumed)
is supplied mainly to the large-scale plantation sector and small cotton
growing farmers organized by SODECOTON. As the fertilizer subsidy
programs have traditionally focussed on export crops, much larger
proportions are applied to export crops than to food crops (about 242).
Input delivery is unreliable and relatively expensive with the result
that smaller portions of the subsidy cost are actually used for
fertilizer purchase due, in part, to Government organizations' cumbersome
and time-consuming distribution monopoly and procurement practices.
Subsidized fertilizers (e.g., for coffee) have not proven successful
because farmers have tended to redirect fertilizer to the more highly
profitable food crops. As fertilizer suitable for coffee is
inappropriate for other crops (e.g., maize), there is an inefficiency in
fertilizer use with negative consequences for soil fertility. A
fertilizer reform program initiated in 1987 with support from USAID is
aimed at liberalizing fertilizer procurement, introducing free market
pricing, and reducing subsidies. The Government is also reducing
subsidies on fungicides and insecticides.
2.12          Seeds.  Most seed and plant material of traditional
varieties are purchased by farmers on the local market or through
cooperatives and paras._atals. Improved seed and plant material is
produced by the Mission de Developpement des Semences et des Cultures
Vivriares (MIDEVIV) and sold at prices slightly higher than non-selected
material. Available improved material is only 1OZ of potential need.
MIDEVIV has established seed production centers in each province and has
a program for construction of three seed processing plants and control
laboratories. Due to financial constraints, MIDEVIV's activities have
halted. Under the parastatal reform program, MIDEVIV is to be dissolved
and a reorganized system of seed production established, including: (a)
creation of a national advisory group responsible for determining a
national seeds policy and regulations, and identifying seed requirements;



(b) provision of certification and quality control of base seed by the
Institute for Agronomic Research (IRA); (c) seed production and
multiplication to be contracted out to private farmers, development
societies and cooperatives; and (d) seed distribution to be undertaken by
cooperatives, development societies and the private sector. Some
interest has been expressed by the private sector in taking over one of
the MIDEVIV farms. Until such time as MIDEVIV farms are divested, it
will be necessary for the Government to continue to produce some improved
seed.
2.13          Credit.  While rural finance is perceived by the Government
as critical to agricultural growth, studies suggest that pricing policy,
marketing and inputs are more important constraints to expanded
agricultural production than the lack of credit. In the past, subsidized
credit has been diverted for housing and consumption purposes with little
incentive for loan repayment. Future credit programs should respond to
farmer needs, including consumptJon and investment loans, based on the
borrower's capacity to repay. Informal savings and credit organizations,
known as 'tontines" or uniansis' are the most important sources of funds
for the rural population, particularly women. The current illiquidity of
the banking system and the dissolution of the state-owned specialized
agriculture bank, National Fund for Rural Development (FONADER), have
virtually eliminated formal sources of financing for agriculture. The
Government has proposed the establishment of a new agricultural credit
bank (Credit Agricole du Cameroun, CAC). However, the Government has to
date been unable to mobilize investment for the CAC. Loans to
smallholders are not favored by financial intermediaries due to lack of
collateral. The credit union movement in the anglophone part of the
country has a successful history of rural credit and is largely self-
sufficient. The credit unions, while slowly expanding in rural areas,
have encountereq difficulty in making high risk agricultural credit
loans. However, credit unions remain a viable instrument to channeling
funds to farmers, sinces (a) they are in a better position to assess the
borrower's financial status and debt recovery capacity; (b) borrowers are
more inclined to repay funds borrowed from their communities; and (c)
they mobilize savings and help farmers in cash management. Included in
the Bank's development strategy is a proposed rural cooperative credit
operation aimed at mobilizing rural savings and providing a source of
credit for smallholders.
Agricultural Institutions
2.14          Many institutions are involved in Cameroonian agriculture,
including Government ministries, local government bodies, parastatal
organizations and cooperatives. There are two technical ministries
sharing primary responsibility for agricultural development, MINAGRI and
the Ministry of Livestock, Fishery and Animal Industries (MINEPIA). Each
has a broad mandate encompassing most aspects of crop and livestock
development, supervision of parastatals, project planning and
implementation. Both are represented at the field level through
Provincial Delegations. Pricing and marketing policies are set by the
Ministry of Industrial and Commercial Development (MINDIC), and the



-8 -
Ministry of Higher Education, Computer Science and Research (MESIRES)
oversees research activities. In the early 19609, intervention in
agricultural development was carried out by the administration and
limited to the provision of agricultural support services. In 1968, the
Government began creating specialized institutions aimed at inducing
technical progress in agriculture.
2.15          The recent diagnostic study of parapublic institutions
demonstrated that the creation and proliferation of new structures did
not yield the expected efficiencies. These institutions have proven very
costly, are inadequately managed, and operate in a confusing policy
environment lacking clear objectives. Some are expected to provide
social services (schools, health and housing), at the same time having no
control over pricing and employment policies. Lines of responsibility of
parastatals to ministries are confused and lack consistency with their
respective roles. The proliferation of agricultural institutions has
a'lso led to the creation of different agricultural projects, each with
its own extension approach and methodology frequently leading to
overlapping of institutional functions, duplication of agricultural
support services, and inefficient use of human and financial resources.
It is expected that the parastatal reform program will help to address
some of these constraints. The Government has already made some progress
by restructuring or dissolving a number of parastatals which have proved
to be inefficient. The proposed project will help to eliminate the
inconsistencies and duplication of extension activities in those
provinces under the direct responsibility of the Provincial Delegate of
Agriculture or parastatals under the tutelage of HINAGRI. The
agricultural parapublic reform program is described in Annex 1.
2.16          Ministry of Agriculture.  MINAGRI comprises eight
Directorates: General Administration; Agriculture; Forestry; Studies and
Projects; Cooperatives; Rural Engineering; Community Development; and
Agriculture Education. The Director of Agriculture (DIRAGRI) has
responsibility for delivery of extension services through the Agriculture
Production, Plant Protection and General Affairs subdirectorates. Ten
Provincial Delegations of Agriculture are organized along the same lines
as the national headquarters. Each national directorate has a
counterpart at the provincial level. The Provincial Delegations of
Agriculture (PDAs), responsible for implementation of MINAGRI work
programs, fall under the authority of the Provincial Delegate who reports
directly to the Minister of Agriculture.
Agricultural Research
2.17          Agronomic and livestock research is carried out by the
Institute of Agronomic Research (IRA) and the Institution of Animal
Research (IRZ). respectively. under MESIRES. Crop research is organized
through a network of research centers controlling research stations and
their antennae largely cover the major ecological zones of the country
(the Northern Plains, the Central Savannah, the Western Highlands, the
Western and Coastal Lowlands and the Southern Rain Forest). There are
currently six research centers, 26 stations and 28 antennae. Nationally,



there are about 18 agronomic research programs for commodities or subject
matters. Within each commodity program, the most common disciplinary
activities are breeding and selection, agronomy and plant protection.
Processing technology and seed multiplication have recently halted due to
financial constraints. In recent years food crop research has been
emphasized. There are currently cultivation recommendations for about
100 varieties of maize, rice, sorghum, cassava, sweet potato, yam, taro,
groundnut, cowpea, soybean, onion and Irish potato available for
dissemination. High potential yield increase from the use of improved
varieties combined with other technical recommendations have been proven.
The introduction of some of these varieties in agricultural development
projects have had spectacular results, e.g., in the Western and
Northwestern Provinces for maize, sweet and Irish potatoes, and in the
North and Extreme North Provinces for rice, sorghum and groundnuts.
Nonetheless, these successes are not widespread, since for many years the
extension effort was heavily biased towards cash crops such as cocoa,
coffee and cotton. With the exception of a few agricultural development
projects, which are making an effort to introduce higher yielding
varieties, the majority of extension programs have made little use of
improved technologies for food crops.
2.18          Linkages between research and extension have been weak, and
continue to be the major constraint to the dissemination of new varieties
and technology to farmers. The reasons are partly institutional and
partly due to the inherent weakness of the majority of extension services
which are either poorly organized or do not have clear objectives or work
programs. At the national level, there is no formal mechanism linking
extension and research. Linkages at the field level between extension
and research are limited and have generally been established through
agreements (protocols) between IRA and the respective executing
institution. The work of the Testing Liaison Units (TLUs) within the
framework of the National Cereals Research and Training Project, financed
by USAID, has proven successful, as have the Trial Demonstration Centers
(TDCs) carried out by MIDENO in the Northwestern Province. The role of
the TLUs and TDCs is to carry out verification trials to test station-
developed technologies on farmers' fields, establish demonstration plots,
conducting farmer surveys and providing feedback on farmers' crop
production problems to research. There are currently four TLUs operating
in six provinces, although effectively operaLing in four Provinces at
present. Under the proposed project two additional TLUs would be
financed to ensure better coverage of the project area. The nine TDCs in
the MIDENO project serve two purposes. They provide: (a) a linkage with
research stations by carrying out adaptive research in food crops, post-
harvest technology such as on-farm storage and processing of agricultural
products; and (b) training of extension agents and farmers. The TDCs
have proven to be an effective mechanism for linking research and
extension and providing practical training for extensionists and farmers.
Nonetheless, the TDCs have proven to be costly to construct and operate,
and much duplication exists between the TLUs and TDCs operating in the
Northwest.



- 10 -
2.19          Although the quality of research planning has improved
greatly (especially at IRA), research programs tend to: (a) be overly
ambitious, given the financial, technical and human resources available
to the country and farmers; (b) have marginal practical relevance because
of poor links with farmers' needs; and (c) have lax application methods,
which result in failure to achieve planned objectives. At IRZ, research
programs are isolated from farmer needs with the primary suggestions for
individual research activities coming from the researchers themselves.
The recent growth of the two research institutes has been so rapid that
their management, administrative structures and staff have been unable to
control and support research activities. These constraints have been
addressed in an evaluation study carried out by the International Service
for Jational Agricultural Research (ISNAR) and a Bank-financed National
Agricultural Research Project (Loan 2766-CM). Action plans for
restructuring IRA and IRZ have recently been prepared as part of the SAP
to concentrate available resources on the highest priority research
needs.
Extension Experience
2.20          Since independence in 1960, a series of institutional
changes have taken place in Cameroon in an effort to develop an efficient
system of agricultural extension to promote the expansion of both crop
and livestock production and to improve rural living standards.
Initially the more elaborate agricultural extension service found in pre-
independence French-speaking Cameroon was extended throughout the
country.  This service was managed by the Directorate of the Expansion
and Modernization Sectors (SEM) which at the outset was a part of the
Ministry of Rural Production, later to become MINAGRI.  In the early
19609, SEN was considered well funded and relatively dynamic. However, a
rapid decline occurred in the mid-1960s and the SEH organization was
abolished in 1973. The decline and fall of SEN coincided with a change
in government policy involving the creation of parastatals. Parastatals
differ in structure, organization or approach, mainly in their status and
ministerial affiliation, project objectives, and type of organization.
2.21          Extension services in Cameroon are well staffed with a
favorable ratio of one extension agent (monitor) to about 300
smallholders. Rough estimates indicate that somewhere in excess of
400,000 farmers nominally receive extension services, two-thirds by
MINAGRI and one-third by parastatals. MINAGRI has about 4,000 field
staff directly involved in extension activities, including about 400
commnity development agents.  The Socint f de D6veloppement du Coton
(SODECOTON), located in the Northern Province, has a corps of 1,000
relatively well trained and closely supervised monitors who work with
170,000 farmers. The Soci4t4 de Dhveloppement du Cacao (SODECAO) has a
corps of about 200 field extension agents in the Southen Province, some
of whom have been absorbed from the best qualified and motivated MINAGRI
staff, who provide food crop advice, as well as extension services for
coffee and cocoa.  Other parastatals have small extension services.
MIDENO provides services through the existing Provincial Delegation of
Agriculture, thus eliminating the dual system existing in other areas.



- 11 -
2.22          The concern over the relatively poor performance of the
agricultural sector has led to serious questioning of the effectiveness
of agricultural activities carried out by MINAGRI, MINEPIA, and
parastatals. The numerous problems affecting extension in Cameroon are
due to:
-    excessive fragmentation and overlapping of
responsibilities for extension between parastatals,
Government agencies, and other projects;
-    poor training and, hence, lack of adequate technical
capacity of extension agents;
-    lack of institutional and research-extension linkages;
-    limited effectiveness of the rural communications
system;
-    lack of a coherent program of work, defined goals, and
systema .ic methodology;
-    poorly motivated staff;
-    lack of funds, logistic support, and equ:pment; and
-    high cost and complexity of the parastatals' extension
systems.
2.23          The NAETP's pilot project operation (Annex 2) has been in
operation since June 1988 and is being carried out in the Northwestern
Province and in selected areas in the South by SODECAO, and in the
Extreme North and the East by the PDAs of MINAGRI. The T&V system is not
new to Cameroon. The MIDENO project financed by IFAD, KfW of the Federal
Republic of Germany and the European Development Fund (EDF) introduced
the T&V system (systematic visits of extension agents to farmers and
farmers' groups, intensive supervision and training of extension agents,
and strong linkage with research) in 1982. The results of the successful
MIDENO project have enabled MINAGRI to use the MIDENO extension service
as a large-scale demonstration and training center for MINAGRI high level
staff. Additional training and orientation courses were given to
subject-matter speoialist and extension agents at the provincial level
using MIDENO training staff and materials. The pilot scheme, which
became fully operational in April 1988 and will continue until the NAETP
becomes effective, succeeded in testing a number of new initiatives and
resolving implementation issues: (a) creating action-oriented provincial
and technical committees to coordinate extension with other development
activities; (b) organizing provincial orientation and training seminars
for extension staff and their supervisors; (c) fortnightly training
extension staff; (d) deploying staff effectively; (e) establishing field
adoption plots; and (f) creating a mechanism for flow of funds to the
Provinces. Results of the pilot scheme have been encouraging with crop



- 12 -
yield increases of 30-50Z on the farmers' adoption plots in the Eastern
and Extreme Northern Provinces. The increase in motivation of all levels
of extension staff has been marked follo,,ing the provision of adequate
training and means of transport.
2.24          Training.  MINAGRI and MESIRES have overall responsibility
for training. MESIRES provides training at the Agricultural Works
Institute (ITA) and the National Advanced School of Agriculture (ENSA).
The two institutions make up the University Center, Dschang (UCD) which
jointly graduate about 150 students annually. The Directorate of
Agricultural Education (DEA) within MINAGRI is responsible for pre-
service training of field level extension staff and operates 18
institutions with a total capacity of almost 1,200 students. In 1986 the
DEA initiated a three-month "upgrading" course for MINAGRI monitors
envisaging training for 600 to 700 monitors each year at the Regional
Colleges of Agriculture (CRAs) and the Technical Schools of Agriculture
(ETAs). DEA operates 13 Young Farmers Training Centers throughout the
country where young farmers are provided with eight to nine month
resident courses. ITA offers three-week in-service training workshops
for 25 teachers from DEA in audiovisuals and pedagogy. While educational
standards generally appear to be satisfactory at the higher levels, the
identified need for additional training is at the level of magents
techniques' and monitors. Training for "agents techniques" can be
effective only when extension messages are clearly defined. Through the
provincial extension services, the DIRAGRI has responsibility for
training farmers. More formal short-term training is provided at 19
Rural Training Centers located in seven Provinces. MIDENO, SODECOTON,
SODECAO and Union Centrale des Cooperatives Agricoles de l'Ouest (UCCAO)
provide in-service training for extension agents. The Institut Africain
de Developpement Economique et Social (INADES) provides training to
extension agents through correspondence courses.
2.25          Communications.  A number of institutions have limited
programs in rural communications. HINAGRI has an Information Service
whose responsibilities include radio broadcasts on selected topics on a
regular basis, preparation of newspaper articles, and publication of a
quarterly magazine, Cameroon Agriculture. The national radio network,
with one principal station in Yaound6 and 10 provincial stations,
broadcasts in both French and English. Some of the provincial stations
are not well equipped. Radio appears to be the best medium for
communications with small farmers, since many farms have radios, while
few have access to television, and many farmers are illiterate. Two
radio programs of 30 minutes each are aired weekly by national radio: "le
Magazine du monde rural" and Our Changing Rural World. The proposed food
security project scheduled for FY9lR would include a radio communications
component for keeping farmers abreast of current market information.
Cameroon TV has five monthly or bi-vonthly programs aimed at the rural
population. Its audience is limited however as few rural areas have
electricity connections. INADES organizes correspondence courses on
rural communications, conducts a radio program which responds to
questions raised by the public, issues information bulletins on important
crops and produces audiovisual aides for training courses. The Atelier



- 13 
de Hateriel Audiovisuel (AMA), which relins on the Catholic Information
Service, concentrates its activities on multimedia information material
and training of field staff for religious organizations. The Dschang
University has established a Media Center with support from USAID, and
USAID in Yaounde has an audiovisual center producing development project
material. MIDENO produces radio broadcasts, audiovisual and printed
material. In 1986, supported by FAO, MINAGRI began an information and
documentation system under the Direction des Etudes et Projects (DEP),
which has alleviated to some extent the dearth of documentation
infrastructure. The central documentation unit of the Directorate of
Scientific and Technical Research in MESIRES has been reactivated. Its
services are limited to on-site consultation, loans and some references;
dissemination of information is almost non-existent.
Government Policies and Strategy
2.26          The Government's objectives for the agricultural sector
emphasize food security, the promotion of exports and expansion of crops
used by local industry, and an increase in rural employment and incomes,
now about one-half the national average. Under the SAP agricultural
component (para. 2.04), the Government has initiated a number of
important actions to create a policy environment conducive to meeting its
objectives, reducing public sector intervention in many spheres. The
February 1988 National Seminar on Agricultural Extension enumerated as
the Government strategy the following measures to increase smallholder
production: (a) reorganizing the extension services through focussing
the task of extension agents solely to extension activities improving the
linkages between research and extension, and programming visits of
extension agents regularly; (b) reinforcing the role of MINAGRI in
extension activities and harmonizing the approach in the development
parastatals; and (c) upgrading extension service staff through employmer.t
of qualified staff and regular training.
The Bank's Role and Experience in Agricultural Development
2.27          The Bank has been involved in 25 projects in Cameroon since
1967. Much of the Bank's early lending focussed on nucleus estate
smallholder plantation projects. Since the mid-1970s, smallholder
projects and regional rural development Drojects integrating productive
and infrastuctural components were emphasized. In 1986 the Bank began to
move towards sub-sector projects to address key issues identified as
bottlenecks to achieving productivity growth such as research, input
supply, extension, marketing and credit. Past projects have included
extension components which have met with varying degrees of success due
to the institutional constraints described above. The findings of audit
reports of Cameroon's agricultural projects have been incorporated into
the design of the proposed project. The Agricultural Sector Review
identified productivity increases as the key to agricultural growth. The
Bank's future strategy includes the following objectives: (a) maximizing
food production to ensure food security for the population and to exploit
the country's comparative advantage in producing food for export in the
region; (b) expanding exports of traditional products to the extent that



- 14 -
they can be absorbed in the world market at reasonable prices, while
improving quality and diversifying the export base; and (c) creating
opportunities for rural employment to reduce the income gap between urban
and rural areas and stemming rural emigration. The proposed project is a
key element in the Bank's aforementioned food security strategy of
supporting agricultural production increases by intensifying smallholder
production and raising women's agricultural productivity (para. 2.03).
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Rationale and Obiectives
3.01          Rationale.  Cameroon's economic growth will continue to
depend heavily on agriculture. Investment in a reorganized, streamlined
extension service is essential to long-term agricultural and economic
growth. The project is integral to the Government's structural
adjustment program (SAP) and strategy of fcod security, enhanced export
performance and foreign exchange earnings, and employment generation. As
a number of donors continue to follow a crop or area development
approach, the project would assist the Government in incorporating all
extension activities into a coherent national approach, thus preventing
the emergence of costly programs outside the national strategy. The
project would complement the National Agricultural Research Project by
strengthening research/extension linkages.
3.02          Obiectives.  The priority objective is to increase farmer
productivity by strengthening operational institutions and establishing
systems for managing the extension services and by providing training to
facilitate improved delivery of the services. Special attention would be
given to meeting the needs of women farmers under the project. By
integrating extension services to incorporate food crops as well as cash
crops, women farmers would be more likely to receive extension advice.
The project's aims would be achieved through: (a) enhancing the
implementing agencies capacity to plan, manage, monitor, and evaluate a
national extension and training program; (b) ensuring adequate transfer
and diffusion of production techniques through the expansion of a time-
bound management and training system for front-line extension agents; (c)
supporting the above actions through a major training program to develop
local capacity for designing, managing, and implementing extension
operations; (d) improving the relevance of production techniques through
increased verification trials and improved research-extension linkages;
and (e) increasing the availability of improved seed.
B. Project Description
3.03          The Government's National Agricultural Extension Program
covers all ten Provinces. The proposed project would finance incremental
extension activities in 26 Departments in six of the ten Provinces: East,
Extreme North, Adamoua, Southwest, Littoral, and Western (para. 4.03).
The extension service in two other Provinces are financed by ongoing



- 15 -
projects, following the T&V extension system. These ongoing projects
include the MIDENO Rural Development Project in the Northwest Province
financed by IFAD and others, and the Bank-financed SODECAO project (Ln.
2912-CM) in Southern Province. In both cases the parastatal responsible
for implementation has demonstrated its willi-ngness to enter into
contractual agreements with MINAGRI to introduce a T&V multi-crop
extension system. Two Provinces remain: Northern and Adamaoua. The
Northern Province would not be included in the national program during
its first phase, leaving extension in the Province to be managed by
SODECOTON, the parastatal responsible for cotton development. SODECOTON
maintains its own extension service focussing on cotton production
following a modified and successful T&V system. Its supervisory Ministry
is the Ministry of Industrial and Commercial Development and is financed
by the French Economic Fund (CCCE). SODECOTON has agreed to collaborate
with the MINAGRI's extension service in sharing technical material,
undertaking joint agricultural research, and participating in training.
The project would provide a small amount of funding to facilitate these
collaborative activities. Livestock production predominates in one
province to be included under the project, Adamaoua. Here, livestock
extension service staff are to be trained to provide crop extension
advice in dual production areaa under the Bank's Livestock Sector
Project, to complement extension by MINAGRI extension staff.
3.04          The project, to be implemented over five years, would
comprise four main components:
(a) Extensions reorganization and strengthening of national
and regional extension structures to incorporate the
main principles of the T&V system, including systematic
schedules of visits to farmers and effective technical
support to front-line extension agents by subject-matter
specialists and MINAGRI line managers;
(b) Training: a training program comprising orientation and
refresher courses, predominantly in-service, and limited
short-term overseas technical training, aimed at
upgrading the management, technical and communications
skills of all extension staff;
(c) Adaptive Research: improvement of research extension/
linkages through a more direcc involvement of research
staff in adaptive research and farm trials, and the
active participation of extension staff and farmers in
adaptive research field trials; and
(d) Seed Multiplication: support to IRA for the production
of base seed, extending the existing seed multiplication
system using private farmers and limited support to
existing MIDEVIV seed farms.



- 16 -
C. Detailed Features
3.05          Agricultural Extension.  The number of Village Extension
Workers (AVV) required to carry out extension activities would be
determined on the basis of the number of farmers that each AVV is able to
visit over a two-week period. Numbers would vary according to types of
farming, population densities, settlement patterns, and facilities of
communication, with an average of one AVV to 590 farmers. Ratios of
staff to farmers are contained in Annex 3 (Table 1). The effectiveness
of AVVs would be increased by:
(a)  adapting the existing administrative structure of
MINAGRI to ensure a direct line of management control
between AWe at the field level and the Provincial
Delegation of Agriculture, through specifically
designated extension managers at sub-division, division,
and provincial levels; and
(b)  creating technical subject-matter specialists (TSs) at
the provincial and divisional levels, responsible for
providing regular technical support and training for
village extension workers (AVVs), and a direct link
between farmers' fields and research stations.
Divisional subject-matter specialists (TSDs) would be
stationed at the divijional MINAGRI offices for the
major food crops. For specializations such as plant
pathology, requiring not more than one specialist per
province, a Provincial subject-matter specialist (TSP)
would be located at the provincial agricultural
delegation (Annex 3, Table 2).
Special attention would be given to reaching women farmers, the major
food crops producers. The integrated themes which have proved successful
in the Northwest would be included in the extension program: (a) focus
extension services through the group approach on the small farmer and
women who represent 90Z of farmers, while continuing to provide advice to
the traditional recipients of extension services, farmers with larger
holdings producing export crops; (b) redress the male orientation in
extension, particularly in terms of which gender is perceived as the
target of extension 2fforts; and (c) recognize the roles women play in
rural society which may impact upon women's responses to extension
strategies or packages, such as fooc storage and marketing, casb, income
needs for such items as clothing and education, and nutrition. The
proposed project would employ a total of 940 adequately trained AVVs from
MINAGRI's existing force of 2,880, redistributed among Departments as
required. HINAGRI has been gradually replacing existing high-school
educated AVVs with better qualified agricultural school graduates.
HINAGRI has yet to establish staff redundancy procedures for the
remaining 2,000 less qualified AWs. Annex 3, Table 3 contains
provincial staffing requirements. The civil service reform program to be
implemented under the SAP will determine redundancy measures. An
evaluation would also be conducted of about 375 extension staff employed



- 17 -
by MINAGRI's DCD to identify those most motivated and dynamic to be
seconded to the extension service. Initially, their role would be one of
introducing extension to women's groups. Efforts would be made to
identify, recruit, and fully integrate women into the extension service.
Finally, financing would be provided under the project for vehicles,
equipment, incremental operating costs, and salaries of 77 incremental
subject-matter specialists (TSs).
3.06          Training.  All staff would receive a two-week orientation
training provided by visiting trainers from the Northwest, headquarters
and the research institutes. In addition, all senior level staff would
be provided with one-week study tours, initially in the Northwest and at
regional research stations, and when successful systems are established,
at closer locations. Subject-matter specialists would receive 10 weeks
of training per year principally at research stations. Under contract
arrangements, IRA would provide annual specialized training for SMSs.
Short-term (three months maximum) overseas training would be provided for
higher level staff, at the International Institute for Tropical
Agriculture (IITA) or other overseas research institutions. AVVs would
receive standard fortnightly training from SMS- which would include
practical training on the demonstration plots located at training centers
(about six crops at one center per department per annum). This
demonstration plot training would be either: (a) supervised by extension
staff with labor provided by ex-Avv staff; or (b) planted and tended by
AWes and SMSs, following the successful experiment introduced under the
pilot project. HINAGRI's DCD staff would require about three months of
specialized technical agricultural training. Under the project,
financing would be provided for transportation, equipment, publications,
and incremental recurrent operating costs. Training in financial
management would be included to strengthen the capacity of MINAGRI, IRA
and HINFI staff involved in the project.
3.07          Adaptive Research (Annex 4).  A critical component of the
project is the development of cultivation recommendations through
adaptive research. This component would be complementary to the
infrastructure and training investments that are being financed under the
ongoing National Agricultural Research Project (Ln 2766-CM) and the
USAID-financed National Cereals Research and Extension Project (NCRE).
Under this latter project, four TLUs have been established in IRA to
carry out off-station verification trials, and a fifth station is to be
established with USAID financing in the 1990-95 phase. USAID financing
for the TLUs is in place, but funding for expatriate research staff is to
be phased out in 1992 in favor of increased financial contributions to
operating costs. As a result, about 36 incremental national researchers
will be required to staff the TLUs. These posts will be filled by
redeploying existing qualified research staff, who are available, and by
staff returning from overseas training. In addition, two new TLUs would
be established under the Project at Bertoua in East Province and at
Ngound4rs in Adamaoua Province. Expatriate technical assistance is now
being negotiated with two bilateral donors for these two TLUs. Under the
technical direction and overall responsibility of the TLUs, about 25
verification trials would be conducted in each department annually,



- 18 -
including the main food and cash crops of the area, under an agreement
between MINAGRI and IRA. The Provincial and Divisional SMSs would be
involved in supervising the farm operations on these trials, which would
be the main location where IRA staff would provide in-service training to
SMSs. Priority would be given to the diagnosis of farmers' needs and the
early development of improved techniques to respond readily to those
needs. Financing would be provided under the project to IRA for adaptive
research activities (vehicles, equipment, inputs and operating costs) not
covered by bilateral cofinancing.  In addition, funds are included in the
project for contract research to be carried out by external institutions,
since it is envisaged that during project implemer.tation a number of
technical agronomic problems will emerge that will require timely
resolution. Financing would be provided to MINAGRI under the project for
supporting on-farm trials and demonstrations (vehicles, equipment, inputs
and operating costs).
3.08          Seed Multiglication.  Financing is included in the project
for the production of base seed and seed certification by IRA. In order
to ensure availability of improved seed, following the demise of MIDEVIV,
provision has been made in the project for the multiplication of improved
seeds.  Financing vould3 be provided for civil works, transportation,
recurrent operating costs, and equipment for storage, seed treatment and
bagging. Depending on the agronomic characteristics of the crop,
certified seed would be produced by: (a) AVVs themselves, on plots
cultivated as part of their in-service training at the Training and
Demonstration Centers (TDCs); (b) project farmers on their adoption plots
under the supervision of the AVVs; and (c) existing seed farms such as
HIDENO and UCCAO in Northwest and West Provinces respectively. Financing
would be provided to existing MINAGRI-operated seed farms for the
purchase of equipment. Finance would also be available for the purchase
of seed from contract farmers. Seed distribution would be handled by the
private sector to the extent possible. Where use of the private sector
is not practical, MINAGRI would distribute seed.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A.    Introduction
4.01      Consistent with overall MINAGRI policy, implementation of the
project would be decentralized to the maximum extent possible. Such a
policy is well adapted to Cameroon's wide agro-climatic diversity. The
organizational structure for the project would therefore have only the
minimum of centralized management structures, which would provide overall
policy direction and coordination with agricultural research, relevant
public enterprises, and other ministries at the national level.
4.02      The main responsibility for the implementation of the project
would rest with HINAGRI. Implementation in each of the six provinces
included in the Bank-financed project would be carried out under the
direction of the six Provincial Delegations of Agriculture. However, in



- 19 -
those provinces where responsibility for implementation of extension has
been transferred to a parastatal dependent on MINAGRI, as with SODECAO in
the South and Central Province, the Provincial Delegation of Agriculture
would limit its intervention to monitoring the parastatal's activities and
progress in the field, evaluate the program's impact, and transmit
recommendations to MINAGRI. In other provinces where crop or area
development projects are executed by government agencies which are
responsible to different Ministries, as in the North and Extreme-North with
SODECOTON, HINAGRI would enter into an agreement wit', the executing agency
to eliminate duplication of extension activities in the same area. During
the project implementation period, SODECOTON would continue to provide
agricultural extension for all farmers in North Province, a responsibility
now shared with the project authorities in the EEC-financed Northeast and
Southeast Benoue projects. In the Extreme-North Province, SODECOTON would
provide extension advice to cotton farmers only, and MINAGRI would take
responsibility for the two-thirds of farmers who do not produce cotton.  In
the longer term, it is envisaged that SODECOTON would increasingly adopt an
extension methodology similar to NAETP.
4.03      Reeponsibility for execution of agricultural extension in the
different provinces would be organized as follows:
PROVINCE            PROJECT/INSTITUTION        NO. OF DEPARTMENTS
East                NAETP                     All (4 Departments)
Extreme North       NAETP                      All (6 Departments)
SODECOTON                 Cotton farmers
North                SODECOTON                 All (4 Departments)
Adamaoua             NAETP                     2 Departments
Livestock Project         3 Departments
Southwest           NAETP                     All (4 Departments)
Littoral            NAETP                      3 Departments
SODECAO                   1 Department
West                 UCCAO until 12/90         All (6 Departments)
NAETP from 1/91           All (6 Departments)
Center               SODECAO                   All (8 Departments)
South               SODECAO                   All (3 Departments)
Northwest           MIDENO                     All (5 Departments)
4.04      In the Western Province, responsibility for the implementation
of the project would be transferred to the Provincial Delegation of
Agriculture on December 30, 1990 from the Agricultural Cooperative Union of
the West (UCCAO) on completion of the Second Western Rural Development
Project, financed by the Bank (Ln 2406-CM) and IFAD, which is implemented
by UCCAO. In other provinces, parastatals would have responsibility for
agricultural extension as shown in the table above. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the necessary agreements would be undertaken
between MINAGRI and implementing parastatals. In the longer term, it is
also envisaged that MINAGRI would become responsible for implementation of
the NAETP in all Departments. Annex 5 shows when different Departments
will start to participate in the project.



- 20 -
B.     Provincial Organization of Extension
4.05      Line Management. At the village level, Village Extension
Workers (AVVs) would be the focal points for contact with farmers. They
would work with farm groups, which already exist in many areas and have
been one of the principal reasons for the rapid and effective dissemination
of improved technology to farmers in Northwest Province. The AVV, working
with 6-8 village groups of 40-50 farmers each, many of whom would be mainly
or exclusively women farmers concentrating on food crops, would be
responsible for 300-500 farmers, depending on distance and density of
population. In each group a contact farmer would normally be selected,
whose farm would be the point of contact between the AVV and the group. In
areas of cash crops, separate men's groups would meet for coffee, cocoa and
other cash crops extension.  These groups are working well in Northwest
Province. Elsewhere, extension would contact and build on the already
existing local groups, Unitrs Locales d'Encadrement Rapproche.
4.06      An important aspect of the project would be the upgrading of the
technical skills and competence of the AVVs. Although the total numbers
involved would not increase, there would be a progressive replacement of
agricultural assistants (moniteurs agricoles), who have little or no formal
agricultural training, by agricultural technicians, who would have as a
minimum qualification an agricultural diploma (Agent Technique
d'Agriculture), with a minimum of two years training in an agricultural
school (Ecole Technique d'Agriculture). The process is being carried out
with good results in the Northwest and has started in the other pilot
areas. Where there is a shortage of agricultural technicians, the
Provincial Delegate of Agriculture (DPA) would select the most effective
and qualified moniteurs. It is envisaged that as and when agricultural
technicians graduate from agricultural schools, they will progressively
replace the moniteurs agricoles, who will be either relieved of their
duties or given other functions to strengthen agricultural support
services. In addition, other professional staff would be utilized as AWs,
with higher qualifications, such as Techniciens Superieurs de l'Agriculture
and Techniciens d'Agriculture. who have graduated from the Agricultural
Technical Institute and regional agricultural colleges. As the parastatal
reform program continues, extension staff formerly attached to parastatals
are returning to the staffing rolls of MINAGRI and integrated into the
regular MINAGRI establishment. The NAETP coordination unit within MINAGRI
has developed criteria for the selection of the best candidates, who may
include some of those recently whom who would returned from secondment to
parastatal organizations.
4.07      Between the Village Extension Worker and the Provincial Delegate
of Agriculture, a direct line of command would be maintained. Within the
provincial administration, there are basically three levels: the Sub-
Division (or Arrondissement), the Division/Department (Departement), and
the Province. MINAGRI is represented at each level by a Delegate
(Del4gu4), who is responsible for all MINAGRI activities. At provincial
and divisional levels, the delegate is assisted by a representative of the
Agriculture Directorate of HINAGRI, the directorate responsible for the



- 21 -
project. However, at the sub-divisional level and below, there is no
differentiation between functions, and the chain of conmuand would pass down
to the AVV through the sub-divisional delegate of agriculture and the chief
of agricultural post. Staff serving in these existing posts would become
full time line managers in the project, since they have only limited
administrative responsibilities apart from extension. The organization of
the project within the Province is shown in Annex 6, Charts 1 and 2, and is
summarized below:
PROVINCIAL
ADMINISTRATION                   PROVINCIAL DELEGATION OF AGRICULTURE
Administrative             Agticultural Directorate
Extension Sub-
Directorate
Province (Province)        Provincial Delegate of   - Provincial Chief of
Agriculture (DPA)          Service for Agriculture
(CSPA)
- Provincial Subject-
Matter Specialists (TSP)
Division (Departement)   Divisional Delegate of   - Divisional Chief of
Agriculture (DDA)          Section for Agriculture
(CSDA)
- Divisional Subject-
Matter Specialists (TSD)
Sub-Division               Sub-Divisional Delegate
(Arrondissement)           of Agriculture (DAA)
Chief of Agricultural
Post (CPA)
Village Extension Worker (AVV)
4.08      Within the sub-division there are considerable differences in
population density. In areas of high population density there may be more
AVVs than can be supervised by a single chief of agricultural post, in
which case a senior AVV will also be required to supervise other Avvs. By
contrast, in areas of low population density, where there is no chief of
agricultural post position, the AVVs would be supervised directly by the
sub-divisional delegate.



- 22 -
4.09      The responsibilities of the provincial extension staff are
sunumarized below:
Provincial Delegate       Would have overall responsibility, and financial
of Agriculture             and administrative control of the extension
(DPA)                     program. Would be responsible for coordination
of extension strategy and policy, and would
remain responsible directly to the Minister of
Agriculture, reflecting the strategic priority
accorded to NAETP by MINAGRI.
Provincial Chief of       Would have technical responsibility for
Service for Agriculture  supervision and implementation of the field
(CSPA)                    extension activities, including the Provincial
subject-matter specialists (TSPs), and the day to
day management of the extension program in the
province.
Assistant to Provincial  Would support the Provincial Chief of Service for
Chief of Service for       Agriculture but would not be a line manager.
Agriculture (CASPA)        Activities would include preparation of the
annual extension work program and budget, and
coordination of extension with the adaptive
research program handled by the IRA Testing and
Liaison Units (TLUs).
Divisional Chief of        Would be responsible for technical implementation
Section for Agriculture  of the NAETP at the divisional level, including
(CSDA)                    supervision of the 6-10 sub-divisional Chiefs of
Agriculture and the Divisional Subject-Matter
Specialists (TSDs). Would h e at least
Ingenieur de Travaux Agricoles qualifications.
Sub-Divisional Chief of  Would directly supervise the work programs of the
Section for Agriculture  Village Extension Workers (AWs) and would also
(CSAA)                    provide technical support.  Would participate
with the AWs in the regular two weekly training
by the Subject-Matter Specialists.
4.10      Most of the line positions discussed above are currently staffed
by Agricultural Graduates (Ingenieurs Agronomes) or Ingenieurs de Travaux
Agricoles, who would receive in-service training in the project, similar to
those given already in the pilot phase.
4.11      Technical Supervision.  Based at the provincial and department
levels, the subject-matter specialists would be the main channel through
which technical information would be passed from research to the AWs.
They would be responsible for elaborating the technical recommendations and
training the AWs. Where there is a need for several SMSs of the same
discipline in the Province, as for the main food crops (cereals and root
crops), and for coffee and cocoa in the principal production areas, they



- 23 -
would generally be based in the departmental agricultural delegation.
Technical expertise for more specialized activities, such as vegetables,
fruits, agroforestry, plant pathology, soil conservation, post harvest
technology, animal traction and small livestock, where only one SMS per
province would be required, would be based on the Provincial Agricultural
Delegation (Annex 3, Table 2). Subject-matter specialists for livestock
would be regular employees of the Ministry of Livestock (MINEPIA), who
would work directly with the MINAGRI AWVs in the project area. In a
similar way, in predominantly livestock areas, MINAGRI subject-matter
specialists would provide regular training for the MINEPIA AWVe. A joint
letter outlining procedures for MINAGRI and MINEPIA to coordinate their
extension activities was signed by the respective Ministers on January 8,
1990.
4.12      Transportations  One of the major constraints to MINAGRI's
extension service has been the lack of transport and funds for operating
purposes. In addition to providing vehicles at the central, provincial and
divisional levels, the project would sell motorcycles to AVVs, extension
supervisors and SMSs on a modified hire-purchase arrangement, whereby they
would enter into an arrangement with the project to reimburse the cost of
the motorcycle over the period of three years. Insurance of vehicles and
motorcycles would be provided by the project.
4.13      Provincial Coordination.  Policy coordination at the provincial
level would be provided by the Provincial Director of Agriculture, who is
responsible for all agricultural services in the Province and would be the
point of contact for liaison with other ministries and agencies.
4.14      Technical coordination would be maintained by a technical
committee, comprising the Provincial Delegate of Livestock and chiefs of
the Directorates of Community Development and Rural Engineering. In those
provinces with regional research stations, the Director of the IRA Research
Station would also participate.
4.15       Research and Linkages with Extension.  Responsibility for
organization of adaptive crop research would remain with the Training and
Liaison Units (TLUs) of the IRA National Ce eals Research and Extension
Project, one of whose principal functions ia verification off-station of
the research carried out on the IRA stations. Thus, although the project
would contribute towards the financing of the TLUs, organization of off-
station verification trials would be the responsibility of IRA. However,
the extension sub-directorate would be deeply involved in the day to day
management of these trials, which would be the venue of much of the in-
service training of the SMSs. The Provincial Chief of Service for
Agriculture would be responsible for the coordination between IRA and
Extension. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that MINAGRI and
IRA would enter into contractual agreements on annual work programs for
research activities financed under the project, not later than June 30 each
year.



_ 24 -
4.16      Training.  In service training for provincial extension staff
would be organized by provincial extension line managers on the basis of
annual training plans prepared by the Provincial Chief of Service for
Agriculture. The SMSs would interact with their colleagues in the IRA
mainly through the verification trials. They would in turn provide regular
training to the AVVs and line managers during regular field visits and at
two weekly training sessions which would be held in existing divisional
training centers, where AVVs would be allocated individual plots to be
cultivated as part of their practical training, which has proved to be
effective during the pilot phase. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that MINAGRI and MINEPIA would agree by December 31, 1990 on a
program for training extension staff to provide advice on both crop and
livestock production where dual farming systems exist.
4.17      Seed MultiRlication.  MIDEVIV has been responsible for the
organization of seed supply, but with the recent recommendation of the
Government Commission for the Rehabilitation of Public Sector and
Parastatal Enterprises to abolish MIDEVIV, alternative arrangements for
organization of seed supply would be included in the proiect. The
Government plans that production of certified seed required by farmers
would be organized by the private sector, which would lease the land
formerly used by MIDEVIV for seed production, together with the facilities
for seed cleaning and storage. Since there may be some delay before a
privatized seed supply is operational, alternative arrangements would be
made to provide for the needs of the project. The provincial extension
services would however provide estimates of the seed requirements to
support the field extension program and make arrangements for their
purchase or production under contract, depending on the agronomic
characteristics of the crop. For crops such as open pollinated maize and
sorghum, where seed could not be produced immediately adjacent to other
local varieties, seed would be produced under contracts at the existing
MIDENO and UCCAO seed farms in Northwest and West Provinces, and at the
existing divisional training and development centers (TDCs). For other
crops, such as groundnuts, seed would be multiplied on the adoption plots
on farmers fields under the supervision of the AVVs. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that MINAGRI and IRA would agree before June
30 each year the annual work programs for seed production and certification
and research activities.
C.        Orzanization and Management at the Central Level
4.18      Under the overall supervision of the Director of Agriculture in
MINAGRI, the Chief of the Extension Service has been nominated as the
National Coordinator for the project. He is directly responsible for the
execution of the ongoing pilot project, which is located in two departments
in the Extreme North Province and one department in Eastern Province. He
also coordinates the extension activities of the pilot project in the South
and North-West Provinces. The National Coordinator would have direct
responsibility for execution of the project in the six provinces in which
it is to be implemented. He would also have overall responsibility for
agricultural extension policy in the three provinces where extension would



- 25 -
be implemented by SODECAO (Central and South Provinces) and MIDEVIV (North-
West Province) (Annex 6). The National Coordinator is responsible for:
- extension policy;
- coordination of training of extension staff;
- communication, information and documentation;
- coordination of adaptive research; and
- monitoring and evaluation.
4.19      The Extension Service in MINAGRI at Yaounde has four functions:
extension and training, adaptive research, finance and procurement, and
monitoring and evaluation. The extension and training staff are
responsible for the field supervision of extension in the provinces,
whereas the adaptive research staff provide coordination with IRA and IR',
and have responsibllity for ensuring that the tecbnical recommendation
sheets prepared by the research institutes are properly adapted for the
needs of farmers and AVVe. The finance and procurement staff, working with
their counterparts In the MINAGR' Directorate of Administration are
responsible for ensuriug the smooth operation of the special account and
its subsidiary accounts (para 5.04). They are also responsible for
ensuring that items are procured in accordance with Government and Bank
guidelines. Key staff have already been nominated to head these functions
and are now establishing their respective work programs. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that a Project Coordinator, having suitable
qualifications and experience, and assisted by support staff in adequate
numbers, would be maintained.
4.20      A review of the organizational structure of MINAGRI is envisaged
at the end of 1990/beginning of 1991 as part of the studies to be carried
out related to the Structural Adjustment Loan (Ln.3089-CM) and the Economic
Management Project (Ln.3110-CM). It is anticipated that as the impact of
extension becomes widespread during project implementation, it will be
necessary to upgrade the level of the 2xisting extension service to the
level of a sub-directorate. However, it would be premature to prejudge the
forthcoming organizational review by creating a new sub-directorate at the
present time.
4.21      Monitoring and Evaluation.  Monitoring and evaluation of the
pilot project is being carried out by the Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
unit of the Projects' Division of MINAGRI, which also has small sub-units
in each province (Annex 7). The unit has received technical and financial
assistance under the Second Western Province Rural Development Project (Ln.
2406-CM), and operates satisfactorily. Project performance would be
monitored by the M&E unit.
4.22      Coordination at the National Level.  Within MINAGRI,
coordination between the Community Development, Forestry and the
Agriculture Directorates would be maintained through the existing regular
MINAGRI procedures. Interministerial coordination between MESIRES, IRA,
IRZ, MINEPIA, MINISCOF and the parastatals would be maintained through the
existing Government mechanisms, supplemented by specific operating
agreements described above (paras 4.04, 4.15-4.17). In addition, during



- 26 -
execution of the project, the Directorate of Foreign Cooperation of MINPAT
would continue to ensure coordination between the ministries and agencies
involved in the project during the regular meetings that are held related
to execution of Bank financed projects.
4.23      In addition the Extension Service would:
-    provide technical support to the Provincial Agricultural
Delegations, such as training courses, content and
materials;
-    arrange technical assistance for the establishment of
trials and demonstrations in Rural Training Centers;
-    organize inter-regional and external training courses for
subject-matter specialists and higher level staff at the
provincial level;
-    prepare literature end training materials; and
-    coordinate production of extension publications and
documentation.
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCIN4G
Cost Estimates
5.01      The cost of the proposed project has been estimated at CFAF
10,309.07 million (US$31.05 million), of which CFAF 5,553.46 million
(US$16.73 million) or 54Z is foreign exchange. The estimates are based on
prices prevailing in June 1989, including US$1.49 mill.on in taxes and
duties and US$5.83 million physical and price contingencies. Physical
contingencies of 1OZ have been included on all items with the exception of
technical assistance whose specifications are clearly established. Price
contingencies are based on the Bank's projections of international price
increases (5Z p.a. from 1991 onwards). Detailed cost tables are provided
in Annex 8 and in the Project File.
Pro1ect Costs Summary
Foreign
Local  Foreign    Total  Exchan2e
-----US$ Millions-----       (X)
Extension                       6.66     8.39    15.06       56
Training                        2.53     1.00     3.53       28
Adaptive Research               2.06     3.05      5.10      60
Seed Production                 0.79     0.74     1.53       49
TOTAL BASE COSTS               12.04    13.19    25.23       52
Physical Contingencies          0.55     1.47     2.02       73
Price Contingencies             1.77     2.04      3.81      54
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
(Including taxes)           14.36    16.70    31.05        54
Taxes                          (1.49)   (0.00)   (1.49)
___________________________
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS             12.87    16.70    29.56
(Net of taxes)



- 27 -
5.02      Financing.  Of the total project cost of CFAF 10,309.07 million
(US$31.05 million), the Bank Loan of US$21.0 million equivalent would
finance 82Z of foreign exchange costs and 51Z of local costs. Bilateral
cofinancing is anticipated in an amount of US$2.96 million in foreign costs
in support of expatriate assistance fo_ research activities.
Procurement
5.03      All goods and services funded under the Bank Loan would be
procured in accordance with the appropriate Bank guidelines.
Procurement ArranRements*
Items                    ICB        LCB      Other      NA.   Total Cost
-------- (US$ million)-------------
Civil Works                  0.25         0.10      -         -       0.35
(0.22)      (0.08)                       (0.30)
Vehicles                     5.78         0.15      -         -       5.93
(5.78)      (0.15)                      (5.93)
Research Contracts           1.18          -        -         -       1.18
(1.06)                     (1.06)
Equipment & Inputs           1.00         0.25     0.34       -       1.59
(0.90)      (0.25)   (0.34)             (1.49)
Technical Assistance          _   -        2.96 a/  0.90 bl  3.86
(0.90)   (0.90)
Training & Fellowships        -            -       3.64 c/   -        3.64
(3.64)            (3.64)
Incremental Operating Costs  -             -       8.39 d1   -        8.39
(Excluding Salaries)                            (7.58)             (7.58)
Incremental Local Staff                                      6.11     6.11
(0.00)   (0.00)
8.21        0.50    15.33      7.01    31.05
(7.96)      (0.48)  (11.66)   (0.90)  (21.00)
*    Amounts in parentheses indicate Bank financing.
a/   Bilateral financing would be under the cofinanciers' procurement
procedures.
b/   Technical Assistance would be procured following Bank Guidelines for
use of consultants.
c/   Local and international training-related travel, and IRA sponsored
courses.
d/   Procurement as described in para. 5.03.
Procurement of vehicles, equipment and research contracts would be prepared
on an annual basis, bulked to the extent possible. Contracts for goods
exceeding US$100,000 would be procured under International Competitive



- 28 -
Bidding (ICB), while those below US$100,000 but above US$50,000, up to an
aggregate of US$500,000 would be procured under local competitive bidding
(LCB) because of the relatively small value of these contracts. Under ICB
procurement of goods, local manufacturers would be allowed a 152 margin of
prefezence or the applicable customs duty, whichever is lower.
Construetion of irrigation and storage facilities for the production of
base seed (IRA.) would also be under ICB. Civil works, which comprise the
renovation cf existing office buildings for MINAGRI, would be procured
under LCB, to an aggregate of about US$100,000. Procurement arrangements
for small equipment and inputs valued at less than US$50,000 and up to an
aggregate of US$340,000 would be procured on the basis of prudent shopping,
and would comprise quotations from at least three reputable suppliers.
Operating costs for vehicle maintenance and fuel, travel, office expenses,
training courses, and miscellaneous items for MINAGRI and IRA would follow
Government procedures acceptable to the Bank.  The threshold for prior
review of procurement by the Bark would be US$100,000, resulting in review
by the tank of 7O0  of procurement.
Disbursements
5.04      To expedite disbursements, two special accounts would be opened
at the time of Loan effectiveness in a commercial bank in Yaounde, to be
managed by the Ministry of Finance (MINFI) and used for all categories of
expenditures. Vehicle purchase, research contract and bulked equipment
purchases would be excluded from the second generation accounts.
Procedures similar to those already established and which are working
satisfactorily in the pilot project would be used. One special account
would be established for MINAGRI of CFAF 330 million, (US$1.0 million) and
another for IRA of CFAF 100 million (US$300,000), each representing four
months of operating expenses. Six second generation accounts would be
opened under the MINAGRI special account, one in each of the provinces
included in the project, in a branch of the same commercial bank, or the
local branch of a correspondant bank in those places where no local branch
exists. Advance payments covering four months of estimated expenditures
would be made to these second generation accounts by MINFI from the main
special account on the basis of realistic budgets of anticipated
expenditures submitted by MINAGRI. Provincial accounts with supportive
receipts would be submitted monthly by the local branches (including the
branches of correspondent banks) to MINFI with copies to the financial
controller of DIRAGRI, and to the finance officer in the Extension Sub-
Directorate. The special accounts would be replenibhed by the Bank against
documented expenditures and upon receipt of withdrawal applications
supported by bank statements from the special accounts and all second
generation accounts. MINFI would assume control of expenditures and
accounts through its provincial financial controllers stationed in each of
the provinces. Signatories for withdrawal of second generation accounts
would be the provincial financial controller and the provincial
agricultural delegate.
5.05      The Bank loan would be disbursed over a six-and-one-half years'
period (Annex 9). The schedule of disbursements is based on the standard
Cameroonian disbursement profile for agricultural projects. Operating



- 29 -
costs, training and contracts for less than US$100,000 would be disbursed
against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) to be provided by the
administrative controller in MINAGRI's Directorate of Administration. All
other disbursements would be fully documented. Documentation of SOEs would
be made available for review by Bank supervision missions.
5.06      The Government's contribution to total operating costs would be
about 40Z. The Bank Loan would be disbursed against the following
components and categories in the percentages indicated below. A detailed
breakdown of expenditures between MINAGRI and IRA is shown in Annex 8
(Table 1).
Disbursements
MINAGRI      IRA      Total      Percentage of
Category                             Amount CUSS 000)          expenditures
to be financed
Civil Works                        80       220        300     1002
Vehicles, Equipment             6,650       320      6,970     1002 foreign
& Inputs                                                     852 local
Research Contracts                 -      1,000      1,000     1002
Technical Assistance             800         -         800     1OOZ
Non-Salary Operating Costs    6,050         980      7,030     100o
Training & Fellowships         2,550        450      3,000     1002
Unallocated                                          1,900
Total                                         21,000
Reporting
5.07      Provincial authorities would prepare semi-annual progress
reports to be submitted to MINAGRI and to the Bank. The reports would
assess progress (physical, institutional, budgetary) against agreed annual
programs of operations and targets. MINAGRI would submit to the Bank for
review and discussion by March 31 of each year a detailed annual work plan
including: (a) programs of operations; (b) training programs; (c) adaptive
research programs; and (d) monitoring and evaluation programs for extension
and training, together with a review of MINAGRI extension staffing numbers
by skills and geographical distribution, and expected levels of attrition.
The work program from July 1, 1990 to June 30, 1991 could be submitted to
the Bank after March 1990, but allowing sufficient time before the start of
project activities. Assurances were obtained to this effect at
negotiations.
Accounts and Audits
5.08      The financial controller of DIRAGRI would be responsible for
consolidating project accounts and preparing and submitting documentation
to permit MINFI to prepare disbursement applications and records. Project
accounts would be audited by a qualified independent auditor under



- 30 -
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Audited accounts and reports would be
submitted to the Bank for review within nine months of the end of each
fiscal year. The audit would also cover the operations of the special
accounts and special generation special accounts, comment on the legitimacy
of all expenditures, and include an opinion on the reliability of the SOE
procedures and on the proper utilization of goods and services financed
under the project.
Proiect Impact on MINAGRI's Budaet
5.09      The Government's Public Investment Program has earmarked an
amount of CFAF 1.7 billion (US$5.7 million) in 1990/91 for project
expenditures and is expected to continue at similar levels throughout
project implementation. Annual operating costs following the project
period are estimated to be CFAF 1.100 million per annum, or 0.2Z of total
Government recurrent expendltures of about CFAF 500 billion. Assuming that
MINAGRI non-salary recurrent budget allocations are maintained at the
current level of about CFAF 3,000 million per annum, the project would
consume 37Z of MINAGRI's non-salary recurrent budget. This percentage iS
reasonable since it would provide sustainable agricultural extension,
training and some adaptive research for six of the country's ten provinces,
and would be the major productive activity of MINAGRI.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION, BENEFITS AND RISKS
Proiect Imnact on Production
6.01      The project would have a considerable impact on agricultural
production, but in ways that would differ significantly in the extremely
diverse agro-ecological regions of the country. Likewise, the nature of
the benefits and justification would be different in the different
provinces. In this section, the impact of the project on three of the main
agro-climatic zones is considered. The discussion illustrates the scope
and flexibility of the NAETP in meeting the various agricultural needs
throughout the country.
6.02      In the Western montane areas of Cameroon, comprising the West
and Northwest Provinces, which are among the most developed agricultural
areas, farmers have already adopted much of the avail&ble technology and
varietal improvements. In these provinces, where population density is
high, the holdings are small and there is little scope for increasing the
area of individual holdings; production increases will come through
increased cropping intensity, mainly through reduced periods of fallow.
Thus, the main benefits from agricultural extension would be the
maintenance of per-capita levels of production. The extension
recommendations would promote sustained agricultural production, including
increased use of legumes in the rotation to maintain soil fertility, and
soil conservation measures to reduce soil erosion, particularly in areas of
steeply sloping volcanic soils. The benefits would arise largely from
preventing a reduction in farm yields. Moreover, due to the rapid urban
migration of younger people, farm labor is becoming increasingly scarce and
costly, which has encouraged the adoption of animal traction to lower farm



- 31 -
production costs on farms in Northwest Province, an area with no tradition
or prior experience of animal cultivation. Particularly interesting is the
way in which women farmers are now o be seen cultivating with bullocks and
taking responsibility for their care. More sophisticated messages would be
introduced involving crop storage, more fertilization with animal traction
and implements, and introduction of new crops such as fruit and vegetables.
6.03      In the Eastern Province where humid tropical forest climate
predominates, yields are low, the production system tends to be extensive,
and cultivation is based on a slash and burn system, with a bush fallow of
several years duration, the preeent system is low input and low output, and
cultural techniques are not well developed. In the pilot phase of the
project, up to 50Z yield increases have been obtained for maize by farmers
on their adoption plots, simply by improved cultural techniques such as
planting Ln rows, weeding, and increasing the density of planting. Use of
*          improved varieties of sweet potato, whicti were released by IZOA elsewhere in
the country in recent years, would be encouraged under the project.
Cassava yields would also increase, as the mosaic resistant varieties that
are undergoing final testing in IRA's Southwest and Littoral research
stations, become available and are distributed in the East. Groundnut
yields can also be increased, as demonstrated under the pilot. Since
population density is low and there is only a small urban market in the
East, increasing agricultural production will have to be coordinated with
the opening up of marketing opportunities outside the province. However,
the project would give rise to major benefits by enabling production to be
increased from a smaller area of land, thereby reducing the area of bush
that has to be cleared, for which labor input is considerable. In addition
there would be important environmental benefits, since the area of new
forest that has to be cleared for cultivation would be reduced. The
extension service would encourage creation of farmer groups in forest
areas.
6.04      The Extreme-North Province is located in the Sahelian/Savannah
belt with low unreliable seasonal rainfall. Population density is
extremely high considering the low level and unreliability of rainfall, and
food security is a major concern with cyclical shortages every few years.
Use of improved cultivation techniques and improved varieties would result
in increased yields in years of average or good rainfall. Moreover, the
use of soil and water conservation techniques would dramatically increase
the level of yields in years of below average precipitation through
reducing the runoff and increasing water infiltration into the soil
profile. Construction of semi-permeable stone bunds by farmers
participating in the ongoing agricultural extension project in Burkina Faso
where conditions are similar has resulted in dramatic yield increases.
Over the longer term, the most important benefit in the Extreme-North
Province would be the protection of the fragile soils and environment from
deterioration and even destruction as a result of the continuing increase
in population pressure in the Province. It is already possible to find
areas of land that have been abandoned following continuous production of
cotton and sorghum. Introduction of fodder legumes into the rotation is
likely to have a major impact on soil fertility and physical structure and
contribute towards sustainable production. Fodder legumes could provide



- 32 -
forage for beef cattle and also for oxen used for cultivation. Animal
traction, which has already been introduced successfully among some of the
cotton farmers, would be encouraged under the project, due to its impact in
reducing labor requirements. facilitating timely cultivations, and enabling
an increased area to be cultivated.
6.05      About one-third of the farmers in the Extreme North Province
grow cotton, with inputs and technical assistance provided by SODECOTON.
With prospects of continuing lower long term prices for cotton, SUDECOTON
is having to reduce the intensity of its field extension service and is
increasingly relying on the Autonomous Village Associations (AVAs) to be
responsible for distribution of inputs to farmers, provision of technical
advice and collection, and village level marketing of cotton. The
provision of training for village leaders would enable the AVAu to function
satisfactorily, without any loss of production, and the overall cotton
sector would benefit from reduced costs.
Marketing
6.06      Experience during the pilot phase has shown that marketing of
large additional quantities of food crops over the short term is likely to
become a major problem in most areas of the country. The problem has been
exacerbated by imports of food crops in Cameroon. The problem is being
addressed within the context of the Structural Adjustment Program and a
proposed Food Security Project, which includes funds for improving local
marketing facilities to reduce domestic marketing costs. One of the
benefits of the project is that it would increase the timeliness, quality
and regularity of local production, thereby increasing its competitiveness
in the main urban market centers of Cameroon relative to imports.
6.07      Cameroon has a great potential for agricultural production, only
a part of which has now been exploited or will be required for the domestic
market. As the potential for sustaining petroleum production becomes more
limited, Government is placing increasing emphasis on export marketing.
The highlands of Western and NIorthwest Provinces provide an ideal climate
for production of many of the fruits and vegetables for which market
outlets exist in the European off-season, whereas the Adamaoua plateau, at
present utilized mainly for extensive cattle production, offers the
possibility of low cost maize and soya production for export to Nigeria and
overseas. The project would provide the framework for providing the
technical know-how to farmers needed to develop the required levels of
production and quality control for the export market.
Technological Innovation
6.08      The project would enable the existing available 'stock" of
production recommendations to be transferred from the research stations to
the farmers, resulting in the production increases discussed above.
However, it is likely that much of the impact of the project would result
from the upward movement of information from the farmer to the researcher,
in addition to the downward transfer of known recommendations. By creating
a mechanism for this upward flow of information, agricultural researchers



- 33 -
would be able to focus on the actual and perceived problems of farmers.
This is particularly important in Cameroon, where until recently almost all
of the research effort was focussed on coffee, cocoa and cotton. Effective
research on food crops did not start until the beginning of the 1980s.
Funds have been included in the project to provide IRA with the flexibility
to undertake specific problem-solving adaptive research. Some of the
results of the research initiated under the project will become available
durini the later years of implementation, but it is likely that much of the
impact would not materialize until subsequent phases of the national
extension program.
Financial Benefits
6.09      The principal beneficiaries of the project would be the
thousands of small Cameroonian farm households in the villages covered by
the project whose agricultural production would increase as a result of
adopting the recommendations made available to farm groups. The actual
benefits accruing to different families would vary depending on the crop
and region of the country, but the results of the pilot phase indicate that
farmers are frequently obtaining yield increases of more than 50Z on plots
on their own fields simply by adopting the recommendations of the extension
service. The fact that it is the farmers themselves who are carrying out
the work and paying for all inputs ensures that only recommendations that
are financially viable are adopted. The good rate of technology adoption
in the pilot phase provides evidence of the financial viability of the
project at the farm level.
Economic Benefits (Annex 10)
6.10      The main economic benefits of the project would result from an
improvement of food security. Until recently, agricultural research and
extension have concentrated on cash crops for export, such as coffee, cocoa
and cotton. The project would put in place, on a national scale, an
effective management system to disseminate the adaptive research that is
being generated by IRA, with the assistance of projects such as the USAID-
financed NCRE project and the Bank-financed National Agricultural Research
Project (Ln 2766-CM). By so doing, the nation's food security would be
greatly improved.
6.11      The project would mobilize and make more effective use of a
public sector resource, the existing provincial agricultural services,
which at present are not able to operate efficiently in spite of a
considerable number of highly trained and experienced professional
agricultural staff, due to lack of a program of work, poor management, no
training and an inadequate operatirg budget. The project would not involve
any new recruitment, although the existing Extension Service would be
enlarged through the addition of a whole new professional discipline of
subject-matter specialists, transferred to operational status from
administrative functions in the Agricultural Directorate and from the
agricultural extension services of parastatals which have been abolished or
reduced in scope, such as FONADER and SEMRY. Moreover, the project would



- 34 -
result in some savings in public sector expenditures by reducing the
duplication between different parastatal extension services.
6.12      Calculation of the economic rate of return (ERR) for a national
extension project in a country with such agro-ecological diversity as is
found in Cameroon, through the use of farm models, would be a matter of
conjecture, and has not been attempted. However, it is important to relate
the level of proposed incremental government expenditures, including both
the investments over the five years of project implementation, and the
subsequent incremental operating costs, to the likely impact of the project
on national agricultural production. The annual contribution of
agriculture to GDP in Cameroon is about CFA 1,000 billion (US$3 billion
equivalent) and increasing by about 3Z per year, equivalent to CFA 30
billion annually. The ERR has been calculated on the basis of two
different situations: first, it has been assumed that the impact of the
project would be limited to a one-time boost to agricultural production,
and second, that the project would have a favorable impact on the rate of
increase of agricultural production.
6.13      First, assuming that the project would result in a one time net
annual benefit of CFA 3 billion per year after 10 years, equivalent to 1O0
of the increase in net value added in one year only, the ERR of the project
would be above 18? over 20 years. In the second situation, it is assumed
that since agricultural extension is a dynamic process, not only would
there be initial increases in production (farmers who adopt the
recommendations of the pilot phase are commonly obtaining 30-50 increases
in production), but also that over the years there would continue to be new
recommendations and further increases in production. On this basis it
would be reasonable to assume that the rate of increase of agricultural
production would rise also. If, for example, by the fifth year of
implementation, annual production increases would rise by 10? as a result
of the project, from 3.0 to 3.3Z, net incremental agricultural productioa
would rise by CFA 1.0 billion annually. In this case the ERR would be
above 35?. A third calculation has been made on the assumption that one-
half of the farmers in the areas assisted by the project would adopt the
recommendations of the extension service and obtain a 20? yield increase on
all crops compared to the situation without extension, a conservative
assumption based on pilot results. In this case the ERR would be about
402.
Proiect Risks
6.14      The risks of the project not achieving its objectives are small.
Project design is simple and the T&V system of agricultural extension has
been adopted successfully in many other African countries. The first
season of implementation of the pilot phase has been completed successfully
in three of the four pilot areas, each of which is located in quite
different agro-ecological areas of the country. The results obtained over
several years in the fourth pilot area, the agriculturally well developed
Northwest Province, provide confidence that the T&V system can also give
good results in well developed farming areas in Cameroon, as well as in
those areas starting out from a low level of yields and basic farming



- 35 -
knowledge. The use of small adoption plots by farmers minimizes the
financial risk at the farm level, and from a government budgetary
standpoint, the project is also a low risk operation, since it makes use of
an existing admin.,strative framework and puts to work a large number of
staff, the majority of whom are already in position and whose salaries,
which are the main cost, are already being paid. From an environmental
aspect the project is exceptionally low risk with a high probability of
being environmentally beneficial (paras 6.16-6.18).
6.15      The major risks are: (a) lower than anticipated adoption rates
by farmers that would result from irrelevant messages; (b) lack of inputs
or inadequate market outlets; and (c) shortages of counterpart funds. The
first risk would be minimized through improved research under the ongoing
research project, and improved research/extension linkages would result in
relevant messages. A government program to improve input distribution and
privatization of marketing channels is being put in place under the SAP and
will be strengthened under a food security project now being prepared.
Public expenditure program improvements are being undertaken under the SAP
which will eliminate poorly performing projects and ensure adequate funding
to high priority projects, including the national extension project.
Environmental Considerations
6.16      The agricultural recommendations made by the Extension Service,
which would provide the basis of the production increases that are
anticipated from the project, are based on sustainable agricultural
practices. Recommendations in the early years would focus largely on
improved cultivation techniques, planting density and improved seed
germination, all of which have the effect of increasing the proportion of
the ground that is covered by the crops, thereby reducing the area of bare
soil liable to soil erosion. Improved tillage operations would also
promote soil conservation in the low rainfall areas, and improve soil
fertility and structure. The use of purchased inputs, such as nitrogenous
fertilizers would be small, since recommended introduction of legumes
crops, such as groundnuts or leguminous fodder into the rotation, would
generally be more economic. The project's emphasis on adaptive research
would be expected to lead to the introduction of pest and disease resistant
varieties, reducing dependence on pesticides and insecticides.
6.17      Major environmental benefits of the project would be:
-    In the Western montane provinces.  Catchment protection and soil
conservation would lead to reduced water erosion. In
particular, the recommendations of the successful ongoing
bilateral program to introduce animal traction ("Promotion de
Systemes d'Exploitation Agricole Appropries bases sur la
Traction Animale dans la Province du Nord-Ouest du Cameroun"
(PAFSAT)), which has already been integrated into the Northwest
Provincial Delegation of Agriculture, would be extended over
North-West and Western Provinces. Under this program, contour
cultivation, establishment of perennial crops on contour bunds,
and animal traction have been introduced, leading to rapid



- 36 -
increases in soil fertility and reductions in erosion, and large
increases in production (para 6.02).
-    In the Northern Sahelian provinces.  Protection of the fragile
soils and environment from deterioration and destruction would
be the most important benefit. Use of soil and water
conservation techniques, such as construction of semi-permeable
stone contour bunds, would reduce run-off durizg the rains and
increase infiltration into the soil profile, which would greatly
reduce wind and water erosion, increase yields and lead to
sustainable agriculture, as already successfully demonstrated
(para. 6.04).
-    In the humid tronical forest.  A significant reduction in the
rate of destruction of the forest may be anticipated through
reduced reliance on slash-and-burn extensive agriculture, which
would be achieved as farmers would increasingly adopt
sustainable agricultural rotations in those areas of forest that
have already been cleared, thereby reducing the need to clear
new areas of forest (para 6.03).
6.18      The regular farm visits, which are central to the T&V system,
provide a unique effective way in which to provide practical environmental
training to both farmers and extension agents in critical environmental
areas, such as catchment protection for the endangered Mount Kilim Forest
Reserve in Northwest Cameroon. Similarly, small farmers, who have limited
cash resources available for the purchase of pesticides and insecticides,
can be trained during farm group meetings to adopt environmentally sound
techniques such as biological or rotational pest control measures.
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, the following agreements were obtaineds
(a) HINAGRI would enter into agreements by December 31,1990 with
cooperating parastatals (para 4.04);
(b)  MINAGRI and IRA would agree on annual work programs for research
(para 4.15);
(c)  MINAGRI and MINEPIA would agree by December 31, 1990 on a
program for training extension staff to provide advice on both
crop and livestock production where dual farming systems exist
(para. 4.16);
(d) agreement between MINAGRI and IRA on annual work programs for
seed production and seed certification (para. 4.17 );
(e) a Project Coordinator and support staff would be maintained
(para. 4.19);
(f) agreed annual work plans and budgets (para. 5.07).



- 37 -                  ANN!X 1
Pagi. 1 of 4
CAMEROON
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Agricultural ParaDublic Reform Program
1.        Backsround.  Until the early 1960s. intervention in agricultural
development was carried out by the administration and was limited to the
provision of agricultural support services. In 1968. the Government began
creating specialized institutions, aimed at inducing technical progress in
agriculture, without adapting the existing responsibilities of the
provincial delegations for agricultural development. By the 1970s, the
Government had become heavily involved in all operations. The following
main parastatals and development agencies were created:
(a) integrated rural development agencies: Priority Zones
for Intergrated Regional Development; (ZAPI); Society
for the Development of Nkam (SODENKAM); Wum
Development Authority (WADA); Mission for Development
in the Northwest (MIDENO);
(b) promotion of a single or principal crop in a region:
cotton (Society for the Development of Cotton
(SODECOTON)); cocoa (Society for the Development of
Cocoa (SODECAO)) and rice (Society for the
Development of Rice at Yagoua (SEMRY) and Society for
the Development of Rice at Mbo (SODERIM));
(c) provision of agricultural support services, including
inputs supply: National Rural Development Fund
(FONADER) for credit and inputs: National Studies and
Experimentation Center of Mechanized Agriculture
(CENEEHA) for agricultural machinery; Seed and Food
Development (MIDEVIV), responsible for improved seed;
(d) direct crop production: Comonwvealth Development
Corporation (CDC) for rubber, oil palm, tea, pepper;
Palm Oil Development Society (SOCAPALM); Rubber
Development Society (KEVECAM); Sugar Development
Company (CAMSUCO); and
(e) other functionst a Cereals Office (OC) for food
security; Center for Cooperative Development (CENADEC)
for cooperatives: National Office for Development of
Small Livestock (ONDAPB) and National Office of
Participation and Development (ONPD).
2.        Parapublic Reform Proram.   A recent diagnostic study of the
parapublic institutions involved in agriculture revealed that the
proliferation of new structures had not yielded expected efficiencies.
These structures have proven to be very costly in relation to their impact
and have imposed a heavy burden on public finances, largely due to costly
structures and inadequate management, the absence of clear objectives and a
confusing policy environment. Overlapping institutional functions and



-38 -                      ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4
competence is commonplace. particularly in agricultural extension where
specialized agencies carry out the same functions as the provincial
delegates of agriculture, creating confusion. In part, the situation arose
from the intervention of external donors who, in an attempt to bypass
cumbersome administrative procedures, have created extra-ministerial
implementation units for projects financed by them. This inclination,
combined with reliance on expatriate line managers, has eroded the
management capacity of Cameroonian institutions, despite the existence of
relatively well-trained Cameroonian staff. The narastate. reform program's
objectives were to: (a) dissolve non-strategic parastatals and transfer
their responsibilities to the private sector of public administration; and
(b) restructure strategic parastatals and phase out public involvement over
time. Under the SAL, the first step to increasing efficiency is the
completion of performance contracts between the State and the following
institutions: OC, SODECAO, HEVECAM, SOCAPALM, SODECOTOON and CDC. The
NAETP is fully consistent with the objectives of the parastatal reform and
structural adjustment programs in that the project will: (a) take over the
extension of activities formerly performed by institutions now dissolved or
privatized (SODENKAM, ZAPI); and (b) thosu institutions with the capacity
to deliver effective extension services will continue to do so (MIDENO,
SODECAO and SODECOTON) in the medium-term. The fate of parastatals
involved in agriculture is summarized below, including the allocation of
extension functions:
(a) Integrated Rural Development Agencies
-    SODENKAM - to be liquidated: (i) extension functions to be
transferred to MINAGRI.
-    ZAPI - to be dissolved.  KINAGRI requested to recommend
structures to replace the activities of ZAP!. Extension
services to be transferred to MINAGRI
-    WADA - To be liquidated.  Extension services to be transferred
to MIDENO.
-    MIDENO - activities to continue.  Extension program to continue
under the ausDices of MIDENO.
-    SOVEDO - A second phase project financed by BAD and FAD has been
appraised but is not yet effective. Extension activities to be
transferred to MINAGRI.
(b)  Principle or SLnale Crop Regional Parapublic Institutions
-    SODECOTON - activities to continue.  Cotton extension activities
to continue under the auspices of SODECOTON: crop extension to
be taken over by MINAGRI in the Extreme North. Study to be
undertakent (i) costs, pricing structure, and measures for
developing cotton production; (ii) reexsmin the objectives of



39 -ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4
SODECOTON and determine those functions to be retained by
SODECOTON and those to be transferred to other institutions:
(iii) prepare a financial plan for fertilizer for two growing
seasons to be financed by FED.
-    SODECAO - activities to continue.  Extension program to continue
under the auspices of SODECAO under contract to MINARI, with
crop extension to be added to extension packages.
- SEMRY - to be taken over by farmers.
-    SODERIM - indications are that SODERIM is to be dissolved:
Rehabilitation of the rice subsector to include: (i) a study by
MINAGRI in cooperation with other concerned ministries, to
prepare a rice plan presenting the objectives, programs and
projects; (ii) a reduction in operating costs; (iii) improving
management of production units: (iv) improving the quality of
rice; (v) permanent monitoring and evaluation of operating
costs; (vi) determine the requirements for intregrating
livestock in rice producing zoues; (vii) integrating rice
producing projects into MINAGRI's stabilization plan; (viii)
restructuring SODERIM with a view to adapting it to the actual
level of its activities;
tc) Agricultural Support Services
-    FONADER - to be liquidated.  The Cameroon Agricultural Credit
institution is to replace FONADER.
-    CENEEMA - to be retructured into a self-financing institution
for land clearing and other mechanized agricultural activities.
-    MIDEVIV - to be phased out in the long-term.  Commercial
activities to be phased out. The system of seed production is
to be reorganized as follows: (i) a national seed commission
responsible for national seed policy, regulation, and
determining seed requirements; (ii) seed certification and
production of base seed will be the responsibility of IRA; (iii)
production and multiplication will be contracted out to farmers,
development societies and cooperatives; (iv) distribution will
be the responsibility of the cooperatives, development societies
and the private sector.
td) Estate Sector. While important to the agriculture sector, the estate
subsector is not influenced by extension services. CDC, SOCAPALM and
BEVICAN are to be restructured into self-financing institutions;
CAMSUCO is to be privatized.



40 -                         ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
(f) Others
-    OC - to be retained due to its strategic role in food security.
-    CENADtC - redifinition of functions; to be phased out in the
longer-term (see para. (g)).
-    ONDAPI - to be privatized.
-    ONPD - to be dissolved.
(g) Cooperatives
-     i() reorganization of the cooperative movement; (ii) have the
cooperatives take over the responsibility and put more emphasis
on training; (iii) decentralization of cooperatives; (lv)
improvement of information and control ky members.



_ 41 -
ANKNEX 2
Page 1 of 5
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
NATIONAL EXTENSION AND TRAINING
PILOT PROJECT
Introduction
1.    Improvement of extension services in Cameroon has been the subject of
dialogue between the Government and the Bank since the late 1970's. Follow-up
discussions between the Bank and USAID set the shape for a joint USAID - FAOICP
preparation mission in Hay/June 1987 (FAO/CP National Extension and Training
Project, Interim Preparation Report, August 7, 1987). However. the lack of a
unified extension policy, and the uncertainties surrounding a favorable
institutional framework lead the Government to postpone the launching of a
national project and instead requested the Bank to finance a pilot project which
would introduce in selected areas the concept of a Training and Visit (T&V)
system, and which would set the stage for the preparation of a National
Agricultural Extension and Training Program (NAETP).
2.    In November 1987, preparation and formulation of a National Extension and
Training Pilot Project was entrusted to a newly appointed national coordinator,
to be assisted by a Bank agricultural services specialist who had recently taken
up his post in the country.  The pilot project would be financed under the
ongoing Second Western Province Project (2406-CM).
3.    The preparation, design and start-up activities of the pilot project took
longer than expected for the following reasons:
(a)   excessive fragmentation and overlapping of responsibilities
for extension between parastatals, government agencies and other
projects;
(b)   lack of institutional and research - extension linkages;
(c)   poorly motivated staff;
(d)   late arrival of funds (June 1988):
(e)   the introduction of a now financial and accounting system for Bank
disbursed funds, which took time to assimilate in the provinces; and
(f)   poor training and hence lack of adequate technical capacity
of extension agents.
4.    Some of the above issues had to be resolved prior to start-up activities
such as the choice of pilot areas, the availability of funds and the introduction
of a decentralized financial system to enable the provincial delegations to
implement the pilot project. The experience gained during implementation of the
pilot project and necessary action taken to remedy some of the weaknesses and
constraints affecting extension activities in Cameroon paved the way for the
preparation and appraisal of the NAETP.



- 42 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 5
Proiect's Objectives
5.    The objectives of the pilot project were to:
(a)   strengthen and upgrade the level of extension agents by
replacing them with trained and qualified personnel in MINAGRI and
parastatals;
(b)   establish a strong and more efficient linkage between extension
and research;
(c)   introduce a new approach to extension within MINAGRI and
parastatals operating in the country and;
(d)   decentralize MINAGRI's extension services to the provincial
level, thus enabling the provincial delegations to manage and finance
their extension activizies more efficiently.
Proiect's Results
6.    Selection of Pilot Areas. Training of field staff could only start in June
1988, after the arrival of funds.  However, prior to start-up of training
activities, the selection of pilot areas was lengthy since it involved both
political and institutional decisions by government. Excessive fragmentation
and overlapping of responsibilities for extension between MINAGRI, parastatals
and other projects, and the dissolution or re-structuring of some parastatals,
made it difficult to determine which implementing agency and which pilot area
would be selected. It took several months of lengthy and difficult discussions
until agreement was reached between all parties concerned. Finally, the pilot
areas selected consisted of the following:
Province          Division                 Imlementing Agency
Extreme North     2 Divisionss                   MINAGRI:
Mayo - Sava ard          Provincial Delegation
Mayo - Tsanaga           of Agriculture
South             1 Division:                    SODECAO
Nten               (Soci6td de Developpement de Cacao)
North-West        5 Divisions:                   MIDENO
Mezeu, Momo        (North-West Development Authority)
Menchum, Bui
and Donga Mmntung
Zast              1 Division:                    MINAGRIt
Lam *t Djerem     Provincial Delegation of Agriculture
7.    The introduction of a T&V system in the pilot areas was new to the
Provinces with the exception of the North West province, which had adopted the
T&V approach since 1982. Therefore, funds allocated to MIDENO were earmarked



- 43 _
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 5
only for additional training and orientation of higher level village extension
staff and logistic support. The MIDENO project, which is currently financed by
IFAD, KFW and the European Development Fund has achieved impressive results
through its extension methodology, which involved intensive supervision and
training of extension agents and strong linkage with research. The results of
the MIDENO project has enabled MINAGRI to use the North West province as a large
scale demonstration and training center for MINAGRI high level staff, and it is
envis&ged to continue to use MIDENO's experience and training facilities during
the implementation of the NAETP.
8.    Trainint.  Training of high level staff and village extension agents was
undertaken at divisional and provincial level, and at MIDENO. In addition to
MINAGRI staff, other field staff from Ministry of Higher Education and Computer
Sciences (MEShRES), Ministry of Finance (MINFI), Ministry of Women's Affairs
(MINISCOF) and Ministry of Livestock (MINEPIA) also participated in the sessions.
The table on page 6 gives the number and type of participants, and length of
training sessions.
9.    Orsanization and Manaaement at Provincial Level.   The new extension
methodology was adapted to the existing provincial structures which varied,
depending on whether the pilot project was implemented by a parastatal or
MINAGRI's provincial delegation. Subject matter specialists (SMS) were appointed
and assigned at the provincial level. However, in order to ensure an efficient
and practical decentralization of extension operations at provincial level, a
decentralization of financial and administrative procedures had to be entrusted
to the provinces, while Ministry of Finance would continue to be responsible for
financial control of all expenditures and accounts.
10.   The system which was finally adopted and approved by Ministry of Finance,
HINAGRI and the Bank's Loan Department proved to be satisfactory, though it took
some six months for the provincial delegations to becom familiar with the new
accounting system.  It is worth mentioning that this was the first time that
Ministry of Finance had managed a Special Account, and the first time that
Provincial Delegations of Agriculture were given financial responsibility to
manage project accounts.
11.   The NAETP would adopt the same financial and accounting procedures as in
the pilot project. A special account would be opened in a bank in Yaounde, and
second generation accounts would be opened in each of the provinces in a branch
of the same bank with the main special account in Yaounde. Advance payments
covering three months estimated expenditures would be made from the main special
account, on the basis of realistic budgets submitted to MINFI. Justification
of expenditures made on these accounts would be submitted to MINPI on a monthly
basis. The main account would be established through an advance payment by the
Bank (Washington) equivalent to four months of budgeted expenditures. It would
be replenished by the Bank against documented expenditures and upon receipt of
withdrawal applications supported by bank statements from the main account and



- 44 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 5
all second generation accounts.  Ministry of Finance would assume control of
expenditures and accounts through their provincial financial controllers
stationed in each of the provinces.   Signatories for withdrawal of second
generation accounts would consist of the Provincial Financial Controller and the
Provincial Delegate of Agriculture. The main special account would be managed
by MINFI.
12.   Oruanization and ManaRement at Central Level.  The Extension Service in
the Directorate of Agriculture has coordinated provincial extension activities
during the pilot phase.   For the NAETP, MINAGRI has appointed a National
Coordinator and has strengthened the Extension Service.
13.   Field Operations. It is too early to evaluate results of field operations,
since this is the first agricultural season of the pilot project. In the East
and South provinces, field operations started in March/April, 1989 and in the
Extreme North in May/June, 1989. However, the T&V approach is being implemented
in all the pilot areas. Village extension agents urdertake regular visits to
groups of farmers according to a fixed calendar.   Intensive supervision of
village extension agents and bi-monthly training sessions are also being carried
out.
14.   During the first agricultural season the pilot project focussed initially
on maize, millet, and sorghum which, apart from tubers, are the country's main
staples.  Other crops include groundnuts, sweet potatoes, cocoa, coffee and
cotton. Extension messages included (i) introduction of new varieties of maize,
millet and groundnuts, (ii) timely planting, (iii) optimum per plant population
per ha, (iv) planting in rows and at predetermined spacings, tv) timely weeding,
Svi) pest control, and (vii) post-harvest storage. The above recommendations
aimed at making best use of existing resources, given that institutional
agricultural credit is currently not available to farmers. Whenever possible,
extension agents try to convince farmers to apply the new recommendations on a
small portion of their fields to minimize risk and to allow for a comparison with
traditional farming practices. Some 2,000 adoption plots have been established
on farmers' fields and as far as the eye can see, results are satisfactory.
15.   Links with Research.  Links with research have greatly improved.   The
pilot project includes the participation of researchers in the training of
extension staff and the latter occasionally accompany SMS during their field
visits.  For the time being, there are enough research data and experience
available to still pormlt the generation of useful extenslon messages. Howcver,
in the medium and long term there will be a need to strengthen research to meet
the ever increasing demand from farmers and 9stension. In fact, there is already
growing pressure on research to focus more specifically on crop associations and
rotations, and better varieties of tubers.



- 45 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of S
Lessons Learned
16.   Clearly, the decision reached in August 1987, to first launch a pilot
project, was a vise one. The experience gained during the pilot phase and the
problems and issues which MINAGRI and the Bank had to resolve has enabled all
parties concerned to better plan and design a NAETP. The pilot project will
continue until the NAETP becomes effective.



UsmapSteSatil dee, difftreat. smlaalraes eombe. .1 prad" dee, prtIcipeeta
as                    *W"           *.jtL    -                                                   *&r  car   -mim 
U maa    I                                I                   u~~~~~~a m.; l   #'I maa
I.&.     iii     ISA    VA  _        u  T&NFI
sl_ rz j j _jjj_ lsi jjj s _;_ ; j E NXU otc. ,
_  _  _  _     _     _      _       ~~~~_______          _             _                               _        
VeW  dEtwb                   al4                                                    3-  --  --                                                 - _: -  _  ---:-:-'-
SmImlge  PmS.alae.
_tem4od                     e          s46                              3         6       1to      I      a      4      S       -
_EST                       ow/                               UU- wS                                                         -      -                        -  
_S        _                             U-VU                 46      *               S        5                     12                        4 _  4
____                                        ii4      _j_  ___j___ --i--  __;___ __ _ _        _ _    j -    -
-     .   Ojer.m            e        U   3 UU4 6                                 U         S _            4      13     5       6                        -
l- "T . h_ d    I  14:  I'it . .
l |__,_=___    __________  _______U____   ______ _ 
5rn4-g 2w   I                                                           a3S      as      U         1   _         41     4       3         U
v   varo         ~-                                        ~-                         ---   -            -------  - ----  ---
Imlesim  ~           Wes"d       U/U-/U /Ul           4                                                                         - - 
____          --_-   ___ _                   _           ________                     __-a-   _6 ---- ____ .____ __----- -- -----------
We.         U-Si/U/              U            _ -                 _       _      _      _      _       _          _             -
Weal.  31-16/ U/US  U       -      ~      ~    ~     ---      -  -           -   ---   -  -------  -      -----8 -
24-U/U/U  U    -          -        -       -     ~~~~ ~ ~~~-  -   ---  - ---  -------- -----
-   newn                e    - -    ~~ ~ ~~--            ---- - -  -- ----------------- --        -----
~~~----------------
_rea            !  '7                     ___ ____       .. .                  .z.....-
i" a.r..  fu=..   VIIA                                      to3313/U 3                                                                                    la --
e//U--- - -- - - _   _   _  _                                                                                                               ---------
:WS                   l_^ grups  Wes"" wal"O _&                                 _               _       _      rIs
_                _     _      _    _          _           I_____________          _____ __j___ _______ __j__ --  ;--  -- ;-- ____________j______- -----------
S...-ae   .       .           -         - .         >1
ISIM.               31U            US      ----- ------ --a.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----  --
lul                                                               It"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  .
MAL                                                                                                                                       it ,
i                                                                                                         "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



- 47 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 4
CAMEROON
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
EXTENSION METHODS AND ORGANIZATION
A. Extension Methodoloiv
1.        Each village extension worker (VEW) would be assigned a number
of farm families in an area. The number of farm families assigned to a VEW
would depend on local conditions such as population density, settlement
patterns, agro-ecological and farming systems, topography and
accessibility. It is estimated that each VEW could cater to about 400-
1,000 farms, depending on the population density of the area. The specific
area assigned to a VEW would be determined on the basis of a detailed
survey carried out by the agents themselves during the first year of
project implementation.
2.        To reach systematically the farmers in his area, each VEW would
divide the area into 8 sectors. In each sector, he would organize the
farmers into three or 4 groups and select contact farmers on the basis of
groups leadership, location and affinities. The VEW would visit each
sector (and therefore each group of a particular sector) on a fixed day of
the week, once every two weeks. It is estimated that, during the first
year of the project, only about 302 to 5O? of the farmers of a particular
zone would actually be active members of a contact group. This proportion
is expected to increase to 60? to 802 during the project's fourth year.
The VEW would work primarily with active members of the farmers' groups,
demonstrating, on the field of one farmer, the cultural practices that
should be followed during the subsequent two weeks. During each visit, he
would concentrate on a few selected recommendations relevant for the
particular phase of the crop cycle. The extension messages would be simple
and, at the outset, the emphasis would be low-cost improvements (correct
plant density, timely weeding, pruning and spraying of coffee and cocoa, as
wvll as correct crop harvesting and on-farm storage) which a majority of
farmers can readily afford. To reduce risk, cultural recoumendations
involving significant departures from existing practices would first be
recommended for adoption on only a small part of farmers' fields.
3.        The VEV would try to involve as many farmers as possible in the
discussion and demonstration, visiting non-participatLag farmers' fields
upon request. In regions where women are actively involved ln farm
management and field work the VEW would invite farmers to bring their wives
along to the visits, and for food crops, for which women carry out most of
the field work, women's groups would be established. In North West
Provinte it has been found to be particularly effective to use female
extension agents to facilitate the establishment of there women's groups,
which in many cases would subsequently be handed over to male VEWs.



- 48 _
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 4
4.        Each VEW would spend eight days in a two-week period visiting
farmers' contact groups. Another day each week would be spent alternately
attending training sessions conducted by SMSs or programming/debriefing
sessions with his supervisor. The last two working days in the two-week
period would be spent making up for missed visits or to undertake special
extension activities.
Plannini and Supervision of VEWs' Activities
5.        The activities of front-line extension agents would be planned
and monitored by Extension Supervisors (ES). Each ES would oversee six to
eight VEWo, planning their fortnightly visit schedule, ensuring that the
visits are actually conducted and providing technical guidance. Each ES
would spend eight days each fortnight making field visits. He would also
participate in the fortnightly training sessions. The tenth day would be
used to meet with the VEW he supervises to establish their program for the
next fortnight and provide information and guidance upon request. The
remaining two days would be spent providing extra support to weaker VEVs or
following-up on interesting extension-related matters.
Technical Backstornina
6.        To ensure a continuous flow of suitable farm recommendations and
adequate training and technical backstopping of field extension workers, it
would be necessary to strengthen the technical support staff at the
department or provincial level. Departmental and Provincial SMse would
spend one-third of their time training VEWs and Extension Suipervisors,
another third in field visits to provide technical support and guidance to
field extension staff and the balance in improving their own skills through
regular dialogue with research workers, carrying out simple field trials in
collaboration with the Testing and Liasion Units of IRA, and attending
short-term training courses.
B. TraLning
7.        Three kinds of training activitise are planneds  (a) orientation
and refresher training; (b) in-service training; and (c) other training.
Details of the training programs are presented in the Project File.
Orientation and refresher training
8.        All extension agents would receive a short pre-project training
course (threelfive days) to become familiar with the basic elements of the
T&V system. (Some staff have already completed this training under the



- 49 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 4
Pilot Extension Project). Short term intensive training courses could be
given to SMS in.-their field of specialization. Training courses would vary
from one week to four months and would be provided either in-country where
some courses are available or out of country in an appropriate institution.
Similarly, staff involved in adaptive research would receive specialized
training in research institutions and specialists attached to the M&E
central unit would undergo a ten-week traing in M&E in an appropriate
university in the U.K. where sach a course has been identified.
9.        In view of tho lack of effective training programs for its
extension staff over the last few years, DIRAGRI would organize during the
first six months of the project a test to: assess the available technical
and communication skills of all categories of field extension staff (from
VEWs to departmental supervisors); assess the skills missing for effective
project implementation: and to permit design of the immediate and medium-
term training actions needed to provide the skills required.
In-service Trainint
10.       The project key-note training component would be the continuous
in-service training of field-extension staff:
i.  Fortnizhtly trainina would be organized for the VEWs and
their supervisors at the departmental level. This training
would be organized by the Training Officer stationed at
headquarters and conducted by the SHSs. Training during
these one-day sessions would be very practical and
concentrate on the few specific operations in the coming
fortnight. Village extension staff would also have an
opportunity to raise and discuss problems encountered
during the past two weeks. Part of the time would be spent
doing field work, practicing recommended cultural
practices. Time would also be spent learning about
preparation and use of teaching materials and
comaanications techniques.
ii. Monthly workshop. Two-day multi-disciplinary monthly
workshop would be organized at provincial level for SMS9
anI departmental supervisors. The frequency, activities
and composition of monthly workshops make them the key link
between extension and research. Monthly workshops would
serve mainly to train SMSs but would also play a critical
role ins



- 50 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 4
(a)  Reviewing the success of production recommendation
extended during the past month and their acceptance by
farmers.
(b)  Selecting and discussing recommerdations and impact
points for the forthcoming month after adjusting them
to specific circumstances.
(c) Reviewing the program of on-going field trials and
analyzing farmers' response and suggesting topic for
new trials.
(d) Evaluating the success of fortnightly training
sessions for front-line extension agents.
The monthly workshops would be organized by the extension agencies'
provincial training specialists. However, the technical content of the
workshop and its actual implementation would be joint responsibility of the
extension and research staff. The monthly workshops would take place at
regional research stations and extension agencies' provincial offices.
Regular visits would be organized of field trial locations to review and
discuss progress of adsptive research efforts.
11.       Other trainng   Provincial Extension staff and SHSs would
attend regular (annual) training courses in communication and extension
skills, to make them more competent and effective trainers. In addition, a
variety of in-service training would be offered throughout the project
period to upgrade the technical skills of extension and adaptive research
staff on the basis of specific skill gaps identified during project
implementation.



- S1 -
ANNEX 3
Attachment
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
-         IRA TRAINING PROGRAH
Course 1:       Industrial Crops
Duration:       One week
Themess   Ci)  Epidemiology of cocoa and coffee pests
(ii)  Integrated pest control in cocoa and coffee
(iii)  Cocoa brown rot: the disease and its chemical control
(iv)  Coffee rust: the disease and its chemical control
(v)  Coffee Berry Diseases  the disease and its chemical control
.Course 2:       Resource Management (Soil and Forestry)
Durations       One Week
Themess   (i)  Soil profiles
(ii)  Methods of soil analysis
(iii)  Agronomic aspects of the interpretation of soil analysis
(iv) Soil types in Cameroon
(v)  Sylvicultural development of some 'fast grawing *pecies of
savanna and forest areas
Course 3:       Food Crop Production and Storage
Duration:       Two weeks
Themes:   Ci)  Cultural practices of pineapple
(ii)  Citrus diseases and pests
(iii)  Cassava, maize, cowpeas, beans and groundnut production
(iv)  Agro-forestry
(v)  CIP Potato production
(vi)  Plantain and banana production (including nematode control)
(vii)  Food storage methods
Course 4s       Research and DemonstratLon Methods
Durations       One week
Themes:   Ci)  Demonstration methods
(ii)  arming systems diagnosis
(iii)  Field plot techniques



-52 -
REPUW.C OP CAMEROO
NATIONAL AOtC#JLTUIAL EXTNSION ANM ItAINING PRJECT
Sumerviie l   ratios 
East.   Ez.Mer" Adameuc So.fet Littoral    Wet   Total
National Total (OM  b/                                                                  115.S
Farmers () a/                        ".7   2M.4    55.6    76.4    65.4    160.8   766.6
Farmers (M) b/                       ".7   2".5    U.6.        74.6      U4    1.7   764.4
S in Project            1US                     6o      an    1ow        75 USS3           615
No. Project F... (6)                 6.7       172    32.4    74.6    41.1   11.?   15.$
Ratlo:Fsrfers/AYV                   1:44"   1:I       1:6t   1:4U    1:411   1:01    sl160
AVVs                                  164      172      64      1"       1ff      26       94
Ratio                                 1:4      1:6      1:6     1:7      1:7      1:7   1:5.9
Supervisors                            41       29       19      24       16       so      15
?OA                                   1t        1S        4      10       19       26       to
Cho? de Pote& Other Sup"leore          22       14       6        6                12       is
Source: */ Pre"ration Reert; b/ Agricultural Censue 10.
Extreme North include Vine and More Departmente only.
Littores *xeludes Snagar Maritime.



- 53
ANNEX 2
REPWLIC OF CAMEON
NATIONAL ACRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND TNRANIN PROJECT
PERs5wL REUIWJELNTS
East   Ex.Nerth  Adaoue So.West  Littoral   Nt           Total
Cu) AVV                                             184       172       64       I"        ii9      265       946
(VHilago Extension Workor)
(b) SZ                                               22        14        6         5         *       12        S9
(Zone Supervisor)
DA OA/SA                                           *              19 is4        to        i        20        99
(Subdiv. O-legaoe of Agric.)
Subtotal (b).(c)                                 41        29       to        24        16       39       153
Subtotal (a) * (b) * (c)                        2U       291        74       19       125       388      if"
(d) CSDA/SO                                           4         a        2         4         3        6        25
(Otv.Chiof of Section for Agriec.)
Ts) tSO                                               6        12        4         4         3       t1        49
(Oivisional S5S)
Subtotal (d)*(o)                                 12        to        6         *         6       24        74
(h) CSPA/SP                                           1         1        1         1         1        I         6
(Prow. Chief of Agric. Service)
(1) TSP                                               4         I        3         a         6        6        23
(Prowincial SWS)
(J) OPA/CP                                            1         1        1         1         1        I         6
(Prow. DOelegat of Agrie.)
(k) CSA/Sp                                            1         1        1         1         I        I         6
(Prov.Chief of Section F£xt/Trg.)
Subtotal (h)(i)J) )                               7         6        6         9         9        9        4
TOTAL                                           224       225        a       297       14S      839      1216



_ 54 -
ANNX 3
RI KLSC OF CAMIO
NATIONAL AGSICUL1UAL EXTENSION AND TRAININO PROJECT
Sublet Mette Stle     l     Illr_t
East     Ex .Nrth Admme  SO-We"  Littoral    West   Totsl
O.peetaeta_ I
¢*t*l  4  6       2        4         3        0       25
Roots                                                4                                             0        19
Coffee                                                                                             6 
V.getables/Prult/Aorefrtesy                                   O                                             S
Animal Trzatlon                                                        2                                    2
rot,l Deper_tl                                       4       12        4         4        J       14       49
Previrclil
Coffee                                               1                                    1                  3
Cocoa                                                                                                        3
Vegabl                                                                                                     4 1  1  1
Fruit (Agrefestry)                                                      1        1        1        1        4
Plant Protectle                                      1        1         1        1                 1 
Seil Conservatioe                                             1                                    1        2
Sm!ll Livestk                                        1        1                  1        X        X 
Total Provinecil                                     4        s         3        *        6        O        2S
Total Subject Matter Spui.late                      12       1                            0       24        7
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 55 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 4
CAMEROON
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
ADAPTIVE RESEARCH
1.        Current agricultural output is influenced by four main factors:
selection of commodity; productivity per unit area; the area farmed; and
losses at or after harvest. The first may well be critical and can be
influenced by extension, but is not discussed here as it is of a long tenm
nature and is heavily influenced by other factors such as markets. The
others are dealt with under separate headings below. Sustained production
is dependant on the farmi . techniques adopted. and so is related to the
factors affecting yields; it is discussed in paragraph 11.
2.        Without-oroiect situation. It has to be appreciated that the
non-project situation is not one of stable yields. These would decline to a
serious extent, primarily because of reducing fertility, as a result of
increasing population pressure on the available land resources. This is
occuring for two reasons: first, the increasing intensity of cultivation is
curtailing the extended periods of bush-fallow which were the mainstay of
traditional African agriculture; and second because cultivation is now
extending into less suitable lands (either less fertile or, more seriously,
more susceptible to erosion). In addition, yields will inevitably decline
unless ner techniques are continually introduced to counter developing
threats: examples are the regular replacement of varieties as they succumb
to diseases, and the updating of pest control techniques.
Croo Yields
3.        Visual impressions of farming standards in Cameroon suggest that
yields of food crops are often better than those obtained in many other
African countries, but that smallholder cash crops (notably Arabica coffee)
tend to be neZlected.  The available data, summarised in Annex 5, Table 1,
tend to support these generalisations. These data, however, exhibit
features which suggest that great caution is necessary in their
interpretation. It is most unlikely, for example, that existing cassava
yields are of the order of 20t/ha in all but the driest areas; the yields
quoted for cowpeas in most provinces exceed the 'potential" (of 1.2 t/ha)
as estimated by researchers for new varieties protected by a regular
regimen of spraying; the values presented for groundnuts are only
marginally less unrealistic; and the yields quoted for 'traditional*
bananas are clearly out of line in comparison with the (reliable and
realistic) figures given for the very well run comnercial plantations. With
respect to oil-palm, the plantation:smallholder comparison again suggests
that the figures are unreliable.
4.        In the final column,.the column "probable target' is based on
wider experience of typical yields obtained in Africa; the values would not
apply to adverse conditions such as the dry Sahelian conditions of the
Extreme North Province. Further, they do not apply to mixed cropping which
is practised to an exceptional degree in parts of Cameroon - and it is not
clear how the census deals with this feature. Clearly, any comparison
between the reported yields and these targets, is of little value, as is



- 56 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 4
best illustrated by the cassava data. Agriculturalists in Cameroon are
reticent on the subject of practical yield targets but, quite
independantly, the National Cereal Research and Extension Project (in their
most recent report dated 1987) state that with improved seed varieties,
improved cultural practices and fertilization, maize yieids of between 2.0
and 3.0 tonnes per hectare are obtainable in farmers' fields' though
*yields as high as 4.4 tonnes per hectare have been attained in on-farm
trials under farmer management."
S.        The only other possible method for estimating the potential for
increased yields is through reference to data obtained in experiments.
Again, these data have to be interpreted with caution as responses obtained
on experiment stations are usually much greater than those exhibited in
farmers' fields.
6.        Main food crops. For the cereal grain crops, the researchers
claim yield increases due to improved varieties of 15Z to ZOZ; this appears
to be a reasonable claim taking into account the limited potential for
redistributing dry-matter from stem to grain because the farmers require
the stover. However, the demonstrated doubling of grain yield of cowpeas
with improved varieties (tripling with full insecticidal spraying) is not
realistic for exactly the same reasons it is done at the expense of the
h&ulm which, in the Sahel, has a value as cattle feed which exceeds that of
the grain. With groundnut, the main objective of the breeder! is to
replace existing reasonably satisfactory varieties by varieties with better
agronomic characters (notably resistance to diseases and with a degree of
dormancy) and to make them better adapted to resist adverse seasons
(especially by producing types that mature earlier); the first will
encourage expansion of area rather than increased yields, whilst the second
will increase yields but only through stabilising production. Amongst the
root crops, farmers in South-West and Littoral Provinces have already
adopted the recommended variety of sweet potato which has raised yields
significantly, and there is imuediate scope for introducing the variety
elsewhere in the humid tropics; a similar break-through is likely in the
very near future with cassava and potato, but that for cassava cannot be
quantified in view of the unrealistic census data. So far as other root
crops are concerned, work on yam is aimed at improving eating/storing
qualities rather than yields once root-rot resistant macabo is obtained,
expansion of area can be expected; and there is very little work on taro.
Taking the relative importance of the various species into account, it is
probably reasonable to expect an average increase in yield due to improved
varieties of about 102 for the cereal and root crops, but no more than 5S
for the grain legumes.
7.        The above discussion concentrates on changing varieties - one of
the most important of the low-cost improvements that can be made available
to farmers. Additional increases can be expected from improvements in
other agronomic practices such as seed treatment, careful spacing and
appropriate fertilisation. Again, however, any assessment of potential
increases must take into account the generally high standard of current
farming Ln some provinces, which includes the special technique for
releasing nutrients used in the North-West, (the burning of plant residues



- 57 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 4
underground), which has a dramatic limmediate effect on plant growth, but
exhausts the soil to the extent that a second crop becomes very poor.
Experience on the pilot project and the MIDENO project in the North-West
suggests that the introduction of new techniques will both prevent a
decline in yields, rather than immediately increase yields.
8.        In the longer term, some significant but as yet unquantifiable
response can be expected from the better adaptation of research to farmers'
conditions, in particular adaptation to mixed cropping. The greatest
improvement, however, is likely to come from increasing the level of
purchased inputs which will be influenced by considerations other than the
awareness of available technology. In sua-ry, it would be unrealistic to
expect average yield increases (above existing levels, not above twithout-
project*, see paragraph 2) of more than 502 greater than those estimated in
paragraph 6, i.e. 15? for cereals and root crops and 7.5Z for grain
legumes, simply as a result of introducing the improved varieties that are
nov available. With improved cultural practices, greater increases in
yields could be obtained.
9.        Beverage crops.  Once market constraints are relieved, active
extension can be expected to have a significant effect on coffee yields
(both Robusta and Arabic&); based on visual observations (the data in the
table appear incorrect) a doubling of present yields would be a reasonable
target. The same cannot be said for cocoa, where the fundamental problems
are diseases (which researchers have been trying to control for decades)
and a marginal climate.
10.       Other cash crops. The main cash crop for small farmers in the
north of Cameroon is cotton which has always had an intensive extension
effort backed by active research, so major advances here are unlikely. The
same can also be said for the plantation crops, rubber and oil palm.
Sustained Production
11.       The traditional system of farming in Africa was sustainable
because of the prolonged bush-fallows. This and techniques such as that
mentioned in paragraph 7 are becoming inapplicable as population pressures
increase. New techniques must, therefore, be introduced to maintain
fertility; some of these are already available for extension (e.g. the use
of fertilisers) and others are being developed (e.g. alley-cropping
techniques and the integration of ruminant animals into arable farming
patterns). More important is the prevention of permanent soil loss through
erosion, which is an increasing threat as cultivation intensifies on steep
slopes; control techniques are ready for diffusion: they are being
demonstrated by PAPSAT in North West Province. The net result of these
activities will be to prevent the reduced yields mentioned in paragraph 2.
Area Farmed
12.       Increased area.  The dissemination of improved varieties and
techniques will both encourage (because they are more attractive to the
farmr) and enable (because of better adaptation) the expansion of areas
planted, as has been noted in paragraph 6. The actual increment will be



- s8 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 4
determined by market demand (assuming no other constraint), and may be
assumed to approximate to the rate of growth of population.
13.       One fundamental requirement for such expansion is the provision
of the physical-capacity to cultivate the additional land including, as
necessary, the installation of soil and water conservation measures.
Again, the technologies are available for diffusion (notably, the PAFSAT
project has developed animal traction techniques in North-West Province and
SODECOTON has encouraged its adoption in the North and Extreme-North
Provinces.
Losses at and After Harvest
14.       Potential improvements here are small.  A recent detailed survey
by TPI showed that storage losses of indigenous varieties, stored under
traditional conditions are not likely to exceed 5Z for sorghum or 102 for
maize. Much larger losses can be expected with cowpeas which are
especially susceptible to the brucid beetle, or with root crops stored
beyond their optimum period. The latter is only done by growers who wish
to supply some special, profitable market; the former can be controlled
with actellic powder and, in the future, will be reduced by the release of
resistant varieties. It would be unrealistic to assume that extension
efforts are likely to make any significant improvement in the future, other
than with cowpeas. A UNDP financed post-harvest storage and marketing
project is currently being implemented in North-West Project and its
recomendations will be adopted on a nation-wide basis.
15.       Losses caused by shattering prior to and during harvest can be a
problem with some of the grain legumes and with rice. One of the
objectives of broeders is to reduce this characteristic but, in practice.
peasent farmers soon learn to minimise losses through adjusting their
harvest techniques.
16.       Significant advances are possible through improving the
processing of the beverage crops. The quality of both Robusta and Arabica
coffees can be significantly improved, so ensuring sales in an increasingly
competitive market, and increasing the unit price.



REULIC OF CAMER("
NATIOL AGRICULTUAL  TSION AD TRAINING POJECT
ADAPTIVE RESEAnC
ITI RTE .IJS IN TFSES (f 'M LITRES OIL} PER HECTARE
veto 'orlmIoro Cmm.
Ext.11at   Nwth  Adwosul   East  Coatrl  SoutLh  Littoral S.W.st  U.West   West Probable
Crop Tra4A.                                                                                         *tr
MR40             0.7      1.2     1.0      2.0     1.5      1.6     1.0      1.6     2.3      1.9     2.0
S3u gho          0.       0.7     1.                                                 0.7              1.6
BIG*    Tad.    2.4       11.7                                                                        1.*
Moer      4.0                                                                 L.a              4.0
Ca a                                       7      21      1i       19       29      17        0      J
Tar                                        a       a        a       2        2       2        1       5
VMs                                                7                4        6       4        4      is
rpme                                                                                 3.9      1.0     5
se               0.4      1.0                                                        0.9      *.4     1.0
COi_"             1.7     0.5     1.3                               1.4              0.7      1.9     0.0
0.t.             0.0      0.7     0.0      0.3     0.7      0.3     0.7      1.a     1.a      0.7     g.m
pi tal,                                   17      14      1i       24       20      20       21      20
Seaon.  Trod.                             27      26       22      so       as      22       is      20
Nodare                                                     20       21                       20
COO"                                       0.2     0.4     0.8      0.5     0.6      0.2     0.6      0.6
Ilobust                           1.4      1.1     0.7     0.3      1.3     0.4      0.7     0.9      1.0
£rsbIkI                                                                              0.4     8.4      3.3
C.tt.            *0.7     1.3
*i Wala  Trod.                            2.1      4.4     0.7      2.9     1.4      2.6 
Socie..                                    2.1      0.9     3.9      1.7 



_ 60 -
ANNEX 5
CAMEROON
NATIONAL EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
PROJECT PHASING
-----No. of Departments Per Project
Total          1        2        3        4
---------------------------------------------
Province
East                    4        2        3        4        4
Extreme North           6        3        3        6        6
Adamoua                 2        0        0        2        2
Southwest               4        2        3        4        4
Littoral                4        0        2        4        4
Western                 6        3        6        6        6
TOTAL DEPARTMENTS      26       10       17       26       26
TOTAL PROVINCES                  4        5        6        6



CAMEROON                       ANNEX 6
Chart 1
NATIONAL EXTENSION iJD TRAINING PROJECT
PROVINCIAL ORGANIZATION
PROVINCE
Provincial Delegate
of Agriculture
9~~~ ~                    :
t                  Chief of Agriculture Service
__________&ssistant to Chief of Agriculture Service ....:
I        Provincial Subject Hatter Specialists ........ :
t . 
DIVISION                          I
Divisional Delegate of Agriculture
_       I                  :
t                     I   :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I                  Chief of Agriculture Section
I                            I  
t                                 .................................................. 
I        I          Divisional Subject Matter Specialists .......
I  __..............................
.SUB-DIVISION
Sub-Divisional Delegate of Agriculture
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ I  : _ _ _ _ _ _
I   :I                       :                   I    :
t                . .         :                   I   :
Chief of Agric Post     Chief of Agric Post/     Village Extension
I   :              Village Extension       Worker (AVV)
t   :              Worker (AVV)
Village Extension            I                        I
Worker (AVV)                 I
I   :I                       :                   I    :
Fa zner in high         Farmer in medium         Farmer in low
population              population               population
density area            density area             density area
KEt
Administrative line of command
.......   . ...sTechnical line of command



ANNEX 6
Chart 2
CAMERON
NATIONAL ACRICULTLAL EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
CENTRAL ORGANIZATION
Minister of Aricultire
Osairal           Direitrate           irecmirat. X        DcLrat                        Forestry     Directorate      Diroc  rate      Divimion
Screta            of  _eraO                     of           Cety                                     of of                             of
Afires             Agri clture          Develoment                                  Surveyo          Cooperation      Planning
and             and
Planning         Cooperative
l                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 
Sub-01 retorate                                                                                                 Sub-D irectorate
of Agricultural                                                                                                  of Plant
Product1as                                                                                                       Protection
Exiteale.         Agrclltuoral        Y" rew
Service           OeraXtie           Fasro



63 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 4
CAMEROON
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Obiectives and Backaround.
1.          The objective of monitoring and evaluation (M&E) is to provide
managers and technical personnel at all levels with information needed to
improve operational plans and to take necessary action to remedy weaknesses
and constraints which arise during implementation. In order to continuously
provide managers and technical personnel with regular updates and information
on project performance, a management informstion system (MIS) would be
maintained through the life of the program. The MIS would consist of a
network of data to which all technical and administrative personnel of the
extension service would contribute. It would cover regular updates on
progress in physical and financial implementation, the utilization by expected
beneficiaries of services and infrastructure provided, and reasons why
beneficiaries do or do not use these services. Honitoring of program
ctivities would be an internal function carried out by program personnel at
all levels and an integral part of their managerial and supervisory functions.
2.          The evaluation function would be separate from the monitoring
function, since evaluation objectLves, audience and timing differ from those
of monitoring. Monitoring would provide managers and supervisors with
feedback on the nature and extent of progress achieved to date in implementing
extension activities, whereas an evaluation of the extension program will seek
to explain and measure the level of efficiency of implementation in relation
to costs and accrual of benefits, and eventually to measure its contribution
to overall development.
Structure of the MIS at the Provincial and Central Levels
3.          The MIS has been conveniently divided into a four-tier framework
to provide a way of viewing the objectives and tasks of MINAGRI's extension
service and a logical structure for management to plan and execute them. At
the highest level, long-tern objectives (frequently referred to as the project
impact), would Include general objectives such as raising the level of rural
incomes, increasing production, Improving the quality of life, etc., to
achieve long-trn objectives; short-term objectives such as changes in farming
practices or cropping patterns have to be achieved. These objectives are
measured In tezus of changes within the target population (effects), which in
turn depend on the project providing the required activitise or service.
These would includes good extension advice to farmer related to appropriate
post-harvest technology, improved cultural practices, improved planting
materials, availability of agricultural inputs and credit and, last but not
least, mrkets for farmers' surplus agricultural production. Given that the



- 64 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 4
current availability of agricultural inputs, credit and markets is somewhat
uneven and mostly inadequate throughout the country, a careful choice of
indicators would have to be made to ensure that only those indicators which
can be adequately measured and which are within the framework of the extension
program are selected. Past experience has shown that too often M&E units have
confused long-term and short-term objectives in data collection, and have
wasted much time in gathering information which lie outside the agency's
competence or program of activities.  The result has been an accumulation of
voluminous reports which are costly to prepare, read by few people, if at all.
and of little use to project management. At the lowest level, these outputs
depend on the provision of certain inputs such as: personnel, equipment,
transportation, finance, etc., in the right quantity and at the right time.
4           The structure of the MIS and the executors at each level would be
as followst
Level                   MIS                      Executor
1. Long-ternm objectives       Impact evaluation        External team of
evaluators
2.  Short-term objectives      Monitoring activity      Monitoring unit at
effects                 at Central level
3.  Outputs                    Monitoring activity      Supervisors and
and services (some-     technical staff
times referred to as    at Provincial level
ongoing evaluation)
4.  Inputs                     financial and           Management, supervisors
physical monitoring      supervisors and
financial controller at
Provincial and Central
level
Two points need to be emphasized regarding the above table. First, data
collection and analysis activities are carried out at each level. For the
monitoring function to serve as a management tool, it must start at the lower
level of the hierarchy, thuu ensuring the extension service functions
efficiently. Second, many of the monitoring activities, especially those
related to inputs and outputs are carried out by supervisors and technical
staff at the provincial level rather than by the monitoring unit at the
Central level.
Imnlementation
5.          Past ezperience in Cameroon has shown that implementation of
monitoring and evaluation or HIS vithin the framework of integrated rural
development projects with an extension component, proved in most cases to be
over-ambitious, costly, unmanageable and of little value to project management
in the planning or decision-making process. HIS reports have proved to be



-65 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 4
bulky, complex and contained much information which was of little relevance to
project management.- They were mostly prepared for the benefit of the donor
agency or for the financial and statistical departments of the relevant
Ministry.
6.          Given that monitoring activities will be introduced for the first
time in the majority of the Provinces, and that supervisors and technical
personnel are unfamiliar with the concepts of M&E, it is envisaged that during
the first phase of the program, a simple monitoring system will be maintained
covering only the inputs and outputs of extension activities and measure the
effects of some key indicators. The role of the MUE unit at the Central level
would be to assist the Provinces to plan monitoring activities and compile a
quarterly report on the progress of the project. No additional costs are
envisaged either for personnel or equipment at the Provincial level, and at
the Central level the unit would provide technical assistance to the Provinces
and carry out a simple annual survey of short-term objectives (para. 7).
The Role of the H&E Unit
7.          The first task of the MUE unit at the Central level would be to
discuss with the extension management and supervisors at each provincial level
their annual work program and short-term objectives. Once these objectives
have been classified, management and supervisors would select a set of
appropriate indicators to measure the extent to which these objectives will be
met. Having identified suitable indicqtors, management and supervisors at
each provincial level would then set L.rgets. Targets should be statements of
results to be achieved and should ideally reflect all the short-term
objectives that have been identified. It would be advisable to select only a
small number of targets until managers and supervisors become more confident
and familiar with the MIS. The targets must be measurable and verifiable. As
implementation progresses, the situation may change and new factors enter into
play, causing management (not the MUZ unit) to review or amend these targets.
The setting of targets would be an on-going process whlch will involve reviews
and updates on an annual basis. An example of structured objectives and
indicators for the MAZTP is given below.
The Management Tnformation System at the Provincial Level
8.          Monthly reports, prepared by extension agents and supervisors
would be of little use unle they were analyzed, discussed and necessary
action taken quickly to reoedy weaknesses and constraints which arise during
implementation. Management and supervision at the provincial and departmental
level have a crucial role to play. It should be noted that this is not an
additional activity to be carried out by provincial extension supervisors, but
an integral part of their managerial and supervisory duties. Monthly reports
prepared by extension agents would form the basis of discussion in the
fortnightly or monthly training sessions for extension agents and their
immediate supervisors. The objective of these training sessions which are
held in each provincial division (department) is to review the extensionist's



- 66 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 4
of activities and performance during the previous fortnightly or monthly work
program and to train him/her for the following fortnightly or monthly
activities to be carried out. Regular training sessions would be superfluous
unless problems and issues were raised and discussed between extensionists and
supervisors. An example of a monthly report format for extension workers is
given belows
Level                       Indicator             Trnet                 Information
Short-Thre Objoctives:
Adoption A repat     To measure numer    Annual surveys
adoption rates       of farmers adopting
carried out by       Improved practices
M&E unit             (no. to be specified)
improve husbandry
preatices
-introduce n varieties
and I nput
Outouts:
-select ultable            a*lo A location of    To select sultable    Annual survey
contact frm rs              holdings, Bex of      femora capable of
carried out by our UKE      holder                Influencing other
unit                                             ftemor In their
group
-ensure regular and wel     no. of visits, no.    To visit not loe  thanExtension events
attened  site and           of particlipant as   __S of contact farmer
dsooetratlon and     every fortnight to
adoptlon plots       establish   U of
domo-etratTe and
adoption plote
-train extension stff       No. of men/days       to ha         of       onthTy Reort by
In Improved practice        training              *xtension tff        sup" risors
trained
inpute
- no. of extension         ao speciied In the   As secified In the   Provincial
staff reuIred               SM and rwevieed       managemsnt A U
annually             quarerly rport
-_eans of tr_asport
-fiteld offiew
-finance off leer



._-__ . _ ----------------       --------------------.       ..... --------t* --  ----
*              #||||l  llll   fb            11      w.*      1**-               FJD       ,      CX       1-e-- We
_sasa   mi~    UM---         ..      ._ . _....          _    __---        ---    ..      ....      .....
aiim        a      iii    £1155      *5    alUl               aaaam        O     4214      *m    NM"s
_  .  ..  ... _....... ..... .......-  -    -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -      ----------- ---------- ---------- ----------
c*.** _ -               n                          "    *~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~ to             IF                        to
am     mm                  s  m~ ~ ~~~~                          ~            ~~m am.  e0
gg.I..m&          mm                         I.e        as    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ans  ans                         as       s
I.~~~ele~~ M.hea.me  as                       as         a      a~~~~~~M         No                           I      ass
h          5s.6_ Ut                                               *         41      44                                 42*4      us      ciam
teasl                  amOS                                         84                em                          so      e
grow"                                   a"                        mm         a   m                   m           *4               OM   on
_A                                 _m    _                                            m               4          a        b e      * e e
Selig""I                                                                     i       annS  i           as                                 24i
Of                        a                                   o at  mu                            0
seesetsisis  (sr_frs                3                           *        0      3WDe                                           *   na
blowealil blelelo t..I(egasel)                                    m m         0      m                                                    noS  s
X S    IUi                                             0      5U oeoss)      s- *                                                   amZ
_rwr~~~~~~~~~~ no  *                                   an         m        w        *       r    91" n61  *r  612                                                                           Ok
- - --_----------- -----------      -------------------       - - -- -__.--- ... ......
basrib 8.m .                  *mian                                          m       in                                           is     S                                                             S
ounmesea                                       saa am           4      HIS                                 aMss        5    A
_Winame                                                            Su                e                                  SS       £45       1
_seas                                       Ui               UU    U4   MVZ                       11                         5*e
inmmusm                                 1W       1Wmm                       as      am ups                       0        as     as      mess
aelassas  "a                             l                                   a        is                                           a       so
_WaOSf                                   50                         _            S  *5 S                                                   55
tala   F     *        s                          no       gm        s    smss    ass                kim        SW      6,       s. l       1*
_~~~~~~~~~. . ..... . .. .........____. ___.......................                      .............. ............. ..... .... . .....
tU    ISC 5813         mlim)          a."       3.40    ass    a."        s.a     a.s.              ai-s      S."      am       in    Sab'
_ Amos** St ha SMAgai ad eusmed _p uS1Wu.
_   f   *  *  U  2 s~~~~~~~~~~~~I



aWit eusu/s;/s - ervs  £q MI"i '.tIA
- - - -- -- -- -- - -- -~~ 77g- -*V me a -fz 7 .7e .7.-=1== 7 == e-=esr72_T7
Mi tf    It-Vs        "I ttg    oot   sts et9t                        o Us Un t tSIm              * 3  S1Jro J
g *                       tos-    1s-a            ug t   at       "If        Islft*   tals       at"e           est   8s_.a, g:4
o I t    t-as          a-gU     sit  t   teat      wipin   uiatt  cnt-ow                  Sim   i t WV1   I
W"t      9s-ut        IsUI nl,    WV a*tM                   ifatt    u-u                         . Unw1-q1
Io's     gu41         ate     Ste    se u's          lo     stip,       l m1u, Sm             40*jS4,1001la
eu-s ls-a        aug If  Wu    e        se-c  eu-      Set,      W'Su            emua.d w9J91i e
gg.9W                 gt'     is's    so'          "I" t-1    "If                      90     d         S 44 .1
uco      st-me        tel     "e       tee        gtst    Is             t let    "It   0,2*eJd Gom"  30 
It@  s,"   de      ' Xt      e    tole       092       a " t     "IS         650"A4  t   00113 It
go,"e-m         sg,e      "If    Ia,e         aaac*    alig    "It                 0       ,Ja Sin 09 t
ta-rn    ac-es        Its     u-i    rn-s          ia-ten   stUtet  muse                            _a- qigI
* e    * S        n    19    ti'   nit             %U w,                mt                 Idt   UJS 11
geX      g -se        gte      me      sue         gg-eg    ic     ne us.d -Ui*d  e@W
etc1     us-2         sule    tos      ttle        ms1       mi9      "In                   dpUS
*r       gag          se- t    tate    1egg        earns   erie.   us-                   1.d -j     *t
etc      us's         file    "I       Os-l       u-s       "It       "In                    aq Vin"     -2
is-s     sagat        ss   t .t        use         i-m    eSsus    melot                .e.d omen"  at
use      rr9          mie      "Ifte   ftOc *t               mm t                           U,t  A  1 N e_ Is
n-e  te g       e~~~1 @    "It    * 11       ""ttl     al" 1    "'t               030"a _W _m  1
Gom-t                                  t   s-         i        m        gig         t-t      tsssi   .5e                             *W I t
ii       ag-u    e t- e       tee      eu-c        acut "I      t    or set u1."lul              uJeeu1  *
9'-s     see          "If-   see       "g          u*ea    eats       "mt                914d IStI  I
at       mu-           se ia .e        Uac         ss,#aet'  "K  al l  U               ml.. 5            lo 
vt-c     ge-st   n tu         toe      "se          umt   mt'         ml              *90"a  Unp  t 1
sti      sIt-        ti-,    goe       s'          "s-lea t W`*       clto              *S1An4       of1w  lo
ta-s     ste          n-     eu-       at          ea-ttt   tm        Usint                 SJgJ"l   q _ 
ia' *-u   -eu"-e      us-;       u     s            ai    teems    toN            -      gi*  l'9tl1@ 9l
tZ-u        t-cn   n t-a      e;    Ste '             tt   tes. ""t  tlrus                  W   eggnog l
tes~~~~~~~~gl                  991 n001    tglo                Wait oM"o ii"  t t"             19
st-i    sn-nnes    n -t      s-c    s-c          it-ass    HUt   icti if" 1nWd *1nPYt
*z 4 ~~~~~Wt   a'@s               W.         92"       101      " @nt @ttm        ~101ok"s1 
ste       ts-tW ut-a    ae-t    em-u               aegat  em,-su    tut1             1.eu"w W t1 It
W110             " et *l@ nIt      "I         film    &I'm    "Int                   1 -w"i  te"lI
ese  te In       ot-g    Olt    golf          Wits   "lop         $ 01,11       1m"  11    loq I
ute     m*s-sw        a-s    "tt       rn-s        sia    uswn        0, truss            t^Jd "on   I
It t "slt        1§-g   It, t     allt        Wfs ne       m I'tm            0904"   W              t pI
tiCX     to-it        ic-s     n-u    ut-i isem -all                  alto me-1                  bp.s  I;
"so      i--     ---------------------------    ---- -___ -_________--____-.--
NS5  USIJ Al 33
Z3rwJS  SOlZteXB tInmos
Inriiw ewmu  Os  Os3IU-winevmtv



- 69 -
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON                                N
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
DISBURSDZNT ESTIMATES
IDA Fiscal Years.                                      Standard 0.53-Yea
and Semesters           Estimates                     iLsbursement ProElle
(USS 000)                         (uSs 000)
Cumla-
Se=-str e ve  Percentaa.         CumilatLv    Percentac
1991 I             0.42   0.42        2               0.00             0
It            0.63   1.05       5                0.42             2
1992 S             0.64   1.69       9                1.26             6
U1            1.69   3.76      16                2.94            14
1993 S             1.47   5.25      25                4.83            23
it            2.32   7.77      37                7.35            35
1994 S             2.73  10.50      50                9.67            47
U             1.69  12.39      59               12.16            56
1995 1             2.31  14.70      l0               14.49            09
S,            2.10  1.S0      s0               16.36            76
1996 I             1.26  18.06    s6                 16.06             66
it            1.47  19.53      93               19.12            91
1997 S             1.47  21.00    100                20.16            96
-:            0.00  21.00    L00                21.00           10
DISBURSEMENTS PROFILE
_
*13<
122
21
13
17
3  11~ ~~3    mm                        4 Pf
''I0   ,                                                       0'    
U~                                  t1t
P~ "  



- 69 -
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON                             ANNEX 9
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
DIS3URSEMENT ESTIMATES
IDA FLscaL Years                                     Standard 6.5-Yea,
and Semesters           Estimates                   DLsbaursagnt Profil
(USS 000)                        (US$ 000)
Cuamla.
Semnster  tdv   Percentage       Cumulative   Pectage
1991 I            0.42   0.42       2               0.00             0
it           0.83   1.05       5               0.42             2
1992 $            0.84   1.89       9               1.26             6
$S           1.89   3.78      18               2.94            14
1993 S            1.47   5.25      23               4.83            23
it           2.52   7.77      37               7.35            35
1994 S            2.73  10.30      50               9.87            4?
U            1.89  12.39      59              12.18           5s
1995 S            2.31  14.70      70              14*.49           69
IT,          2.10  16.80      s0              1X.31            78
1996 x            1.26  18.04      86              18.06            86
it           1.47  19.53      93              M9.U.            92
1997 1            1.4?  21.00    100               20.16            96
US           0.00  21.00    100               21.00           100
DISBURSEMENrS PROFILE
22
21
. X
1?
13
14
t_
U
I~~~~~~~~ie
U~ ~~1    ANN4pf



- 70 -
ANNEX 1o
CAMEROON
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Proiect   Incremental    I n c r e m e n t a 1        R e v e n u e s
Year      Costs           Assumution .  Assumption 2   Assumption 3
----  -------------(CFA Billion)-----------------------
1         1.30            0.20            0.20            0.20
2         1.27            0.40            0.40            0.40
3         1.73            0.60            0.60            0.60
4         1.46            0.80            0.80            0.80
5         1.70            1.00            1.00            1.00
6         1.10            1.40            2.00            3.00
7         1.10            1.80            3.00            5.00
a         1.10            2.20            4.00            7.00
9         1.10            2.60            5.00            8.25
10-20     1.10            3.00            6.00*           8.25
ERR                       182             36Z             422
* Increasing by CPA 1.0 billion/year to CIA 16 billion in year.20.



M A                              J                           Tfs l  hn,.b. btn prt.d bty                                 .
j.'    N I G E R       /                               rt. .WtdSW* R.odoso'dy                             I ft
lake Ch,ad         SUDAN        - -n -  t  Jo,tho
C.        o~~~,knflO  -, .1 Thn Wofd B.,*
?r( /       ' '-   f'---    \     C H A D                  CP  TAODOn odno-onj
FAsoY  ;   ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~=~d *.d ion, bo,d-o' f~
FA5t   *i                      ;                r             on ths  .jg dD not Ot, - hon'
. nENINy     ,'  _            wf    (        tnttVnttt tFtftDnX,0-1  ft.woetfitDttJ.               t )       
<(JO)I,   N I G E R I A                                       " - O -Y                        t._,&y
j  CENTRAL AFRICAN          t
+'sJ    (                '                 REPUBLiC    o-.R BL2i
/ C,AMEROON \   S0E-A                          KILOMETERS 0  20 40  60 80 100 120 140 160                          on
Gulf of''                                                                                                                         E-CA~
EQ IA                *PLE'S1                                MILES   20    40   60    80    100
_.    ,R REP. ,                                                                                       /     .12
(IOF THE1
Ar,fANrC OCEAN           ABON   lCOZ3P         ZAIRE
-~0                     _rshvvR     E't
CAMEROON                                                                                     DIAM RE
NATIONAL EXTENSION AND                                                                             pTSANAGJ                      j
TRAINING PROJECT (NETP)                                                                                            KAELE
10-
O National Capital _
o    Province Capitals                                                                      7
O    Division Capitals
Rivers
--  Division Boundaries                                                                                              C  H A  D
Province Boundaries
-   -   International Boundaries                                                       7
68   Inhabitants Per Squa  Kilokmeer - by Division
E   Provinces Financed by NETP                                            Poll   ,
Provinces Coordinated by NETP
FSARO-7-DEC;~                                                        >    .
N  I G  E R I A                                                                                              1N  j JA  T
C,.  ._-)4> ,1/  ,.    m  ,   ot ,  >'  *t;                                              5                       r
0'       t       Wum, -, 5'd O 42                                     J                                                      A  PR CEA N
.o>07 A&ko  .   '     @4                     I                                     __EPUB _ 
)   / v !            * <o S tV 5 '-                     B                     0
*    r /   <gr 
4TAI~~                   ~~~~ 5                                                                                               C E N T  A SL                       I
0~~~
.    r nt'c|,                                                                                                          \                     2Y
.EOcea..   n'  
CP~~~~~~~~~~~Bred                                                                       QA F R I C A- N    <  
'                V-jEQUATORIAL GU;EA   !                         G A B   N                   4PEOPlE S   REP                           '- 
m .,-  8 |l  zs,   /         CONTtNENTAL GUINEAI                                                   O  F   T HE        CO  NGCO                                     N
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~  ~ ~~~~                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E P U.                               B L ,o  C   



