Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19238 SLU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN AND CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$1.5 MILLION AND SDR 1.2 MILLION RESPECTIVELY
TO
SAINT LUCIA
FOR
A POVERTY REDUCTION FUND PROJECT
July 15, 1999
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



Page ii
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective July 1999)
Currency Unit = Eastern Caribbean Dollars (EC$)
EC$1.00 = US$0.37
US$1.00 = EC$2.7
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNTF      Basic Needs Trust Fund                  LIBOR    London Interbank Offered Rate
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy            LIL        Learning and Innovation Loan
CDB       Caribbean Development Bank              M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
EC$       Eastern Caribbean Dollar                MIS       Management Information System
EU        European Union                         NBF        Non Bank Financed
GNP       Gross National Product                 NCB        National Competitive Bidding
FPSI      Finance, Private Sector and             NGO       Non Governmental Organization
Infrastructure                         O&M       Operation and Maintenance
IDA       International Development               OECS      Organization of Eastern Caribbean
Association                                      States
IBRD      International Bank for                  PAD       Project Appraisal Document
Reconstruction and Development         PCD       Project Concept Document
ICB       International Competitive Bidding       PIP       Project Implementation Plan
LACI      Loan Administration Change              PMR       Project Management Reports
Initiative                             PRF       Poverty Reduction Fund
LCC3C    Caribbean Country Management             SBCQ      Selection Based on Consultant
Unit                                             Qualifications
LCR       Latin America and the Caribbean         SDR       Special Drawing Rights
Region                                 SF        Social Fund
LCSHD   T.atin America and the Caribbean          SOE       Statement of Expense
Region, Human Development              TA        Technical Assistance
Sector Management Unit                 TOR       Terms of Reference
Vice President: David de Ferranti
Country Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Director: Xavier Coll
Team Leader: David Warren



Page iii
St. Lucia: Poverty Reduction Fund
CONTENTS
A Project Development Objective ..................................................................2
1. Project development objective ..................................................................2
2. Key performance indicators ..................................................................2
B  Strategic Context ..................................................................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project ........2
2. Main  sector issues and Government strategy .................................................................2
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project ..............                                   ....................4
4. Learning and innovation expectations ..................................................................                       5
C  Project Description Summary ..................................................................6
1. Project components ..................................................................6
2. Institutional and  implementation arrangements ..............................................................6
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements ..................................................................                      8
D  Project Rationale ..................................................................8
E  Summary Project Analysis ..................................................................8
1. Economic ...........................................................8
2. Financial ............................................................9
3. Technical ............................................................9
4. Institutional ...........................................................9
5. Social ........................................................... 10
6. Environmental assessment ...........................................................                                         10
7. Participatory  approach ........................................................... 10
F Sustainability and Risks ............................                                                                                     11
1. Sustainability ............................                                                                                  11
2. Critical Risks ............................                                                                                  11
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ............................                                                                  13
G Main Loan Conditions .............................                                                                                        13
1. Effectiveness Conditions ......................                                                                              13
2. Other ......................                                                                                                  13



Page iv
H  Readiness for Implementation ................................................                                              13
I Compliance with Bank Policies ................................................                                              14
Annexes ...............................................                                                                       15
Annex 1. Project Design Summary ...............................................                                    15
Attachment to Annex 1: Monitoring and Evaluation ............................................... 1 8
Annex 2. Detailed Project Description  ................................................ 20
Annex 3. Estimated Project Costs ...............................................                                   23
Annex 4. Economic Analysis Summary ................................................                                24
Annex 5. Financial Summary ...................................................                                     26
Annex 6. Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .27
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .31
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .32
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds .33
Annex 7. Project Processing Budget and Schedule .34
Annex 8. Documents in Project File .36
Annex 9. Socio-Economic Conditions in St. Lucia .37
Annex 10. Statement of Loans and Credits .39
Annex 11. Country at a Glance .41
Map ..43



St. Lucia: Poverty Reduction Fund
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Caribbean Department
Date: July 15, 1999                                    Team Leader: David Warren (LCSH4D)
Country Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos (LCC3C)       Sector Director: Xavier Coll (LCSHD)
Project ID: LC-PE-54939                                Sector: SA
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Theme(s): Social Protection
Poverty Targeted Intervention:   [X] Yes  [ ] No
Project Financing Data
[X] Loan      [X] Credit        [] Grant       [ ] Guarantee      [] Other [Specify]
For IBRD Loan:
Amount: US$1.5 million
Proposed terms:                            [ ] Multicurrency      [X] Single currency
[  Standard Variable   [X] Fixed             [ ] LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):             3
Years to maturity:               15
Commitment fee:                   0.75%
Front-end fee on Bank loan:       1%
For IDA Credit:
Amount: SDRI.2 million (US$1.5 million equivalent)
Proposed terms:              Standard IDA
Grace period (years):            10
Years to maturity:               35
Commitment fee:                  0-0.5%
Service charge:                  0.75%
Government                                                                                          1.2
IBRD                                                                                                1.5
IDA                                                                                                 1.5
European Union / Stabex (possible parallel cofinancing)                                             2.3
Total:                                                        0                 0                   6.5
Borrower: Government of St. Lucia
Guarantor:
Responsible agency: Poverty Reduction Fund
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
Annual      0.4           0.8           1.2          0.6
Cumulative      0.4           1.2          2.4           3.0
Project implementation period:    3 years
Expected effectiveness date: August 1, 1999                           Expected closing date: December 31, 2002
Implementing agency: Poverty Reduction Fund                      Tel:   1-758-453-7919
Contact person:     Mr. Curtis Greer, Executive Director         Fax:   1-758-452-6161
Address:             First Floor, 79 Brazil Street, Castries, Saint Lucia    E-mail: NA
OCS LIL PAD Form: January 5, 1998



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
To develop the institutional and operational framework for a social fund model that is appropriate for St.
Lucia, and to pilot the model's ability to increase access to and quality of basic social and economic
infrastructure and services among the poor and vulnerable, in accordance with their demands; to
contribute to the sustainability of such infrastructure and services; and to foster and build capacity for
community-led development initiatives.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
I. Increases in access to and quality of social and economic infrastructure and services.
2. Evidence that investments reflect the priorities of the targeted communities and beneficiaries.
3. Evidence that investments are targeted to the poor and vulnerable.
4. Evidence of a satisfactory level of O&M among the subprojects.
5. Evidence that communities are taking more leadership in planning and managing development
initiatives.
6. Establishment and consolidation of the PRF as the implementing arm and locus of coordination for
actions relating to Government's poverty reduction strategy.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 14295-LAC                 Date of latest CAS discussion: May 4, 1995
To reduce poverty and improve living conditions and development opportunities among poor and
vulnerable segments of the population.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy-
St. Lucia's GNP per capita of about US$3,430 (1996) masks relatively high levels of poverty, particularly in rural
areas.' The dismantling of trade preferences for banana exports is likely to lead to a worsening of the
situation of the poor--and especially the rural poor--in St. Lucia. (See Annex 9 for additional information
on soc6oeconomic conditions in St. Lucia.)
While efforts to improve competitiveness in order to permit private sector growth and diversification will
form the backbone of St. Lucia's strategy to achieve economic growth and poverty reduction over the
medium to long term, the Government also seeks to complement such strategies with a more immediate
"assauit on poverty", to address a number of pressing issues associated with the well-being of the poor in
St. Lucia. These include:
*  deficiencies in access to basic social and economic infrastructure and social services in poor
communities;
*  the need for special programs for hard-to-reach target groups (e.g., young and at-risk males,
female heads of households, etc.)
*  lack of sufficient training in infrastructure maintenance within poor communities;2 and
'According to a recent Poverty Assessment Report (National Assessment Team of St. Lucia, April 1996), about 19
percent of households and 25 percent of individuals were considered "poor" (with an income of less than US$58 per
month), and 5 percent of households and 7 percent of individuals were considered "indigenf' (with income less than
US$31 per month, insufficient to satisfy basic nutritional requirements). While about 16 percent of the urban
population was poor, almost twice that level, 30 percent, of the rural population was poor.
2 Training could not only help improve operations and maintenance of community infrastructure, but could also help
prepare people for a (hopefully) growing maintenance service sector.
* Including electronic files.



Page 3
* low levels of community organization and leadership in poor communities, leading to an inability
in those communities to take collective action to solve problems.
One of the centerpieces of the Government's strategy to address the above issues is the Poverty
Reduction Fund (PRF), modeled after the social investrnent funds operating in many countries in Latin
American and the Caribbean, as well as in the rest of the world. The basic objective of the PRF is to
improve access among the poor in relatively disadvantaged communities to basic social and economic
infrastructure and services, through the financing of small-scale projects identified and implemented with
a high degree of community participation.3
The intemational experience of social funds shows that such programs, when well-designed and
implemented, produce a number of important benefits. They contribute to efficiency, equity, and
transparency in social expenditures and public investmnent, through application of poverty targeting
mechanisms, decentralization of decision making, and increased coordination among local and central
actors (including Govemment, NGOs, the private sector, and communities). Promotion of community
participation throughout the project cycle, usually accompanied by training modules for communities,
contributes to a greater sense of local ownership of investments, enhanced prospects for sustainability of
local projects, and strengthened capacities for community organization and self-help solutions.
Moreover, these programs contribute to improved economic development opportunities in poor
communities, by: (i) providing some temporary employment in small-scale construction; and
(ii) financing priority social and economic infrastructure and capacity-building subprojects, which lead to
improvements in the quality of human capital and access to labor markets. Recent experiences in Central
America following Hurricane Mitch have also demonstrated that social funds have the built-in flexibility
required to respond when new needs emerge, such as those caused by natural disasters (or potentially,
other crises). (For more on the international experiences of social funds, see documents listed in Annex
8, section C.)
The PRF is expected to build on the foundation of the Basic Needs Trust Fund (BNTF), a multi-country
program supported principally by the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) that has, since 1979, provided
funding for small-scale social and economic infrastructure projects in the Caribbean region. A 1995 mid-
term evaluation of the third phase of this program found the BNTF generally to have achieved its
objectives (i.e., to improve the social and economic status of lower-income communities and further
promote social and economic growth in participating countries), and also made some recommendations
for further improvements in the program. Under the fourth phase of the BNTF (1996-1999), several
changes were made in response to these recommendations, including most notably an increased emphasis
on community participation, and the creation of national Project Steering Committees, with representation
from the public sector, NGOs, community-based organizations (CBOs) and the private sector, to identify,
select and monitor subprojects.4
The Govemment created a legal framework for the PRF by approving the Poverty Reduction Fund Act No. 7 on
April 27, 1998, and officially "launched" it in a public ceremony held in July 1998. However the detailed strategy
for making the PRF operational has not yet been developed. (This will be the principal focus of the proposed LIL.)
4 Funds under the BNTF's Fourth Program have been fully committed, and that Program is currently winding down;
a new Project Manager has been appointed to oversee the remaining implementation of BNTF subprojects. During
appraisal, a workshop was held with representatives of the CDB and the EU, and a clear consensus was expressed
regarding the need to prevent duplication of efforts, and the desirability of using the learning expected to emerge
from the proposed LIL to inform decisions regarding implementation modalities for a possible Fifth program of
support for the BNTF in St. Lucia, being considered for late 2000 or early 2001.



Page 4
Notwithstanding the achievements of the BNTF and the recent improvements in its institutional and
operational framework, the Government has identified a number of aspects that it hopes to improve under
the PRF, including:
*  further increasing the role and responsibilities of communities in the subproject cycle, including in
the actual letting and management of subproject contracts;
*  strengthening of targeting and promotion mechanisms;
*  increasing national autonomy in the management of the program (at present, many aspects of the
program are overseen directly by CDB, including approval of all subprojects valued at more than
US$20,000, and hiring of consultarnts to eval-uate and supervise individual subproject contracts); and
*  coordinating, monitoring and evaluating the program as part of a set of initiatives aimed at reducing
poverty in St. Lucia; this would include, notably, a collaboration (to an extent that remains to be
determined) with the Community Development Officers located in the Ministry for Community
Development, Culture, Local Government and Co-operatives, as well as with other development
actors.
In the context of the PRF, the Government of St. Lucia aims to develop a more holistic approach to
poverty reduction-one that not only affords poor communities the opportunity to improve their access to
basic infrastructure and services, but that can also serve as a catalyst to strengthen communities'
capacities to design, implement, and sustain their own development programs. It should be noted that the
PRF is not expected to deliver, single-handedly, all of the inputs required for any community to develop
out of poverty. However it is hoped that, in addition to providing a source of financing for priority
community subprojects, the PRF will in time become a "knowledge center" where communities can gain
access to information on a host of programs (public and private). In this way, the PRF could serve to
promote synergies among these various initiatives-a role that would go beyond that of a traditional
social fund, but one that seems feasible in St. Lucia given the relatively small size of the country, and
consequently the smaller number of development actors.
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project:
Although the Government has demonstrated strong public commitment to the principles outlined in the
Poverty Reduction Act (in numerous public speeches by the Prime Minister, and in the Government's
"Medium Term Economic Strategy for 1998-2000" of May 1998), the Government has still not
developed the detailed strategy for making the PRF operational. Such a strategy would include refining
the PRF's objectives, establishing its specific areas of intervention, addressing institutional and staffing
issues, and developing operational guidelines. It iS in this light that the Government has requested th-ie
Bank's support to help it design, test, and "operationalize" the PRF. There is agreement that a Learning
and Innovation Loan (LIL) would be the appropriate instrument for providing Bank support to the PRF,
since the initial phase of the PRF will be dedicated to a process of "learning by doing" about how best to
adapt the model of the social fund to the St. Lucian context.
Beyond the general learning goal of testing the application of a social fund model in a small Caribbean
country, with possibilities for future expansion in St. Lucia and replication in other small island
economies, the LIL would afford a number of other specific learning opportunities, including exploring:
* how to combine the advantages of an autonomous operational structure, with the desire to ensure that
the PRF fits squarely within St. Lucia's existing institutional framework for addressing poverty
reduction and community development; in other words, how can the Government construct a PRF
that has the operating characteristics of traditional social funds, while at the same time avoiding the
temptation of burdening it with sole responsibility for poverty reduction in St. Lucia.



Page 5
*  whether and how the PRF can support Government's plans to develop local government structures, or
at a minimum, to foster an increased role for communities in the development and implementation of
local development strategies;
*  which design and implementation options and innovations should be adopted (e.g., how open or
limited should the menu of subprojects be, how should appraisal of non-standard subprojects be
handled, should subproject contracting be primarily [or exclusively] the responsibility of
communities or of the PRF, etc.)?
It should be mentioned that other international agencies have also expressed interest in supporting the
Government's exploration of an appropriate social fund-style instrument; representatives of both CDB
and the European Union (EU) have participated in the development of the proposed project, and both
agencies have expressed interest in considering possible financial support to the PRP.
4. Learning and innovation expectations:
[X] Economic. In addition to providing for the development of criteria for economic evaluation of
subprojects (including incorporation of the results of an ongoing Bank-wide study on economic
evaluation in social funds [see Section E. 1 below]), the LIL would afford an opportunity to design and
establish a system to monitor and evaluate the impact and cost-efficiency of the PRP in improving the
well-being of beneficiary communities.
[X] Financial. The LIL would explore the potentials in St. Lucia for mobilizing financing from
communities not only for investment costs of subprojects, but also for operations and maintenance of
certain types of infrastructure.
[X] Technical. Design, development, and testing of: targeting mechanisms; menu of projects to be
financed by PRF, including a possible negative list, to allow communities more flexibility in the selection
of subprojects; criteria for evaluating subproject proposals and ensuring their suitability, their viability,
and the technical quality of their physical designs; "standardized" project prototypes for certain menu
items; and environmental assessment mechanisms. Note: in many cases, the point of departure for these
mechanisms will be those already serving under the BNTF program.
[X] Institutional. The project will focus on two sets of institutional objectives: (i) design, development,
and testing of the detailed operational structures and procedures for the PRF; and (ii) establishment of an
institutional framework to improve cooperation and coordination among the PRF and other institutions
(public, private, and NGO) acting in the areas of poverty reduction and community development.
[X] Social. The project is expected to provide a number of lessons related to the structure of social
capital at the local level, including local governance arrangements, the role of social institutions and
community-based organizations, and issues related to gender, in order to understand how best to involve
communities as partners in a demand-driven investment program. The project would also provide lessons
regarding the possible role of the PRF in addressing the special needs of socially disadvantaged groups
(e.g., orphans, disabled, senior citizens, unemployed youth, single mothers, etc.), possibly through the use
of a special line of funding for subprojects addressing the needs of such groups.
[X] Environmental. Environmental assessment mechanisms for subprojects would be improved and/or
developed anew (using the Bank's "Environmental Guidelines for Social Funds" [LCR Sustainable
Development Technical Paper No. 1] as a point of departure). The project would also include support for
small-scale community projects designed to mitigate the risks of environmental degradation following
natural disasters. Such projects would be developed in close coordination with the team working on the
OECS Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Program.



Page 6
[X] Participation. The PRF is expected to serve as a catalyst for increased participation among
development actors in St. Lucia. A series of periodic stakeholder consultations was initiated during
project preparation, and will continue throughout implementation to discuss and refine the PRF's
operational strategy. In particular, the project will focus learning through participation with participatory
workshops to be held at three key moments during the project: at the end of the Design Phase, to discuss
the provisional institutional and operational framework of the PRF; at the end of the Pilot Phase, to
inform revisions in the PRF's Operations Manuals; and at the end of the LIL, to review the project's
learning experience, discuss possible follow-on activities, and inform the development of St. Lucia's
poverty reduction strategy.
[X] Other. Productive Activities. The project would assist the PRF to explore a possible niche in the area
of support for productive activities. Although the project would not include direct support for
microfinance, there is interest in the possible role of the PRF in providing non-financial support for the
development of community-based productive activities. In this respect, the project would explore, and
develop specific subproject processing procedures for, possible subprojects in (for example): economic
infrastructure to support productive activities; infrastructure and/or services to benefit small farmers
engaged in diversifying out of banana production; and other capacity-building and technical assistance
activities. The PRP would also be expected to serve as a knowledge bank for communities, to provide
information about, and referrals to, other actors supporting productive activities in St. Lucia.
C: Project Description Summary
I. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description [including a description of the project's
three phases] and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown.)
l. Institutional Strengthening frSF                 0.6        9         0.6       20
Poverty Reduction
2. Subproject Financing              SF             4.9        76        2.4       80
3. Project Management                SF             1.0        15        0          0
Total       6.5       100        3.0      100
Total Project Costs I    6.5                   0
Front-end fee       0.015                0.015
Total Financing Required       6.5                  3.0
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project Implementation and Coordination. The PRF would be responsible for overall project
implementation and coordination (see also the Analysis in section E). Subprojects to be financed under
the project would be identified and implemented using several alternative arrangements, the testing of
which will be a central learning objective of the project. In general, subprojects would be identified and
sponsored by communities and NGOs; appraised by PRF staff or by consultants hired by the PRF;
executed by communities and/or qualified private contractors or NGOs; and supervised by PRF staff /
consultants, or by staff of relevant Government agencies. The management of the subproject cycle will
be guided by criteria and procedures set out in the Operations Manual, which will be developed in full
during the Design Phase of the project, tested during the Pilot Phase, and revised for the Consolidation
Phase. In many aspects, the Operations Manual will indicate different alternatives to be tested for
viability (e.g., community contracting vs. contracting of contractors directly by the PRF).



Page 7
To ensure that its activities are consistent with the policies and development strategies of line agencies
and other relevant stakeholders, close coordination between the PRF and other such agencies will be
fostered, in particular through: representation by key Ministries on the PRF's Board of Directors; the
strong role of the Ministry of Finance and Planning in the PRF's stewardship; and the development of
inter-institutional framework agreements during the Design Phase of the project. As mentioned above,
one of the project's specific learning goals is to develop a framework for inter-institutional coordination
that takes advantage of the country's relatively small size, and establishes the PRF as a locus of
coordination among, and knowledge institution about, the various poverty reduction agencies and
initiatives in St. Lucia.
Project Oversight. The PRF's enabling law permits the PRF to operate relatively free from political
interference, and exempts the institution from normal government budgeting, procurement and
disbursement regulations. Oversight is provided by a Board of Directors, which includes representatives
from the Ministries of Finance and Planning, Education, Health, and Local Government, NGOs,
Women's Groups, the National Youth Council, the Private Sector, and Credit Unions, as well as the
Executive Director of the PRF (ex-oficio, without a right to vote). Drawing on technical assistance to be
provided during the Design Phase, the Operations Manual will provide a detailed description of the
functions of the Board of Directors, and the division of responsibilities between the Board and the
Executive Director.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Requirements. (See Annex 6.) Given the relatively
simple nature of the activities to be financed during the project's Design Phase, financial management
requirements during this phase will be minimal. Under the guidance of a Bank financial management
specialist (who visited St. Lucia during project preparation), the PRF has taken steps to establish a
"basic" financial management system, adequate for the Design Phase. Specifically the PRF has: hired a
full-time accountant; purchased an off-the-shelf accounting software package (to be installed prior to
effectiveness); and developed a simple manual of basic financial procedures (e.g., for payments), which
is included in the PIP. The financial management system-in particular, the financial procedures
manual-would be further improved prior to effectiveness, in accordance with an action plan agreed
upon during negotiations.
During the Design Phase, the project will provide technical assistance for the further development of the
financial management system, in order to make the system LACI-compatible (i.e., capable of producing
Project Management Reports-see Annex 6), prior to the Pilot Phase. An action plan for developing the
LACI-compatible system, to be completed by December 31, 1999, is included in the PIP. A follow-up
visit by a Bank Financial Management Specialist will be necessary prior to the Pilot Phase to ensure that
the LACI-compatible financial management system is in place at that time.
The PRF would have the records and accounts of the project for each fiscal year, including the Special
Account, audited by independent and qualified extemal auditors, in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards and procedures, and TORs satisfactory to the Bank. Auditors' opinions would include
the results of "operations audits", including a review of subprojects both in execution and completed,
covering both their processing and implementation. In addition, the PRF would prepare quarterly
implementation progress and planning reports (eventually to be incorporated in the Project Management
Reports required for LACI).
Co-financing. As has been the case under other Bank-financed social fund projects, the PRF is likely to
develop into an important channel for mobilizing external co-financing for poverty-reduction activities.
As mentioned above, representatives of both CDB and the EU participated in the development of the
proposed project, and both agencies have expressed interest in considering possible financial support to



Page 8
the PRF. Nonetheless, since all external financing expected under the project would be parallel rather
than joint, no adverse effects on implementation would result if any external co-financing amounts were
to be different from the expected amounts described in the Project's financial summary.
3. Monitoring, evaluation and learning arrangements.
The PRF would be responsible for monitoring of operational performance and program outputs. Targets
for outputs during the Design Phase would be agreed upon at negotiations, while targets for
implementation under the Pilot and Consolidation Phases would be developed during the Design Phase as
part of the Operations Manual. A management infornation system capable of synthesizing a set of key
performance indicators would also be developed during the Design Phase, and used for monitoring
thereafter.
The project also includes a strategy to monitor and evaluate program impact (see Attachment to Annex
1), to be managed by the PRF, in collaboration with the Ministry of Finance and Planning. This strategy
will draw from the Social Assessment to be conducted during the Design Phase, will feature quantitative
and qualitative assessments, and will include reflexive comparison using community-level baseline and
follow-up surveys, as well as a matched comparison between PRF projects and beneficiaries and non-
PRF projects and beneficiaries. The M&E strategy will also take advantage of the baseline established in
the 1996 Poverty Assessment, as well as other Government statistics and studies.
To foster improved discussion, coordination, and learning among stakeholders and policy-makers
involved in poverty reduction activities, the project will include a series of stakeholder workshops at key
inflection points throughout the project (in addition to even more frequent one-on-one consultations):
specifically, workshops are expected to take place at the end of each of the three phases of the project.
The CDB as well as other development partners of St. Lucia have indicated an interest in supporting the
Government's formulation of a national strategy for poverty reduction, and it is expected that the PRF
project will serve as a catalyst for discussion and action-planning regarding poverty reduction.
D: Project Rationale:
(This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD)
E: Summary Project Analysis:
(detailed assessments for those analyses applicable to LIL are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic: (supported hy Annex 4)
The project is basically a line of credit; consequently, no cost-benefit analysis has been carried out for the
full program. Specific subproject investments would be driven by community demand, and evaluated in
line with the Operational Manual, to be developed during the Design Phase of the project. This would
include the use of detailed technical criteria, standard designs (agreed with relevant sector agencies
wherever applicable), and simple economic criteria (e.g., cost-per-beneficiary calculations) to determine
subproject economic viability, as well as application of a comprehensive and regularly updated list of unit
costs by type of subproject. As with other demand-driven social funds, the proposed design of the PRF
would also foster allocative efficiencies; specifically, through the promotion of participatory local
decision-making, communities would allocate scarce resources across sectors, thereby ensuring that such
resources are applied optimally, in response to local priorities.
NOTE: The Bank is currently conducting a study to review the experience to date with economic analysis
in social funds and to develop guidelines as technical support for Bank task managers and social fund line
staff in how to improve the economic analysis applied to these investments. The results of this study will
be discussed and agreed with the relevant social funds within the next six months. Consequently, the



Page 9
PRF would be expected to adopt and apply new economic analysis policies and practices in accordance
with the recommendations of that study.
2. Financial: (See also Annex 5)
The project's fiscal implications, both during and after implementation, are expected to be manageable.
Fiscal implications during project implementation would consist essentially of PRF operating costs,
estimated at about 15% of subproject investment costs, based on experience under other social funds (and
allowing for slightly higher operating costs in this, the initial, phase of the PRF), and a share of PRF-
financed works subprojects (10%, to cover local taxes). This would total about $1.2 million over the
three year implementation period. It is worth mentioning that Government counterpart funding under the
BNTF program amounted to approximately one third of total program costs (higher requirement because
CDB's funds came as grants), and was provided on a timely basis. Furthermore, Government has already
allocated approximately $0.4 million to the PRF for the current fiscal year.
The PRF plans to require contributions from beneficiaries in cash, kind, or labor, and varying in
accordance with the type of subproject. While precise guidelines for such contributions remain to be
developed during the Design Phase of the project, it is estimated that such contributions would average
around 10-20% of investment costs. These contributions are not reflected in project cost tables, however,
since many of them are provided prior to initiation of subproject works and are not necessarily monetized
or accounted for in project accounts.
Cost of operation and maintenance (O&M) for completed subprojects would be assessed at appraisal of
each subproject, and subproject maintenance plans would be submitted as a precondition for PRF
financing of each subproject. For purposes of calculating project fiscal implications, O&M costs are
estimated to average about 2% annually of the investment costs of subprojects, and are expected to be
borne largely by communities. For those subprojects that entail an increase in Government expenditures
on recurrent costs (i.e., incremental staff), prior endorsement of the subproject by relevant line ministries
would be required. Again, experience under the BNTF program has shown that inter-institutional
coordination has been satisfactory and that such financial implications are manageable.
3. Technical:
Subprojects would be designed, appraised, and supervised according to technical criteria to be adapted
from the BNTF programn, or developed anew as needed, during the Design Phase of the project. Prior to
negotiations, a detailed plan for further developing the PRF's technical criteria during the Design Phase
was agreed upon, and included in the PIP. The PIP also includes a template for the provisional
Operations Manual to be developed during the Design Phase.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: During project preparation, a core staff was established in the PRF. The
Executive Director of the PRF, formerly Project Coordinator of the BNTF, is experienced in the
management of a community-oriented investment fund.5 The PRF has also demonstrated commitment to
the learning goals of the project through the creation of a community library and training facility within
its offices. The Ministry of Finance and Planning, which would play an important role coordinating
5 The Executive Director has also demonstrated his eagerness to apply the lessons of international experience in
Social Funds to develop the PRF into an even more effective instrument for poverty reduction and community
capacity-building. During project preparation, the Bank's project team arranged for the Director to attend a meeting
of the Red Social, an organization representing a network of all of the Social Funds in Latin America and the
Caribbean. On the basis of his participation and interest during that session, he was named to the steering
committee for the Red Social.



Page 10
learning activities (e.g., workshops) and project oversight during the project has also demonstrated its
commitment to the project and its learning goals by assigning its Chief Social Officer as a full-time,
integral member of the Government's project preparation team.
The capacity of the private sector, NGOs, and community organizations to identify, implement, and
supervise subprojects was assessed during appraisal and determined to be adequate. Further evaluation,
and strengthening, of such capacity is planned during the Design Phase-and indeed, throughout the
project.
b. Project management: One of the key learning goals of the project will be to develop detailed criteria
and operational procedures, and strengthen the PRF's capacity, for management of all aspects of the
subproject cycle. In general, the capacity and commitment of the PRF to manage this learning process
was assessed during project preparation, and deemed to be adequate. A detailed plan for institutional
strengthening activities to be carried out during the Design Phase is included in the PIP.
With regard to management of project implementation, including financial aspects, upon recommendation
by the Bank's preparation team, the PRF has hired a full-time project implementation specialist, with
procurement experience. This staff received training at a Bank Procurement and Financial Management
Seminar. A Bank Financial Management Specialist also visited the PRF during preparation, and assisted
the PRF to establish a "basic" financial management system, adequate for managing the relatively simple
expenditures expected during the Design Phase (as mentioned in section C2 above, further improvement
is expected prior to effectiveness). Steps have also been outlined to establish a more comprehensive
project monitoring system, including a LACI-compatible financial management system, prior to the
initiation of the Pilot and Consolidation Phases of the project (specifically, prior to December 31, 1999).
5. Social:
Consultations held during project preparation with a variety of stakeholders, including community
organizations, Government organizations, NGOs, private sector representatives, as well as members of
the international financing community, indicate a high level of support for the objectives of the Poverty
Reduction Fund. The PIP includes detailed plans, and terms of reference, for a thorough social
assessment to be conducted as part of the Design Phase of the project.
6. Environmental assessment:        Environmental Category  [ ] A    [XI B   [ I C
The project would have no significant environmental risks. No resettlement would occur as a result of
project investments. The majority of subprojects are expected to have a positive or neutral impact on the
environment. Environmental assessment mechanisms were applied under the BNTF program to screen
subprojects for possible environmental implications; these would be strengthened during the Design
Phase of the project (prior to financing of subprojects), using the Bank's "Environmental Guidelines for
Social Funds" as a reference. During implementation periodic evaluations would verify adherence to
subproject environmental assessment mechanisms, and impact evaluations would include assessments of
sustainability of environmental impacts.
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Preparation     Consultations and interviews with community representatives. (IS, CON)
Implementation   Social assessment during Design Phase. Subproject cycle to emphasize and test
communities' roles in identification, prioritization, implementation and supervision of



Page 1 1
subprojects. Capacity building would be provided. Periodic workshops and
beneficiary assessments during project implementation, with feedback to be used for
improving PRF policies and practices. (IS, CON, COL)
Operation       Communities would make up-front commitments and contributions, through
subproject maintenance plans, to ensure operation and maintenance of subprojects.
(COL)
b. Intermediary Organizations, including NGOs and private sector
Preparation     Interviews and participatory workshop (IS, CON)
Implementation   Participation in subproject cycle, and periodic consultation and collaborative
workshops on PRF operational strategy. (IS, CON, COL)
Operation       Some management of completed subprojects (esp. social assistance subprojects).
(COL)
c. Central Government agencies
Preparation     Interviews and participatory workshops (IS, CON)
Implementation   Coordination to ensure subprojects are consistent with sectoral strategies. Periodic
consultation and collaborative workshops on PRF operational strategy. (IS, CON,
COL)
Operation       Operation of some completed infrastructure subprojects. (COL)
d. Other Donors
Preparation     Close cooperation, esp. with EU and CDB. (IS, CON, COL)
Implementation   Close cooperation, esp. with EU and CDB. (IS, CON, COL)
Operation
Note: IS = Information Sharing; CON = Consultation; COL = Collaboration.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
(This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD)
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
From Outputs to Objective
Government does not maintain policy directions N  Confirmnation was received from the Government
conducive to PRF learning objectives and      regarding the congruence of the Project's basic
institutional effectiveness.                  objectives / strategy and national plans for poverty
alleviation, social sector and community
development. Ongoing Bank / Government dialogue
during implementation.



Page 12
Subprojects do not reflect the        N        Comnt  atcpto  n  omtet(nldn
priorities/needs of beneficiaries,             contributions) will be evaluated as criteria for
subproject selection. Capacity-building activities to
improve the abilities of communities to coordinate
participatory planning of investments.
Targeting mechanisms are weak and subject M    Development / strengthening of targeting criteria
to political interference.                     during Design Phase, and throughout
implementation. Close supervision, external auditing
during implementation.
Line agencies, and/or other actors, fail to    M  Mechanisms to ensure close cooperation between
provide adequate resources for staff and       PRF and line ministries. Emphasis of communities'
operation of facilities.                       role in ensuring subproject maintenance.
Beneficiaries do not participate in   M        Training, ongoing emphasis on community
appropriate use and maintenance of             participation.
subprojects.
Lack of willingness on the part of    M        Ongoing dialogue with Government. Information
communities, Government, and other             campaigns. Pilot program will allow assessment of
stakeholders to encourage an ongoing role      experience.
for communities in local development,
From Components to Outputs
PRF fails to attract and retain competent    M  Pay competitive salaries. Bank's insistence that
staff.                                         staffing decisions be free from political interference.
Subcontractors (including subproject  M        Appropriate selection criteria, incentive systems, and
implementing agencies, external auditors,      supervision (both by PRF and by the Bank).
etc.) are not adequately competent.
Program of institutional strengthening  S      Detailed implementation plan for Design Phase
during Design Phase (required to develop       agreed as part of PIP. Close Bank supervision and
Operations Manual, management                  assistance during Design Phase. An Implementation
infor-riationu system, and monitoring and      Specialist was hired by PRF, and received training in
evaluation arrangements) proves inadequate     Bank procurement and financial management
and/or is not carried out in a timely manner,  procedures. Note: Availability of international
consultants as needed by PRF remains an
unavoidable risk
Operations Manual and technical       N        Close Bank supervision. Operations Audits will
specifications are not applied during Pilot    include review of procedures applied to subprojects.
and Consolidation Phases.
Lack of willingness on the part of    M        Willingness was positively assessed during project
communities and other stakeholders to          preparation. Regular stakeholder consultation would
participate in institutional strengthening and  continue throughout project implementation.
other "learning" aspects of project.  I_I
Overall Risk Rating                   I M_I
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 13
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
Signing of Subsidiary Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, between PRF and the Government of St. Lucia.
Agreement on the procurement documents to be used in carrying out the project
Further strengthening of the "basic" financial management system required for the Design Phase of the
project, in accordance with an action plan agreed to at negotiations.
2. Other: (classified according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements)
Adequate staffing of the PRF shall be maintained, satisfactory to the Bank, throughout the project.
No funds shall be disbursed against expenditure categories 2(a) and 4(b) until the PRF establishes,
satisfactory to the Bank, a provisional PRF Operations Manual, MIS, and M&E Arrangements. (Note:
establishment of these items would signal the initiation of the "Pilot" Phase.)
No funds shall be disbursed against expenditure categories 2(b) and 4(c) until the PRF establishes,
satisfactory to the Bank, a revised PRF Operations Manual, incorporating the lessons of experience from
the Pilot Phase. (Note: establishment of the revised Operations Manual would signal the initiation of the
"Consolidation" Phase.)
Subprojects will be carried out in accordance with the Provisional, and then the Revised, Operations
Manuals (which will include eligibility criteria and the rules and procedures for preparation, selection,
execution, supervision and monitoring Subprojects), and in accordance with the PIP. These manuals will
not be amended, modified, or waived without the Bank's consent.
Government will provide necessary counterpart funds to cover its share of PRF investment costs,
operating costs, and any incremental recurrent costs required for PRF investments.
PRF will present regular progress, planning, and audit reports, as described in Section C.2 and Annex 6.
The PRF will review implementation of the project in December 1999, in December 2000, and in June
2002. These implementation reviews will include participatory stakeholder "Learning Workshops", in
accordance with the PIP.
Upon completion of the ongoing Bank study on Economic Evaluation in Social Funds, the PRF will
develop an action plan for improving economic evaluation methodologies and practices, satisfactory to
the Bank.
H: Readiness for Implementation
[ ] 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.



Page 14
[ ] 2. The procurement documents for the first six month's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation; and a framework for agreement on standard bidding documents that will be
used for ongoing procurement during the project has been established.
Note: This would be a condition of effectiveness.
[X] 3. The LIL's implementation plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ ] 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1: Compliance with Bank Policies
[X]  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ]  2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
Team Leaer:
Team Leaner: David Warren
Sector,tnager/Director: Xavier Coll
i,Country Manager/Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos



Page 15
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
St. Lucia: Poverty Reduction Fund
Sector-related CAS Goal:        Sector Indicators:       Sector / Country Reports:  (from Goal to Bank
To reduce poverty and improve   1. Decline in levels of  1. National Poverty     Mission)
living conditions and development  poverty.              Assessment and Living    Continued economic
opportunities among poor and    2. Improvements in living   Standards Surveys.   growth. National Poverty
vulnerable segments of the      standards.               2. Bank sector and      Reduction Plan is
population.                                              country reports.        formulated and
implemented.
Follow-on Development Objectives:
To increase access to basic social
and economic infrastructure and
services among the poor and
vulnerable, in accordance with
their demands; to contribute to the
sustainability of such infrastructure
and services; and to foster and
build capacity for community-led
development initiatives. The
follow-on project could be
replicated throughout the OECS.
Project Development Objective:  Outcome I Impact         Project Reports:        (from Objective to Goal)
To develop the institutional and  Indicators:            Monitoring and Impact    Economic growth;
operational framework for a social  1. Increases in access to  Evaluation System (to be   Sound macroeconomic
fund model that is appropriate for   and quality of social and    developed under Design    policies/discipline;
St. Lucia, and to pilot the model's  economic infrastructure  Phase)             Subprojects are sustained.
ability to increase access to basic   and services.
social and economic infrastructure  2. Evidence that     Government Statistics
and services among the poor and    investments reflect the  (including the planned
vulnerable, in accordance with  priorities of the targeted  2001 census)
their demands; to contribute to the   communities and
sustainability of such infrastructure  beneficiaries.    Stakeholder
and services; and to foster and  3. Evidence that        Consultations
build capacity for community-led   investments are targeted to
development initiatives.       the poor and vulnerable.
4. Evidence of a
satisfactory level of O&M
among the subprojects.
5. Evidence that
communities are taking
more leadership in
planning and managing
development initiatives.
6. Establishment and
consolidation of the PRF as
the implementing arm and
locus of coordination for
actions relating to
Government's poverty
reduction strategy.



Page 16
Annex 1
Output from each component:      Output Indicators:         Project Reports:         (from Outputs to
1. Efficiently and effectively   1. Satisfactory institutional  Supervision Missions and  Objective)
operating institution. This includes  and operational framework,  Annual Reviews      Government maintains
establishment and application of    as judged by beneficiaries/                       policy directions
appropriate methodologies and    users, national actors in  Financial and Operations   conducive to PRF
criteria for all phases of the   poverty reduction, and     Audits                    effectiveness.
subproject cycle, and mechanismns   international financing
for coordination with all relevant    agencies.             Progress Reports          Subprojects reflect the
actors in poverty reduction in St.                                                    priorities/needs of
Lucia.                           2. Key Performance         Project MIS               beneficiaries.
Indicators, including PRF
2. Subprojects of good quality    operating expenses as a   Monitoring and Impact    Targeting mechanisms are
(subprojects would include social   percentage of total     Evaluation System         good, and are
and economic infrastructure, TA  expenses (targeted at 15%);                          implemented with
and training for capacity-building,   application of targeting  Stakeholder           minimal political
and financing for social assistance   criteria.             Consultations             interference.
programs).
3. Amount and number of                             Line agencies, or other
3. Improved effectiveness of     subprojects; breakdown by                            actors, provide adequate
community organizations in       type of subproject;                                 resources to staff and
identifying, planning, executing,    evidence of quality of                           operate facilities.
and maintaining subprojects.     subprojects; evidence of
cost-effectiveness in the                           Beneficiaries participate
PRF's delivery of                                   in appropriate use and
subprojects.                                        maintenance of
subprojects.
4. Number of established
community organizations                             Willingness on the part of
within targeted                                     communities,
communities; number of                              Government, and other
targeted communities                                stakeholders to encourage
conducting participatory                            an ongoing role for
planning and design                                 communities in local
exercises; number of                                development.
targeted communities
managing subproject cycle;
number of community
representatives trained;
number of targeted
communities with
_ mt_maintenance plans.



Page 17
Annex I
Project Components/Sub-         Inputs: (budget for each  Project Reports:         (from Components to
components:                     component)                 Progress Reports        Outputs)
1. Institutional Strengthening for  1. US$0.6 mn                                   PRF can attract and retain
Poverty Reduction                                         Project Supervision      competent staff.
. I. Operational Policies and                             Missions
Institutional Framework          1.1. US$0.33 mn                                   Subcontractors (including
1.2. Social Assessment          1.2. US$0.09 mn           Project Management       subproject implementing
1.3. Monitoring, Evaluation, and    1.3. US$0.15 mn       Reports                  agencies, external
Learning                                                                           auditors, etc.) are
2. Subproject Financing         2. US$4.9 mn                                       competent.
3. Project Management           3. US$1.0 mn
Successful and timely
execution of Design
Phase, resulting in
adequate and thorough
development of
Operations Manual,
Financial Management
System, and Monitoring
and Evaluation
arrangements.
Operations Manual and
technical specifications
are applied during Pilot
and Consolidation Phases.
Willingness on the part of
communities and other
stakeholders to participate
in institutional
strengthening and other
"learning" aspects of
=_____________________________________________________________ _________________________  project.



Page 18
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Attachment: Monitoring and Evaluation
The Monitoring and Evaluation system will review the following indicators to assess the Poverty
Reduction Fund's contribution to achieving the outcomes and impacts outlined above:
1. Increases in access to and quality of social and economic infrastructure and services. This will
be judged by assessing whether the projects provided by the PRF contribute to raising access at the
community and national level, and by verifying project quality (through a comparison between PRF
and non-PRF projects)
2. Evidence that investments reflect the priorities of the targeted communities and beneficiaries.
Communities and beneficiaries will be consulted regarding their priorities and whether PRF
investments are meeting these expressed priorities, both in terms of the types of subprojects being
financed and the manner in which the subprojects are implemented (e.g., levels of community
participation). Additionally, PRF investments will be evaluated in light of the needs identified by the
social assessment and poverty assessment.
3. Evidence of a satisfactory level of O&M among the subprojects. PRF projects will be reviewed in
the field to assess levels of and strategies for operations and maintenance, including a financial
analysis of the sustainability of subprojects.
4. Evidence that investments are targeted to the poor and vulnerable. Poverty targeting will be
reviewed through fieldwork to assess the poverty levels of communities and PRF beneficiaries, as
well as the inclusion of vulnerable groups; and by analyzing national level statistics on poverty that
allow for the identification of PRF communities (such as the 2001 Census).
5. Evidence that communities are taking more leadership in planning and managing development
initiatives. Community-led development initiatives will be tracked over time in PRF communities
throughout the LIL to assess changes in communities' planning and management capacity. The
M&E system will rely on measures of institutional development or "maturity" collected at the
community level (e.g., awareness of and involvement in participatory planning procedures,
willingness to collaborate [or actual participation] in follow-on subprojects or other local initiatives).
6. Establishment and consolidation of the PRF as the implementing arm and locuis of coordination
for actions relating to Government's poverty reduction strategy. Progress in the PRF will be
reviewed by the Bank during supervision missions and annual reviews. Additionally, during key
points in the LIL-at the conclusion of the Design, Pilot, and Consolidation Phase-the PRF and the
Bank will consult with policymakers and key stakeholders to assess their views of the PRF's
progress.
Design of Monitoring and Evaluation Strategy
The M&E strategy will produce results at two stages of the LIL: (i) at the conclusion of the Pilot Phase
in order to inform the Consolidation Phase of the PRF, particularly with respect to lessons from the
project implementation processes carried out under the pilot; and (ii) at the conclusion of the
Consolidation Phase of the LIL in order to assess project impact. This two step process is considered
appropriate to the learning goals of the LIL as it provides information at points when critical policy
decisions will be made.



Page 19
Annex I
Attachement
Three steps will form the basis of the M&E system:
1. Baseline at Beginning of Pilot. Baseline data from on PRF communities selected for projects during
the Pilot Phase will be collected by external consultants using specific indicators developed after the
social assessment. These indicators will respond directly to the impact areas outlined above (access
and use of infrastructure; priority of investment; sustainability; targeting; and community leadership
in development) and will be collected using appropriate strategies such as focus groups, community
questionnaires and key informant surveys. There will be an emphasis on developing indicators for
which changes be measured over the time period of the LIL by using techniques such as ranking and
listing and by ensuring that a common methodology and set of questions is applied across projects in
the evaluation.
2. Process Evaluation at End of Pilot. A first follow-up in the PRF communities selected for the pilot
will take place at the end of the pilot. This first follow-up will concentrate on addressing process
questions in order to inform the PRF's Consolidation Phase. A review of the M&E approach and the
need to collect baseline data from new projects will also be considered at this time
3. Impact Evaluation at End of Consolidation. A second follow-up in the PRF communities will take
place at the end of the Consolidation Phase prior to the conclusion of the LIL to assess program
impact in the key areas outlined above. Additionally, a sample of PRF sub-projects will be matched
against a sample of similar non-PRF sub-projects to assess the technical quality, sustainability, and
cost-effectiveness of PRF investments.
Finally, the M&E system will also review information from the PRF's management information system
(MIS), government statistics, and the consultations with policymakers held during the course of the LIL.
The key performance indicators will be refined during the design stage and reviewed at the conclusion of
the Pilot and Consolidation Phases. During the Pilot Phase PRF will establish specific targets for the key
performance indicators that will be measured by the M&E system.
The monitoring and evaluation strategy reflects the characteristics of the LIL, the PRF, and St. Lucia.
The LIL mechanism is short term and places emphasis on the learning aspect of the project.
Correspondingly, the evaluation will inform the learning process at key points during the project cycle,
will be flexible enough to evolve with the PRF and will produce impact indicators at the conclusion of the
LIL. The PRF's mandate for funding a variety of subprojects as determined by community demand is
likely to result in an ample mix of subprojects and community development strategies. As such,
subproject specific impact indicators will only be produced for the ex-post evaluation on a case study
basis, since the open menu of the PRF and small size of the country limit the number of projects in any
one sector that are likely to be financed.
At the conclusion of the LIL, should the PRF be continued, the project would contribute to developing a
formal and systematic strategy for tracking poverty reduction, drawing on national-level efforts such as
household surveys and considering the results of the Government's poverty reduction strategy which is to
be completed in 1999. Although a thorough Poverty Assessment was conducted in 1995, there is at
present no ongoing system of household surveys producing information on poverty nor a unit in the
Statistics Bureau focused on issues of poverty and human development.



Page 20
Annex 2: Project Description
St. Lucia: Poverty Reduction Fund
Overview. The project aims to assist the Government of St. Lucia to establish the PRF as an efficient
and effective institution for financing community-based development projects on a demand-driven basis
and with a high degree of community participation, and to provide financing so that the PRF can begin to
finance such projects and, at the same time, test and improve its operating procedures and methodologies.
Project Phasing. Before describing the project's components, it may be useful to explain how the three-
year implementation period of this Learning and Innovation project will be "phased". Specifically, the
project was conceived of as consisting of three distinct phases:
*  Design (approx. six months). During the Design Phase, the PRF team (with technical support
provided under the Institutional Strengthening component) would focus on the design of the detailed
institutional, technical, and operational framework of the PRF to complement the general provisions
of the PRF Legislation, and taking into consideration the existing legal, institutional, and social
context in St. Lucia. The design work carried out during this phase would form the basis for, inter
alia, drafting of an Operations Manual, development of a project and financial management
information system (MIS), and agreement on detailed monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
arrangements.
*  Pilot (approx. one year). During the Pilot Phase, the project would test the operational viability of the
mechanisms and methodologies designed (including various alternatives) by applying them to
selected "pilot" subprojects. These pilot subprojects would be identified and selected in accordance
with criteria reflected in the provisional Operations Manual, and would be financed under the
"Subproject Financing" component described below. At the end of the Pilot Phase, an interim
evaluation exercise (including follow-up surveys of communities, stakeholder workshops, and a Bank
supervision mission) would be carried out, with findings to be reflected in a "revised" Operations
Manual.
-C'Xonsolidation7 (approx. one and a half years). During this phase, the project would support a full
program of community subprojects throughout the country, guided by the revised version of the
Operations Manual.6 At the end of the Consolidation Phase, another evaluation exercise would be
carried out-this time aimed at assessing the overall experience under the project, and the prospects
for and design of a possible follow-on program.
In this context, the project would include the following three components:
Institutional Strengthening - US$0.6 million (Loan/Credit Financing: US$0.57 million)
Operational Policies and Institutional Framework. (US$330,000). This subcomponent would support
the Government's efforts to design, develop and establish the operational policies and institutional
framework of the PRF. It would include financing for technical assistance (including consultants,
training, stakeholder workshops, and study tours for the PRF as well as its partners [other Government
agencies, community organizations, NGOs, and the private sector]), works (office preparation-
6 Adjustments to the Operations Manual, as needed, would be permitted throughout the project, subject to prior
Agreement with the Bank. However, it is expected that the phasing of the project would foster a more focused and
regular evaluation of procedures and methodologies than would take place with merely "occasional" adjustments.



Page 21
Annex 2
essentially, rehabilitation to ready the PRF's new office space), equipment, and materials. A detailed,
time-bound action plan for institutional strengthening activities to be carried out under this subcomponent
is cntained i-n the Projct l-.plem,entation Plan (PIP). Activities inder this subcomponent would be
concentrated during the Design Phase, and would emphasize the development of detailed operating
procedures and mechanisms, including the production of a provisional Operations Manual to guide
subproject financing under the Pilot and Consolidation Phases (see below).
Social Assessment. (US$85,000). This subcomponent would provide financing for technical assistance
(including consultants, focus groups and key informant surveys) as well as incidental materials, and will
enable the PRIF to conduct a thorough social assessment (during the Design Phase of the project). Draft
TORs and a detailed schedule of activities under this component can be found in the PIP. The social
assessment will seek to improve the PRF's understanding of community-level social dynamics and the
priority needs of the poor (poor regions, vulnerable groups, and poor within communities), and will serve,
inter alia, as a basis for tailoring the PRF's targeting, promotion, and community participation strategies.
Monitoring, Evaluation, and Learning. (US$150,000). This subcomponent would provide financing for
technical assistance (including consultants, surveys and analysis, training, workshops, and study tours),
equipment, and materials, in order to develop methodologies and instruments for monitoring and
evaluating the impact of the PRF; and to enable the PRF to engage a range of stakeholders in a
consultative learning process on the role and the design of the PRF, and ultimately to provide input into a
broader poverty alleviation strategy. A detailed action plan for monitoring, evaluation, and learning
activities is contained in the PIP. (See also the Attachment to Annex 1.)
Subproject Financing - US$4.9 million (Loan/Credit Financing: US$2.4 million)
This component would enable the PRF to support a wide range of small-scale subprojects for
construction / expansion / improvement of basic social and economic infrastructure, social assistance
programs, and community capacity-building. It would include financing for subprojects (which could
include contracts for small works, goods, and technical assistance [i.e., for capacity-building]), as well as
for consultant services for design, appraisal, and supervision of such subprojects. Approximately 30% of
the financing for this component would be provided under the Pilot Phase, subject to agreement upon the
"provisional" Operations Manual, MIS, and M&E arrangements (see section on "Project Phasing"
above). The remaining 70% would be provided during the Consolidation Phase, subject to agreement
upon the "revised" Operations Manual. No financing would be provided during the Design Phase. (A
template to help guide development of the provisional Operations Manual is included as an annex to the
PIP.)
The detailed criteria and procedures for management of the subproject cycle would be set out first in the
provisional, and then in the revised, Operations Manuals. Subprojects to be financed under the project
would be identified and implemented using several alternative arrangements, the testing of which would
be a central learning objective of the project. In gencral, subprojects would be identified and sponsored
by communities and NGOs; appraised by PRF staff or by consultants hired by the PRF; executed by
communities and/or qualified private contractors or NGOs; and supervised by PRF staff / consultants, or
by staff of relevant Government agencies. Since financing for subprojects will be determined by
community demand, it is not possible to specify, ex-ante, the exact sectoral composition of the portfolio
of projects to be financed under this component. However, based on experience under other Bank-
financed social fund projects, consultations with stakeholders during project preparation, and the record
of the BNTF program, it is likely that this component would finance works, equipment, materials, and
training, related to: schools, health centers, water supply and sanitation systems, small-scale community



Page 22
Annex 2
infrastructure, environmental infrastructure, social assistance programs, and community capacity-
building.
Project Management - US$1.0 million (Loan/Credit Financing: US$30,000)
This component would cover the PRF's operating costs during the project's three-year implementation
period, and includes staff salaries; fuel, maintenance, and insurance for vehicles; office space and
utilities. It would also include the costs of external auditing (financial-cum-physical), which would be the
only element of this componentfinanced under the Loan/Credit. The cost of Project Management is
estimated at 15% of total program costs, based on experience under other social funds (and allowing for
slightly higher operating costs in this, the initial, phase of the PRF). More information on expected
staffing requirements under the project can be found in the PIP.



Page 23
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
St. Lucia: Poverty Reduction Fund
1. Institutional Strengthening
a. Operational Policies and Institutional Framework   0.16           0.17          0.33
b. Social Assessment                                  0.04           0.05          0.09
c. Monitoring, Evaluation, and Learning               0.08           0.07          0.15
Subtotal                                              0.28          0.29           0.57
2. Subproject Financing                                 3.92           0.98          4.90
3. Project Management                                   1.01           0.00          1.01
Total Baseline Cost                                     5.21           1.27          6.48
Physical Contingencies                                0.0           0.0           0.0
Price Contingencies                                   0.0           0.0           0.0
Total Project Costs                 5.21          1.27           6.48
Front-end fee                                     0.015          0.015
Total Financing Required            5.21           1.29          6.50
NOTE: Since the project is essentially a financial intermediary type operation, and physical targets are
not the main objectives of the proposed project, no contingencies have been provided for the subprojects.
Any increase in the average subproject cost would be reflected in a reduced number of subprojects
executed. Contingencies for other components would be negligible, and so are listed as nil.
Goods                                                   0.03           0.04          0.07
Small Works                                             3.20           0.78          3.98
Consulting Services & Training
-For Institutional Strengthening                      0.19           0.25          0.44
-Capacity-Building Subprojects                        0.39           0.10          0.49
-For Subproject Design, Appraisal, and Supervision.   0.39           0.10          0.49
-For Extemal Auditing                                 0.03           -             0.03
Subtotal                                              1.00          0.45           1.45
Other (Operating Expenses)                              0.98           -             0.98
Total Project Costs                 5.21           1.27          6.48
Front-end fee                                      0.015         0.015
Total Financing Required            5.21           1.29          6.50



Page 24
Annex 4: Economic Analysis Summary
St. Lucia: Poverty Reduction Fund
Background. Economic analysis of social fund (SF) projects is an issue at two different levels: (a) the
level of the subprojects, i.e., how does the project ensure that the resources of the SF are used optimally;
and (b) the level of the SF itself, i.e., whether the mechanism and design of the.SF represents a reasonable
investment for a government. Of course, these two levels are closely related: the extent to which a SF
carries out good economic analysis of subprojects will be a major deterrninant of the economic benefits of
the SF itself.
Methodologies and practices for economic analysis, at both of these levels, have varied considerably
across SF projects. To assist in the development of best practice models, the Bank is reviewing the
experience to date with economic analysis in social funds, identifying the issues involved, and developing
guidelines for Bank task managers and social fund line staff to improve the economic analysis applied to
these investments.' In addition, another ongoing World Bank study, "Social Funds 2000 Impact
Evaluation", which draws from a series of individual country studies to provide a cross-country analysis
of the impact of social funds on the living conditions of the poor, should also provide inputs that will be
useful for improving economic analysis policies and practices. The results of both of these studies are
expected to be discussed and agreed with the relevant social funds within the next several months.
Consequently, the Poverty Reduction Fund would be expected to adopt and apply new economic analysis
policies and practices in accordance with the recommendations of those studies, and to reflect such
policies and practices in the Provisional and Revised Operations Manuals.
Within this context, however, several considerations are worth highlighting:
Economic Analysis of Subprojects. The project is basically a line of credit; consequently, no cost-
benefit analysis has been carried out for the full program. Specific subproject investments would be
driven by community demand, and evaluated in line with the Operations Manual, to be developed during
the Design Phase of the project. This would include the use of detailed technical criteria, standard
designs (agreed with relevant sector agencies wherever applicable), application of a comprehensive and
regularly updated list of unit costs by type of subprojects, and simple economic criteria (e.g., cost-per-
beneficiary calculations) to determine subproject economic viability and ensure least-cost investment
strategies.
Allocative Efficiency. As with other demand-driven social funds, the proposed design of the PRF would
foster greater allocative efficiency in public expenditure. SF investments have strong local public good
characteristics. Through the promotion of participatory local decision-making, communities would
allocate scarce resources across sectors, thereby increasing the likelihood that such resources are applied
optimally, in response to local priorities. This participation also contributes to local ownership, which,
combined with other complementary activities that the PRF is expected to provide (such as training of
end-users), is likely to enhance the sustainability of subprojects and extend the life of investment benefit
streams.
'An outline for that study is presented in a draft issues paper, "Guidelines for Economic Analysis of Social 15unds",
prepared by Julia Van Domelen as an internal memorandum, March 24, 1998. Background papers for the study
include: William Jack, "The Design and Appraisal of Social Investment Funds," February 1999, and Cecilia P. de
Castillo and Raul Lema, "Economic Analysis of Social Investment Fund Projects: Case Studies and Minimum
Requirements Proposal", October 1998.



Page 25
Annex 4
"Crowding In". SFs have proved themselves able to mobilize resources that might otherwise remain
untapped. By promoting participatory decision making, and by requiring commitments and contributions
from communities, the PRF is expected to mobilize additional resources for investments, and importantly,
for maintenance. The promotion of participation also helps build another kind of asset: social capital.
Cost-effectiveness of Learning and Development Activities. The project aims to maximize the cost-
effectiveness of the learning and development activities under the project by: (i) dividing the learning
experience into phases, which should help the PRF manage the process efficiently, and ensure maximum
feedback during implementation to improve the operation of the project within the planned budget,
resulting in continuous improvement of the cost effectiveness during implementation; (ii) encouraging the
development of strategic partnerships with other community development actors in St. Lucia in order to
foster a more efficient division of labor; and (iii) financing subprojects as part of a "learning by doing"
approach, thereby enabling the development of lessons regarding the PRF's approach while at the same
time permitting the project to have an early, on-the-ground, impact in poor communities.
Economic Analysis of the Poverty Reduction Fund Itself. As a learning and innovation project, the
proposed project will produce information that would allow for the evaluation of whether additional
support for the same type of program is justified. Accordingly, the monitoring and evaluation strategy for
the program, described in the Attachment to Annex 1, will aim to produce data and analysis on the
benefits, cost-effectiveness, equity, and sustainability of the PRF and the subprojects it finances. This
should enable the Government and the Bank to estimate the likely rate of return of a possible follow-on
project in St. Lucia (or in other similar country contexts), and should also provide information and ideas
for further improving the rates of return on specific subproject types, should a follow-on project be
accepted.



Page 26
Annex 5: Financial Summary
St. Lucia: Poverty Reduction Fund
Years Ending June 30
(in US$ millions)
Implementation Period                   Operational Period
2000    2001    2002   Total   2003    2004    2005    2006    2007
Project Cost
Investment Costs               1.3      1.9     2.3     5.5
Recurrent Costs                0.3     0.3      0.3     1.0
Total                         1.6     2.2      2.6     6.5
Operation and Maintenance                                        0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1     0.1
of completed subprojects'
Financing Sources (% of total
project costs)
IBRD/IDA                        0.9      0.9     1.2     3.0
Government                      0.3      0.4     0.4      1.2   0.03     0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03
European Union / Stabex9        0.4      0.9     1.0     2.3
User Fees/Beneficiaries'                                       0.07     0.07    0.07    0.07    0.07
Total                         1.6     2.2      2.6     6.5   0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1     0.1
For purposes of calculating project fiscal implications operation and maintenance costs are estimated to average
about 2% annually of the total costs of investments by the PRF in subprojects. Since the proportion of projects
requiring new staff is expected to be low, no incremental staff salaries are assumed for the purposes of this analysis.
In any case, for subprojects that do entail an increase in Government expenditures on recurrent costs (i.e.
incremental staff), prior endorsement of the subproject by relevant line ministries would be required.
9 Possible parallel cofmancing.
10 The cost estimates provided for subproject investments include only measurable financial costs incurred, and
therefore exclude certain cost items that are typically contributed by beneficiaries prior to initiation of the works,
such as land; unskilled labor for site clearing; certain materials; and certain prefeasibility studies. It is estimated that
such contributions would average around 10-20% of investment costs.



Page 27
Annex 6: Procurement and Financial Management Arrangements
St. Lucia: Poverty Reduction Fund
Procurement
Procurement methods (see Table A). Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines on procurement of goods, works, and services, and using standard
contract documents acceptable to the Bank (Guidelines. Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits, January 1995, revised January/August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999; and
Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised
September 1997 and January 1999). The PRF would manage-or in the case of community contracting,
supervise-all procurement actions under the project, based on agreed procurement procedures reflected
in Project Loan Documents, the Project Implementation Plan (PIP), and the PRF Operations Manual.
Small Works. Under the Subproject Financing Component, the PRF would finance integrated small
works (small social and economic infrastructure projects, including corresponding equipment, fumiture,
materials, and technical services). While no small works contracts above US$150,000 are foreseen, the
demand-driven nature of the project makes it hard to predict this with perfect accuracy, and occasional
projects above US$150,000 would not be precluded. Works contracts estimated to cost US$150,000
equivalent or more would be procured using National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures. Works
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$150,000 could be procured on the basis of price
quotations obtained from at least three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation,
or on the basis of community contracting procedures, which would be consistent with paragraph 3.15 of
the Procurement Guidelines, and fully described in the PRF Operations Manual. Note: As mentioned in
Annex 2, no financing under the Subproject Financing component would be provided until agreement is
reached upon a provisional Operations Manual, MIS, and M&E arrangements. The Operations Manual
would include detailed procedures for procurement of small works contracts, including community
contracting, which will be a special area of focus for study during the Design Phase of the project.
The small works category also includes financing under the Institutional Strengthening Component for
office preparation (essentially, rehabilitation to ready the PRF's new office space). This work is
estimated to cost approximately US$60,000 and would be procured on the basis of price quotations
obtained from at least three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.
Goods. Goods to be procured under the project would consist of vehicles, computer equipment, office
equipment and supplies, and training materials. Contracts for all such goods would be small (under
US$25,000 equivalent). Contracts for vehicles would be awarded using Intemational Shopping
procedures, up to an aggregate amount of US$20,000. All other contracts for goods could be awarded
using National Shopping procedures, up to an aggregate amount of US$50,000.
Consultant Services. As mentioned above, all consulting services would be procured following the
Bank's Consultant Guidelines and using standard contracts. Consulting services to be procured under the
project would include:
a)    Technical Assistance under the Institutional Strengthening component;
b)    Capacity-building subprojects aimed at training in operations and maintenance, and institutional
strengthening of communities and other local stakeholders, under the Subproject Financing
component;
c)    Services for design, appraisal, and supervision of subprojects, also under the Subproject
Financing component; and
d)    Services for External Auditing under the Project Management component.



Page 28
Annex 6
All consulting services contracts are expected to be small (under US$50,000 equivalent) and would be
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with chapter V of IDA's Consultant Guidelines, or to
firms using Selection Based on Consultant Qualifications (SBCQ). Selection and payment for such
contracts would follow methodologies defined in the PIP and the Operations Manual. Note: As
mentioned above and in Annex 2, no financing under the Subproject Financing component would be
provided until agreement is reached upon a provisional Operations Manual, MIS, and M&E
arrangements. The Operations Manual would include detailed procedures for procurement of the
consultant services contracts described in points (b) and (c) above.
Semi-Annual Technical Assistance Plans. Twice a year, the PRF will update, as necessary, the plan for
technical assistance activities (including new consulting services, training, workshops. and study tours)
included in the PIP. These "Technical Assistance Plans" will include draft terms of reference (TORs),
estimated budgets, and expected recruiting / contracting procedures to be followed.
Prior review thresholds (Table B). Prior review by the Bank, as defined in Appendix I of the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines, would include: (a) procurement plans, and (b) contracts as set out in Table B.
The balance would be subject to ex--post review.
Prior review of an estimated 30% of the Loan/Credit is expected under these arrangements. Although
this level of prior review is relatively low, it is considered acceptable in light of: (i) audit arrangements
for the project, which will include annual audits, with interim auditing activities throughout the year, by a
qualified external firrm; these audits will include physical audits of subprojects, as well as procurement
audits to verify that procurement guidelines are being respected; and (ii) plans to convert the prcject to a
system of disbursements based on Project Management Reports, which will detail all historical and
planned procurement activities under the project (see paragraph on "Conversion to LACI System of
Disbursements", below). Periodic physical performance evaluations and Bank supervision missions
would also look at procurement issues in the course of random reviews of subprojects, including field
visits.
Financial Management
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C). The proposed Loan/Credit would be disbursed over a period of
three and a half years. Implementation completion is expected by June 30, 2002, and project closing six
months later, on Decemnber 31, 2002. Disbursements would be in accordance with Bank disbursement
guidelines. Disbursemrents would be made against the following categories of expenditure: (a) Small
Works Subprojects (90%); (b) Goods, including vehicles, equipment, and materials (100% of foreign
expenditures for imported goods, 100% of total expenditures for locally-produced goods [ex-factory
cost], and 85% of other local expenditures); (c) Consultants' Services and Training (Technical
Assistance): 100% of the cost of eligible training, workshops, learning materials, study tours, and
consultant services. Retroactive financing of up to US$300,000 equivalent would be permnitted for
eligible expenditures under the project incurred as of October 1, 1998, or within 12 months of the date of
signing of the Credit A.greement, whichever date is later. No disbursements would be made under the
Subproject Financing component (which includes Small Works Subprojects and Consultants ' Services
and Training) during the Design Phase, until agreement is reached with the Bank on a provisional
Operations Mlanual, MIS, and M&E arrangements. Thereafter, during the Pilot Phase of the projiect,
disbursements under the Subproject Financing component would be limited to 30% of the totalfor the
component.



Page 29
Annex 6
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs). Until such time as the project is converted to a system of
disbursement based on Project Management Reports (PMRs-see below), disbursements would be made
on the basis of full documentation for all expenditures made under contracts requiring prior review by the
Bank, as indicated in Table B; and contracts whose value would be raised above the prior review limits as
a result of amendments. For all other expenditures, disbursements would be granted against SOEs for
which supporting documents would be maintained by PRF, and be available to the Bank and external
auditors for review.
Special Account. In order to facilitate project implementation, the Government would establish a special
account in US Dollars, as well as an account in EC$ to facilitate local payments, in the National
Commercial Bank (or another commercial bank, subject to agreement with the Bank during
Negotiations). The Special Account would have an authorized allocation and initial advance of
US$300,000, corresponding to the average of four months of expenditures that are expected to be made
from the account. (Note: upon conversion to a PMR-based system of disbursements [see below], this
amount would likely be higher.) The PRF will submit replenishment applications on a monthly basis, or
when 25% of the authorized allocation has been used, whichever occurs first. The replenishment
application will be supported by the necessary documentation: a bank statement of the Special Account
and a reconciliation of the Special Account against Bank records. The Special Account would be audited
in conjunction with the annual financial audit of the project.
Audits. The PRF would have the records and accounts of the project for each fiscal year, including the
Special Account, audited by independent and qualified external auditors, in accordance with generally
accepted auditing standards and procedures, and TORs satisfactory to the Bank. Audit reports would
include all activities of the PRF, with appropriate segregation of the inflows from the Bank and the use of
these funds. Certified copies of the audit reports would be furnished to the Bank no later than July 31 of
each year. As part of the annual audit process, auditors would be expected to carry out interim auditing
activities throughout the year. Auditors' opinions would include the results of "operations audits",
including a review of subprojects both in execution and completed, covering both their processing and
implementation. Auditors would review individual contracts, ascertain compliance with the terms of
contracts and the Loan/Credit Agreements, inspect progress of works and reconcile the physical progress
with financial expenses incurred, and verify that procurement guidelines are being respected.
During project preparation, it was agreed that an audit firm previously selected via competitive bidding
for the BNTF would carry out the audit of the PRF. The TORs that would apply to such audits (subject to
approval of the proposed project) beginning with the April 1, 1999 - March 31, 2000 financial year, have
been reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory. These TORs do not, however, include provisions for
"operations" audits, since those are not expected to begin until the Pilot Phase, when the PRF begins to
finance subprojects. Therefore, prior to initiation of the Pilot Phase, agreement would be reached on
provisions for conducting operations audits as part of the regular auditing activities under the project.
Financial Management System, and Conversion to Project Management Report-Based System of
Disbursements. Given the relatively simple nature of the activities to be financed during the project's
Design Phase, financial management requirements during this phase will be minimal. Under the
guidance of a Bank financial management specialist (who visited St. Lucia during project preparation),
the PRF has taken steps to establish a "basic" financial management system, adequate for the Design
Phase; specifically the PRF has: hired a full-time accountant; purchased an off-the-shelf accounting
software package (to be installed prior to effectiveness); and developed a simple manual of basic
financial procedures (e.g., for payments), which is included in the PIP. The financial management
system-in particular. the financial procedures manual-would be further improved prior to
effectiveness, in accordance with an action plan agreed upon during negotiations.



Page 30
Annex 6
During its Pilot and Consolidation Phases, the project is expected to implement procedures of the Bank's
Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI). Under LACI, use of SOEs would be replaced by a
system whereby disbursements (including the amount of the advance to the Special Account) would be
granted to the PRF on the basis of a set of agreed-upon quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs)
detailing the financial, physical, and procurement activities (historical and planned) under the project.
During the Design Phase, the project will provide technical assistance for the further development of the
financial management: system, in order to make the system LACI-compatible prior to the Pilot Phase. An
action plan for developing the LACI-compatible system, to be completed by December 31, 1999., is
included in the PIP. A follow-up visit by a Bank Financial Management Specialist will be necessary
prior to the Pilot Phase to ensure that the LACI-compatible financial management system is in place at
that time.



Page 31
Annex 6
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
St. Lucia: Poverty Reduction Fund
-    -   -  =   .   .    .   ._   ....  _ _F                     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
1. Small Works (including
corresponding equipment,
furniture, materials, and                                2.141"      1.8512        3.98
Technical services)                      ____           (1.93)                    (1.93)
2. Goods                                                    0.07'3                     0.07
(0.07)                    (0.07)
3. Consultant Services          _                             9914      0.46's         1.45
And Training                                             (0.99)                    (0.99)
4. Other (Operating Expenses)                               0.9816                     0.98
(0.00)
5. Front-end Fee                                            0.01517                    0.015
(0.015)                   (0.015)
Total                                                    4.195        2.31          6.50
_____________________________  _ _________    (3.00)        (3.00)
Notes:    NBF = Non Bank-financed.
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan/IDA Credit.
1! Includes Subprojects, under the Subproject Financing Component (US$2,080,000), to be awarded using price
quotations or community contracting procedures; and office preparation, under the Institutional Strengthening
Component (US$60,000), to be awarded using price quotations.
12 Small works subprojects, expected to be financed with European Union (Stabex) funds.
13 International Shopping for vehicles (US$20,000). National Shopping for other Goods (US$50,000).
14 Includes technical assistance under the Institutional Strengthening component (US$440,000); capacity-building
subprojects under the Subproject Financing component (US$260,000); services for design, appraisal, and
supervision of subprojects, also under the Subproject Financing component (US$260,000); and services for external
auditing under the Project Management component (US$30,000). These will be awarded to individual consultants
in accordance with chapter V of the Bank's Conszultant Guidelines, or to firms using Selection Based on Consultant
Qualifications.
'5 Capacity-building subprojects (US$230,000) and consultant services for design, appraisal, and supervision of
subprojects (US$230,000), expected to be financed with European Union (Stabex) funds.
16 Operating Expenses (salaries; fuel, maintenance, and insurance for vehicles; office space and utilities). Not
subject to procurement.
17 Not subject to procurement



Page 32
Annex 6
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
St. Lucia: Poverty Reduction Fund
g=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
I. Small Works
>150                     NCB             All / None expected
<150               Price Quotations or   First two using each
Community        method / US$400,000
Contracting
2. Goods
Vehicles                    <25             International Shopping    First / US$20,000
Other Goods                 <25               National Shopping      First I US$10,000
3. Technical            According to IDA
Assistance                  Guidelines
Firms                      100               Quality- and Cost-    All / None expected
Based Selection
<100               Selection Based on    All contracts above
Consultant        US$50,000 / None
Qualifications     expected; and TORs
for a sample selected
on basis of Semi-
Annual TA Plans /
US$80,000
Individuals             According to IDA     Individual Consultants    All contracts above
Guidelines                             US$25,000, and TORs
for a sample selected
on basis of Semi-
Annual TA Plans /
US$300,000
Training / Study Tours        N.A.                  N.A.           "TORs" for candidates
and training programs /
US$50,000
4. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$900,000
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
lHigh
Akverage
L,ow
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 month(s)
(includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)



Page 33
Annex 6
Table C: Allocation of Loan and Credit Proceeds
St. Lucia: Poverty Reduction Fund
Atiibu**'US -on~  Y~iuP'P
1. Works for Office                   0.055            90%
Preparation
2. Works and Goods:
(a) For Subprojects (during           0.561            90%
Pilot Phase)
(b) For Subprojects (during           1.309            90%
Consolidation Phase)
3. Goods                              0.07             100% of foreign expenditures;
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost);
85% of local expenditures for
other items procured locally
4. Consultants' Services and
Training
(a) Under the Institutional           0.47             100%
Strengthening and Project
Management components
(include external auditing)
(b) Under the Subproject              0.156            100%
Financing Component, during
Pilot Phase
(c) Under the Subproject              0.364             100%
Financing Component, during
Consolidation Phase
Total Project Costs
Front-end Fee                         0.015            100%
Total                                 3.0



Page 34
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
St. Lucia: Poverty Reduction Fund
Time taken to prepare the project (months)        16
Firsi: Bank mission (identification)           2/8/1998
Appraisal mission departure                    3/141i999
Negotiations                                    5/5/1999
Plan:ned Date of Effectiveness                  8/1/1999
Prepared by: Poverty Reduction Fund
Preparation assistance: Government of St. Lucia, Government / European Union Stabex Funds
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
David Warren                                      Task Team Leader
Laura Rawlings                                    Monitoring & Evaluation
Max Pulgar-Vidal                                 Infrastructure (Sector Leader, FPSI)
Pascale De Boeck                                  Legal (Sr. Counsel)
Sara Gonzalez-Flavell                             Legal (Sr. Counsel)
Mari Minowa                                       Economist (Labor Markets)
Daniel Boyce                                      Financial Management
Edward Daoud                                      Financial Management
Jacqueline Demars                                 Financial Management
Maria Lucy Giraldo                                Procurement
Vladimir Jadrijevic                               Procurement
Ephraim Jimenez                                   Procurement
Que Bui                                           Procurement
Hannah Koilpillai                                 Disbursement
Douglas Flandro                                   Team Assistant
Agda Colbert                                      Team Assistant
Ada Rivera                                        Team Assistant
Maurizia Tovo                                     Peer Reviewer / Social Funds
Jamil Salmi                                       Sector Leader, Human Development
Charles Griffin                                   Lead Specialist for Social Protection
Surajit Goswami                                   Sr. Country Economist
Constantine Symeonides-Tsatsos                    Country Officer



Page 35
Annex 7
Consultants who worked on the project included:
Robert Hall                                     Institutional Analysis
Elizabeth Gomart                                 Social Assessment
Jeanne Downing                                  Productive Projects / Microcredit
Pablo Schneider                                  Social Funds
Valuable advice was also provided by Mr. David Todd (Social Development Adviser) of the Delegation of the
European Union in Barbados and the Eastern Caribbean; and by Messrs. Jeffrey Dellimore (Deputy Director,
Social Development Division), John Harrison (Social Policy Analyst/Planner), and McDonald Thomas
(Project Officer, Poverty Reduction) of the Caribbean Development Bank.



Page 36
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
St. Lucia: Poverty Reduction Fund
A. Project Implementation Plan
PRF, Project Implementation Plan, May 1999.
PRF, Financial Procedures Mqanual (draft), June 1999.
B. Bank Staff and Consultant Assessments
David Warren, Back-to-Office Report: Identification Mission, February 1998.
David Warren, Back-to-Office Report: Preparation Mission, July 1998.
Daniel Boyce, Back-to-Office Report: Preparation Mission (Financial Management), February 1999.
Pablo Schneider, Back-to-Office Report: Preparation Mission (Project Implementation), February
1999.
David Warren, Back-to-Office Report: Appraisal Mission, March 1999. Includes staff and
consultanlt assessments on Monitoring and Evaluation (Laura Rawlings); Institutional Analysis
(Robert Hall); Social Assessment (Elizabeth Gomart); and Productive Activities (Jeanne
Downing).
C. International Experience of Social Funds
Carvalho, S. "Social Funds: Guidelines for Design and Implementation," Human Resources
Development and Operations Policy Working Paper No. 34, World Bank, Washington, D.C.
Carvalho, S. "Portfolio Improvement Program: Review of the Social Funds Portfolio," Quality
Assurance Group (QAG), World Bank, Washington, D.C., March 1997.
Glaessner, P.; Lee, K. W.; Sant'Anna, A. M.; de St. Antoine, J-J; "Poverty Alleviation and Social
Investment Funds: The Latin American Experience," World Bank Discussion Paper No. 261,
World Bank, Washington, D.C.
Goodman, M.; Morley, S.; Siri, G; and Zuckerman, E.; "Social Investment Funds in Latin America;
Past Performance, and Future Role," Evaluation Office, Social and Sustainable Development,
Inter-American Development Bank, Washington, D.C., March 1997. International Workshop on
Social FurLds, held on May 27-29, 1997 in Washington, D.C.
Narayan, D. and Ebbe, K. " Design of Social Funds: Participation, Demand Orientation, and Local
Organizational Capacity," World Bank Discussion Paper No. 375, World Bank, Washington,
D.C.
Owen, D. and Van Domelen, J. "Getting an Earful: A Review of Beneficiary Assessments of Social
Funds," Social Protection Discussion Paper No. 9816, December 1998.
D. Other
Kairi Consultants Limited in association with The National Assessment Team of St. Lucia, "Poverty
Assessment Report - St. Lucia," Main Report, Vol. 1 of 2, April, 1996.
Caribbean Development Bank, "Report on Basic Needs Trust Fund - Fourth Programme, May 7,
1996.
Caribbean Development Bank, "Grant Agreement (Basic Needs Trust Fund, Fourth Programme)
Between C'aribbean Development Bank and Saint Lucia," October 14, 1996.
Government of Saint. Lucia, "Medium Term Economic Strategy 1998-2000," May 1998.
Ministry of Finance, Planning and Sustainable Development, "Report of the July 27, 1998 Poverty
Reduction Fund Workshop", August 1998.
PRF and World Bank: Notes from a Project Preparation Workshop held in October 1998., at the
World Bank in Washington, DC.
Cargill Technical Services Limited, "Socio-Economic Impact of Banana Restructuring in St. Lucia,"
Vol 1, Final Report, November, 1998.
* Including electronic files.



Page 37
Annex 9: Socioeconomic Conditions in St. Lucia
St. Lucia: Poverty Reduction Fund
The purpose of this annex is to provide some additional information on the characteristics and
deterninants of poverty in St. Lucia, and on some of the expected impacts of the restructuring of the
banana industry. The information is drawn from two sources: (i) the St. Lucia Poverty Assessment
Report, prepared by Kairi Consultants, Ltd. in association with The National Assessment Team of St.
Lucia, April 1996; and (ii) Socio-Economic Impact of Banana Restructuring in St. Lucia, by Cargill
Technical Services Limited, November 1998.
Characteristics and Determinants of Poverty. Drawing on data gathered in a national household
survey conducted in 1995, the Poverty Assessment determined that 18.7% of households and 25. 1% of
individuals fall below the consumption-based poverty line established for meeting basic food and non-
food expenditures. 5.3% of households and 7. 1% of individuals were deemed indigent, not able to meet
the basic food requirements for a healthy existence. Poverty is a largely rural phenomenon, both in terms
of the number of poor and the severity of poverty.'" The incidence of poverty is not strongly linked to
gender, but the poor are segregated by gender within the labor market, with poor males concentrated in
informal sector agriculture, poor females in formal sector manufacturing.
Children are heavily represented among the poor, with the lowest expenditure quintile in the population
having more than twice the number of children than the national average, raising questions of equity and
pointing to a high dependency ratio among poor households. There are accompanying constraints on the
supply of day care and pre-school centers, notably in rural communities. Finally, whereas coverage for
primary education is over 90% even in the lowest quintile, access to secondary education is considerably
lower for poorer households.'9 Access to curative and preventative health care is considered adequate,
but the Poverty Assessment identifies family planning and environmental health issues (notably drainage,
garbage disposal, potable water, and pit toilets) as areas in need of urgent attention.20
Socio-Economic Impact of Banana Restructuring in St. Lucia. The Cargill report explores the
structure of the banana industry, looks at the impact that changes in the dramatic restructuring of the
banana industry are already having on bananas growers and laborers' households, and provides
suggestions for appropriate policy responses. The banana industry dominates the St. Lucian economy,
accounting for up to one third of its employment and close to half of its export earnings. The elimination
of the European Community's subsidies for banana farmers mandated by the World Trade Organization
is accelerating changes in the St. Lucian banana industry that began in the early 1990s, driven by falling
farm revenues. Already, the number of registered banana growers has dropped from 11,000 in the early
1990s to 5,200 in 1997, so many of the changes driven by the economic downturn are already being felt.
Whereas the banana industry is taking a proactive approach to restructuring the industry, mainly by
introducing certification programs and higher export standards, the Cargill report estimates that only
'" The poverty gap, which measures the average consumption needed to bring the poor just above the poverty line,
was 9.9% for rural areas versus 6.1% for urban.
Secondary education coverage is 48.4% in the lowest quintile compared to 84% for the highest quintile.
20Approximately 25% of the population does not have access to water by direct connection or standpipes. This
situation is most prevalent in higher altitude, rural communities. A related statistic is the incidence of gastroenteritis
which is the leading notifiable disease in St. Lucia, with 44% of reported cases occurring in children under 5 years
of age.



Page 38
Annex 9
about half of the registered growers will be able to make the transition successfully. Many laborers and
persons employed in businesses linked to the banana industry are also being left on the margins of the
restructuring process.
Displaced farmers, laborers and workers previously associated with the banana industry are ill-prepared
for the transition to a global economy, lacking access to education, training and employment
opportunities, particularly in the rural areas. The social consequences of the downturn in the banana
industry have already been reflected in a doubling in the rate of incarceration and crimes against people
(as opposed to property) from 1995 to 1997. The fact that banana growers and laborers are
predominantly male heads of households has social and economic implications at the level of the family.
Indeed, qualitative interviews in banana growing communities point to increased alcohol and drug abuse,
domestic violence, and child abuse.
The Cargill report states that as the banana subsidy is eliminated, "responsibility for the welfare burden is
now shifting, yet there is no well-defined agency or government program charged with meeting this
burden either in terms of providing new areas of employment or meeting the emerging social needs."
The report specifically identifies the Poverty Reduction Fund as an important vehicle for addressing
vulnerable groups, and points to social sector projects in public education and communication, adult
literacy and education, pre-school and day care centers, family counseling, drug control, and support for
older persons and rural women as key areas.



Page 39
Annex 10: Statement of Loans and Credits
St. Lucia: Poverty Reduction Fund
Status of Bank Group Operations in St. Lucia
Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                    and actual                  Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                                disbursements a/         Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Year                 Borrower                            Purpose
IBRD       IDA        Cancel.      Undish.       Orig     Frm Rev'd   Dev Obl   Imp Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 2
Active Projects
1C-PE-36698      1995   GOV'T OF ST. LUCIA                 BASIC EDUC REFORM                           3.36        3.36         0.00          2.06         2.06        0.00       S           S
Total                                                                                                 3.36         3.36         0.00          2.06         2.06        0.00
Active Proec-ts        Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbutrsed (IBRD and IDA):                    4.47                13.27                17.74
of which has beerl repaid:                    0.00                  .84                  .84
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                      6.73               12.16                18.89
Amount sold                       :                  0.00                0.00                 0.00
Of which repaid                :                 0.00                 0.00                 0.00
Total Undisbursed                 :                 2.06                 0.00                 2.06
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance  (ARPP) , a letter based system was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory,  S = satisfactory, U   unsatisfactory,
HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Page 40
Annex 11
Status of IFC Operations in St. Lucia
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
(in US Dollar Millions)
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval             Company           Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
Total Portfolio:                     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Conmitment
Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
Total Pending Commitment:            0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00



Page 41
Annex 11: Country at a Glance
St. Lucia at a glance
Latin    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           America   middle-            - 
St. Lucia   & Carib.  income       Development diamond'
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                        0.16       494       571                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Afias method. US$)                    3.620     3,88      4,520
GNP (Atas method, US$ bilhions)                        0.58     1.917     2,584
Average annfual growth, 1991-97
Population (/6)                                         1.0        17       1.5
Labor force (%)                                                   2.3         9        P       _                      Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (tatest year available, 1991S97)                                capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below natonal poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)                37         74        73
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        70         70        70
Infant mortafity (per 1,000 live births)                16         32        30
Child malnutrition (% of children uncder 5)              .          ..                         Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of populatiori)                  ..        73        79
Ilfiteracy (56 ofpopulation age 15+)                    10         13        15
Gross primary enrollment ('% of school-age population)    .                 111  tO7     --St. Lucia
Male                                                                                     - Upper-middie-income group
Female
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      1997      r
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                              .      0 26      0.60
Gross domestic investment/GDP                  ..    21.2        19.0                               Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP                      63.8      67.S
Gross domestic savings/GDP                      ..    14.5       17.1
Gross national savigsiGDP                        .     21.3      128          ..                       -
Current account batancelGDP                      .      fi.      -6.1         .     Dmsi  
Interest payrnentslGDP                           ,      0.3       0           .,    Savings            .-_''      Investment
Total debtWGDP                                         12.1      23.8         .       avigs
Total debt service/exports                    0.6       1.1       3.0
Present value of debtGDP                                 ..      18.3
Present value of debt/exports                            .       26.6
Indebtedness
1976-86  19B7-97     1996      1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                           45        3.2                              --;--St. Lucia
GNP per capita                                3.2       0.S                         |     ---Upper-middle-ncome group
Exports of goods and services         ..      2.2       3.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and investment (/l
(% of GDP)                                                                          |
Agriculture                                     ..    18.1       10.7        ,,      1
Industry                                         .     17,2      19.7
Manufacturing                                 ..      8.2        6.7        ..            92   93   95x\  95, 9    97
Services                                        -      64,7      69.6               -20
Private consumption                            ..    68.3        68.5        ..      3
General govemment consumption                   ..    17.2       14.4
Imports of goods and services                    .    70.5       69.7        0.                                   GDP
(average annual growth)                                                    1997     Growth rates of exports andimports %l
Agriculture                                     ..      1.8       5.8        ..   i
Industry                                       ..       5.2       2.3
Manufacturing                                 ..      1.5        2.6           .  5,.
Services                                        ..      5.0       3.8        ..            -
Private consumption                            ..       2.1       4.9        ..    j                                
General govemrnment consumption                 ..      3 5      -3.1        ,.    I '
Gross domestic investment                       ,,     - 9        3.3              -5
Imports of goods and services                   ..    -0.2        3.9                             E -exports    "lmports
Gross national product                           .      4.3       2.0
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 42
Annex 11
St. Lucia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                               1976     1986       1996      1997
(% change)                                                                            T
Consumer prices                                  .        ..       3.1        ..
Implicit GDP deflator                           ..       3.6       3.2
Government finance                                                                  12         .        v
(%. of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                           ..      31.2        ..            92   92    94    95    96    97
Current budget balance                                    ..       8.2                          -G DP deflator   -0--CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                   ..      -1.9
TRADE
(USS millions)                                1976     1986       1l99      1997      Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                        -       118               4r0
Bananas                                                 ..        48
Fruits and vegetables                          .
Manufactures                                            ..        26
Total imports (cif)                                                348
Food                                                     ..       78
Fuel and energy                                          .        26                     91    2                    9    9
Exotpo  neCapital goods..                                          6
Export price index (1995=100)                    .        ..          .i                  91   92   93   94   95   96   9
Import price index (1995=100)                             ..        99         ..               a Exports     U Imports
Terms of trade (1995= 100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(UJS$ millions)                               1976     1986       1996     1997       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                   32      167        406
Imports of goods and services                   50      185        417                                                    97
Resource balance                               -19      -18        -12
Net income                                       0       -5        -4.4
Net currentttransfers                           13       23         19         ..     t
Current account balance                         -5        0        -37
Financing items (net)                            8       11         37
Changes in net reserves                         -3      -12          0         ..    2
Memo:
Reserves including goid (USS millions)          ..        ..        31
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)               2.6       2.7       2.7       2.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996     1997 
(USS millions)                                1                                       Composition Of total debt, 1997 (USS miltions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             5       32        142       152
IBRD                                           0        0          4         4                         A1
IDA                                            0        0          8        10              0G33
Total debt service                               0        2         12        13
IBRD7                                          0        0          0         0
IDA                                            0        0          0         0
Composition of net rescurce flows
Official grants                                3        3         29        16
Official creditors                             1        2         1 1        4
Private creditors                              0        3          0         0           E "7
Foreign direct investnment                     3       15         39        45
Portfolio equity                               0        0          0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                    0        0          0         0     A - :sRD                      E - Bilateral 
Disbursements                                  0        0          3         2     EB - IDA  D - Other multlateral   F - Privatea
Principal repayments                                    0          0         0     C- IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                      0        0          3         2
Interest payments                              0        0          0         0
Net transfers                                  0        0          2         2
Development Economics                                                                                                   9129198



IBRD 26505
DOMINICAN-        {US(or,SUK)  &S Mo0- (,IM,                                    60                                       60h55'
REPUSL[C_        *          '11 M.     (54I
2Uso fUS)  S br fNsch)Jj   ANTNGUA rod BAROUDA
sC E)S. (NoUh|r - i                                                                              N 
ST. KIT .iNVs.j  G. G,dI-p. ItJ  CC C.               ~
UK    'DOMINICA                                                        -
S,       .MNiCeT  ST WCIA           14.05'                                                                                        4 -
.ST ITNr),ET  R'ARBADOS                                            Gros Islt
ObGRENADINES                          *                                   isle
A;,.h~ !N.UhS   _, c (D).1h]          GRENADA
/-TRINIOAD                                                   C/1-
! - VENEZULA          s 4   TOBAGO .i
i  ',       ~~~~~V E N E Z U E L A      '."                                                                          r         z       -_
S T.  LUCIA                                                  CASTRIES    
PRIMARY ROADS                                                                                      r
----  SECONDARY ROADS
-i4'0D'       SIM       MArOR TOWN                                                                             >T/.-                                  -         t4Oo
0     SELECTED TOWNS                               -         ''                                                   V
      AIRPORTS                                                          -              / L' i
PORTS                                                         A!  ,    R
RiVERS
PARISH BOUNDARIES
-~- -    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                      C'
Anse La Roy>
13'55''                                                                                               13'55'.
Tsps                                                           /t   E   N /N          4            'De/- - n3 |nery
Con fries
13'50-
_13o45                                                                            r 9 't           ,<       >//1
13'45'                                                    k       4                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~13145'-
o      1       2      3       4      5M))iLS
o        2   3   4 5       6   7   8 KILOMETERS
Vieux For-           , Maria sislndis
The boondaries, colors, denominations and any other information-
shown on this reap do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group,
any judgment on the legol status of any territory, or any endorsement
or acceptance of such boundaries.
6105'                                   6100'                                    60'55
DECEMBER 1994



