Report No. PID8078
Project Name                     St. Lucia-Poverty Reduction Fund
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Sector                           Human Development
Project ID                       LCPE54939
Borrower                         Government of Saint Lucia
Implementing Agencies            Poverty Reduction Fund
31 Leslie Land Road
Castries, St. Lucia
Tel: (758) 452-2181/452-6699
Fax: (758) 452-6056
Date PID Updated                 August 19, 1999
Appraisal Date                   March 14, 1999
Projected Board Date             July 22, 1999 (approved)
1.      Background   St. Lucia's GNP per capita of about US$3,430 (1996) masks
relatively high levels of poverty, particularly in rural areas. The
dismantling of trade preferences for banana exports is likely to lead to a
worsening of the situation of the poor--and especially the rural poor--in St.
Lucia. While efforts to improve competitiveness in order to permit private
sector growth and diversification will form the backbone of St. Lucia's
strategy to achieve economic growth and poverty reduction over the medium to
long term, the Government also seeks to complement such strategies with a
more immediate "assault on poverty," to address a number of pressing issues
associated with the well-being of the poor in St. Lucia. These include:
Deficiencies in access to basic social and economic infrastructure and social
services in poor communities
The need for special programs for hard-to-reach target groups (e.g., young
and at-risk males, female heads of households, etc.)
Lack of sufficient training in infrastructure maintenance within poor
communities
Low levels of community organization and leadership in poor communities,
leading to an inability in those communities to take collective action to
solve problems
One of the centerpieces of the Government's strategy to address the above
issues is the Poverty Reduction Fund (PRF), modeled after the social
investment funds operating in many countries in Latin American and the
Caribbean, as well as in the rest of the world. The basic objective of the
PRF is to improve access among the poor in relatively disadvantaged
communities to basic social and economic infrastructure and services through
the financing of small-scale projects identified and implemented with a high
degree of community participation.
In the context of the PRF, the Government of St. Lucia aims to develop a more
holistic approach to poverty reduction--one that not only affords poor
communities the opportunity to improve their access to basic infrastructure
and services, but that can also serve as a catalyst to strengthen
communities' capacities to design, implement, and sustain their own



development programs. It should be noted that the PRF is not expected to
deliver, single-handedly, all of the inputs required for any community to
develop out of poverty. However it is hoped that, in addition to providing a
source of financing for priority community subprojects, the PRF will in time
become a "knowledge center" where communities can gain access to information
on a host of programs (public and private). In this way, the PRF could serve
to promote synergies among these various initiatives--a role that would go
beyond that of a traditional social fund, but one that seems feasible in St.
Lucia given the relatively small size of the country, and consequently the
smaller number of development actors.
2.      Project Objectives   The objective is to develop the institutional and
operational framework for a social fund model that is appropriate for St.
Lucia, and to pilot the model's ability to increase access to and quality of
basic social and economic infrastructure and services among the poor and
vulnerable, in accordance with their demands; to contribute to the
sustainability of such infrastructure and services; and to foster and build
capacity for community-led development initiatives.
Key Performance indicators:
Increases in access to and quality of social and economic infrastructure and
services
Evidence that investments reflect the priorities of the targeted communities
and beneficiaries
Evidence that investments are targeted to the poor and vulnerable
Evidence of a satisfactory level of O&M among the subprojects
Evidence that communities are taking more leadership in planning and managing
development initiatives
Establishment and consolidation of the PRF as the implementing arm and locus
of coordination for actions relating to Government's poverty reduction
strategy
3.      Project Description   The project aims to assist the Government of St.
Lucia to establish the PRF as an efficient and effective institution for
financing community-based development projects on a demand-driven basis and
with a high degree of community participation, and to provide financing so
that the PRF can begin to finance such projects and, at the same time, test
and improve its operating procedures and methodologies.
Project Phasing. The project was conceived of as consisting of three distinct
phases:
Design (approx. six months). During the Design Phase, the PRF team would
focus on the design of the detailed institutional, technical, and operational
framework of the PRF to complement the general provisions of the PRF
Legislation, and taking into consideration the existing legal, institutional,
and social context in St. Lucia.
Pilot (approx. one year). During the Pilot Phase, the project would test the
operational viability of the mechanisms and methodologies designed by
applying them to selected "pilot" subprojects. At the end of the Pilot
Phase, an interim evaluation exercise would be carried out, with findings to
be reflected in a "revised" Operations Manual.
Consolidation (approx. one and a half years). During this phase, the project
would support a full program of community subprojects throughout the country,
guided by the revised version of the Operations Manual.     At the end of the
- 2 -



Consolidation Phase, another evaluation exercise would be carried out--this
time aimed at assessing the overall experience under the project, and the
prospects for and design of a possible follow-on program.
In this context, the project would include the following three components:
Institutional Strengthening
Operational Policies and Institutional Framework. This subcomponent would
support the Government's efforts to design, develop and establish the
operational policies and institutional framework of the PRF.
Social Assessment. The social assessment will seek to improve the PRF's
understanding of community-level social dynamics and the priority needs of
the poor, and will serve, inter alia, as a basis for tailoring the PRF's
targeting, promotion, and community participation strategies.
Monitoring, Evaluation, and Learning. This subcomponent would provide
financing for technical assistance to enable the PRF to engage a range of
stakeholders in a consultative learning process on the role and the design of
the PRF, and ultimately to provide input into a broader poverty alleviation
strategy.
Subproject Financing This component would enable the PRF to support a wide
range of small-scale subprojects for construction / expansion / improvement
of basic social and economic infrastructure, social assistance programs, and
community capacity-building. In general, subprojects would be identified and
sponsored by communities and NGOs; appraised by PRF staff or by consultants
hired by the PRF; executed by communities and/or qualified private
contractors or NGOs; and supervised by PRF staff / consultants, or by staff
of relevant Government agencies.
Project Management This component would cover the PRF's operating costs
during the project's three-year implementation period. The cost of Project
Management is estimated at 15t of total program costs.
4.      Project Financing
Table Available in the InfoShop
5.      Project Implementation:.   The PRF would be responsible for overall
project implementation and coordination. Subprojects to be financed under
the project would be identified and implemented using several alternative
arrangements, the testing of which will be a central learning objective of
the project. In general, subprojects would be identified and sponsored by
communities and NGOs; appraised by PRF staff or by consultants hired by the
PRF; executed by communities and/or qualified private contractors or NGOs;
and supervised by PRF staff / consultants, or by staff of relevant Government
agencies. The management of the subproject cycle will be guided by criteria
and procedures set out in the Operations Manual, which will be developed in
full during the Design phase of the project, tested during the Pilot phase,
and revised for the Consolidation phase. In many aspects, the Operations
Manual will indicate different alternatives to be tested for viability (e.g.,
community contracting vs. contracting of contractors directly by the PRF).
To ensure that its activities are consistent with the policies and
development strategies of line agencies and other relevant stakeholders,
close coordination between the PRF and other such agencies will be fostered,
in particular through: representation by key Ministries on the PRF's Board
-3 -



of Directors; the strong role of the Ministry of Finance and Planning in the
PRF's stewardship; and the development of inter-institutional framework
agreements during the Design phase of the project. As mentioned above, one
of the project's specific learning goals is to develop a framework for inter-
institutional coordination that takes advantage of the country's relatively
small size, and establishes the PRF as a focus of coordination among, and
knowledge institution about, the various poverty reduction agencies and
initiatives in St. Lucia.
6.      Environmental Aspects:   (Environmental Category B)   The project would
have no significant environmental risks. No resettlement would occur as a
result of project investments. The majority of subprojects are expected to
have a positive or neutral impact on the environment. Environmental
assessment mechanisms were applied under the BNTF program to screen
subprojects for possible environmental implications; these would be
strengthened during the Design Phase of the project (prior to financing of
subprojects), using the Bank's "Environmental Guidelines for Social Funds"
as a reference. During implementation periodic evaluations would verify
adherence to subproject environmental assessment mechanisms, and impact
evaluations would include assessments of sustainability of environmental
impacts
7.      Program Objectives Category:    The primary program objective category is
Poverty Reduction and improve living conditions and development opportunities
among poor and vulnerable segments of the population.
8.      Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-3135
E-mail: dwarren@worldbank.org
Task Manager's Name: David Warren
Telephone (202) 473-9777
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 27, 1999.
Adjustments to the Operations Manual, as needed, would be permitted throughout the
project, subject to prior Agreement with the Bank. However, it is expected that the
phasing of the project would foster a more focused and regular evaluation of procedures
and methodologies than would take place with merely "occasional" adjustments.
- 4 -



