            Document of
          The World Bank




                                     Report No: 30469

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
        (IDA-32770 SCL-45080)

               ON A

               LOAN

  IN THE AMOUNT OF US$1.5 MILLION

           AND A CREDIT

 IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR1.2 MILLION

                TO

           SAINT LUCIA

               FOR A

 POVERTY REDUCTION FUND PROJECT




          December 23, 2004

              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective May 2004)

                Currency Unit = Eastern Caribbean Dollars (EC$)
                      EC$1.00 = US$ 0.37
                     US$ 1.00 = EC$2.70

                       FISCAL YEAR
                   April 1 to  March 31

          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BNTF      Basic Needs Trust Fund
CDB       Caribbean Development Bank
EDF       European Development Fund
EU       European Union
IDA      International Development Association
IE        Impact Evaluation
LIL&C     Learning and Innovation Loan and Credit
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS       Management Information System
OM        Operational Manual
PIP       Project Implementation Plan
PRF       Poverty Reduction Fund
SAS       Social Assessment Study

               Vice President:    David de Ferranti
             Country Director     Caroline Anstey
              Sector Director     Ana-Maria Arriagada
           Task Team Leader       Laura Rawlings

                                          ST. LUCIA
                            LC- POVERTY REDUCTION FUND


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
9. Partner Comments                                                              21
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            33
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                              34
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                            35
Annex 10. List of PRF projects Financed by the World Bank and EU                 38
Annex 11. Borrower's Contribution                                                38

Project ID: P054939                                                  Project Name: LC- POVERTY REDUCTION FUND
Team Leader: Laura B. Rawlings                                       TL Unit: LCSHS
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR                      Report Date: December 23, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: LC- POVERTY REDUCTION FUND                               L/C/TF Number: IDA-32770; SCL-45080
   Country/Department: ST. LUCIA                                                          Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (50%); General public administration sector
                            (20%); Roads and highways (10%); General water, sanitation and
                            flood protection sector (10%); Health (10%)
                  Theme: Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring (P); Other social
                            protection and risk management (P); Participation and civic
                            engagement (P); Social risk reduction (S); Rural services and
                            infrastructure (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/01/1999                                     Effective: 08/01/1999                09/23/1999
     Appraisal: 03/14/1999                                         MTR:
      Approval: 07/22/1999                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Saint Lucia/Poverty Reduction Fund (PRF)
                      Other Partners:      European Union (EU)

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              David de Ferranti
Country Director:               Caroline D. Anstey                             Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Director:                Ana-Maria Arriagada                            Xavier Coll
Team Leader at ICR:             Laura Rawlings                                 David Warren
ICR Primary Author:             Karla McEvoy


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the project, supported by a Learning and Innovation Loan and Credit (LIL&C), were to
develop the institutional and operational framework for a social fund model that would be appropriate for
St. Lucia, and pilot the model's ability to: (a) increase access to and quality of basic social and economic
infrastructure and services among the poor and vulnerable, in accordance with their demands; (b)
contribute to the sustainability of such infrastructure and services; and (c) foster and build capacity for
community-led development initiatives.

The initial phase of the pilot social investment fund (SIF -- known in St. Lucia as the Poverty Reduction
Fund, or PRF), was dedicated to the process of "learning by doing" on how best to adapt the social fund
model to the St. Lucian context, with the idea of replicating the model, if found appropriate, to other islands
in the region. Because St. Lucia had did not have experience with a social fund that focused on community
participation and empowerment, and one that employed targeting methodologies and evaluations such as
environmental and social assessments, the LIL&C was considered an appropriate instrument for supporting
the creation of the PRF. Specific learning opportunities foreseen under the project included:

l testing of targeting methodologies, including the use of a poverty map;
l piloting the efficacy of increasing community participation and involvement of other donors through
    stakeholder workshops;
l technical support for effective subproject implementation, including piloting methodologies for
    environmental, social, and needs assessments;
l development of criteria for effective subproject evaluation, including the economic assessment of
    subprojects; the tracking of performance indicators through the use of a MIS; and assessing project
    impact through an impact evaluation study (IE);
l exploration of possibilities for financial mobilization from communities to cover subproject
    implementation, operation, and maintenance costs; and
l the study of the structure of social capital at the local level, and how best to involve communities as
    partners in a demand-driven investment program.

It was envisioned that the project not only would afford communities better access to basic infrastructure
and services but, eventually, establish a holistic, community-based approach to poverty reduction which
could serve as a catalyst to strengthen communities' capacities to design, implement, and sustain their own
development projects. The PRF was expected to become a "knowledge center," where communities could
gain access to information on a host of programs (public and private). In this way, the PRF could promote
synergy among various government initiatives, a role that would go beyond that of a traditional social fund,
but which seemed feasible in St Lucia because of the relatively small size of the country.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objectives were not changed.

3.3 Original Components:
The project was designed to be implemented in three distinct phases: the design stage (about six months);
the pilot stage (about one year), and the consolidation stage (about one and a half years). The first stage
was to focus on the design of the detailed institutional, technical, and operational framework of the PRF.
This would include drafting an Operations Manual (OM), developing a project and financial management
information system, and agreeing on detailed monitoring and evaluation arrangements. The second stage
would test the operational viability of the mechanisms and methodologies designed during the pilot stage by


                                                     - 2 -

applying them to selected pilot subprojects. At the end of this stage, an interim evaluation exercise would
be carried out, with findings to be reflected in a revised OM. The third stage would support a full program
of community subprojects throughout the country, guided by the revised OM. At the end of this stage, a
comprehensive evaluation exercise would be carried out.

In this context, the project was comprised of three components:

Component 1. Institutional Strengthening (total cost US$0.6 million, of which US$0.57 million was
funded by the Bank/IDA). This component involved the following activities/subcomponents:

(i)      Operational Policies and Institutional Framework (US$330,000): This subcomponent aimed to
support the government's efforts to design, develop and establish the operational policies and institutional
framework of the PRF. This would include technical assistance (consultants, training, stakeholders
workshops and study tours for the PRF staff and its partners), civil works (office preparation for the PRF),
equipment, materials, and production of an OM. Activities under this subcomponent were to take place
during the Design Phase, and be carried out in accordance with a detailed, time-bound Project
Implementation Plan (PIP);

(ii)     Social Assessment (US$85,000): This subcomponent provided financing for technical assistance
(including consultants, focus groups and surveys), and incidental materials that would enable the PRF to
conduct a social assessment (SA) during the design phase of the project, which was to serve as the basis for
tailoring the PRF's targeting, promotion, and community participation strategies; and

(iii)    Monitoring, Evaluation and Learning (US$150,000): This subcomponent financed technical
assistance (such as consultants, surveys and analysis, training, workshops, and study tours), equipment,
and materials to develop methodologies and instruments to monitor and evaluate the impact of the PRF, and
enable it to engage a range of stakeholders in a consultative learning process on the role and design of the
agency and on broader poverty alleviation strategies. The component included an impact evaluation,
focused on assessing the outcome indicators established for the project (see Annex 1), through the use of
baseline and follow-up data from program beneficiaries and a comparison group, and a project survey and
qualitative survey.

Component 2. Subproject Financing (total cost US$4.9 million, of which US$2.4 million was funded by
the Bank/IDA). This component was to provide financing for civil works, goods, technical assistance, and
consultant services related to implementation of subprojects involving construction/expansion/improvement
of basic social and economic infrastructure (schools, health centers, water supply and sanitation systems),
environmental projects, social assistance programs (which are projects aimed at specific vulnerable groups
such as the disabled, youth-at-risk, the homeless, etc.) and community capacity building (which is training
in life skills, early childhood development, and other areas not necessarily related to the subproject
implemented in the community, but rather based on community requests). Subproject value ceiling was set
at EC$250,000, or roughly US$96,000. Subprojects were to be implemented using either private
contracting or community contracting, the testing of which would be a central learning objective of the
project. Contracting arrangements were a critical aspect of the pilot, as the testing of these models would
determine which was the most effective at increasing community participation and building local capacity.
In general, subprojects were to be identified and sponsored by communities and non-governmental
organizations (NGOs); appraised by PRF staff or by consultants hired by the PRF; executed by
communities and/or qualified private contractors or NGOs; and supervised by PRF staff/consultants or by
staff of relevant Government agencies. Financing for subprojects was to be determined by community
demand, so the exact sectoral composition of the portfolio of projects to be financed was not specified


                                                     - 3 -

ex-ante.

Component 3. Project Management (total cost US$1.0 million, of which US$30,000 was funded by the
Bank/IDA). This component covered the PRF's operating costs, including staff salaries; fuel, maintenance,
and insurance for vehicles; office space; and utilities. It also included annual external audits, which was the
only element of the component financed under the LIL&C.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not changed.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project's quality at entry was considered satisfactory. At the time of preparation, project objectives
were fully in line with Government priorities and with Bank policies and practices. Anticipating the
adverse effects of the recently dismantled trade preferences for its banana exports, the Government of St.
Lucia (GoSL) was concerned about an increase in unemployment and poverty. It thus aimed to complement
its efforts to improve private sector competitiveness with efforts to alleviate poverty, in the context of
which the establishment of a social investment fund was to play an essential role. The Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS -- Report No. 14295-LAC, May 4, 1995) specifically mentioned the need to
reduce poverty and improve living conditions and development opportunities among poor and vulnerable
segments of the population.

The PRF project design reflected the considerable experience the Bank had in social funds by 1999. This
was evident in the proposed PRF organization, staffing, policies, operations, and M&E, including the latest
thinking on community management and social capital measurement. The M&E strategy, too, reflected
solid design based on years of experience; specifically: (i) the construction of a baseline at the start of the
project; (ii) a process evaluation of the end of the pilot (second) stage; and (iii) an impact evaluation (IE) at
the end of the consolidation (third) stage. The key performance indicators were to be refined during the
design (first) stage and reviewed at the conclusion of the next two stages.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project's outcome and achievement of objectives is satisfactory. The rating is based on the project's
successful development of a social fund framework appropriate for Saint Lucia and the piloting of this
model's ability to improve access to and quality of priority infrastructure and services among the poor and
vulnerable. The PRF fostered and built capacity within communities to develop initiatives and lead their
implementation, and contributed to the sustainability of these projects through training of community
members. The assessment of project outcomes for each of the key development objectives is based on the
main findings of stakeholder workshops (in 1998, 2000, 2002, and 2004), site visits (September 2004 and
throughout the life of the project), and an impact evaluation (IE), carried out in 2003 and completed in
2004, the results of which are discussed below.

Findings of the Impact Evaluation.

Methodology

The M&E plan elaborated during project preparation reflected the best practices involved in impact
evaluation methodology. The PRF was to generate, for all subprojects, quantitative ex-ante data on
variables related to service access, coverage and quality. This was to be incorporated into the PRF's MIS
for use as a comparator with ex-post data gathered in the impact evaluation study. An effort was made to


                                                      - 4 -

generate baseline data for social capital in a sample of intervention communities using participatory
appraisal techniques. The findings from this exercise were a useful diagnostic of the social capital situation,
which was used as an input into the program's development, but they did not provide the sort of baseline
data that could easily be replicated after project implementation to evaluate the impact of the PRF on social
capital. In response to this situation, in the design phase of the impact evaluation survey in 2003, several
alternatives were considered for establishing a valid comparison group for social capital impact
measurement. The chosen option was that of comparing present conditions of social capital in PRF
beneficiary communities with present conditions in a comparison group sample of non-beneficiary
communities.

In the end, the primary investigation sample consisted of: (i) a universe of 60 projects funded by the World
Bank (49) and the EU (11); (ii) a study sample that included a household and project survey of 36 projects
that had been completed as of September 2003; (iii) a household sample that consisted of 1,152 households,
including a control group of 288 households for social capital evaluation; and (iv) a qualitative sample
comprised of 12 communities. In addition to the data generated by the primary investigation, the IE used
information from the PRF's MIS, 2001 Census data, and institutional data from WASCO and other line
ministries.

Results

 The main findings of the IE, which are based on key performance indicators for the project, indicate the
following:

1.Increased access to, and quality of, social and economic infrastructure and services: The PRF was
successful in improving the quality of life in beneficiary communities, by either increasing access to or
improving the quality of basic social and economic infrastructure. The degree of impact of subprojects
varied depending upon the type of subproject:

l Water and sanitation.         The impacts of the PRF interventions in the water are very clear. The
    proportion of households with a drinking water supply in their house or yard jumped from 35 percent
    to 88 percent; for domestic use, the proportion rose from 34 percent to 91 percent. Consequently, the
    proportion of people who had to regularly fetch water from outside decreased from 69 percent to 21
    percent, resulting in savings in time spent fetching water, benefiting mainly women, as they are usually
    assigned to this task. Seventy percent of beneficiaries perceive a positive impact on their lives as a
    result of the project.
l Roads and Footpaths. The project survey provides data on time to reach the road for 12 projects. For
    eight of these, the survey reports very significant reductions in the average time, ranging from one third
    to three quarters of the time needed before the intervention. On average, the trip time fell from 9.6 to
    5.2 minutes (46 percent) according to the project survey data. The household survey reports a smaller
    decrease of 27 percent, from 8.4 to 6.1 minutes, in the average time needed to reach the main road.
    Another indicator of impact is the number of trips from the dwelling to the main road, using the
    footpath or footbridge. An increase in the number of trips made is the expected result of the reduced
    time-cost of the journey, and represents a clear economic benefit (increased consumption of travel).
    There is a 9 percent overall increase in the number of trips, and a 26 percent increase in trips made for
    marketing goods produced at home, and increases of 15 percent to 20 percent in the number of trips for
    work, school (people mentioned the possibility of sending kids to school in any weather) or visiting.
    Sixty percent of respondents say the impact on time used and on their health is positive; 50 percent say
    economic and social impact is significant.
l Reforestation. Project survey respondents mentioned water use-related activities or behavior that had



                                                      - 5 -

    been changed as a result of the project, such as the discontinuation of disposal of pesticides in the river
    and improvement of agricultural practices in general. Other benefits mentioned include health, soil
    improvement and temporary employment. However, overall there are few clear benefits to date, and
    less than 20 percent of households reported improved drinking water supply. This is likely because the
    benefits of this type of project are more long-term in nature, and do not materialize quickly.
l Education. Given the high prevailing level of school registration in St. Lucia, the PRF projects are not
    aimed at increasing the enrollment rate, but rather at improving the quality of facilities. One sampled
    project extended an existing building to create additional administrative and support rooms; two
    projects rehabilitated existing buildings; one created a canteen-cum-kitchenette; and two established
    Information Technology Centers (ITC). The survey respondents' perception of the overall impact of
    the education projects on economic, social and time dimensions of their lives is rather disappointing,
    with less than 10 percent thinking the project has positively affected their lives strongly, and close to
    half saying there is no impact at all. This is perhaps due to the fact that relatively little time has elapsed
    since the completion of the projects.

2.Investments reflected the priorities of the targeted beneficiaries and communities:               The PRF was
consistent and successful in financing subprojects which were considered a priority by beneficiary
communities. This was achieved thanks to the demand-drive nature of subproject financing and ample
consultation carried out prior to the design and implementation of these subprojects. The consultation
process strengthened communities' abilities to identify problems and needs, and resulted in a solid
correlation between the subproject financed and the communities' perceived priorities.

The consultation process was new to most communities and, in practice, had to be closely managed by PRF
staff to ensure that community members attended public meetings and actively participated. Despite this,
attendance at assemblies was erratic, especially by men. The overall proportion of households participating
in meetings was higher for water and footpath subprojects (56 percent and 39 percent respectively) than for
education and reforestation (14 percent and 13 percent respectively). The qualitative investigation showed
a variable level of knowledge among the beneficiary population; 73 percent of households in the
intervention group knew about the PRF subproject financed in their community, although in some
communities beneficiaries believed their project was the result of a request by their local government
representative. Seventy-one percent of respondents knew of planning meetings and almost 50 percent had
participated.

Social assistance projects, one of the innovative aspects of the PRF, were an arm of financing targeted to
the most vulnerable and marginalized groups on the island, as identified by the Government and confirmed
by the social assessment. In the case of these subprojects, it was not communities but rather NGOs
representing these vulnerable groups who submitted proposals and received PRF financing. The PRF, for
example, financed subprojects with organizations representing the blind, at-risk youth, the homeless, and
children with special needs, among others. In social assistance projects, then, the consultation process
differed somewhat. Informed by their own internal assessments and feedback from those they represented,
beneficiary institutions conducted staff meetings where the needs of their constituents were discussed.
While the PRF verified and validated the results of these meetings, beneficiaries in these cases already
possessed a clear understanding of their priorities and solutions; therefore, the entire project cycle moved
much more quickly and those involved demonstrated a high level of engagement and knowledge of the PRF
subproject.

In general, there was high satisfaction with the execution of subprojects and their overall quality. The IE
also found that almost all subprojects were providing the services intended, with only a few not fully
providing them, due to subprojects not yet being completed at the time the IE was carried out. Subprojects


                                                      - 6 -

financed by the PRF were also in line with the areas identified by the social assessment as key to reducing
poverty.

3.Investments targeted to the poor and vulnerable: The PRF's investments overall were well targeted to
poor communities and poor households, as measured by poverty characteristics of beneficiary communities
and households, and as reflected in the impact evaluation. The community and household level analysis
conducted by the IE found that 28 percent of PRF funds were invested in the poorest 20 percent of
communities; 49 percent were invested in the poorest 40 percent; and 79 percent were invested in the
poorest 60 percent of the communities. Only 10 percent of the total was received by communities in the top
three deciles. This compares very favorably with other social funds, including Honduras, where during the
1990s the poorest 20 percent received 25 percent of resources, and Bolivia, where for the same period the
poorest 20 percent received 24 percent of resources (Evaluating Social Funds, World Bank 2004). The
PRF progressiveness index is 0.256, compared with 0.25 (Honduras) and 0.204 (Yemen).

The results of the IE's household-level analysis show that the targeting of the PRF's interventions at the
household level was quite progressive: 47 percent of the program's resources directly benefited households
in the bottom 30 percent of the income distribution; and only 11 percent was received by households in the
top 30 percent of the distribution. This result was almost identical for potential beneficiaries and actual
beneficiaries of the projects, which indicates that there was no bias against poorer people in the beneficiary
communities gaining access to PRF resources.

The sub-project types with the greatest impact on the poor were water and sanitation subprojects and
footpath subprojects. These types of subproject are strongly "self selecting" for poor beneficiaries, since
communities without water and sanitation services and without footpaths are normally relatively poor. In
contrast, educational projects and reforestation projects were found not to be strongly pro-poor; their
benefits are received more or less evenly across the income distribution.

The above results suggest that the PRF was successful in identifying relatively poorer communities and
poorer households within each of the areas where it has intervened. This was the result of the PRF's process
of using a poverty map to locate poor communities, coupled with the subsequent verification of specific
poverty conditions of proposed beneficiary communities, and the promotion of projects which had a
self-selecting bias towards poorer communities, such as footpaths.

4. Satisfactory level of operation and maintenance among the subprojects: The PRF has been successful on
this front.    Training in operation and maintenance of subprojects was provided to all beneficiary
communities through the training of Community Project Committees (CPCs). During site visits conducted
during the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) mission, and during visits conducted throughout the
life of the loan, subprojects were found to be well maintained, and the IE found that a significant number of
communities did have a formal maintenance component. For water, subprojects are the responsibility of
WASCO, so there is no foreseen problem with sustainability of O&M in these cases. The IE found,
however, that in the case of footpaths many communities lacked a maintenance program that assigned
responsibilities and budgets to operation and maintenance.         This could, in the future, translate into
deterioration of subprojects. For IT centers, the only concern was that there seemed to be confusion at the
local level about whether the government would fund Internet connections, as had been agreed.

5. Greater role of communities in planning and managing development initiatives: The project has been
moderately successful in strengthening and building capacity and social capital within communities, which
was a specific objective of the PRF. In terms of capacity building, the IE found that it varied according to
subproject type, mode of subproject execution, and training provided to CPCs. Social assistance
subprojects did generate capacity, but only among the involved institution's personnel, as these subprojects



                                                      - 7 -

did not involve the broader physical community in which they were located. Projects executed through
private contracting (e.g., WASCO water projects) resulted in little capacity building, and in these cases the
functions of the CPC were very limited and temporary. Community contracting, however, led to capacity
building in procurement and project management, and this mode of project execution was associated with
better organization (51 percent of communities using community contracting have regular meetings,
compared with 32 percent of communities with private contracting); more participation (29 percent of
households participated in the past year vs. 20 percent in private contracting group); and more local
employment.      Beneficiaries recognized their improved capacities in the areas of project preparation,
management, and procurement, and demonstrated a higher motivation to continue working on projects
executed this way. Indeed, the PRF staff reported that the agency has begun to receive more sophisticated
project proposals from these same communities, demonstrating an improved ability of beneficiaries to
articulate their needs and solutions, and demanding the PRF staff to respond accordingly.

Social capital and its strengthening was a primary objective of the PRF project and a focus area of the IE.
Social capital is defined as the capacity of individuals and communities to work together to the common
good. It is disaggregated into: (a) structural social capital: which includes the extent and intensity of
associational links or activities; and (b) cognitive social capital: which covers perceptions of support,
reciprocity, sharing and trust in the community. By comparing household samples in intention and
non-intervention communities,        the IE found that the PRF's presence in communities and the
implementation of subprojects had positive results in terms of generating greater structural social capital in
communities and institution; specifically that:

l as a result of the subprojects, time spent in community activities increased (an average of 14.4 hours in
     the intervention group versus 8.3 hours in the control group);
l beneficiaries perceived that the experience of working with the PRF had increased people's willingness
     to work together in the community (49 percent of interviewed felt this way);
l further community driven requests for projects had arisen, in half the sites where PRF subprojects had
     been completed. Stated motivation to work in future projects was high, especially for social assistance
     subprojects and where community contracting had been implemented; and
l participants perceived that the community had been improved by this experience. Those directly
     involved in the subprojects were conscious of the strengthening of their own capabilities through the
     project experience.

Despite the overall success of the PRF's interventions in building local capacity and social capital, some
aspects remain weak. For example, part of structural social capital involves organizational capacity at the
community level. The IE found that this organizational capacity was somewhat weak. While the PRF was
successful in organizing CPCs, in most cases, these groups were either dissolved or weakened as soon as
the subproject was finished.

As far as cognitive social capital, the evidence for a strong positive impact as a result of the PRF
intervention is less clear. The IE found that a great deal of mistrust of organizations prevails, and there are
few significant differences between intervention and non-intervention groups. Trust in police is rated as 3.3
vs. 3.0 in the non-intervention group; trust in nurses and doctors is 4.4 vs. 4.2 in the latter group. To be
fair, the PRF's effort to build social capital should be viewed as a long-term effort. The IE found that in St.
Lucia, motivation for organization within communities is negatively affected by a general distrust in
organizations, institutions and leaders, and a negative attitude towards organization in general. This
happens in spite of the equally generalized recognition of the potential benefits from working collectively
for community improvement. The PRF's interventions have not yet managed to change these deep-seated
attitudes, which is understandably a long-term process.


                                                      - 8 -

6. Establishment and consolidation of PRF as the implementing arm and coordinator for actions relating to
the Government's poverty reduction agenda: The PRF has successfully gained relevance as the principle
agency implementing the Government's poverty reduction agenda, through improvement of communities'
social conditions. The IE found that the institution has a high level of recognition and a positive image
among beneficiaries. Projects were normally identified with the PRF and a high level of gratitude and trust
in the agency were recorded. In addition:

l In terms of budgetary allocations, the PRF: (i) has enjoyed the largest share of the government's annual
    allocations to the major social development agencies between 2000 and 2005 (31 percent of total
    allocation for the five year period); (ii) had an annual allocation in 2002 and 2003 between 44 percent
    and 65 percent more than the share of the capital works allocation of the Ministry of Social
    Transformation; and (iii) has received an allocation substantially higher than the BNTF.
l A stakeholder's survey carried out by PRF staff (August 2004) showed that 69 percent of stakeholders
    (i.e., representatives from government, public companies, NGOs, and other social development
    projects) identified the PRF, among seven other agencies, as the main arm and coordinator for actions
    related to the Government's poverty reduction strategy (the MST was selected by 27 percent of
    respondents). The PRF has shown a solid understanding of the complexity of poverty issues, as
    identified by the MST's Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy and Action Plan (September 2004).

Poverty Reduction Assessment

The project provided support to the Government's poverty reduction strategy in the medium and long term
by improving access to social and basic infrastructure in poor communities and by empowering
communities through training (see discussion in previous sections). The PRF also contributed to poverty
reduction through the generation of temporary employment to beneficiaries, this being a specific objective
of the EU, which co-financed the PRF project. Under the EU's Special Framework of Assistance (SFA), the
PRF financed subprojects that had a significant impact on employment generation, creating a total of 335
jobs (199 for men and 136 for women) and 10,858 person-days of employment, paying unskilled labor
EC$40 to 50 a day.

Regarding temporary employment generation, the IE found that in the seven EU projects sampled an
average of 7 people had been employed by each subproject. For World Bank subprojects the figure was
much lower (2.6). This difference reflects the fact that the EU projects are specially designed for providing
short-term employment opportunities to farmers, farm laborers, members of farm families or communities
affected by the EU decision on the banana trade. On World Bank projects, the average number of days
worked was 28; for EU projects it was 46. However, average earnings per worker were similar, because the
average daily rate paid on EU projects was lower (average wage for World Bank funded projects was
EC$51 compared to EC$38 for EU-funded projects).

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1. Institutional Strengthening for Poverty Reduction.
ICR Rating: Satisfactory.

This component was successful in strengthening the institutional framework for poverty reduction in Saint
Lucia.
Analysis by sub-component:

1.1 Operational Policies and Institutional Framework: This subcomponent achieved its targets as indicated
in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD). It supported the rehabilitation of physical space for the PRF's



                                                      - 9 -

offices, the acquisition of equipment, the development of the technical capacity of the PRF staff, and the
elaboration of the Operational Manual, establishing the procedures and mechanisms for the PRF's
functioning. The elaboration of the OM took longer than expected, which delayed the initiation of the pilot
phase and the financing of subprojects with WB/IDA resources. The Bank team provided substantial
technical assistance during this time, which was highly valued by the PRF team, particularly since the
satisfactory completion of the OM was a condition to launch the financing of sub-projects.                 Once
completed, the OM was tested and revised, as the first version, in practice, was deemed too methodical.
The revised OM has set new standards in project preparation (most notably, in the area of beneficiary
consultation), and much of its content has been adopted by the BNTF to orient its project execution.

This sub-component also financed study tours and participation in workshops for PRF personnel, who
visited other social funds (FISE in Nicaragua), attended training on participatory methods,
community-driven development, and accounting and financial management.                 These activities helped
strengthen the human resources skills of PRF staff and better prepared them for project preparation and
implementation. Originally, it was envisaged that representatives from current community organizations
would receive training under this subcomponent, but, because the PRF staff were somewhat overwhelmed
in setting up systems and in implementing subprojects, this did not occur.

1.2 Subcomponent for Social Assessment: Under this subcomponent, a social assessment study was carried
out during the design phase. The SA was meant to provide the basis for the development of the OM and
monitoring and evaluation instruments. While very rich in content and providing much more information
than required by the terms of reference (TOR), the SA turned out to be a bit general, with less practical use
for the elaboration of the OM and the creation of the PRF. In particular, it failed to identify the types of
interventions that would be most beneficial to vulnerable groups in the country, nor did it provide guidance
on working with these groups. Nevertheless, its annexes provided good recommendations on the project
menu and on project management, which were followed.

1.3 Subcomponent for Monitoring, Evaluation and Learning: The PAD foresaw the creation of a very
complete monitoring and evaluation system. This was to have included the creation of a management
information system, a process evaluation at the end of the pilot phase, and an impact evaluation.

The MIS system was completed in May 2002, and is a simple yet comprehensive and very user-friendly
model. The process evaluation was carried out, although not in the timely, clear-cut manner defined in the
PAD. Rather, this occurred in a more fluid way, with evaluation becoming more like an on-going exercise
that occurred simultaneously with the commencement of the consolidation phase. Changes were made as a
result of this exercise, most strikingly in the decision to eliminate some steps in the project cycle in order to
shorten the time between receipt of proposals and approval. The IE included a household and a project
survey, and a qualitative study (details on the study's methodology can be found in Annex X and in the
World Bank project files).The main objective of the study was to assess the impact and performance of the
PRF by examining how its results matched its initial objectives, and it yielded solid data on the impact of
PRF interventions and good insights into the organization's impact, as well as feedback for lessons learned.


There are areas of concern despite the overall success of the subcomponent. At project closing, the MIS
was still not fully utilized by PRF staff. This may in part be attributed to a lack of familiarity with
systematically recording information on subproject activities, which was exacerbated by the fact that the
PRF staff had been working for some time without the benefit of the MIS, and therefore failed to grasp the
importance of a computerized system. Nevertheless, the PRF management team could have been better at
effecting change and motivating staff to use the system. Monitoring of subprojects also was to have


                                                      - 10 -

included environmental impact assessment. The PRF staff received excellent training in the area, and most
subprojects had only minor, if any, potential impacts. A review of the project cycle by the Bank team noted
several areas where PRF staff identified and mitigated negative environmental impacts; however, this type
of assessment and mitigation was not clearly documented in subproject files.

In terms of the impact evaluation, baseline data was collected, but the social capital indicators, as stated
earlier were not well-suited to an IE. In addition, the impact evaluation survey was carried out in October
and November, 2003. This timing was necessary because of the Bank's requirement that the IE be
completed before loan closing; as a result, the survey was undertaken when many community training
programs had yet to be completed, which affected some of the findings of the study.

Component 2. Subproject Financing. Satisfactory.

This component successfully provided technical and financial support for a diversity of small-scale
subprojects for the construction, expansion and/or improvement of basic social and economic
infrastructure; social assistance programs; and community capacity building.

By loan closing the PRF had financed and completed over 160 projects. These included 53 World
Bank-funded projects distributed as follows: 32 percent for economic infrastructure (roads and footpaths);
23 percent for water and sanitation; 15 percent for education; 19 percent for social assistance and 11
percent for a variety of subprojects (community empowerment, sports, health, and productive
infrastructure). The total cost of these 53 projects was US$1,999,730 million, and most subprojects were
initiated during the pilot phase. The other 111 subprojects were funded by the EU and focused on economic
infrastructure and reforestation. EU provided financing for subprojects that started before the pilot phase,
since WB resources could not be used until the OM was developed and approved. All financial resources
were committed by the end of the pilot phase, leaving no funds to start new projects under the consolidation
phase, as envisaged in the PAD. Instead, the consolidation phase consisted of finishing subprojects started
under the pilot phase.

The PRF subproject cycle. The program was demand-driven with the PRF receiving project requests from
communities, validating the communities' needs, and confirming that proposals matched beneficiaries'
priorities. Once a project was approved, the PRF helped beneficiary groups to form Community Project
Committees (CPCs), whose responsibility was to coordinate with the PRF during implementation and
assume ongoing responsibility for subproject maintenance. The OM offered an indicative and flexible
project menu, with a financing ceiling of US$71,400, to orient communities in making subproject choices.
In response to demand from communities and based on the subproject menu, the PRF concentrated on
subprojects in roads and footpaths, water and sanitation, social assistance, education, health, community
empowerment, and recreational infrastructure.

Training.    The PRF trained CPCs in the preparation, management, maintenance, and operation of
subprojects. Thus, at least six people were trained in each community and these people often trained others
in their community. In addition, the PRF allocated roughly 20 percent of the subproject cost to fund
capacity building in response to the community's identification of its main needs in this area. This training
was not necessarily related to the type of physical investment undertaken; instead, it focused on lifestyle
management, childhood education, and health care promotion, among other options. This non-project
related training reflects the PRF's effort to not only build local capacity in the area of subproject
implementation, but also to afford beneficiaries the opportunity to obtain skills that might        improve
employment prospects in the wider economy.

Subproject execution. One of the most innovative features of the PRF pilot is community contracting,



                                                    - 11 -

where communities manage all steps of the procurement process.             In total, 16 projects have been
implemented using community contracting, representing 27 percent of all PRF projects and 33 percent of
World Bank-funded projects. This method of subproject implementation has proven to be one of the main
strategies used by the PRF to encourage greater beneficiary participation, ownership, and capacity
building. While communities could also choose more traditional contracting through private companies, this
method, as stated previously, had less impact on building local capacity.

Other PRF projects:       Besides infrastructure, the PRF focused on developing and financing social
assistance projects (SAPs), which targeted the most vulnerable groups in St. Lucia, as identified by the
Government and confirmed in the social assessment. The SAPs, a total of ten of which were financed by
the WB and five by the EU, began in 2003 and focused on the elderly, youth at risk, victims of domestic
violence, the homeless and people with disabilities. Around 12,700 people have benefited from these
subprojects, the largest being the visually impaired (7,000 beneficiaries). These subprojects moved quickly
through the project cycle, since there was no community mobilization involved. Implementation typically
involved partnering with NGOs and the use of community contracting. These projects have been highly
valued by beneficiaries, who have been deeply involved in subproject implementation.

Component 3. Project Management.
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

This component supported the day to day PRF operation, financing staff salaries; fuel, maintenance, and
insurance for vehicles; office space; and utilities. The PRF currently has a team of sixteen people, which
includes: the Executive Director; a Community Participation and Training Specialist; a Monitoring and
Evaluation Officer; a MIS Officer; a Community Officer; one Social Assistance Program Coordinator; two
Technical Officers (in charge of infrastructure projects); one Procurement Officer; two accounting staff;
and five staff in general administration. This component also financed annual audits.

The PRF team provided sound technical support to communities in the identification, development and
implementation of subprojects, and solid training in both O&M related to the subproject financed, and in a
variety of areas unrelated to the PRF intervention. While its internal management suffered some problems
(see Section 4.2), overall management was sound and consistent.

The cost of the PRF administration represented 30 percent of total project costs (this includes resources
from the EU and WB/IDA allocated to finance projects). This amount was substantially higher than
foreseen in the PAD, which estimated not more than 15 percent of total expenditures. This is not entirely
unexpected, as administrative costs of new and small SIFs are always high, and given the pilot nature of the
project and diseconomies of scale associated with small states. In the case of the PRF, the staff were also
expected to take on an increasing number of tasks requiring additional skills unusual for small SIFs,
including social capital studies and social assistance programs managed by NGOs. The higher cost also
reflects an increase in staff salaries -- there were 8 staff in the PRF in 1999; in 2001 it began to grow as
subproject activity started and by 2003 the full PRF complement numbered 19, an increase in staff that
reflected the higher than expected number of project proposals received. The current number of staff is 16.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The project was essentially a line of credit, and hence no cost-benefit analysis was carried out at appraisal
for the full program. Neither was there an economic analysis of subprojects. Subprojects were fully driven
by community demand and considered in light of the criteria established in the Operations Manual. There is
evidence that the project has fostered greater efficiency in the allocation of public funds, because it was



                                                     - 12 -

strongly grounded on communities' priorities and basic unmet needs.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's overall institutional impact was modest. Given that the social fund mechanism was new to the
country, and the innovative nature of some of its aspects, this is not surprising. Nevertheless, the project
did have a positive impact on the following stakeholders:

Impact on Government. Modest. The project positively affected government agencies in two ways: (1)
through its initiatives in community participation and contracting, demonstrating to relevant agencies in
education, health, and water supply that community involvement in all phases of the project cycle helped to
create ownership and cooperation; and (2) through its M&E work, which the MST wants to replicate
through the creation of a research arm that would be responsible for this type of work.

Impact on Communities. Substantial. The project had a major positive impact on beneficiary
communities through (1) the subprojects themselves, which improved access to basic infrastructure; and (2)
training not only in the operation and maintenance of completed works, but also in the area of life skills,
early childhood development and other areas requested by communities.

Impact on NGOs and CBOs. Modest. The SA was meant to provide not only a profile of vulnerable
groups in St. Lucia, but also guidance on the type of interventions that would be most beneficial to them
and effective ways to engage them. In the end, the SA did identify vulnerable groups but did not provide
guidance on interventions and strategies for engagement. Because the PRF staff were therefore unsure how
to approach this type of project, and given the high level of demand from communities, the PRF initially
focused on infrastructure activities. Hence, social assistance projects were initiated later than expected and
partnering with NGOs and CBOs began late in the game. Still, through its strict assessments of those
organizations' eligibility and capacity, and by requiring these organizations to clearly articulate and justify
requests, the PRF project did improve the capacity of these groups to initiate and implement subprojects.

Impact on Construction Industry. Modest. By emphasizing the need for proper design and contracting
procedures agreed with the Bank, the project did positively influence the practices of participating
contractors.

Impact on the PRF. Substantial. The first objective of the LIL&C-supported project was to create an
efficient social investment fund, and this was achieved through the recruitment of competent staff, the
drafting of a comprehensive Operations Manual, and the allocation of resources to the communities in
accordance poverty levels. In addition, the PRF initiated a substantial program of M&E, which should help
both the PRF and government agencies in improving their poverty-related policies and programs.

It was noted in Section 3.1 that the PRF would become a "knowledge center" where communities could
gain access to information on public and private funding sources. While the PRF is not yet the locus of
coordination for poverty reduction and local development in St. Lucia that was envisaged in the PAD, the
knowledge center identity is developing through the agency's modeling of good public sector management
that demonstrates best practices on the implementation, management and evaluation of small development
projects. In fact, the PRF's parent ministry, the Ministry of Social Transformation (MST), is studying the
PRF's experience in monitoring and evaluation (M&E) and in management information systems (MIS), and
is discussing the creation of a research arm within its structure to focus on these issues.



                                                    - 13 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Hurricanes. Project implementation was not disrupted by hurricanes. St Lucia had been frequently hit by
hurricanes in the past, and it was expected that the project would be called on to provide emergency
support in this area at some point during its implementation. To that end, the PRF and Bank agreed upon
the elaboration of an Emergency Operations Manual, to be used in case of such an occurrence. This
manual was completed but, luckily, never used during the life of the World Bank loan.

Lack of timely replacement of qualified staff. On more than one occasion the project experienced a
shortage of staff, who were not or could not be easily replaced. The Deputy Director of the PRF and the
financial management (FM) specialist are two examples. In the latter case, despite continued efforts to
recruit an appropriate replacement once the original FM specialist left in March 2003, the PRF was never
able to hire a commiserate replacement. Instead, staff already performing duties in the PRF stepped in and
took on this responsibility. Despite their best efforts, however, the absence of a FM specialist negatively
affected project performance. This problem was in large part due to a very small adequately trained labor
market, and the competing demands of other World Bank and multilateral donor projects.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Granting autonomy to the PRF. The Government granted the PRF technical autonomy to make decisions
on subprojects and respected this delegation of authority throughout the life of the project. It does not
appear that the Government exerted any undue influence during project implementation, either directly or
through the PRF Board, on the PRF's technical decision process. This gave the PRF more credibility
among beneficiaries, as the agency was able to develop and implement objective procedures to carry out
projects and therefore adequately respond to community demands.

Appointment of relevant Board representatives. The Government appointed representatives from most
relevant stakeholder agencies to the PRF Board of Directors, and they played a generally constructive role.
Nevertheless, the Board did not play the strategic guiding role as effectively as it could have, due in part to
the fact that most representatives were chosen on the basis of the institutions in which they were working,
rather than by their personal profile and commitment to the PRF's mission. A few of these individuals were
on more than one Board in other institutions, which left them with less time than ideal to spend on PRF
issues. The lesson may be that in the future, selection of individuals, rather than representatives from
relevant institutions, may lead to a more effective Board of Directors.

Contracting competent personnel to manage the project. The Board of Directors assigned and/or
contracted competent personnel to manage and implement the project, and allowed for the extension of their
contracts when needed. This provided continuity in the staff managing project implementation, key in a
country with scarce human resources. This was the case with PRF Executive Director, who was initially a
Board Member and continues to lead PRF now that Bank/IDA financing has closed. There was at least one
case, however, where the Government's decision negatively affected the PRF's performance; namely, in the
decision not to replace the Deputy Director, who left for family reasons in 2001 and whose absence
affected for some time the implementation capacity of the PRF.

Timely resolution of Board/management dispute. During the first year, project implementation was
seriously delayed by accelerating friction between the Board of Directors and the PRF Executive Director;
this friction was related to the articulation of the respective roles and responsibilities that the Board and the
ED should play and the establishment of appropriate operating procedures for the PRF. The impasse was



                                                       - 14 -

ultimately resolved when the Minister of Finance appointed a new Board, which in turn appointed a new
ED.

Provision of budgetary support. The PRF did experience, on at least two occasions, counterpart funding
constraints.   While the Government made efforts to protect the PRF from these situations through
preferential provision of EU STABEX funds until adequate budgetary support was available, these
financing gaps did negatively affect project implementation.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Inability to enforce PRF operating procedures. Despite the MIS being fully operational by May 2002, as
of project closing the system still was not being fully and properly utilized by the PRF staff. Thus, while
subproject information resides with PRF Officers, complete information on subprojects is not available in
the database. Such information is critical to the tracking of performance indicators and subsequent
decision making in social assistance policy.         A similar situation relates to the documentation of
environmental assessment procedures in subproject files. While discussion with the PRF technical staff
indicate that such actions are being taken, and while site visits confirm this, the information is not contained
in project files, and PRF management was not successful in improving such documentation by project
closing.

Failure to resolve weaknesses in financial management and procurement in a timely manner.
Following the departure of the Deputy Director, the PRF for some time had no officers proficient in the
Bank's procurement policies and practices. Faced with this situation, Bank procurement specialists visited
the country on several occasions to agree upon strategies and corrective measures. In addition, after the
departure of the financial management officer in 2002, problems in the area of financial management
required several visits by Bank specialists to develop corrective measures and to agree upon a strategic
action plan that would shore up this aspect of project management in the absence of an experienced
specialist. While some of these staffing problems are due to a tight labor market (see discussion in Section
5.1), the PRF management team could have been more quick to resolve the issues even given a dearth of
qualified staff (i.e., by requesting immediate help from the Bank team; becoming more involved in financial
management reviews themselves, etc.).

Contracting committed staff. The PRF management always ensured the contracting of staff committed to
helping the poorest communities and vulnerable groups. This is evidenced, for example, by the Training
Officer, who often worked late and on weekends to meet with community members. Such commitment has
proved an invaluable strength of the PRF, which has helped it achieve greater credibility and motivation
among beneficiary communities. It has also allowed for satisfactory project implementation even in the face
of personnel shortages like those described earlier.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Initially the PAD foresaw a total project cost of US$6.5 million, with contributions of US$1.5 million by
the Bank, US$1.5 million by IDA, and US$1.2 million by the Borrower. The EU would contribute US$2.3
million as well. By closing total project cost amounted to US$9.41 million. The Bank/IDA contribution
amounted to US$3 million and the Borrower's to US$1.20 million, as expected; however, the EU
contribution ended up being US$5.23 million, providing for both recurrent expenses (US$1.84 million) and
for subproject cofinancing (US$3.39 million).The increased EU financing is a result of a larger than
expected number of subproject proposals pouring in from communities (Component 2). Regarding
Component 3, Project Administration, the cost increase was due not only to a higher number of PRF staff
required to carry out the duties associated with an increased number of subprojects, but also due to the
pilot nature of the project and diseconomies of scale associated with small states. In the case of the PRF,



                                                     - 15 -

the staff were also expected to take on an increasing number of tasks requiring additional skills unusual for
small SIFs, including social capital studies and social assistance programs managed by NGOs. Regarding
the subprojects themselves, when the PRF undertook an internal review of its cost-effectiveness, including a
comparison of estimated versus actual costs of subprojects, it found that PRF subprojects never surpassed
estimated costs (See Annex 11, Borrower's Contribution).

Community contributions in labor and materials were never quantified, and are thus not reflected in the
MIS. Despite various suggestions by Bank staff to try doing so, the PRF management was reluctant to set
uniform standards for community contributions and to include them in the data system. The PRF suggested
that informal persuasion to contribute worked better in the St Lucia context.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
ICR Rating: Likely.

It is likely that the achievements reached during project implementation will be maintained for the following
reasons:

l the PRF is now well established legally, organizationally, and operationally, and thus likely to be
     sustainable;
l the PRF is recognized by the government, opposition parties, and communities throughout the country
     as an effective player in providing infrastructure, services, and capacity building;
l the PRF is receiving the largest share of the overall government funding allocation to social
     development agencies for the 2000-2005 period; and
l the PRF will continue to receive substantial EU funding through both STABEX funds and through the
     SFA financing arm; the latter should provide financing through 2008.

Sustainability of the PRF in the long run could be reinforced were it to be merged with the BNTF. This
would avoid duplication of efforts and an extra burden on the country's scarce management resources. In
interviews with the BNTF and PRF staff, both agencies expressed interest in the idea. The CDB and the
Ministry of Social Transformation have recently initiated conversations on this possibility, and are looking
at the experience of other countries (e.g, Belize) where the BNTF merged with a Bank-supported social
investment fund and is now a financing window under that SIF. Because the BNTF is a regional program,
however, the CDB may be reluctant to make changes for an individual country; therefore, if the process is
to move forward it may require facilitation by the World Bank and other donors.

Regarding PRF-supported subprojects and social programs, these are likely to be sustainable for the
following reasons:

l The infrastructure projects correspond to community priorities;
l Subprojects are well-designed and of good quality;
l They have been accompanied by substantial community capacity building, and maintenance
     committees have been created,
l Social assistance projects were developed and implemented by beneficiaries, creating a strong sense of
     ownership and addressing a stated priority of the beneficiary group.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
During the last supervision and subsequent ICR missions, the Bank team informed the Government that it



                                                     - 16 -

would not support a direct follow-on PRF project. While the PRF's performance was satisfactory, the
original project was supported through a Learning and Innovation Loan/Credit, whose objectives were to
pilot the social fund model and to provide lessons to the Government on poverty reduction strategies. The
LIL&C has done both, and it is now time for the Government to fully support the PRF through appropriate
budgetary support, which it has done through fiscal year 2005. While the Government is committed to
sustaining PRF operations through budgetary and EU funds, it has requested that the Bank continue to
support the expansion of PRF activities and their integration with local development programs. The Bank
has indicated that it would provide support for poverty reduction through a number of initiatives. The first
would be a piece of sector work - the Caribbean Social Protection Strategy - to be completed in early FY06
that could articulate specific interventions at the regional level to promote poverty reduction through the
social sectors. Building on this strategy, a pilot social protection operation would be designed with a
regional framework in mind, but with St. Lucia leading the way. A third initiative would be a Pubic
Sector Reform Project proposed for FY06, that would focus on improving public sector capacity and
spending, including in the social sectors.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's overall performance in the design of this learning project was satisfactory. The team of staff
and consultants putting the project together was experienced, covered the full range of essential policy and
operational issues, and worked closely and consistently with government counterparts. They rightly decided
on an implementation process where disbursement for one stage was contingent on achieving specific
targets under the earlier stage. The project design also incorporated lessons learned with regard to
community participation and social investment funds.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG) assessed the PRF project in October 2002, at which time
supervision was rated as satisfactory, and the ICR concurs with this rating. Of the four focus
sub-categories- development effectiveness, supervision of fiduciary safeguards, adequacy of supervision
inputs and processes, and realism of project performance ratings- the QAG rated the first three as
satisfactory, and the fourth as marginally satisfactory. The last rating reflected the QAG panel's opinion
that, at least once or twice, implementation progress should have been rated as unsatisfactory instead of
consistently satisfactory, and that this could have been achieved if the project had received more attention
from Bank management. The Bank team agreed with the QAG's overall rating, but disagreed with the
marginally satisfactory rating of assessment of project performance ratings, stating on record that
substantial management attention was being paid to the project, but was not always reflected in official
documentation.

To improve the prospects for achieving the project's development objectives and long-term sustainability,
the QAG panel recommended that (i) the closing date of the Credit and Loan be extended and (ii) the
project be "managed properly to ensure the stated infrastructure services are built that would improve
access to the poor." The closing date was changed twice during the course of the project, once from
December 2002 to December 2003, and once from December 2003 to June 2004. The Bank team also
undertook more intensive and frequent supervision of, and support to, the PRF, particularly in the areas of
procurement and financial management.

The Bank procurement and financial management specialists were particularly crucial to the successful
implementation of the project. On more than one occasion the PRF experienced a loss of qualified staff to
carry out duties in these areas, and this negatively affected project performance. Both the procurement and


                                                     - 17 -

FM specialists immediately undertook missions to assess the situation and develop detailed action plans to
address problems. Afterwards, they carefully monitored the situation to ensure the smooth and continued
functioning of these aspects of project implementation.

The Bank task manager was changed one year before the June 2004 closing date, but was replaced by a
specialist who had previously worked on the project and was familiar with its objectives and overall design.
Both task managers ensured substantial project support, including on monitoring and evaluation,
community participation, and environmental assessment.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, Bank performance is rated as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Government's performance in preparing the project was highly satisfactory. It was closely involved in
project preparation, including the assignment of the Chief Social Officer of its Ministry of Finance and
Planning as a full-time integral member of the Government's project preparation team. After extensive
exchanges with the Bank, as well as local workshops, it helped establish the PRF with an appropriate
charter and a core staff prior to the project's start.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance was satisfactory. Although counterpart funding was at
times a problem, this was an across-the-board problem for government programs, and efforts were made to
protect the PRF from these constraints. In addition, the Government always allowed the PRF to operate as
an autonomous organization, using solely technical criteria in its decision process. The PRF Board was
comprised of relevant and competent representatives of the public and private sectors, and, apart from an
initial problem (see Section 5.2) played a supportive role. In addition, the PRF managers were largely
seconded from government agencies, but were allowed to extend their contracts at least through project
completion. Finally, the Government fully supported the M&E initiatives of the PRF, linking the agency
with government statistical departments and endorsing the use of a poverty map for targeting resources.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Apart from the initial problem mentioned in Section 5.2, the PRF performance in implementing the project
was also satisfactory. The PRF established itself as an effective and efficient organization, provided
small-scale infrastructure and services to poor communities and vulnerable groups, ensured increased
community participation, and successfully carried out community training and a highly relevant impact
assessment. The PRF management and staff were competent and dedicated to the PRF's mission, and
assiduously learned the ins and outs of community contracting, consultation processes, and training.
Despite some staffing problems, the strong commitment of the PRF members to the agency's objectives
allowed it to make tremendous strides in increasing access to infrastructure, building local capacity, and
increasing social capital in poor and vulnerable communities. This is particularly impressive given that
almost every aspect of the project was new to the PRF staff and to the country.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the Borrower's performance was satisfactory.




                                                      - 18 -

8. Lessons Learned

The Model
1. The social investment fund concept can work as vehicle to achieve poverty reduction in small island
countries. A social investment fund can support the human development agenda in a country with
characteristics similar to St. Lucia. If given the autonomy and human resource capacity to operate, a SIF
can be an effective instrument to bring improvements in access and quality of service to poor and
vulnerable communities and positively affecting beneficiaries' lives. The final stakeholder workshop
confirmed that the PRF has been successful in this regard, and other island nations (i.e., Dominica, the
Dominican Republic) are now launching similar interventions with aim of reducing poverty. In addition, the
training provided to communities not only increased their capacity to manage subprojects, but also
provided skills and confidence in areas where the poor are usually lacking. This type of training not only
improves the sustainability of the immediate PRF intervention, but also has the potential of being applied in
employment and business in the wider economy.

2. Communities can manage key aspects of the subproject cycle, and this contributes to local capacity
and ownership. Communities have the capacity to manage critical aspects of the project cycle, including
procurement and contracting. The fact that communities managed the contracting of project activities had a
very powerful effect in terms of community mobilization, participation, and ownership. Allowing
communities to undertake this process has also proven to be an effective way to train beneficiaries.

3. Building lasting and greater social capital is a long-term process. Though the work under a SIF can
have positive impacts on community involvement and participation and can foster the creation of social
capital, the evidence suggests that it takes a longer period of time and, a more sustained effort (combined
with lasting activities) to change deep-rooted attitudes regarding participation in community life, and
towards public institutions.

4. Capacity building is critical, but should be linked as much as possible to the labor market. The
PRF provided two types of training: O&M related to the specific project financed by the PRF; and
community capacity building, which involved training in health, environmental sensitization, lifestyle
management, and child development. The community capacity training, while teaching skills that are
important in general and certainly critical to holding a job, are typically not directly linked to the labor
market. The IE indicated that most participants found training very useful, although 20 percent still were
not using the skills learned and few were gaining income as a result of them.

Implementation

5. Project design should consider the long start-up time for new entities. The time needed to make the
PRF operational was longer than anticipated in the PAD (i.e., 18 months instead of six months), which
ultimately resulted in the operation collapsing into two phases from three. This length of time probably
should have been expected, particularly given the institutional and fiscal capacity limitations present at the
time of project preparation. While a three-phase design is appropriate for a five year loan, it was probably
not suited for a three-year LIL, and the situation highlights the need for a good Operational Manual and
clarification of roles and responsibilities at project initiation, something with which the Bank could have
assisted sooner.

6. Good managers with decision-making autonomy, and adequate staffing, are key to successful
implementation. A critical factor in successful implementation of projects is the appointment of good
managers and the granting of autonomy to work without political interference, and the PRF benefited from



                                                     - 19 -

both. It is equally important to find, appoint, and keep qualified staff to support management in fulfilling
the main tasks of the project. This is a challenge more acute in a country like St. Lucia with scarce human
resources, making it a key factor to successful implementation but one that is not under the control of
decision makers.

7. Community participation fosters the appropriate selection of subprojects. A demand-driven process
of identification and preparation of subprojects has a greater potential to correctly identify community
priorities and properly design projects to address their needs. At the same time, however, a purely
demand-driven mechanism can place "voiceless" communities at a disadvantage -- i.e., these communities
do not have the ability to even make their needs known. There may therefore be a need for a hybrid
mechanism involving the demand-driven process along with a pro-active seeking out of these "voiceless"
groups.

8. Appropriate design and timing of M&E instruments is crucial to monitoring project impacts. The
particular project objectives and the country context must be considered when designing IE methodologies,
and timing must ensure that the study will be able to capture the complete effects of the project on
beneficiary populations. In hindsight, the methodology of the IE was probably overly sophisticated for the
St. Lucian context: the diverse set of subprojects complicated the process of identifying a coherent set of
welfare outcomes; the methodology was not well-suited to capturing impacts on social capital, and the
timing of the impact evaluation was such that not all training programs had been completed when surveys
were conducted. Nonetheless, thanks to the PRF team and strong Bank support, a solid impact evaluation
was produced based on household survey data from beneficiary and comparison group communities, and a
qualitative study.

9. A communications strategy would benefit the PRF. The PRF did not have a communications
strategy per se, but instead relied on Community Development Officers (CDO) to put communities in touch
with the agency. CDOs are staff of the Ministry of Social Transformation who are assigned to work with
communities throughout the island; these staff served as the primary vehicle for connecting potential
beneficiaries with the PRF. At this point, however, the PRF would likely benefit from a more structured
communications strategy, perhaps in the form of a specialist who could continually monitor community
needs and could seek out the "voiceless" groups discussed earlier, ensuring that these poorest communities
can benefit from PRF funding.

The Macro Picture

10. Duplication of donor efforts continues to be a concern and requires careful consideration by the
World Bank. At the time of project preparation, Saint Lucia already had experience with the Basic Needs
Trust Fund (BNTF), a social fund-like agency supported by the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB),
which had provided funding for small-scale social and economic infrastructure since 1979. Aware of the
potential duplication between the PRF and BNTF, the Government held a meeting between the World
Bank, the European Union (EU) and CDB to discuss the issue in early 1999. At that time, given that the
BNTF's main goal was not poverty reduction, and because there was general dissatisfaction with the
agency's procedures and lack of involvement with the community, the Government decided to create a new
institution to implement its poverty reduction initiatives and achieve its poverty reduction objectives. These
objectives included: (i) further increasing the role and responsibilities of communities; (ii) strengthening
targeting and promotion mechanisms; (iii) increasing management autonomy at the national level; and (iv)
coordinating, monitoring, and evaluating the program within the country's broad-scale poverty alleviation
strategy. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) addresses the issue of avoiding duplication of donor
efforts, and makes a case for two agencies with different objectives and operating procedures. Still, the


                                                     - 20 -

PRF today is essentially a parallel institution that, although bringing positive changes to the BNTF in the
end, also may have precluded efforts to strengthen and expand the existing institution's work to include
poverty reduction and to focus on community involvement. This duplication of efforts is an especially
critical issue in St. Lucia, where the labor force is tight and there are scarce fiscal resources. In addition, it
seems at odds with the CAS's stated policy of supporting the CDB as the main development agency in the
OECS subregion.

11. Diseconomies of scale in small states affects project performance. Tight fiscal resources and labor
markets negatively affected the PRF's performance, and this must be taken into account when designing
projects in this context.          The World Bank should seriously attempt the creation of one Project
Implementation Unit for all of its projects in countries as small as St. Lucia, to create economies of scale
and improve the performance of all of its projects in the region.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The PRF provided comments to the ICR draft on December 10, 2004 -- these comments were incorporated
into the ICR itself. The PRF also provided an assessment of its work, which can be found in Annex 11,
"Borrower's Contribution to the ICR."

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
NA

10. Additional Information

None.


Notes

(1)To validate the extent to which PRF concentrated its funds in the poorer communities, the national population was ranked
according to the poverty characteristics of the community where they live, based on Census data, and grouped into deciles.

(2) The study undertook a household-level analysis based on income data from the household survey and using econometric
techniques to locate each household in the national income distribution. The analysis reports the proportion of program
resources benefiting each decile of the household income distribution. This approach is known as "benefit-incidence analysis".




                                                            - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Outcome/Impact Indicators
Indicator                              Projected in last PSR1/2              Actual/latest Estimate2
1. Increases in access to and          Projects are improving access to      Projects are improving access to
quality of social and economic         basic infrastructure and              basic infrastructure and
infrastructure and services.           improving the quality of life.        improving the quality of life,
                                                                             measured by:
                                                                             17 communities with all weather
                                                                             access routes;
                                                                             9% overall increase in the
                                                                             number of trips;
                                                                             Reduction of 46% in trip time
                                                                             according to the project survey
                                                                             data. Household survey reports a
                                                                             smaller decrease of 27%;
                                                                             10 communities with direct
                                                                             access to pipe borne water;
                                                                             % with water supply rose from
                                                                             34% to 91%;
                                                                             % carrying water fell from 69%
                                                                             to 21%
                                                                             12,700 people benefited by Social
                                                                             Assistance projects.
2. Evidence that investments           Communities agreed that               73% of households in the
reflect the priorities of the targeted project's financed are a priority.    intervention group knew about
communities and beneficiaries.        (based on Social Assessment            the PRF subproject funded in
                                      findings and the proposed Menu of      their community.
                                      options in the OM).                    71% knew of planning meetings
                                                                             50% had participated in
                                                                             meetings.
                                      Community priorities have been
                                      reflected during the community         74% of households of the
                                      prioritization stage of the subproject intervention group would have
                                      cycle.                                 chosen the same project as was
                                                                             actually financed.

                                                                             Very high level of satisfaction
                                                                             (>90%) with project benefits.

                                                                             72% of households benefit now
                                                                             or expect to in the future.
3. Evidence that investments are       About 79% of PRF financed            PRF has been successful in
targeted to the poor and               projects benefited the poorest       identifying the relatively poorer
vulnerable.                            60% of the population.               communities and households within
                                                                            each of the areas where it has
                                                                            intervened.

                                                                            28% of PRF funds were invested in
                                                                            the poorest 20% of communities;
                                                                            49% were invested in the poorest
                                                                            40%; and 79% were invested in the



                                                           - 22 -

                                                                      poorest 60% of the communities.
                                                                      Only 10% of the total was received
                                                                      by communities in the top three
                                                                      deciles.

                                                                      Household analysis: 47% of the
                                                                      program's resources benefit
                                                                      households in the bottom 30% of
                                                                      the income distribution; and only
                                                                      11% are received by households in
                                                                      the top 30% of the income
                                                                      distribution.
4. Evidence of a satisfactory level All communities benefiting from    All communities benefiting from
of O&M among the subprojects.       a project were trained in O&M.     a project were trained in O&M.

                                    Site visits confirmed projects     Site visits confirmed projects
                                    were for most part well            were for most part well
                                    maintained.                        maintained.

                                    IE showed weak collective          For water projects, maintenance
                                    maintenance organizations          is assumed by WASCO, covered
                                    (evidenced during field visits).   by the payment of water service
                                    This will likely result in a       fees;
                                    deterioration of works in the long Issue of maintenance
                                    run.                               requirements is less clear for
                                                                       reforestation projects.

                                                                       Project survey reports that three
                                                                       out of the six education projects
                                                                       and 23 of the 20 economic
                                                                       infrastructure projects had a
                                                                       formal maintenance component.
                                                                       But the household survey shows
                                                                       that knowledge about who was
                                                                       responsible for maintenance is
                                                                       low among resident households,
                                                                       as was active participation in
                                                                       maintenance.

                                                                       IE showed weak collective
                                                                       maintenance organizations,
                                                                       particularly in case of footpaths.
5. Evidence that communities are By December 2003, PRF                Time spent in community activities
taking more leadership in           indicated it had 400 project      increased in those communities
planning and managing               proposals in its pipeline.        with PRF subprojects.
development initiatives.
                                    The quality and level of          People's willingness to work
                                    sophistication of project         together in the community
                                    proposals had increased during    increased.
                                    the life of the project.
                                                                      High motivation to work in future
                                                                      projects, especially in social
                                                                      assistance subprojects and projects



                                                        - 23 -

                                                                    with community contracting

                                                                    Communities capabilities
                                                                    strengthened through the
                                                                    subprojects experience.

                                                                    By project closing, 350 project
                                                                    proposals in PRF's pipeline.

6. Establishment and               PRF is seen by the Government     PRF has enjoyed the largest share
consolidation of the PRF as the    (Ministry of Social               of the government's annual
implementing arm and locus of      Transformation) as essential to   allocations to the major social
coordination for actions relating  its poverty reduction strategy.   development programs between
to Government's poverty                                              2000 and 2005 (31 % of total
reduction strategy.                PRF has succeeded in              allocation for the five year
                                   coordinating activities with      period).
                                   BNTF and with EDF, in terms of
                                   poverty reduction interventions.  PRF's allocation has been
                                                                     substantially higher than
                                                                     BNTF's, highlighting PRF's
                                                                     predominant role in the
                                                                     government's poverty reduction
                                                                     strategy.

                                                                     Stakeholder's survey showed that
                                                                     69 % indicated PRF, among
                                                                     seven other agencies, as the main
                                                                     arm and coordination for actions
                                                                     related to the Government's
                                                                     poverty reduction strategy.


Output Indicators
Indicator                          Projected in last PSR1/2          Actual/latest Estimate
1.Satisfactory institutional and   Successful completion of an OM,   Successful completion of an OM,
operational framework, as judged   a Social Assessment and creation  a Social Assessment and creation
by beneficiaries/users, national   of a MIS.                         of a MIS.
actors in poverty reduction, and
international financing agencies.                                    MIS not fully utilized.

                                   Beneficiaries satisfied with PRF  Beneficiaries satisfied with PRF
                                   project cycle.                    project cycle.

                                   BNTF has adapted almost all       BNTF has adapted almost all
                                   features of the PRF model.        features of the PRF model. Initial
                                                                     conversations on merging
                                                                     possibility (BNTF-PRF).
2. Key Performance Indicators,     n.a                               PRF operating expenses as a
including PRF operating expenses                                     percentage of total expenses:
as a percentage of total expenses                                    30%
(targeted at 15%); application of
targeting criteria through poverty
map data.
3. Amount and number of            Total PRF projects financed by    Total PRF projects financed by



                                                      - 24 -

subprojects; breakdown by type of             September 30,2004:                              September 30,2004:
subproject; evidence of quality of
subprojects; evidence of                     WB financed: 53 projects                         WB financed: 53 projects
cost-effectiveness in the PRF's              (12 water and sanitation; 10 social              (12 water and sanitation; 10
delivery of subprojects.                     assistance; 8 education; 17                      social assistance; 8 education; 17
                                             economic infrastructure; 3                       economic infrastructure; 3
                                             community empowerment; 1 health; community empowerment; 1
                                             1 income generation; and 1 sports                health; 1 income generation; and
                                             infrastructure)                                  1 sports infrastructure)

                                             EU financed: 109 projects                        EU financed: 109 projects
                                             (See below table for list of projects) (See table below for list of
                                                                                              projects)
                                             Overall good quality of subprojects,
                                             as per IE.                                       Overall good quality of
                                                                                              subprojects, as per IE.
4. Number of established                      About 71% of households knew                    12     community        projects    under
community organizations within                meetings had convened on                        community contracting.
targeted communities; of                      project for planning and design                 43 subprojects completed training
targeted communities conducting               purposes; 68% of these                          programs

participatory planning and                    households attended the                         576 learners from 16 subprojects
                                                                                              completed      lifestyle     management
design exercises; of                          meetings.                                       program
communities managing                                                                          594 learners from 16 subprojects
subproject cycle; of community                                                                completed      lifestyle     management
reps trained; of communities                 Almost none of the communities                   program
w/maintenance plans                          surveyed had a maintenance plan.                 744      beneficiaries         from   20
                                                                                              subprojects     completed       Childhood
                                                                                              Education program
                                                                                              13 communities completed Health
                                                                                              Care Promotion program

                                                                                              Almost none of the communities
                                                                                              surveyed had a maintenance plan
1/ End of project

2/ Based on impact evaluation of PRF activities (ESA Consultores - June 2004), Site visits and interviews with beneficiaries.




                                                                     - 25 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                             Appraisal    Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                             Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
                          Component                          US$ million   US$ million
1. Institutional Strengthening:
(a) Operational Policies and Institutional Framework            0.33            0.23            70
(b) Social Assessment                                           0.09            0.14           155
(c) Monitoring, Evaluation and Learning                         0.15            0.19           126
2. Subproject Financing                                         4.90            5.99           122
3. Project Management                                           1.01            2.84           281


Total Baseline Cost                                             6.48            9.39
 Physical Contingencies                                         0.00            0.00
 Price Contingencies                                            0.00            0.00
                            Total Project Costs                 6.48            9.39
                                            Front-end fee       0.02            0.02
                     Total Financing Required                   6.50            9.41
Latest figures available from the Borrower.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       1
                                                   Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB            NCB               2       N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                  Other
1. Works                               0.00            0.00         2.14         1.85        3.99
                                       (0.00)         (0.00)      (1.93)         (0.00)     (1.93)
2. Goods                               0.00            0.00         0.07         0.00        0.07
                                       (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.07)         (0.00)     (0.07)
3. Services                            0.00            0.00         0.99         0.46        1.45
Consultancies and training             (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.99)         (0.00)     (0.99)
4. Operating expenses                  0.00            0.00         0.98         0.00        0.98
                                       (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
5. Front-end Fee                       0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
                                       (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                       0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
                                       (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                               0.00            0.00         4.18         2.31        6.49
                                       (0.00)         (0.00)      (2.99)         (0.00)     (2.99)
Note: Figures may not add up due to rounding.
Latest figures available from the Borrower.




                                                   - 26 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                           1
                                                              Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category                   ICB                NCB                        2            N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                                                      Other
    1. Works                                    0.00               0.00                2.14                 1.50          3.64
                                               (0.00)             (0.00)              (1.93)               (0.00)        (1.93)
    2. Goods                                    0.00               0.00                0.07                 1.50          1.57
                                               (0.00)             (0.00)              (0.07)               (0.00)        (0.07)
    3. Services                                 0.00               0.00                0.99                 0.39          1.38
    Consultancies and training                 (0.00)             (0.00)              (0.99)               (0.00)        (0.99)
    4. Operating expenses                       0.00               0.00                0.98                 1.84          2.82
                                               (0.00)             (0.00)              (0.00)               (0.00)        (0.00)
    5. Front-end Fee                            0.00               0.00                0.00                 0.00          0.00
                                               (0.00)             (0.00)              (0.00)               (0.00)        (0.00)
    6. Miscellaneous                            0.00               0.00                0.00                 0.00          0.00
                                               (0.00)             (0.00)              (0.00)               (0.00)        (0.00)
        Total                                   0.00               0.00                4.18                 5.23          9.41
                                               (0.00)             (0.00)              (2.99)               (0.00)        (2.99)
   Latest figures available from the Borrower.
     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to community groups and NGOs



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                                Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                      Appraisal Estimate                     Actual/Latest Estimate
                                  Bank          Govt.        CoF.          Bank          Govt.          CoF.     IDA    Govt.   CoF.
1. Institutional                  0.57          0.03         0.00          0.53          0.03                    93.0   100.0    0.0
strengthening
2. Subproject financing           2.40          0.20         2.30          2.40          0.20           3.39     100.0  100.0   147.4


3. Project management             0.03          0.97         0.00          0.03          0.97           1.84     100.0  100.0    0.0
Total cost                        3.00          1.20         2.30          3.00          1.20           5.23     100.0  100.0   227.4

   Note: (a) Cofinancing was provided by the EU; this STABEX funding was basically general budgetary support for the
   Government and thus interchangeable with government funding; (b) Beneficiary communities were expected to contribute
   through labor and materials, but these contributions were never quantified and thus not reflected in the MIS.
   This is the latest set of figures available from the Borrower.




                                                               - 27 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Since the project was basically a line of credit, no cost-benefit analysis was carried out at appraisal.
Specific subproject investments were driven by community demand, and evaluated in line with the
Operations Manual, developed during the design stage of the project. This included the use of detailed
technical criteria; standard designs agreed, as needed, with relevant sector agencies; and simple economic
criteria to determine subproject economic viability, as well as application of a comprehensive list of unit
costs by type of subproject. As with other demand-driven social funds, the PRF also fostered allocative
efficiencies; specifically, through the promotion of participatory local decision making, communities
allocated scarce resources across sectors, thereby ensuring that such resources were applied optimally in
response to local priorities.

As described in Annex 8, an ex-post impact evaluation study was carried out in late-2003/ early-2004, and
produced some highly relevant data confirming the positive outcome of this project.

The Borrower undertook an internal analysis of the cost effectiveness of the PRF, considering both its
general operations and the subprojects activities. The results of this analysis are included in the Borrower's
contribution to the ICR in Annex 11.




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              July 1998                 4    TASK MANAGER (1); SOCIAL
                                             PROTECTION SPECIALIST
                                             (1); OPERATION ANALYST
                                             (1); OPERATIONS
                                             CONSULTANT (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              April 1999                     SOC. FUNDS SPECIALIST
                                             (1); TASK TEAM LEADER
                                             (1); FINANCIAL MGMT
                                             SPEC (1); COMMUNITY
                                             PROCURMT/TRNG (1);
                                             SFS & INSTITUT/MGMT
                                             (1); ENGINEER / PROC
                                             EXPER (1)


 Supervision

              01/14/2000                3    TM (1); SOCIAL                   S               S
                                             SCIENTIST/EVALN (1);
                                             SOCIAL ASSESSMENT (1)
              07/26/2000                3    TTL (1); SOCIAL FUNDS (1);       S               S
                                             COMMUNITY
                                             CONTRACTING (1)
              02/09/2001                4    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             MONITORING AND EVAL.
                                             (1); SOCIAL FUNDS (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             (1)
              06/22/2001                3    SOC. FUNDS SPECIALIST (1);       S               S
                                             QUALITY SPECIALIST (1);
                                             SOCIAL PROGRAMS (1)
              01/18/2002                8    M&E SPECIALIST (1);              S               S
                                             ENGINEER (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (2); TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             COMMUNITY
                                             CONTRACTING (2);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1)
              09/17/2002                6    SOC. FUNDS SPECIALIST (1);       S               S
                                             TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MGMT SPEC (1);
                                             COMMUNITY
                                             PROCURMT/TRNG (1); SFS &



                                              - 29 -

                                            INSTITUT/MGMT (1);
                                            ENGINEER / PROC EXPER (1)
               05/23/2003              7    SF/Operations (cons) (1); M&E      S    S
                                            (1); procurement (2); Financial
                                            Mgmt/Disb (1); Financial Mgmt
                                            (1); Social Astc/Cmty Trng (1)
               07/03/2003              3    SOCIAL ASTC/CMTY TRNG              S    S
                                            (1); SF/OPERATIONS (CONS)
                                            (1); M&E (1)
               10/24/2003              3    TASK MANAGER (1);                  S    S
                                            OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                            CONSULTANT (1)


 ICR
               09/13/2004                   TASK MANAGER (1);                  S    S
                                            SOCIAL PROTECTION
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            OPERATION ANALYST
                                            (1); OPERATIONS
                                            CONSULTANT (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               20                           106
  Appraisal/Negotiation                     9                             32
  Supervision                              50                           352
  ICR                                       8                             40
  Total                                    87                           530




                                            - 30 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Bank preparation documents

- Pre-appraisal mission terms of reference, Aide-Memoire and Back-to-Office report. World Bank, 1998.
- Appraisal mission terms of reference, Aide Memoire and Back-to-Office Report. World Bank, 1998.
- Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Learning and Innovation Loan and Credit to Saint Lucia for a
Poverty Reduction Fund. World Bank, July 15, 1999.

Bank project implementation documents

- Project Status Reports (PSRs). World Bank, 1999-2004.
- Aide Memoires from supervision missions. World Bank, 1999-2004.
-Back-to-Office Reports. World Bank, 1999-2004.

Main Documents prepared by the Borrower during implementation

Poverty Reduction Fund, Social Assessment Study, Final Report, Cowater International, Inc, November
2000
Basic Needs Trust Fund, Fifth Programme, Poverty Reduction Action Plan, 2002-2008, Government of St
Lucia, December 2002
Operations Manual. PRF
Revised Operations Manual. PRF 2004.
Operations Manual, Social Assistance and Innovation Programme. PRF
PRF Impact Evaluation, Final Report. ESA Consultores, June 2004.
Stakeholder Workshop Summary Report. Mr. Didacus Jules, consultant; October 2004.




                                                  - 33 -

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results

During the last year of project implementation (in October and November 2003), an Impact Evaluation
Survey was conducted. This exercise included a household survey, project survey and qualitative study.
The main findings were presented in section 4.1 of this report's text.

During the ICR mission, the team visited a sample of subprojects all across the country and conducted
interviews with community members to capture the impact of subprojects in the communities. The team
visited footpaths and drains, social assistance (poultry farm for the blind), education (rehabilitation of a
preschool and an IT lab) and water and sanitation subprojects, The most relevant findings were as follows:

l for all subprojects visited, community members were satisfied with the outcome of the subprojects,
    expressing their satisfaction with the conduction of the process by PRF;

l in some cases (footpath subprojects), there had been some difficulties among beneficiaries regarding
    rights of way and with works to be done in a beneficiary's properties, that had been successfully
    handled by the PRF community officers;

l there was widespread satisfaction with the training provided under the subprojects, both in terms of the
    preparation and maintenance of operations and with the additional training provided besides the strict
    training for the subprojects;

l beneficiaries demanded additional training, particularly in the case of the education subprojects visited;


l beneficiaries confirmed that more contact among community members had been generated as a result of
    the PRF experience and they valued this as a positive feature for the future;

l for the education projects, specially IT lab, the positive impact of the subproject had extended beyond
    the school and spill over into the larger community, providing access to computers and internet and
    starting to gain financial support from the community to sustain these sharing efforts (to buy tonners,
    paper, etc);

l in the case of the footpaths, beneficiaries made emphasis on the strong impact the subprojects had on
    the quality of their lives, particularly on children attending nearby schools and women. Footpaths had
    allowed community members to break isolation in case of rain and dangers of adverse natural
    conditions.

l in the case of the social assistance project, beneficiaries were proud of participating in the preparation
    and implementation of a subproject that will provide them with the opportunity of developing an
    economic activity, that will give them financial resources and can be self sustaining.

In addition to the two exercises described above, a stakeholder workshop was held in September 2004. A
summary of the findings of this workshop can be found in Annex 9 of this report.




                                                      - 34 -

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results


1. Background
On September 14-15, 2004 an Institutional Evaluation and Development Workshop on the
Poverty Reduction Fund was held in Castries. The main workshop objectives were: (i) to review
the impact of the PRF; (ii) to examine the social development policy challenges and opportunities
for St. Lucia; and (iii) to develop a framework for the future role of the PRF. The Workshop was
well attended by a broad representation of stakeholders. Among the participants there were
representatives of the Ministry of Social Transformation; the PRF and its Board; Government
Ministries (finance, education, health, etc); specialized agencies (such as the Water and Sewerage
Company, St. Lucia Nurses Association, etc.); international donor representatives including the
CDB's BNTF, the World Bank, and the European Union; members of communities benefitted by
the project; and social protection experts with hands- on experience on social funds.

Participants presented theirs views on the three main objectives of the workshop and substantial
discussion took place around the agenda topics. The participants discussed the results of the
impact evaluation and listened to the testimonies of community members, who had participated in
the preparation of subprojects financed by PRF. Discussions took place around the social
development context, with its policy challenges and opportunities and the way ahead for the PRF,
specifically. The recommendations of the workshop are summarized below.


2. Recommendations arising from the Workshop
The debates around the work of PRF and the recommendations that emerged were all centered
around four major issues:
a.      The understanding of poverty and what kind of interventions might be appropriate and
consistent with that understanding;
b.      The target groups that would be consistent with this understanding of poverty and their
prioritization;
c.      The types and efficacy of interventions;
d.      The institutional framework for addressing poverty issues, the concern about duplication
and the need for convergence.

The major recommendations emanating from the workshop process - grouped by category - are
the following:

Policy Issues
       The Government of St. Lucia should give serious consideration to the convergence of all
agencies across the governmental apparatus whose mission relate to poverty reduction. Particular
attention should be paid to the historical evolution and mandate of the Basic Needs Trust Fund,
the Small Enterprise Development Unit, and the Belgrave Fund.
       This convergence should be executed within a policy framework that re-conceptualizes the
entire cycle of intervention from poverty alleviation at the level of indigence through to poverty
mitigation, eradication to community empowerment and capacity building.



                                                - 35 -

       A single agency focused on poverty reduction and mitigation in all its dimensions would
result in more effective programming, better capacity for sustainable follow-up and significant
savings on administrative and recurrent costs.*
       Should this structural convergence be deemed not feasible at this time, a joint Task Force
of the agencies affected should be mandated to ensure convergence at least at the level of
programming and methodologies.
       Consideration should be given to how other governmental service agencies (such as the
Ministries of Health and Education and even the Community Development Division of the
Ministry of Social Transformation) can be brought into closer articulation with the fight against
poverty and that they work in a complementary manner in their community interventions.

Organizational Development
       The PRF should continue to maintain careful control over its administrative and recurrent
costs, ensuring that its delivery structure is lean and efficient;
       The Government of St. Lucia, the Ministry of Social Transformation and the PRF Board
need to conceptualize what convergence of poverty agencies might result in and how that
re-configured entity could network effectively with other Governmental agencies to maximize its
use of resources and rationalize the expenditure by government against poverty.
       The PRF Board must reflect on what the Fund does best and re-focus it on what it has the
greater comparative advantage (from the deliberations of the Workshop, project implementation
emerged as a strength);

PRF Methodology
       The PRF should review its criteria for selection of projects and should ensure that these
are integrally related to more rigorous indicators of poverty. Concern was expressed that while
the idea of communities identifying their needs was laudable, it is not necessarily "the
communities that have voice" that are those with the greatest need. The challenge for PRF is to
find an appropriate balance between responding to those that are ready and willing to assume
responsibility for their own development and those who are in need but unable to articulate their
requirements;
       As a standard procedure, the PRF should take "before" and "after" photos of all project
initiatives so that there is a strong visual record of the difference that the Fund is making;
       Relatedly, it should be mandatory that the audio-visual record of project should include
the voices and perspective of community persons and recipients assessing the impact of the
project in their own words;
       It was widely accepted that monitoring and evaluation are essential components of the
work of PRF and the Fund was asked to review its monitoring and evaluation mechanisms (their
scope and depth) to ensure that it is better able to assess the impact of its interventions;
       PRF's community facilitation should be more extended to span post-project follow-up to
ensure that there is community "buy-in" and that beneficiaries assume ownership and
responsibility for maintenance and upkeep of the facilities provided. An additional dimension of
this recommendation is that PRF (or some new articulation of poverty-focused agencies) facilitate
that transition from poverty alleviation to community empowerment through a more sustained
intervention that targets attitudes and capacity for self reliance;
       Concern was expressed about the indigent who constitute about 7% of the poor and who


                                                  - 36 -

are the poorest of the poor.       There was a very strong consensus of the need for PRF to
incorporate them in its programming.         It was recognized that this shift would mean more
sustained interventions (which, it was recommended, could be followed up by some other related
agency) to help build capacity. Indigence - as the most extreme expression of poverty  was
recognized to be not simply extreme material want but reflective of the absence of personal
capacity.

Programming
       It was recommended that PRF re-focus its training activities to ensure that they are
integrally related to project and community interventions. Training should serve to build capacity
in the community utilizing the project as its impulse;
       Consideration should be given to targeting persons (and families) affected by HIV-AIDS
as we are beginning to see cases of children who have lost one or both parents and who have been
abandoned. In situations such as this, the need for stronger networking becomes more apparent.
PRF should deepen its alliance with agencies already doing work in that area such as the AIDS
Foundation.

* It should be clarified that the Bank team's recommendation at the stakeholder workshop was that the
GoSL should codify the various social protection/poverty reduction policies it has formulated over the
last few years into one comprehensive strategy and action plan.




                                                 - 37 -

Additional Annex 10. PRF Projects financed by the World Bank and by EU


PRF PROJECTS FINANCED BY THE WORLD BANK - SEPTEMBER 2004

                          PRF World Bank Projects at September 2004


                                                                                                Expenditure
No. Community                Project Description                         Project Type Method      (USD)
                             Construction of Day Care Centre (for
1 Mongouge Club 60           elderly)                                    Com.Emp.        CC       28,629
2 Dacretin                   Construction of Community Centre            Com.Em p.       CC       49,109
3 Fond St. Jacques           Construction of Community Centre            Com.Emp.        PQ       56,070
4 Upper Riviere Mitant       Construction of Bridge                      Econ. Infras.   CC       61,379
5 Lower Riviere Mitant       Construction of Bridge                      Econ. Infras.   CC       65,471
6 Upper Shanty Town          Construction of footpath and drains         Econ. Infras.   PQ       84,327
7 St. Peter's Lane           Construction of footpath and drains         Econ. Infras.   PQ       6,594
8 Lacoudoil Ciceron          Construction of footpath and drains         Econ. Infras.   PQ       14,444
9 Fewe, Balata               Construction of bridge                      Econ. Infras.   PQ       45,378
10 La Pwis Glos              Road Rehabilitation                         Econ. Infras.   PQ       52,661
11 The Gulf                  Construction of footpath and drains         Econ. Infras.   PQ       23,612
12 Vide Boutielle            Construction of footpath and drains         Econ. Infras.   PQ       47,640
13 Son Avenue                Construction of Road and Drains             Econ. Infras.   PQ       38,069
14 Fond Gens Libre           Construction of footpath and drains         Econ. Infras.   PQ       62,665
15 Dierre Fort               Construction of footpath and drains         Econ. Infras.   PQ       18,691
16 Tou Cochon                Construction of Road and Drains             Econ. Infras.   PQ       26,888
17 Vieux Fort Market Area    Construction of footpath and drains         Econ. Infras.   PQ       22,349
18 Arundell Hill             Construction of footpath and drains         Econ. Infras.   PQ       39,146
19 Bagatelle                 Construction of footpath and drains         Econ. Infras.   PQ       29,621
20 Lastic Hill               Construction of footpath and drains         Econ. Infras.   PQ       32,735
21 Banse La Grace School Establishment of school I.T. center              Education      CC       36,272
    Monchy Combined
22 School                    Establisment of school feeding facility      Education      CC       39,806
                             Establishment of school I.T. center and
23 Piaye Combined school fencing                                          Education      CC       52,585
24 Dennery Village           Re-construction of Pre-school                Education      CC       63,260
                             Establishment of school I.T. center and
25 Laborie Village           fencing                                      Education      CC       49,888
    GEMS (ECEC) Pre -
26 School                    Re-construction of Pre-school                Education      PQ       60,137
27 La Croix Maingot School Construction of walkway                        Education      PQ       17,322
28 Roseau School             Establishment of Resource Centre             Education      PQ       40,281
29 La Guerre                 Construction of Health Outpost                Health        PQ
                                                                         Productive
30 Gros Islet                Establishement of livestock facility          Infras.       CC       28,671
    St. Lucia Blind W elfare                                               Social
31 Association                Capacity building & institutional suppport Assistance      CC       78,136
    St. Lucia Planned        Reproductice Health Services to poor          Social
32 Parenthood Assoc.         persons                                     Assistance      CC       29,635
    Soufriere Special                                                      Social
33 Education Center          Renovation & refurbishment                  Assistance      CC       16,356
34 Lady Gordon               Refurbishment of school for hearing           Social        CC       41,867




                                                         - 38 -

b. PRF PROJECTS FINANCED BY EU

                                    Expenditure Procurement
NO                Project             (USD)        Method   Programme            Description
                                                            Comm.
1 National Youth Council              5,584        Co-imp.  Empowerment          NGOCapacity Building
                                                            Comm.
2 St. Lucia Nurses Association        1,517        Co-imp.  Empowerment          NGOCapacity Building
                                                            Comm.
3 St. Lucia Sickle Cell Association   8,893        Co-imp.  Empowerment          NGOCapacity Building
                                                            Comm.
4 Substance Abuse Workshop            1,510        Co-imp.  Empowerment          NGOCapacity Building
   Bocage Community
5 Improvement                         48,014       Co-imp.  Econ. Infrastructure Integrated Infras
6 Boguis Footbridge                   3,492        Co-imp.  Econ. Infrastructure Repair footbridge
   Detoute Cadette: roads and
7 drains                              82,592       Co-imp.  Econ. Infrastructure Integrated Infras
8 Dubonnaire Road Works              111,870       Co-imp.  Econ. Infrastructure Road repair
9 Esperance/Delcer Footpath           8,718        Co-imp.  Econ. Infrastructure Construct path
10 Hospital Road                      74,045       Co-imp.  Econ. Infrastructure Integrated Infras
11 Industry Choiseul Footbridge       1,158        Co-imp.  Econ. Infrastructure Repair footbridge
12 La Caye footbridge                  933         Co-imp.  Econ. Infrastructure Repair footbridge
13 New Village                        91,401       Co-imp.  Econ. Infrastructure Integrated Infras
14 Odlum City-Morne Du Don            11,667       Co-imp.  Econ. Infrastructure Integrated Infras
   Palmiste Community
15 Improvement                        69,412       Co-imp.  Econ. Infrastructure Integrated Infras
16 Palmiste Drainage                  31,154       Co-imp.  Econ. Infrastructure Construct drain
17 Skate Town Drainage                51,148       Co-imp.  Econ. Infrastructure Construct drain
18 Sunbilt Footpath and Drains        29,392       Co-imp.  Econ. Infrastructure Integrated Infras
19 Agard Lands: Lourina Joseph        6,416        Co-imp.  Housing Assistance   Construct house
   Agard Lands: Moses Albert
20 Housing                            2,891        Co-imp.  Housing Assistance   Repair house
21 Anse La Raye: Isabel St. Omer      3,068        Co-imp.  Housing Assistance   Construct house
22 Arundell Hill: Mary Paul           8,011        Co-imp.  Housing Assistance   Construct house
23 Balca:Norma Cooper Housing         6,799        Co-imp.  Housing Assistance   Construct house
24 Bois Den: Ferria Jones             1,860        Co-imp.  Housing Assistance   Repair house
   Ciceron:Benedict Joseph
25 Housing                            2,090        Co-imp.  Housing Assistance   Repair house
26 Contonement: Hilton Alfred         3,821        Co-imp.  Housing Assistance   Construct house
27 Delcer:Kennedy St Brice            1,079        Co-imp.  Housing Assistance   Construct house
28 Forestierre:Biroo Family            169         Co-imp.  Housing Assistance   Construct house
29 Goodlands: Christine Augustine     3,310        Co-imp.  Housing Assistance   Construct house
30 Grace: Catina Brown                2,453        Co-imp.  Housing Assistance   Repair house
31 Helen Emmanius: Tete Chemin        6,206        Co-imp.  Housing Assistance   Construct house
32 Jacmel: Bernadette Blaize          4,327        Co-imp.  Housing Assistance   Construct house
   Lamaze: Clamp & Inez Jn
33 Baptiste                           1,485        Co-imp.  Housing Assistance   Construct house
   Lamaze: Ethelbert James:
34 Housing                            1,096        Co-imp.  Housing Assistance   Construct house
35 Lastic Hill: Alcid Lamontagne      1,288        Co-imp.  Housing Assistance   Construct house
36 Mangue: Rachel Felicien            2,718        Co-imp.  Housing Assistance   Repair house
37 Monchy:Louisa and Cyril            2,565        Co-imp.  Housing Assistance   Construct house




                                                - 39 -

38 Monchy: Lucilla Hyacinth          171      Co-imp. Housing Assistance    Repair house
39 Pavee: Eileen Charles            6,784     Co-imp. Housing Assistance    Construct house
40 Riviere Mitant: Merline Delice   4,763     Co-imp. Housing Assistance    Construct house
   Victoria Choiseul: Justina
41 Eugene                            410      Co-imp. Housing Assistance    Construct house
42 Fishermen's Cooperative          4,362     Co-imp. Income Generation     Expand Prod Infras
43 Praslin Seamoss                  3,921     Co-imp. Income Generation     Cons Prod Infra
44 Roots Farm Cooperative           5,427     Co-imp. Income Generation     Expand Prod Infras
   Vige/Cacoa Cassava Processing
45 Plant                            6,316     Co-imp. Income Generation     Cons Prod Infra
   Ave Maria Infant Resource
46 Room                             1,803     Co-imp. Social Assistance     Physically challenged
47 CARE-Anse La Raye IT Center      13,606    Co-imp. Social Assistance     At Risk Youth
48 Drug Free March                  1,034     Co-imp. Social Assistance     At Risk Youth
49 Educational Assistance, 2001     12,447    Co-imp. Social Assistance     At Risk Youth
   St. Lucia Blind Welfare Book
50 Project                          18,600    Co-imp. Social Assistance     Physically challenged
   ABC Pre-school extension,
51 Laborie                          23,493    Co-imp. Social Infrastructure School expans
52 Choiseul Public Facility         18,501    Co-imp. Social Infrastructure Repair p. facility
53 Grand Riviere School: Fish Pond  12,265    Co-imp. Social Infrastructure School expans
   Laborie Infant School
54 Playground                       2,069     Co-imp. Social Infrastructure School expans
   Methodist School Furniture
55 Project.                         13,299    Co-imp. Social Infrastructure School expans
56 Methodist School Toilet          16,464    Co-imp. Social Infrastructure School expans
   Reunion Choiseul:
57 Establishment of IT Unit         24,225    Co-imp. Social Infrastructure IT Center
58 Dennery by Pass Newfields        7,057      PQ     Econ. Infrastructure  Construct drain
   Fond St. Jacques Concrete
59 Road                             30,640     PQ     Econ. Infrastructure  Construct road
   St. Peter's Lane Footpath and
60 Drains                           5,201      PQ     Econ. Infrastructure  Integrated Infras
   Trou Rouge: Footpath and
61 Drains                           35,720     PQ     Econ. Infrastructure  Integrated Infras
62 Vivancelle Footpaths and Drains  42,200     PQ     Econ. Infrastructure  Integrated Infras
   Dennery Tourism: La Pointe
63 Vending Facility                 59,519     PQ     Income Generation     Cons Prod Infra
64 Canaries: facility 1             9,526      PQ     Social Infrastructure Repair p. facility
65 Canaries: facility 2             8,400      PQ     Social Infrastructure Repair p. facility
66 Desbarra Water Mains 1           41,206     PQ     Social Infrastructure Expans: water system
67 Desbarra Water Mains 2           3,017      PQ     Social Infrastructure Expans: water system
68 Dugard Water Mains               15,770     PQ     Social Infrastructure Expans: water system
   Fond Assau Chassin Water
69 Mains                            39,852     PQ     Social Infrastructure Expans: water system
70 Fond Bennett Water Mains         14,518     PQ     Social Infrastructure Expans: water system
   La Courville/Ti Rocher Water
71 mains                            11,972     PQ     Social Infrastructure Expans: water system
72 Leon Hess                        27,900     PQ     Social Infrastructure School expans
73 Mac Domel Water Mains            43,567     PQ     Social Infrastructure Expans: water system
   Monchy Water mains: back of
74 health center                    8,105      PQ     Social Infrastructure Expans: water system




                                            - 40 -

    Monchy Water mains: back of
74 health center                      8,105       PQ   Social Infrastructure Expans: water system
    Monchy Water mains: back of
75 school                            15,166       PQ   Social Infrastructure Expans: water system
76 Morne Kangay water mains          25,668       PQ   Social Infrastructure Expans: water system
    Soufriere Hospital Emergency
77 Ramp & Fencing                    14,692       PQ   Social Infrastructure Expans h. unit
78 Ti Rocher/Dugard water mains      41,998       PQ   Social Infrastructure Expans: water system
79 Upper Blanchard Water mains        3,326       PQ   Social Infrastructure Expans: water system
    Aux Leon Footpath and
80 Drainage                          52,428     SFA99  Econ. Infrastructure  Integrated Infras
81 Garrand Footpath and drains       51,036     SFA99  Econ. Infrastructure  Integrated Infras
    Ravine Poisson Footpath and
82 Drainage Project.                 63,765     SFA99  Econ. Infrastructure  Integrated Infras
83 Richfond Footpath and Drainage    36,817     SFA99  Econ. Infrastructure  Integrated Infras
84 Talvern: Reforestation            57,560     SFA99  Econ. Infrastructure  Environ. Action
85 Thomazo Reforestation             38,236     SFA99  Econ. Infrastructure  Environ. Action
86 Vanard Footpath and Drain         38,259     SFA99  Econ. Infrastructure  Integrated Infras
87 All Souls Lane                    51,088     SFA99  Social Infrastructure Footpath and drains
88 La Caye Pit Latrines              32,994     SFA99  Social Infrastructure Construct latrines
89 San de Feu footpaths and drains   58,467     SFA99  Econ. Infrastructure  Integrated Infras
90 Vivancelle Multi Sport Facility   78,561     SFA99  Social Infrastructure Construct sport facility
91 Crown Lands I                     89,417    SFA2001 Econ. Infrastructure  Footpath and drains
92 Green Gold                        86,991    SFA2001 Econ. Infrastructure  Footpath and drains
95 Millet (Vanard)                   65,765    SFA2001 Social Infrastructure Multi purpose court
96 Belle Vue (Phase 2)               15,323    SFA2001 Social Infrastructure Multi purpose court
97 La Coudou                         17,548    SFA2001 Social Infrastructure Public Facility
99 Roots Farm                         8,510    SFA2001 Prod. Infrastructure  Income generation
100 St. Lucia Egg Producers           7,632    SFA2001 Prod. Infrastructure  Income generation
                                                                              Farm Project: youth at
101 Shambala                         12,269    SFA2001 Social Assistance     risk
                                                                             Rehabilitation of
102 Back on Track Ministries          7,343    SFA2001 Social Assistance     convicts
                                                                             Reprod health ,
103 Planned Parenthood               20,744    SFA2001 Social Assistance     sensitization
    St. Lucia Mental Health                                                  Institutional
104 Association                       7,440    SFA2001 Capacity building     strengthening
    Laborie Development                                                      Institutional
105 Foundation                        4,815    SFA2001 Capacity building     strengthening
                                                                             Institutional
106 National Consumer Authority       7,440    SFA2001 Capacity building     strengthening
                                                                             Institutional
107 Holiday Taxi Cooperative          7,812    SFA2001 Capacity building     strengthening
108 Bagatelle                        39,938    SFA2000 Econ. Infrastructure  Footpath and drains
109 Canaries                         32,402    SFA2000 Econ. Infrastructure  Footpath and drains
110 Plateau                          111,975   SFA2000 Econ. Infrastructure  Footpath and drains
111 Sunbilt: Skate Town              89,250    SFA2000 Econ. Infrastructure  Footpath and drains




                                              - 41 -

Additional Annex 11. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR

1.       Executive Summary
The Government of St. Lucia (GOSL) secured a loan from the IBRD in the amount of US$1.5 million and
a credit from IDA in the amount of US$1.5 million towards the Poverty Reduction Fund (PRF) Project.
The Fund was established by an act of Parliament in July 1998 and the World Bank funded project became
effective in July 1999. However, as early as 1998, GOSL received a 3 million ECU commitment from the
European Union covering a three year period and this was subsequently augmented by additional funding
support through the Stabex and SFA mechanism. Total EU support to PRF amounted to US$5,131,480.
Although the project was originally scheduled for completion in December 2002, a one year (and
afterwards a six-month) extension was granted in order to offset delays in completion of the design phase of
the project.

In general, PRF has been very successful in meeting the objectives originally set. Specifically,
achievements in respect of the provision of basic infrastructure and services, the level of community
participation and ownership as well as overall stakeholder satisfaction with PRF support, have been
significant. There was also growing evidence of the evolution of PRF into the lead agency for poverty
reduction efforts.

Notwithstanding such positive achievements and with the future operations in mind, it has been recognized
that specific challenges lie ahead. These relate to key issues such as targeting, strengthening of staffing
capacity and capability as well as the mainstreaming of PRF procedures, processes and programme
interventions.

2.       General Project Description

The Poverty Reduction Fund received initial funding from the Government of St. Lucia and the European
Union. By 1999, the PRF secured a Learning and Innovation Loan and Credit (LIL&C) from the World
Bank. While the project was originally conceived as a 3 year Learning and Innovation Project, consisting
of three distinct phases, this did not turn out to be the case in practice.

The design phase, scheduled to be implemented over a six month period, actually took eighteen months to
be completed. Considerable delays had been experienced with respect to the drafting and adoption of an
Operations Manual and the development of a Management Information System (MIS). In the case of the
latter, an Access-based system was replaced by an SQL system to facilitate a greater volume of
information capacity.

The Pilot Phase was supposed to last one year and was designed to test PRF procedures and processes
through the piloting of select sub-projects. In reality, given the protracted design phase and the fact that at
that time there had been no request for an extension to the project, this phase went beyond one year and
represented the bulk of sub project activity under the project. Indeed, by the end of the pilot phase, PRF
had committed all of the sub project financing allocation. At the end of this phase, the Operations Manual
was revised on the basis of several stakeholders consultations (and internal reviews) that had been
conducted over the past few years.

The Consolidation Phase represented a much shorter period than originally envisaged. It represented the
official period when the revised Operations Manual was ratified and utilized but not one in which a new
programme of community sub projects was supported. This period, was characterized by the completion of



                                                       - 42 -

community sub projects that had been initiated in the pilot phase.

Overall, the extended design phase, coupled with the need to ensure completion of all on-going sub projects,
precipitated a six month extension to the original December 2002 project completion date. It was also
evident that the overall level of resources required exceeded original estimates, due primarily to the volume
of demand for sub project support. In this regard, the provision of resources by the European Union
through its Stabex and Special Framework of Assistance (SFA) mechanisms, proved invaluable to the PRF
in support of sub project implementation.


Institutional Strengthening  US $0.53 Million: This sub-component supported efforts to establish PRF's
operational framework and procedures. The main elements of this component related to the establishment
of PRF offices (rehabilitation of offices, procurement of equipment) and development of technical capacity
of the organization.      The technical assistance provided under this component was focused almost
exclusively on PRF (Staff and Board members) as opposed to including other partners as originally
intended.

Sub Project Financing  US $5.99 million: Under this component, PRF supported nearly 200 subprojects
in the area of social and economic infrastructure, capacity building initiatives and assistance to
vulnerable/marginalized groups. Given the relative scale of the sub projects, procurement of consultants
services for design and appraisal was minimized. Approximately 80% of sub projects, were initiated during
the pilot phase. Indeed, all subproject financing had been committed to approved subprojects at that time
rendering the Consolidation Phase no more than a period of completion of on-going and committed
subprojects. The PRF also had the added advantage of being able to utilize EU resources for subproject
activity even while the design phase was on going.

Project Management  US $2.84 million: Contrary to what had been originally estimated, project
management costs averaged approximately 30% of total programme cost.                 This was not altogether
unexpected given (1) the rapid expansion of PRF's staff complement during the initial years of operation
(2) the limited level of subproject expenditure experienced during the same period, and (3) the need to be
competitive in the recruitment of suitably qualified personnel by providing terms that were more attractive
than that which obtained in the Public Service.

3.        Achievement of Objectives and Output

1.        Increases in access to and quality of social and economic infrastructure and services.
The PRF has implemented over 160 sub-projects since its inception, fifty-three of which have been part of
the World Bank's Learning and Innovation Loan. Beneficiaries now experience improved quality of life as
a result of these sub-projects. Of all EU and WB funded sub-projects, 31% are economic infrastructure,
16% water projects, 11% are social assistance projects and 15% are educational projects. The remaining
18% of the projects have been of varying types such as health, community empowerment, sport and
productive infrastructure.

Economic infrastructure: The majority of the projects implemented under the programme has been
economic infrastructure projects ranging from simple footpaths and drains to more complex bridges and
roads. These interventions have allowed more than 50 communities all weather access routes, thus
facilitating an increase in access to essential services in and out of their communities.

Water:     The water projects demonstrate a much more direct impact in increasing access among



                                                      - 43 -

beneficiaries. Twenty-five communities throughout the island now have direct access to pipe borne water.
"The proportion of households with a drinking water supply in their house or yard jumped from 35% to
88%..."St. Lucia Poverty Reduction Fund 2003 Impact Evaluation Study- Final Report, p. 17. This study only
refers to a sample of the PRF projects.

Social Assistance: This programme which targets special vulnerable groups has increased services and
improved the quality of life persons such as youth at risk, persons with disabilities, the homeless and
victims of domestic violence. For the World Bank funded projects, at least 12, 700 persons have benefited
from the projects' outputs, the largest share of the beneficiaries (7,000) being visually impaired persons.

Education: In light of the relatively high level of school enrolment in St. Lucia, the education projects
financed by the PRF were not focused on enhancing enrolment or improving access per se. On the other
hand the educational interventions were primarily designed to improve the quality of school buildings
through infrastructural rehabilitation or improve the quality of the didactic experience through the provision
of equipment and materials.        The main project outputs of the 15 school based interventions are 5
information technology centers, 3 pre-schools, a walkway, school furniture, a school feeding facility and
general school repairs.

The following output indicators demonstrate the efforts of the PRF in increasing access through capacity
building and strengthening programmes:
         43 projects completed training programmes
         576 learners from 16 subprojects completed lifestyle management program
         594 learners from 16 subprojects completed lifestyle management program
         744 beneficiaries from 20 subprojects completed Childhood Education programme
         13 communities completed Health Care Promotion programme

2.        Evidence that investments reflect the priorities of the targeted communities and beneficiaries.
At the core of the PRF's operations is the principle of community participation; active and effective
community participation is thus encouraged and promoted at every stage of the project cycle. Such an
approach is deemed essential for ensuring that interventions represent the communities' priorities and
needs. It is also essential for engendering community ownership of project outputs and thus, maintenance
and sustainability.     The Impact Evaluation Study reveals that "consultation prior to the design and
execution of PRF projects was ample". As many as 90% of the project survey respondents stated that the
project implemented by the PRF was a high priority for the community, and just over 70% of the
households stated that they would have selected the very same project.

3.        Evidence that investments are targeted to the poor and vulnerable.

The Impact Evaluation involved an extensive analysis of the PRF's targeting mechanism. At the
community level, 28% of the PRF's investments have gone to the poorest 20% of the population. The
household level analysis reveals that "47% of the program's resources benefit directly households in the
bottom 30% of the income distribution; and only 11% are received by households in the top 30% of the
distribution." Impact Evaluation Report, 2003, p.40.

Notwithstanding this performance, the PRF recognizes the need to improve its targeting strategy to ensure
that its interventions reach the very poorest communities and households that may be unable to capitalize
on the opportunities for funding under a demand-driven dispensation. Such an approach would involve the
establishment of a minimum standard profile for all communities which highlights all of the basic or



                                                     - 44 -

essential services that are expected to be present in all communities in the country.

4.       Evidence of a satisfactory level of O&M among the subprojects.

The Community Participation and Training Unit (CPTU) of the Poverty Reduction Fund (PRF) has
committed itself to utilizing a repertoire of methods and tools for community interventions. The specific
objectives of the CPTU in the implementation of the projects and programmes were to promote community
participation, ownership, capacity building, empowerment and the good use and maintenance of the
interventions. The primary strategies through which these are accomplished include the mobilization of the
local communities and the provision of formal and informal training programmes. These are undertaken via
invaluable and diverse processes of community advocacy, awareness and sensitization visits and meetings;
needs assessment and priority ranking exercises; skills training workshops; lifestyles management seminars;
community capacity building consultations; thematic discussion forums; project monitoring meetings and
visits; and programme evaluation and review meetings.

The general thrust of the Community Participation and Training Unit has been to consolidate and
standardize the processes and instruments for: (a) Community Organizational Building; (b) Institutional
Strengthening and Partnership with Social Partner Agencies ; and (c) Community Training Programmes.
All 43 communities benefiting from a LIL financed subproject received general training/orientation in
O&M. Twelve (12) communities received specialized training and small tools under the community
maintenance program, in response to the specific requirements of the subproject implemented. Eight (8)
more communities furthered their efforts at initiating a plan for the management and maintenance of the
community facilities constructed. The Community Participation and Training Unit continues to be faced
with the challenge of providing more project- relevant training to beneficiaries that will guarantee the
sustainability of projects through long term maintenance and project management planning. Thus far, it is
the Community Contracting method of implementation that has succeeded in generating the desired level of
community ownership and quality of O&M among beneficiaries.


5.       Evidence that communities are taking more leadership in planning and managing development
initiatives.

Notwithstanding the relatively short space of time that has elapsed since the PRF's interventions, eleven
(11) communities have already translated their efforts at the local community level to a greater role in their
regions' development initiatives, interventions, planning and for advocacy and representation at the national
level. Additionally the PRF has implemented 19 sub projects through Community Contracting. The
managers of these projects are community residents and beneficiaries who have led their communities in the
successful planning and implementation of projects designed to meet the community needs. Through these
initiatives, just over US$850, 000 have been managed by community residents.

6.       Establishment and consolidation of the P.R.F. as the implementing arm and the locus of
coordination for actions in the government's poverty reduction strategy.

In assessing the Fund's performance in this area, four (4) indicators or sources of data will be examined.
They are budgetary allocations, scope of interventions, partnership with agencies, and views from
stakeholders. The exploration of these themes is necessary in light of the absence of an official declaration
of the Poverty Reduction Fund as the main arm for the government's poverty reduction activities.

1.       Budgetary Allocations



                                                     - 45 -

An examination of the government's annual allocations to the major social development agencies and
departments in St. Lucia reveals that the Poverty Reduction Fund has enjoyed the largest share of the
overall social development budget from 2000 to 2005. The table below indicates that the allocation to the
P.R.F. over the five year period represents just over 31% of the total allocation to the agencies. The
P.R.F.'s allocation is more than twice the average share of $11,661,509.

It is important to note that since 2001 when it was placed under the direction of the Ministry of Social
Transformation, the P.R.F.'s annual allocation has been between 44 and 65% more than its parent
ministry's share for capital works. Also significant is the P.R.F.'s allocation relative to that of the Basic
Needs Trust Fund, an agency which has been in operation for almost 20 years prior to the P.R.F. and is
commonly perceived as the agency most similar to the P.R.F. The level of investment in the P.R.F. over
the years clearly highlights its predominant role in the government's poverty reduction strategy.

2.      Partnership with agencies
In addition to community based projects the PRF has implemented a number of projects through
collaboration with non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and community based organizations (CBOs).
In this way, the resources and technical support of the P.R.F. serve to assist the organizations in attending
to the developmental needs of their specific target groups.          Table 2 below highlights some of the
collaborative ventures between the PRF and other agencies, all of which are directly involved in the
development or poverty reduction initiatives in St. Lucia in one way or another. These organizational
linkages serve as evidence of the Fund's recognition of the complexity of poverty, its various outcomes and
manifestations and the diversity of individuals and groups affected by the phenomenon. The Poverty
Reduction Fund has thus ensured that through these partnerships, its poverty reduction activities are both
dynamic and all-encompassing. In this regard, the Fund has succeeded in attending to the most critical
issues identified by the Ministry of Social Transformation's Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy and Action
Plan. These include health, skills training, institutional support, women in poverty, employment, youth at
risk, environment and sanitation, population aging and lifestyle diseases.

3.      Scope of interventions
Directly related to the partnerships with agencies is the PRF's scope of interventions. A comparison of the
scope of intervention of the main social development agencies indicates a broader scope for the PRF, both
in terms of its project menu and the database of projects implemented by the Fund. Though there are
various agencies on the island that may focus exclusively on one or a few aspects of poverty reduction such
as skills training or small business development, the Poverty Reduction Fund, by adopting less of an
implementing and more of a facilitative role has succeeded in addressing a wider range of issues that are
relevant to poverty reduction. Some of the other innovative activities supported by the Fund include
individual and organizational capacity building and strengthening, housing assistance, educational
assistance for children in poverty, information technology centers, social assistance to vulnerable groups
such as persons with disabilities and rural electrification projects. The broader scope of activities in which
the PRF is engaged is no doubt facilitated by its partnerships with other agencies.


4.      Stakeholder Perspective
The views of stakeholders are important in determining the extent to which the PRF has established itself
and is perceived as the implementing arm and locus of coordination for actions relating to Government's
poverty reduction strategy. A short survey was conducted among stakeholders in August, 2004 to examine
this. The respondents were all representatives of government ministries, public companies, NGOs, CBOs
and other social development projects that have interacted with the PRF and other similar agencies over the
past 3 years. Sixty-nine per cent of the stakeholders chose the PRF among 7 other agencies as the main



                                                     - 46 -

arm and locus of coordination for actions relating to Government's poverty reduction strategy. The
Ministry of Social Transformation was selected by 27% of the respondents.


The Poverty Reduction Fund is widely noted for its role in poverty reduction in St. Lucia and is thus
included in all major activities and endeavors which serve to improve the quality of life in St. Lucia. The
PRF is represented on the Boards of Directors of 3 other developmental agencies and it performs an
integral role in policy formulation and national development strategies. These include the Ministry of
Planning's Integrated Development Planning initiative, the European Development Fund's Social
Protection Review, the Ministry of Social Transformation's Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy and Action
Plan and the development of an Operations Manual for the Basic Needs Trust Fund.

7. Cost Effectiveness

In the absence of a formal and independent cost analysis study, it has become necessary to undertake a
small scale, internal review in order to determine the cost effectiveness of the Poverty Reduction Fund, at
the level of its general operations and the subproject activities. This review will involve:
i)      an examination of the operating costs of the Project
ii)     a comparison of the average cost of four subproject types implemented by the PRF and the Basic
Needs Trust Fund (BNTF), and
iii)    a comparison of estimated versus actual costs for completed sub-projects during the financial year
2002 to 2003, the year signifying the most intense period of sub-project implementation since the Fund's
establishment.


(i.) Operating Costs
As part of the general learning goal of testing the application of a social fund model in St. Lucia, it was
expected from the early preparatory stages, that the operation or project management costs would not
exceed 15% of the overall cost of the project. This estimate was based on the experience of the larger
social funds in Latin America and the Caribbean. Table 3 summarizes the level of support provided by
each source under the three main areas of expenditure.

Funding from the GOSL has been targeted almost exclusively on supporting PRF's operational expenses,
while there has been minimal support from the World Bank for this component. In contrast, World Bank's
funding has primarily supported institutional strengthening and sub-project interventions. The European
Union, through its various funding sources (Stabex and SFA) has been more balanced in its areas of
support. In addition, it should be noted that EU funding has invariably been utilized to not only offset gaps
in funding for recurrent expenses, but critically, counterpart funding for sub-project activities. For the
period, the operating costs amounted to nearly 30% of the Fund's total expenditure.

The table below demonstrates over the five year period, personal emoluments as a percentage of total
expenses have declined in spite of the increase in staff complement that occurred during the design phase.
This can be attributed to the significant increase in the volume of sub-project implementation activity.

Given the relatively small size of the Fund and its initial approach in operating as both financier and
implementer of its own projects, it may have been impossible to expect that operating costs could have been
kept as low as 15%. Further, the personal emoluments alone represented an average of 13% of the Fund's
total expenditure for the five years.




                                                      - 47 -

(ii.) Cost Comparison of the Poverty Reduction Fund and Basic Needs Trust Fund

The PRF and the BNTF both serve to improve the quality of life among vulnerable communities and
persons in St. Lucia. Notwithstanding some of the differences in the approaches and operations of the two
Funds, it is useful to compare the average costs of their subprojects. Table 5 provides a comparison of the
average cost of various project types for the PRF and the BNTF. The data refers to projects implemented
by the PRF from 1999 to 2004 and 1998 to 2003.

The average cost of the PRF's water and educational projects is lower than that of the Basic Needs Trust
Fund. It must be noted however, that a limitation of this comparative analysis is that it fails to make
distinctions for specific project scopes within the general project types, for example water projects vary
from extension of existing systems, to establishment of new systems, or provision of water tanks.


(iii.) Actual versus estimated costs
A comparison of the actual and estimated costs of sub-projects is also useful in any attempt at determining
the cost effectiveness of the PRF operations. This analysis speaks to the effectiveness of the Fund's project
design, planning and project management mechanisms. Figure 1 below is a diagrammatic representation of
the Fund's performance in this regard for the financial year 2002 to 2003.

The graph demonstrates favorable performance by the PRF as the actual costs have not exceeded the
estimated costs in any of the cases. In the case of the Information Technology centers, we find that the
estimated and actual costs are the same. This due to the fact that these projects were implemented through
Community Contracting, a method that provides the total estimated costs to community committees in 3
disbursements or tranches. Comparing the approved budget of EC$2, 917, 950 (US$1, 085,466) with
actual costs of those completed projects, it is observed that there is a savings of EC$258, 052 (US$
95,994) or 8.8% of the approved budget.

4.       Major Factors Affecting Implementation

Counterpart funding  The fiscal challenges confronting GOSL during the period 1998  2004 have
impacted on the timeliness of disbursements of counterpart resources. Invariably, this meant that while
donor resources were available to facilitate expenditures particularly in respect of sub project activity, this
could not be effected without the requisite counterpart contributions. As a consequence, the (World Bank)
project experienced some delays in contractor and community payments.

Staffing  It was significant that over the life of the project, PRF was unable to retain the services of key
personnel, more specifically the Accountant and Chief Technical Officer. The inability of the project to
first attract and ultimately retain the services of such individuals was an inhibiting factor in the
implementation of the project through its effect on the decision making and supervisory responsibilities in
two key areas, namely financial management and scope and quality of sub project works.

Deficiencies in financial management capability - This feature of PRF operations did impact negatively
on the pace of implementation of the project in several ways. Firstly, it retarded the replenishment of the
Special Account, which in turn, affected sub project implementation. Secondly, it placed additional burden
on an already understaffed section which led to declining quality and timeliness of output.             These
limitations were also evident at the community level where the community contracting modality was being
utilized for sub-project implementation.

Limitations in community organizations  In the context of a time bound project intervention approach, it


                                                     - 48 -

was not always possible to provide community organizations with the requisite and constant level of
support and guidance to ensure effective participation in sub-project implementation. In some instances,
the concentration of authority in one individual as opposed to a group, did impact negatively on
implementation, but was nonetheless reflective of an environment where there were few community leaders
and few still willing to participate at that level.

5.       Sustainability
Level of Government commitment and policy framework  Over the course of the life of the PRF,
GOSL has demonstrated its commitment to its operations. In the first instance, counterpart funding has
been made available (albeit in an untimely manner on occasions) to facilitate both recurrent and capital
expenditures. More significantly though there has been an attempt to formulate an appropriate policy
framework that seeks to shape the country's social development agenda. In this regard, there have been
several key policy initiatives at varying levels of completion that have been undertaken over the life of PRF.
These include:-

        Social Policy for Human Development
        A review of Social Protection Programmes
        Local Government Reform
        Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy and Action Plan

In addition, several social development agencies have now been brought under the auspices of The
Ministry of Social Transformation (MOST) in an attempt to facilitate greater harmonization and
coordination of actions. The current challenge that confronts PRF is the task of locating the organization
within this newly emerging policy environment.

Technical and Environmental viability  As part of sub-project implementation, the PRF has always
placed a high value on the quality of works. In this regard, the Fund has sought to secure the services of
experienced contractors and supervisors.        As such, the PRF has received high commendation by its
stakeholders and other observers for the high standard of technical work produced and the general technical
viability. The majority of projects implemented by the PRF have been economic infrastructure, namely,
roads, footpaths, bridges etc. The integration of drainage works into each and every one of these activities
is a tacit indicator of the fund's commitment to and awareness of the environmental viability of its
interventions.

The process by which sub-project components were implemented ensures the adherence to pertinent
national standards which gives due consideration to the natural environment, as well as ensures the
structural integrity of built components for the safety of users. Further, in collaboration with Mossaic team
from the Bristol University which focused on localized environmental hazards caused by slope instability,
the PRF's technical capacity was enhanced to include the formation for hazard warning maps of potential
land slides for specific communities. However it is envisaged that there needs to be systematic monitoring
of a sustained maintenance program by the respective communities. The processes by which sub-project
components were implemented ensures the adherence of pertinent national standards which gives due
consideration to the natural environment, as well as ensures the

Transition arrangements for future PRF operations - With the completion of the World Bank funded
,project, it is encouraging to note that the European Union is committed to providing continued support to
PRF. Under the SFA modality, future funding over a further five year period is envisaged, while additional
funding under the Stabex mechanism is also likely. Moreover, in an effort to improve efficiency in the



                                                      - 49 -

distribution and use of EU resources, there have been initial discussions regarding utilizing PRF as the
delivery mechanism/conduit for all EU funded initiatives within the social development area. Finally, and as
a follow up to the successful Impact Evaluation Workshop (September 2004), attempts to solicit support
from non- traditional donors will be intensified.

6.       Lessons Learnt

Design -- While the LIL modality represented an ideal approach to implementing this project, there was a
gross underestimation of how long it would take to complete the design phase. This in turn would have
implications for the structure of the other phases of the project and the associated timelines for
implementation. In hindsight, if a three phased project was to remain, the project duration should have been
extended to five years to facilitate an appropriate period of piloting and consolidation. Alternatively, the
project should have been curtailed to include a design and pilot phase over a three year period.

Recruitment of staff  The difficulties in attracting and retaining key staff was a direct consequence of the
pegging of terms and conditions of employment to the Public Service as well as the fiscal pressures faced
by Government which meant that the recurrent allocation to PRF actually declined over time. Bank
financing of these key staff positions would have enable more competitive terms to be offered enabling the
organization to operate more efficiently and effectively in these critical aspects of operations.

MIS  The establishment of an elaborate MIS was no guarantee that data would be systematically
collected and utilized. The responsibilities associated with data/information collection and usage was
invariably viewed by most officers at PRF as falling under the purview of the Information Systems Officer
and/or the M&E Officer. Such an attitude is not unique to ,PRF, since there are very few organizations
within the country with highly developed MIS and even less with M&E Departments or Officers. Greater
attention should have been given to identifying/recruiting individuals with a greater sensitivity to the
importance of data/information. Moreover, a greater effort should have been made to orient staff to their
specific roles in the information management cycle.

Financial Management  A very limited approach to financial management was adopted for the better part
of the project life. It was only in the last year that a more comprehensive approach was being considered.
This approach focused on establishing an appropriate staff complement with clearly defined roles and
responsibilities, the provision of training and orientation for staff in critical areas of financial management
practices and procedures as well as a review of the suitability of the current software utilized.

Community Contracting  A key lesson learnt from the PRF's six years of operations is that
methodologies that encourage community management foster a greater level of participation and ownership
by beneficiaries. This lesson has direct implications for the sustainability of subprojects and indeed for
generating and sustaining high levels and good quality of social capital in communities. It has therefore
become apparent that the Community Contracting method of implementation needs to be encouraged as the
dominant mode of operations for the future activities of the PRF. At the same time the PRF needs to
strengthen its activities in some of the key elements of this method including training and monitoring of
financial management activities.

Sub-project implementation  Addressing deep-rooted problems and challenges at the community level
requires more sustained support both in terms of time frame and the range or scope of interventions. There
is thus a need for more holistic and integrated support to communities.




                                                      - 50 -

Community Ownership and sub-project maintenance - The PRF recognizes the need to improve its
efforts at encouraging community ownership and maintenance of sub-projects. This goal is integrally
related to the need to establish mechanisms for encouraging community contributions to sub-projects, and
for valuing these contributions so that they are reflected in the overall sub-project costs. While some effort
has been made in this regard for Community Contracting interventions, it is necessary to regularize these
initiatives.

Community Training Programmes  Indigenous PRF Community Project Committees (CPCs) are not
inevitable within communities.       There may be greater advantage to build and strengthen existing
community organizations, if any, for the sustainability of interventions. Moreover there is need for more
standardized and continuous training programmes throughout the life of the project.

7.       Donor Performance
The general assessment of donor performance in this project from a PRF perspective can be categorized as
very satisfactory. In the case of the World Bank there has been constant technical advice and support. The
output and results oriented nature of the Mission Visits and associated Aide Memoires, served as critical
monitoring tools which enabled PRF to systematically address the numerous challenges faced, particularly
in the design phase. The sole area of disappointment related tolerated to the responsiveness and nature of
interaction with the Disbursement Division of the Bank. It was only in the latter part of the project life (i.e.
October 2003) that some of the substantive issues associated with the preparation of Withdrawal of
Withdrawal Applications were resolved. It was evident that from that point onwards, the time lag between
submission and replenishment of applications was significantly reduced.

With respect to the EU, the nature of interaction was qualitatively different but no less invaluable. While
there was limited technical guidance and support given the novelty of the intervention, there was a clear
enthusiasm to document and learn from the experiences, which enabled a greater level of flexibility in the
use of resources (particularly STABEX resources). With the strengthening of capacity at the local office
and within the Delegation Office in Barbados there has been a significant increase in the level of technical
support provided to PRF.




                                                     - 51 -

                    Table 1: Annual Allocation to Social Development Agencies (XCD)

AGENCY    2000/2001     2001/2002         2002/2003          2003/2004        2004/2005      Total     %

BNTF       2,560,808     2,408,353        1,125,987          1,422,018        1,821,156    9,338,322  10.0

BELFUND    625,000        825,000         1,755,721           644,870          600,000     4,450,591   4.8

NCA        3,000,000     3,000,000        4,652,000          5,371,566        2,000,000   18,023,566  19.3

MOST       4,742,834     2,345,000        4,033,694          2,918,845        2,381,519   16,421,892  17.6

NELP       262,209        150,000           147,000           150,000          150,000     859,209     0.9

NSDC          n.a.       1,519,379          500,000           500,000         2,125,570    4,644,949   5.0

SLREP      2,805,511     2,449,620        3,151,947          1,833,910           n.a.     10,240,988  11.0

PRF        4,178,140     6,757,000        8,155,000          5,386,620        4,835,795   29,312,555  31.4

Total     18,174,502    19,454,352        23,521,349        18,227,829        13,914,040  93,292,072  100.0



                            Source : Estimates of Expenditure from 2000 - 2005




                                                - 52 -

                                    Table 2: PRF Partnerships with Agencies
INSTITUTION                         SCOPE OF PROJECT                                 TYPE OF BENEFICIARIES

St. Lucia Planned Parenthood        Reproductive health services; Institutional      Underprivileged persons
Association                         Support; Community sensitization

Cultural Development Foundation     Establishment of pan sheds; training of trainers Youth At Risk


Lady Gordon Opportunity Center      Institutional Support                            Persons with disabilities (hearing
                                                                                     impaired)

St. Lucia Blind Welfare Association Institutional Support                            Persons with disabilities (visually
                                                                                     impaired)

Upton Gardens Girls Centre          Institutional Support                            Youth At Risk (Females)

St. Lucia National Trust            Summer Camp for Kids: Environmental              Children in poor Communities
                                    Awareness

St. Lucia Nurses Association        Community Health Promotion Sensitization         Persons at risk in poor
                                    and Treatment                                    communities

Mongouge Club 60                    Provision of a Day Care Centre for the Elderly   Senior Citizens


Cornerstone Humanitarian Society    Refurbishment of Facility                        Homeless persons


St. Lucia Crisis Centre             Counselling and life Skills training for Clients Victims of domestic abuse


US Peace Corps                      PRF provides training to Volunteers in           Peace Corps Volunteers
                                    participatory community development
                                    approaches


Solid Waste Management              Environmental Awareness Sensitization            Persons in poor communities and
                                    programmes; Waste Management programmes          the general public



Water and Sewerage Company          Provision and upgrade of Water Systems           Poor communities with limited or
                                                                                     no access to water



National Skills Development Center  Skills training                                  Unemployed persons with limited
                                                                                     marketable skills

National Enrichment and Learning    Basic Literacy and Numeracy Classes              Unemployed persons; youth at
Unit (Min. of Educ.)                                                                 risk

Bureau of Public Health Education   Lifestyle Management Programme                   Persons at risk in poor
                                                                                     communities




                                                      - 53 -

              Table 3: Expenditure by Source and Project Component (ECD)

COMPONENT                  GOSL            EU             WB          TOTAL      %


Project Management        2,031,726     5,492,497       184,304      7,708,527   29.7

Institutional
Strengthening             298,199       1,878,063      1,444,767     3,621,029   14.0

Sub-Project
Financing                 234,854       9,875,835      4,485,220    14,595,909   56.3

Total                     2,564,779     17,246,395     6,114,291    25,925,465  100.0

           %                 9.9           66.5           23.6         100.0
                             Note: Figures up to February 2004


                 Table 4: Personal Emoluments Versus Total Expenditure


                                                                  Emoluments as %
            No. of         Personal                                    of Total
  Year       Staff        Emoluments         Total Expenditure       Expenditure
  1999         8            198,409               1,302,400              15%

  2000         10           251,407               4,330,201               6%

  2001         17           905,954               5,142,727              18%

  2002         19           935,313               6,080,523              15%

  2003         19           956,699               6,668,621              14%


                   Table 5: Comparison of Average Cost of PRF and BNTF Sub-projects

          Project type                  No. of Projects       Total Cost (USD)    Average Cost (USD)

                                        PRF       BNTF        PRF         BNTF      PRF      BNTF

Water                                   22          26       686,668     977,778   31,212   37,607

Roads, drains and footpaths             48          28      2,158,228    752,112   44,963   26,861

Public Facilities                        5          16       136,142     260,298   27,228   16,269

School expansion                        15          9        479,266     316,194   31,951   35,133




                                                    - 54 -

            Figure 1: Graph showing comparison between the Estimated and Actual Cost for the
                                                             completed projects


       $600,000.00




       $500,000.00




       $400,000.00



Cost   $300,000.00




       $200,000.00




       $100,000.00




               $-
                               Footpa  Footpa  Road      Road,    Road,    B ridges Informa  Comm                                           P roduc
                      Drainag                                                                       School Health         Forestr
                        e      th and  th and    and    footpat  footpat     and      tion   unity    s    Units  Water   y (SFA ) Sports     tive
                               Drains  Drains  drains    h and    h and    roadwo   technol centres                                         infrastr

       Estimated Cost $250,00  $513,73 $550,00 $ 154,55 $53,915.  $ 100,00 $291,314 $231,615  $-     $-     $-    $599,39   $-     $173,411.  $-

       Actual Cost    $ 185,90 $450,89 $505,71 $ 135,06 $ 36,808. $94,961. $ 291,22 $231,615  $-     $-           $571,73   $-     $155,971   $-

                                                                                Project Type




                                                                                 - 55 -

- 56 -

