Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3277-SLU
Development Credit Agreement
(Poverty Reduction Fund Project)
between
SAINT LUCIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 22, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3277-SLU 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 22, 1999, between SAINT LUCIA (the Borrower) and the 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank has agreed to provide such assistance in an 
aggregate principal amount equivalent to one million five hundred thousand dollars 
($1,500,000) (the Loan); and 
(C)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the credit provided for in this Agreement (the Credit) be disbursed on 
account of expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds 
of the Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made; and
(D)
the Project will be carried out by the Poverty Reduction Fund (PRF) with 
the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to PRF the proceeds of the Credit, as set forth in this Agreement, as well 
as the proceeds of the Loan, as set forth in the Loan Agreement; and 
Page  2
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith among the Association, the Bank 
and PRF (the Project Agreement); 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows;
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through December 2, 
1997 (the General Conditions) with the following modification constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement:
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 is modified to read as follows: 
"(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such 
scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall reasonably request, on 
the execution and initial operation of 
the Project, its cost and the benefits 
derived and to be derived from it, the 
performance by the Borrower and 
the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Credit Agreement 
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Consolidation Phase” means the phase of the Project taking place after 
the Pilot Phase (as defined below) through the financing of a full program of 
community Subprojects under Part B (2) of the Project;  
(b)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2) (a), (b), (3), and (4) 
(a), (b), (c) set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(d)
“Loan Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans of the Bank”, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) as applied to such agreement, and all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement;
(e)
“MIS” means the Project’s management information system referred to in 
Section 2.08 (a) of the Project Agreement;  
(f)
“Monitoring Indicators” means the Project’s progress and performance 
indicators set forth in the letter of even date herewith from the Borrower to the 
Association; 
(g)
“Pilot Phase” means the phase of the Project during which the operational 
viability of the mechanisms and methodologies designed under Part A of the Project is 
tested through the carrying out of Subprojects (as defined below) under Part B (1) of 
the Project; 
(h)
“PRF” means the Poverty Reduction Fund established pursuant to the 
Poverty Reduction Fund Act No.7 of April 27, 1998;  
(i)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association, the Bank 
and PRF of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
Page  3
(j)
“Project Implementation Plan” means the plan, submitted to the 
Association through a letter of even date herewith, referred to in Section 2.01 (b) 
(i) of the Project Agreement;
(k)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement;
(l)
“Provisional Operations Manual” means the manual, referred to in Section 
2.01 (b) (ii) of the Project Agreement;
(m)
“Revised Operations Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 2.01 
(b) (iii) of the Project Agreement; 
(n)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
(o)
“Subproject” means any community-based, demand driven, small-scale 
subproject for: (i) the construction, expansion or improvement of basic social and 
economic infrastructure (such as schools, health centers, water supply and sanitation 
systems, small scale community infrastructure, and environmental infrastructure); (ii) 
social assistance programs; (iii) community capacity-building; or (iv) any other 
investments for productive purposes as the Association may agree, which is eligible 
for financing by PRF in accordance with the provisions of the Provisional Operations 
Manual or the Revised Operations Manual, depending on whether the Subproject is 
financed under the Pilot Phase or the Consolidation Phase, respectively; 
(p)
“Subproject Implementing Entity” means any of the following which meets 
the criteria set forth in the Provisional Operations Manual or the Revised Operations 
Manuals to be eligible for carrying out a Subproject: (i) an individual or individuals 
(representing a community); or (ii) any entity with legal personality; 
(q)
“Subproject M&E” means the monitoring and evaluation arrangements for the 
Subprojects referred to in Section 2.08 (b) of the Project Agreement; and
(r)
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and PRF pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, and such term 
includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Agreement. 
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to a Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to PRF. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to one million two hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 1,200,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
Page  4
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 2009 and ending March 15, 
2034. Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2019 
shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.09. The Executive Director of PRF and any person or persons whom he or 
she shall designate in writing is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Page  5
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause PRF to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Agreement all of the obligations of PRF therein set forth, shall take and 
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services 
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable PRF to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit, the Loan, and any 
counterpart funds, available to PRF under a Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and PRF, under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Association, which shall include PRF’s obligation to carry out the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and of the Project 
Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Association and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by PRF 
pursuant to Section 2.03 (a) of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall include in its annual budget proposals, during each year 
of the execution of the Project, the necessary funding of its share of PRF investment 
costs, PRF’s operating costs, and any incremental recurrent costs required for PRF 
investment, as provided in the Project Implementation Plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements 
of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year 
in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
Page  6
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Association as soon as 
available, 
but in any case not later than four months after the end of 
each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by 
said auditors as to whether the Project 
Management reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the 
related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Association such other 
information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof 
as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Poverty Reduction Fund Act No.7 of April 27, 1998 or any provision 
thereof shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived, or not 
enforced in such a manner so as to materially and adversely affect, in the opinion of 
the Association, the ability of PRF to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement;
(b)
PRF shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement; and
(c)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Credit 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that PRF will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely:
(a)
that the event specified in Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement shall 
occur; or (b) that the event specified in Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement shall 
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have 
been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and 
PRF; 
(b)
the financial management system, referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of the 
Project Agreement, has been established to the satisfaction of the Association; 
(c)
appropriate procurement documents to be used in carrying out the Project 
have been established, in consultation with the Association; and 
(d)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, 
other than the effectiveness of this Development Credit Agreement, have been 
fulfilled.
Page  7
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
(a)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, 
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and PRF and is legally binding 
upon the Borrower and PRF in accordance with its terms; and 
(b)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and 
executed and delivered on behalf of, PRF and is legally binding upon PRF in accordance 
with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date October 22, 1999 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Prime Minister and Minister of Finance and Planning of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Office of the Prime Minister
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Government Building, 3rd Floor
Waterfront
P.O. Box 709
CASTRIES
St. Lucia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
SAINT LUCIA
By /s/ Sonia Johnny 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  8
By /s/ Zafer Ecevit
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds 
of the Credit and the Loan 
A.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan and 
of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   Amount of the
   % of
Credit Allocated
of the Loan Allocated
Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in SDR)
 (Expressed in USD)
to be 
Financed
(1)
Works under
25,000
35,000
90%
Part A.4 of the 
Project
(2)
Works and Goods
for Subprojects
(a) under Part B.1 
      230,000
      260,000
90%
of the Project
(b) under Part B.2
      525,000
      600,000
90%
of the Project
(3)
Goods under Part A
30,000
40,000
100% of 
foreign
of the Project
expenditures, 
100% 
of local 
expenditures
(ex-factory 
cost) 
and 85% of 
local
expenditures 
for
other items 
procured 
locally
(4)
Consultants’
Services (including
Auditing Services)
and Training:
(a) under Parts
     165,000
      250,000
100%
A and C of the
Project
(b) under Part B.1
75,000
      100,000
100%
of the Project
(c) under Part B.2
      150,000
      200,000
100%
of the Project
(5)
Fee
15,000
Amount due 
under Section 
2.04
Page  9
of the Loan
Agreement 
     ________
     ________
    TOTAL
    1,200,000
    1,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; 
and 
(c)
the term “training” means the cost of tuition fees, travel and per-diem 
of trainers and participants, training materials, rental of facilities, and equipment 
and other costs related to training, including workshops and study tours, to be 
carried out under the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $ 300,000, 
may be made in respect of Categories (1), (3), and (4) (a) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures incurred 
within the twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement but after September 30, 
1998; (b) payments for any Subproject under Part B.1 of the Project unless: (A) the 
Provisional Operations Manual; (B) the MIS; and (C) the Subproject M&E, have been 
adopted; and (c) payments for any Subproject under Part B.2 of the Project unless the 
Revised Operations Manual has been adopted. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit and the Loan Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, works 
and services in respect of which prior review is not required in accordance with the 
provisions of Section I, Part C.2, and Section II, Part D.2 of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account 
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of the Project Agreement; and (ii) a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02 (b) of the Project Agreement, accompanied by a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this 
Schedule 1. 
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Page  10
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of the Project Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports. 
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Not Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex: the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
equivalent to $300,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On 
Page  11
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after 
and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $600,000.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to develop the institutional and 
operational framework of PRF; (b) to test PRF’s ability to increase access to basic 
social and economic infrastructure and services among the poor and the vulnerable, in 
accordance with their demands; (c) to contribute to the sustainability of such 
infrastructure and services; and (d) to foster and build capacity for community-led 
development initiatives.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Page  12
Part A:
Institutional Strengthening of PRF
Institutional strengthening of PRF through: 
1.
the provision of technical assistance (including analyses, training, workshops, 
and study tours) for PRF as well as its partners (such as other government agencies, 
community organizations, non-governmental organizations, and the private sector) and 
of equipment and materials to design, develop and strengthen the institutional, 
technical, and operational framework of PRF (including, but not limited to, design a 
Provisional and a Revised Operations Manual, an MIS, and a Subproject M&E); 
2.
the provision of technical assistance, and incidental materials in order to 
assist PRF in conducting a study to assess community-level socio-dynamics and the 
priority needs of the poor (social assessment); 
3.
the provision of technical assistance, equipment and materials in order to: (a) 
develop methodologies and instruments for monitoring and evaluating PRF’s impact; (b) 
assist PRF in engaging stakeholders in a consultative learning process on the role and 
the design of PRF; and (c) provide inputs for a broader poverty alleviation strategy; 
and 
4.
the financing of works for the preparation and rehabilitation of PRF’s offices.
Part B:
Subproject Financing 
1.
Financing and carrying out of Subprojects during the Pilot Phase, including the 
provision of technical assistance in the design, appraisal, and supervision of such 
Subprojects; and 
2.
financing and carrying out of Subprojects during the Consolidation Phase, 
including the provision of technical assistance in the design, appraisal, and 
supervision of such Subprojects.
Part C:
Project Management 
Provision of external auditing services for the purpose of carrying out the 
audits referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement and Section 4.01 of the Project 
Agreement. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
