Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3277-SLU
LOAN NUMBER 4508-SLU
Project Agreement
(Poverty Reduction Fund Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
POVERTY REDUCTION FUND
Dated July 22, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3277-SLU
LOAN NUMBER 4508-SLU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 22, 1999, among the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association), the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank), and POVERTY REDUCTION FUND (PRF).
WHEREAS (A)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Saint Lucia (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make 
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one million 
two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,200,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
PRF agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in 
this Agreement;
Page  2
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Saint Lucia (the 
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an 
amount equal to one million five hundred thousand Dollars ($1,500,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that PRF agree 
to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(C)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
PRF, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement 
and the proceeds of the loan provided under the Loan Agreement will be made available 
to PRF on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Agreement; and
WHEREAS PRF, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower and the Bank’s entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this 
Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined in the Development Credit 
Agreement and the Loan Agreement) have the respective meanings therein set forth, and, 
wherever used in this Agreement, references to the Association, the Credit and the 
Credit Account shall also be deemed to be references to the Bank, the Loan and the 
Loan Account, respectively (except in Part A.2 of Section I of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement and Part A.2 of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement).
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) PRF declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, public health, education, 
sanitation and environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation to Section 2.01 (a) above, PRF shall:
(i)
carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Plan, 
containing, inter alia, a detailed, 
time-bound action plan for activities to 
be carried out under the 
Project, guidelines for the preparation of the 
Provisional 
Operations Manual, and the staffing requirements under the 
Project;
(ii)
carry out Part B (1) of the Project in accordance with a manual 
satisfactory 
to the Association, containing, inter alia: (i) the 
eligibility criteria and 
the rules and procedures for preparing, 
identifying, appraising, approving, 
implementing, supervising, and 
evaluating Subprojects under the Pilot Phase; 
(ii) a model of the 
arrangements to be entered into between PRF and the 
Subproject 
Implementing Entities; and (iii) the guidelines and procedures to 
be 
followed by PRF in carrying out the environmental evaluations of the 
Subprojects during such Pilot Phase; and
(iii)
carry out Part B (2) of the Project in accordance with a revised 
manual 
satisfactory to the Association, incorporating final 
revisions to the 
Provisional Operations Manual after testing 
under the Pilot Phase, and 
including, inter alia: (i) the 
eligibility criteria and the rules and 
procedures for preparing, 
Page  3
identifying, appraising, approving, implementing, 
supervising, and 
evaluating Subprojects under the Consolidation Phase; (ii) a 
model 
of the arrangements to be entered into between PRF and the Subproject 
Implementing Entities; and (iii) the guidelines and procedures to be followed 
by PRF in carrying out the environmental evaluations of the Subprojects during 
such Consolidation Phase.
(c)
PRF shall not amend, modify, waive, or alter in way, any provision of the 
Project Implementation Plan, or of the Provisional or the Revised Operations Manuals, 
without the prior consent of the Association.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) PRF shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions referred to in Section 
1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement and in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 
and 9.09 of the General Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
Agreement.
(b)
PRF shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish 
to the Association not later than six (6) months before the 
Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Association and 
PRF, a plan for the future operation of 
the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with PRF on 
said plan.
Section 2.04. PRF shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, PRF shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) PRF shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
PRF shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by PRF of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement.
Section 2.06. PRF shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Monitoring Indicators, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association,  reports, the first not later than November 30, 1999, the 
second not later than November 30, 2000, and the third not later than May 31, 2002, 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities carried out by it 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Project during the period preceding the dates of such reports, setting out 
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such dates, and 
including a list of persons and entities benefiting from the Project; and
(c)
review with the Association, no later than December 31, 1999, December 
Page  4
31, 2000, and June 30, 2002, or such later date as the Association shall request, the 
reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, respectively, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said reports and the Association's views on the matter. PRF shall invite to 
participate in such reviews with the Association the persons and entities listed in 
the respective reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.
Section 2.07. In the event that the environmental evaluation of a particular 
Subproject recommends actions to be taken by PRF and/or the Subproject Implementing 
Entity to address any negative environmental impact, PRF shall take, or cause the 
Subproject Implementing Entity to take, all such actions as required by the 
Provisional or the Revised Operations Manual.
Section 2. 08. Without limitation to Section 2.06 (a) of this Agreement, once 
established pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of Part A of Schedule 1 to the Development 
Credit Agreement, PRF, shall maintain, until the completion of the Project:
(a)
a management information system satisfactory to the Association, 
containing, inter alia, information regarding: (i) those financial aspects of the 
Project necessary to maintain the financial management system referred to in Section 
4.01 and Section 4.02 of this Agreement; (ii) the unit costs of the Project; and (iii) 
the Subproject portfolio.
(b)
a monitoring and evaluation arrangement satisfactory to the Association, 
setting forth: (i) the monitoring and evaluation indicators for the Subprojects; and 
(ii) the instruments and methodologies for measuring these indicators.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of PRF
Section 3.01. Until completion of the Project, PRF shall: (a) carry on its 
operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, 
engineering, public health, education, sanitation and environmental practices; (b) 
maintain an executive director and other key staff, including an accountant and a 
person responsible for Project coordination, assisted by competent staff in adequate 
numbers, with experience and qualifications which shall be at all times acceptable to 
the Association; and (c) inform and consult with the Association with respect to the 
substitution of the executive director, any other managerial or key staff of PRF prior 
to such substitution.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) PRF shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
accounting standards acceptable to the Association consistently applied, adequate to 
reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
PRF shall: 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than four months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section, for such 
year as so audited; and (B) an opinion 
on such statements and report of such 
audit, by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
Page  5
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, 
accounts and financial statements, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from 
time to time reasonably request. 
(c)
Without limitation to the provisions Section 4.01 (b) (ii) (B) of this 
Agreement, PRF shall ensure that the opinion referred to in said Section shall include 
an opinion on PRF’s compliance with its obligations under this Agreement, the relevant 
Operations Manuals, and the applicable procurement guidelines.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, PRF shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association 
for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project in order to 
enable PRF, not later than December 31, 1999, or such later date as the Association 
shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the 
Association, each of which: 
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report; and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by said 
report; 
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report; and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, PRF shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of 
each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
PRF thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following dates:
(i)
the date on which both the Development Credit Agreement and the 
Loan Agreement 
shall have terminated in accordance with their terms; 
or
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement terminates in 
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this 
Section, the Association shall promptly notify PRF of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions 
applicable to the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement.
Page  6
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For PRF:
79 Brazil Street
Castries
Saint Lucia, West Indies
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Bank: 
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America 
Cable address:                          
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD                          248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.                    64145 (MCI)
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of PRF may be 
taken or executed by The Executive Director of PRF or such other person or persons as 
he or she shall designate in writing, and PRF shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Zafer Ecevit
Acting Regional Vice President
Page  7
Latin America and Caribbean
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Zafer Ecevit
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and Caribbean
POVERTY REDUCTION FUND
By /s/ Curtis Greer
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines), and the provisions of the following Parts of Section I 
of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in Part B.4 and 5 of this Section, works 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Procurement of all works under Part B.1 (a) above shall be carried out 
using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Association. 
2.
International Shopping 
Contracts for vehicles, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $20,000 
equivalent, shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines. 
3.
National Shopping 
Goods (other than vehicles), up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000 
equivalent, shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines. 
4.
Community Participation 
Works required for Part B of the Project estimated to cost less than $150,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured in accordance with community participation 
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Page  8
5.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works under Part A.4 and Part B of the Project, estimated to cost less than 
$150,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract, irrespective of value, procured under Part 
B.1 above, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to: (i) the first two contracts for works, irrespective of 
value, procured under Part B.4 above; (ii) the first two contracts for works, 
irrespective of value, procured under Part B.5 above; (iii) the first contract for 
goods procured under Part B.2 above; and (iv) the first contract for goods procured 
under B.3 above, the following procedures shall apply: (i) prior to the selection of 
any supplier or contractor under Parts B.2, B.3, and B.5 above, PRF shall provide to 
the Association a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received; (ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured, PRF shall provide to the Association 
a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and (iii)
the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997, and 
revised in September 1997 and in January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Page  9
Services under Parts A, B, and C of the Project, estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
procured under Part B above, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and (other 
than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
procured under Part C.1 above estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of 
paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
