                                  Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                 Report No: ICR00001946



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IBRD-72930)



                                    ON A

                                    LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF

                              US$260 MILLION


                                   TO THE

                         REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA

                                   FOR A

       NATIONAL DISASTER VULNERABILITY REDUCTION PROJECT

                             (FIRST PHASE APL)



                                 June 9, 2014




Sustainable Development Department
Mexico and Colombia Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective February 4, 2014)

                          Currency Unit = Colombian Peso
                            US$ 1.00 = COP$ 2,046.50

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 – December 31


                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


APL        Adaptable Program Loan
CAR        Corporación Autónoma Regional, Regional Government Body
CAT DDO    Catastrophic Deferred Drawdown Option
CEPAL      Comisión Económica para América Latina y el Caribe
CLOPAD     Comités Locales para la Prevención y Atención de Desastres
CONPES     Consejo Nacional de Política Económica y Social, National Council of Social
           and Economic Policy
DDT        Dirección de Desarrollo Territorial
DGPAD      Dirección General de Prevención y Atención de Desastres
DNP        Departamento Nacional de Planeación, National Planning Department
DRIS       Disaster Risk Information System
DPL        Development Policy Loan
DRM        Disaster Risk Management
ECLAC      Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean
ECOPETROL Empresa Colombiana de Petróleos
ESW        Economic Sector Work
FEMA       U.S. Federal Emergency Management Agency
FM         Financial Management
GFDRR      Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery
GoC        Government of Colombia
GPC        Contingency Planning Group
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR        Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDB        Inter-American Development Bank
IDEAM      Instituto de Hidrología, Meteorología y Estudios Ambientales, Institute of
           Hydrology, Meteorology and Environment Studies
IGAC       Instituto Geográfico Agustín Codazzi
INGEOMINAS Instituto Colombiano de Geología y Minería, Institute of Geology and Mining
INVIAS     Instituto Nacional de Vías, National Institute of Roads
ISR        Implementation Supervision Report
MADS     Ministerio de Ambiente y Desarrollo Sostenible, Ministry of Environment
         and Sustainable Development
MAVDT    Ministerio de Ambiente, Vivienda y Desarrollo Territorial, Ministry of
         Environment, Housing and Territorial Development
MHCP     Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público, Ministry of Finance and Public
         Credit
MI       Ministerio del Interior, Ministry of Interior
MTR      Mid-Term Review
MVCT     Ministerio de Vivienda, Ciudad y Territorio, Ministry of Housing, Cities
         and Territory
N/A      Not Applicable
NDP      National Development Plan
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDM      Plan de Desarrollo Municipal, Municipal Development Plan
PDO      Project Development Objective
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PNGRD    Plan Nacional de Gestión de Riesgo de Desastres, National DRM Plan
PNPAD    National Plan for Disaster Prevention and Response
POA      Plan Operativo Anual, Annual Operations Plan
POMCA    Watershed Land Use and Management Plan
POT      Plan de Ordenamiento Territorial, Territorial Land Use Plan
RF       Results Framework
SECO     Swiss State Secretariat for Economic Affairs
SGC      Servicio Geológico de Colombia, Geological Services of Colombia
SIGPAD   National Disaster Risk Information System developed under UNGRD
SNPAD    Sistema Nacional para la Prevención y Atención de Desastres de
         Colombia, National System for Disaster Response and Prevention
SNGRD    Sistema Nacional para la Gestión del Riesgo de Desastres
TA       Technical Assistance
UNGRD    Unidad Nacional para la Gestión del Riesgo de Desastres, National Unit
         for Disaster Risk Management
WB       World Bank




                     Vice President:      Jorge Familiar Calderon
                   Country Director:      Gloria M. Grandolini
                    Sector Manager:       Anna Wellenstein
               Project Team Leader:       Michel Matera
                  ICR Team Leader:        Van Anh Vu Hong
                                      COLOMBIA
          National Disaster Vulnerability Reduction Project (First Phase APL) *



                                                      CONTENTS


Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

                                                                                                                          Page

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 1 
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 5 
3. Assessment of Outcomes ................................................................................................ 9 
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 15 
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 16 
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 19 
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 21 

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 23 
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 24 
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 38 
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 41 
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 43 
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................... 44 
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 45 
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 52 
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 53 
MAP (IBRD 33388R1) ..................................................................................................... 56 


* Name of the project as it appears in the Loan Agreement. The Project Appraisal Document refers to the
project as the “Natural Disaster Vulnerability Reduction Project”. The Bank information system refers to
the project as “Disaster Vulnerability Reduction Project First Phase APL”.
                                     DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information
                                                                           Disaster Vulnerability
Country:                Colombia                 Project Name:             Reduction First Phase
                                                                           APL
Project ID:             P082429                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-72930
ICR Date:               06/09/2014               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                      Borrower:
                                                                           COLOMBIA
Original Total
                        USD 260.00M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 102.76M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 102.76M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
 Ministry of Housing, Cities, and Territory
 Ministry of Environment and Sustainable Development
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process             Date              Process              Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       06/26/2003      Effectiveness:             11/29/2005        11/29/2005
                                                                                   05/21/2009
                                                                                   03/12/2010
Appraisal:            10/19/2004      Restructuring(s):                            12/13/2011
                                                                                   05/10/2012
                                                                                   07/11/2013
Approval:             05/10/2005      Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:                   12/31/2011        12/15/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Flood protection                                                      35                   14
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                      16
General education sector                                               6                      1
General public administration sector                                  23                      4
Information technology                                                                     15
Roads and highways                                                    20
Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways                              20                   66


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Natural disaster management                                           100                100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Jorge Familiar Calderon              Pamela Cox
Country Director:          Gloria M. Grandolini                 Isabel M. Guerrero
Sector Manager:            Anna Wellenstein                     Jose Luis Irigoyen
Project Team Leader:       Michel Matera                        Tova M. Solo
ICR Team Leader:           Van Anh Vu Hong
ICR Primary Author:        Isabel Kreisler Moreno
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The PDO from the PAD is to "strengthen national and local disaster risk management
capacity". The PDO from the Loan Agreement is to "assist the Borrower in the
strengthening of its national capacity for reducing the fiscal vulnerability to national
disasters and mitigate the negative impact of possible effects derived from such disasters".
The analysis will be based on the PDO of the Loan Agreement.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
N/A

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally      Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                approval          Target      Completion or
                                               documents)         Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :     % of municipalities have prepared hazard risk management programs
Value
quantitative or 10                        20% or 210         58% or 632 75% or 824
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/29/2005                  10/17/2011         12/13/2011     08/31/2013
                The Results Framework of the Project was developed around the PDO of the
Comments
                PAD: "strengthening national and local disaster risk management capacity".
(incl. %
                130% achievement.
achievement)
                (Baseline shown as 0 until the 12th ISR approved in 2010).

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                             Formally
                                             Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                         Revised
                                               approval                          Completion or
                                                           Target Values
                                              documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1 :     % of the SNPAD integrated to DRIS
Value
(quantitative     0                         100%                               14%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/06/2005                10/17/2011                         08/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %          14% achievement.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     % of municipalities are educated, trained and aware of hazard risk reduction
Value
(quantitative     No baseline               60%                100% or 1,098 95% or 1,044
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/19/2005                10/17/2011         12/13/2011      08/31/2013
Comments          95% achievement.
(incl. %          Initially (and until the 2011 restructuring), the indicator was "% of municipalities
achievement)      received guidelines and/or workshops for hazard risk reduction" (cf. PAD)
                  (i) National policy defining Gov. responsibility in disaster management &
                  reconstruction; (ii) Resettlement policy guidelines for settlements in high risk
Indicator 3 :
                  zones; (iii) 2 policy proposals by DGR to update 1988 Law 46 & 1989 Decree
                  Law 919. (Measure is Y/N)
Value
(quantitative     N                          Y                   Y               Y (Partial)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/19/2005                   10/17/2011         12/13/2011       08/31/2013
Comments          Partial achievement.
(incl. %          Initially, the indicator was simply (i). Then the 2010 restructuring changed it to
achievement)      simply (ii). Finally, the 2011 restructuring proposed (i) (ii) and (iii).
                  % of municipalities have received in-depth environmental education for risk
Indicator 4 :
                  awareness
Value
(quantitative     No baseline                30%                 10% or 112      6% or 68
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/19/2005                  10/17/2011           12/13/2011      08/31/2013
Comments          61% achievement.
(incl. %          Initially (and until the 2011 restructuring), the indicator was "% of municipalities
achievement)      are educated, trained and aware of hazard risk reduction" (cf. PAD)
                  Policy recommendations to reduce Government risk exposure developed ("Policy
Indicator 5 :     Guidelines for Financial Protection Mechanisms against Disasters") and final
                  action plan adopted by MHCP by the end of the project. (Measure is Y/N)
Value
(quantitative   N                            Y                                   Y
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/19/2005                     10/17/2011                          08/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        100% achievement.
achievement)



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
                                                                                      Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                                DO                          IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                  (USD millions)
  1     11/01/2005       Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory                 0.00
  2     05/12/2006           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      11.68
  3     12/12/2006           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      13.85
  4     01/29/2007           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      31.57
  5     06/11/2007           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      32.05
  6     12/14/2007           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      35.09
  7     06/12/2008           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      40.88
  8     11/19/2008           Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory               41.28
  9    05/12/2009        Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            50.51
 10    07/22/2009        Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            50.51
 11    01/22/2010        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                   80.98
 12    10/05/2010        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                   82.88
 13    06/28/2011        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                   87.55
 14    02/13/2012        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                   89.77
 15    10/03/2012        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                   94.19
 16    04/24/2013        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                   97.29
 17    11/28/2013        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  102.92


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Cancel the US$150 million
                                                     contingent credit part, which the
 05/21/2009       N       S      MS          50.51   Borrower had replaced with the
                                                     DRM DPL-Cat DDO (Board
                                                     approval in Dec. 2008).
                                                     (i) Restructure the project with a
                                                     request from the Borrower to
                                                     reallocate US$5.5 million with
                                                     the purpose of intensifying the
                                                     technical assistance to
 03/12/2010       N       S       S          80.98   municipalities, and increasing
                                                     the support to modernize
                                                     seismic and volcanologic
                                                     monitoring network; (ii) Clarify
                                                     and propose changes to the
                                                     Results Framework.
                                                     (i) Reallocate US$16.13 million
                                                     from disbursement Category 2
                                                     to 1; (ii) Extend closing date by
                                                     20 months; (iii) Increase the
                                                     Special Account Quota for
 12/13/2011       N       S       S          89.77
                                                     Category 1 from US$2 million
                                                     to US$4.5 million; and (iv)
                                                     Propose changes to the Results
                                                     Framework (indicators and
                                                     targets).
                                                     Re-issue a revised amendment
                                                     letter (because the Bank had not
 05/10/2012       N       S       S          91.63
                                                     received a countersigned copy
                                                     of the amendment letter
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     reflecting the approved changes
                                                     proposed in the 2011
                                                     restructuring within the
                                                     established time frame of 90
                                                     days and the offer of the
                                                     amendment was withdrawn),
                                                     with additional changes
                                                     regarding the implementation
                                                     arrangements for Part D, taking
                                                     into account the new
                                                     Government structure.
                                                     Extend the closing date by 3.5
                                                     months to complete project
 07/11/2013       N       S       S          99.79   evaluation and financial audit.
                                                     Revised closing date approved
                                                     was Dec. 15, 2013.




I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      Country context. Colombia is highly prone to natural disasters due to its location
straddling the Andean mountain region and Pacific “belt of fire”. Beyond this geo-
morphological exposure, Colombia’s vulnerability to natural hazards is exacerbated
by a high rate of urbanization and by the location of major cities in areas of risk. Climatic
variability is also likely to increase and further aggravate the country’s exposure to floods,
erosion, landslide and drought. This level of vulnerability was already high at Appraisal
(from a wider historical overview, Colombia had been hit by a disaster of national scale
once every four to six years).

2.     Loss and damage resulting from the impacts of extreme natural events
(compromising livelihoods, provision of services, public infrastructure, and also
macroeconomic stability) had mostly been absorbed by the State with a growing share of
the national budget being conceded – thus posing a serious threat to the fiscal
sustainability of the country and its development plans.

3.      Sector Context. Colombia had made policy progress in the DRM agenda
before the project. To make its strategy fully effective, further development was needed
and the Government requested the Bank’s support for a 10-year program to reduce
disaster vulnerability at the national level and in key municipalities.

4.      Following the recommendation from the Economic Sector Work (ESW) carried
out by the Colombian Government and the World Bank (WB) in 2002 analyzing
earthquake vulnerability and the potential for insurance coverage, the Ministry of Finance
and Public Credit (MHCP) established a Contingency Planning Group (GPC) with the
purpose of developing a strategy to cover financial catastrophic risk exposure. The
ESW found the penetration of risk transfer mechanisms in both public and private sectors
to be relatively shallow while State fiscal vulnerability to disaster risk was relatively high.
Furthermore, the short-term fiscal balance of the State would be severely affected, should
a natural disaster occur in any of Colombia’s major cities, since it would have to finance
reconstruction needs precisely at a time when national income would drop.

5.     Following the ratification of the National Plan for Disaster Prevention and
Response (PNPAD), the Government encouraged line agencies and state-owned
companies to carry out risk analysis, and identify and implement measures to mitigate
vulnerability to disasters in lifeline infrastructure, an area where damages can be
associated with high costs in lives and productivity.

6.     Rationale for Bank’s assistance. The Bank and the Government of Colombia
(GoC) have built a long-lasting partnership since the late 1990s, with the Bank playing
a prominent role in financing DRM and reconstruction programs (US$265 million
dedicated to disaster reconstruction over the three decades preceding Appraisal).

7.    Regarding risk reduction, the Bank has regional expertise and the projects in
Honduras, Nicaragua and Saint Lucia had pioneered methodologies for integrating risk



                                              1
analysis and reduction measures (as economic investments) into urban and regional
development planning. This experience had already been assimilated by the Colombian
Ministry of Environment, Housing and Territorial Development (MAVDT) in its
program to support the municipalities in mainstreaming risk analysis in land use planning
and in the Municipal Development Plans (PDMs).

8.     Finally, the Bank’s knowledge in the area of residual risk and financial
contingency planning had significantly been contributing to the policy dialogue
concerning Government usage of risk transfer instruments to protect fiscal resources and
to smooth expenditures generated from catastrophic losses.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

9.      The PDO of the Loan Agreement is “to assist the Borrower in the strengthening
of its national capacity for reducing the fiscal vulnerability to national disasters and
mitigate the negative impact of possible effects derived from such disasters”. The PDO
found in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and in the Results Framework is “to
strengthen national and local DRM capacity”. It is part of an overall program objective of
“[reducing] the fiscal vulnerability of the State to adverse natural events by strengthening
national capacity to manage disaster risk and by reducing vulnerability in key
municipalities which combine high exposure to disaster risk and high contributions to
national income and productivity” (cf. PAD).

10.    The lending instrument conceived was an Adaptable Program Loan (APL)
composed of three phases, the first one (APL1) corresponding to the project subject to
evaluation in this Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR). The overall
program would address national concerns through APL1, and reach at least two
metropolitan areas (of the four that are critical to the national economy and considered
most vulnerable to disasters) through APL2 and APL3.

11.     The ICR will assess achievement of results against the PDO of the Loan
Agreement, based on the Results Framework (RF) found in the PAD. The RF was
developed around the PDO of the PAD and relied on the following outcome indicators:
(a) Policy statement or CONPES issued by the Government, defining the responsibility of
the State for covering losses generated by natural disasters; (b) Key municipalities have
prepared risk reduction investment plans.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

12.     The PDO remained unchanged during project implementation. The indicators
slightly changed over the course of the 2010 and 2011 restructurings (including for the
CONPES outcome indicator which was taken out as it was reflected in the intermediate
indicator for Component C). The targets were formally revised, without affecting the
scope of the project but expanding the reach of activities under Components A, B, C and
D.




                                             2
             1.4 Main Beneficiaries

             13.     According to the PAD, the primary beneficiary was the national Government,
             responsible for DRM and for providing support to the local level. APL1 was designed to
             focus on supporting the national institutions, and the direct beneficiaries were: the
             National System for Disaster Response and Prevention (SNPAD), the National Planning
             Department (DNP), MAVDT, MHCP, and technical agencies such as the Institute for
             Hydrology, Meteorology and Environment Studies (IDEAM), the Institute of Geology
             and Mining (INGEOMINAS, later renamed as SGC for Geological Services of
             Colombia), the National Unit for Disaster Risk Management (UNGRD), the state-owned
             enterprise ECOPETROL and the National Institute of Roads (INVIAS). The indirect
             beneficiaries were municipal authorities across the country (benefiting from services
             provided by the national institutions), and the communities and vulnerable groups located
             in areas particularly exposed to natural hazards.

             1.5 Original Components (as approved in PAD)

             14.      The project consisted of five components corresponding to the five lines of action
             promoted by the Government, and followed three disbursement categories1: Component
             A for Disaster Risk Identification (US$6.2 million under Category 1); Component B for
             Disaster Risk Reduction (US$102.5 million under Category 1 and 2); Component C for
             Institutional Development (US$0.8 million under Category 1); Component D for
             Awareness and Preparedness (US$0.2 million under Category 1); and Component E for
             Risk Financing (US$150.3 million under Category 1 and 3).

             1.6 Revised Components

             15.     Project implementation started in 2006, with an original loan amount of US$260
             million and an expected implementation period of 4.5 years. The project was restructured
             five times over its final 8 year duration, with a final loan amount of US$110 million. The
             table below provides additional details (to Section H of the Data Sheet) on the major
             revisions that consisted in cancellations of subcomponents and re-allocations of funds.
 Original subcomponent       Type of revision                                Justification                              Effect on outcomes/targets
Subcomponent E.2.         Cancelled in 2009           In light of fiscal space constraints, a DRM DPL Cat    Project outcomes and indicators were based on
Disaster Emergency        (US$ 150M) requiring        DDO (Development Policy Loan with a Catastrophic       capacity building aspects of the project, so these
Assistance                Board approval              Deferred Drawdown Option) appeared as a better         remained unchanged.
                          (obtained in December       instrument to reduce the fiscal vulnerability of the
                          2008)                       Government than the contingency component initially    The use of a Cat DDO favored the expected
                                                      conceived.                                             results under Component E, since in case of a
                          -Opportunistic change-                                                             national disaster, WB funds would swiftly become
                                                                                                             available. Note that an ICR for the DPL Cat DDO
                                                                                                             was completed on July 30, 2012, and assessed a
                                                                                                             few indicators that were similar to the ones used
                                                                                                             for this project. The ICR processes for that DPL
                                                                                                             and for this project are disconnected, and the DPL
                                                                                                             results had no impact on this ICR.



             1
               Category 1: Goods, Works, Services, Training and Operating Costs under Components A, B.1, B.3, C, D and E.1: commonly
             referred to as “Investments”; Category 2: Goods, Works, Services with respect to Risk Reduction Investments under Components B.2:
             commonly referred to as “Cost recognition”; and Category 3: Critical Imports for disaster emergency assistance under Component E.2.




                                                                             3
 Original subcomponent         Type of revision                               Justification                               Effect on outcomes/targets
Subcomponent B.2a.          Cancelled/Funds            The national Government did not have a suitable          Subcomponent B.2a was not captured by the
Support of Local Disaster   reallocation in 2009       mechanism to oversee risk reduction investments (at      Results Framework; hence, the effect on
Mitigation Investments      (approx. US$61M)           a contractual level) carried out by municipalities or    outcomes/targets could not rigorously be traced
Through the National                                   territorial entities. Hence, it was advised that funds   (see Section 2.2 for discussion).
Revenue Sharing Program     -Corrective change-        initially allocated to subnational institutions be
                                                       cancelled and re-allocated to Subcomponent B.2.b
                                                       (Support of Disaster Risk Reduction Investments in
                                                       Lifeline Infrastructure).
Re-categorization of        Re-allocation of funds     During the Mid-Term Review it was identified that the    Capacity building and TA for an enhanced DRM at
Subcomponent B.2b.          from Category 2 to         executing entities of Category 1 had already             national and local level resulted from this revision.
Support of Disaster Risk    Category 1 (effective in   executed 78% of their funds and were projecting to       The scope of activities did not change, but the
Reduction Investments in    March 2010 and in May      execute beyond the US$10M initially allocated. To        reach was enlarged and, hence, the positive
Lifeline Infrastructure.    2011)                      enlarge the reach of the project activities and have     impact of the project was expanded.
                                                       more municipalities benefiting from TA and more          Target outcome indicators were revised to more
Affecting Subcomponents     US$5.5M+6M                 investments to better equip national institutions,       ambitious ones, particularly regarding the number
of A, B and D                                          supporting these investments was considered a            of municipalities benefiting from technical support
                            -Opportunistic change-     better use of the project’s funds than the recognition   and training in DRM. Capacities from national
                                                       of costs of national infrastructure agencies, as         executing agencies could also be enhanced
                                                       initially conceived under Category 2. An early           through the outputs expected from the new
                                                       response and efficient implementation by the             investments (e.g.: upgrading of equipment and
                                                       executing entities of Category 1 (e.g.: MAVDT,           information systems, technical studies/ expert
                                                       DPAD, INGEOMINAS, IDEAM) was seen as an                  consultancies).
                                                       opportunity to further improve outcomes and impacts
                                                       of the project. In parallel, the executing entities of
                                                       Category 2 (ECOPETROL, INVIAS) had experienced
                                                       administrative burden following Bank’s rules for the
                                                       recognition of costs.
Re-categorization of        Re-allocation of funds     (Same rationale as previous)                             The final project outcome targets were set as:
Subcomponent B.2b           from Category 2 to                                                                       (UNGRD) 58% municipalities with hazard
Support of Disaster Risk    Category 1 (effective in                                                                  risk management plans
Reduction Investments in    December 2011)                                                                           (MVCT) 100% municipalities are educated,
Lifeline Infrastructure.                                                                                              trained and aware in hazard risk
                            US$16.13M                                                                                 management
Affecting Subcomponents                                                                                              (MADS) 112 municipalities have received
A.1, A.2, B.1, B.3, C.1,    -Opportunistic change-                                                                    environmental education for risk awareness
C.2, D and E1.



               1.7 Other significant changes

               16.     The Borrower requested an extension of the closing date twice, as the executing
               entities needed more time to achieve the objectives (especially with more funds to
               disburse under Category 1). The first one was approved in 2011, and the second one in
               2013 for a “partial” extension only, to complete the audit and evaluation of the project.
               Overall, it was extended by 23.5 months, from December 31, 2011 to December 15, 2013.

               17.     An increase in the Special Account Quota for Category 1 (from US$2 million to
               US$4.5 million) was made possible through the May 2012 Restructuring, facilitating
               project implementation and the possibility to have an increased annual budget (and more
               activities planned for the fiscal year).

               18.    In May 2012, Implementation Arrangements of the project were revised to
               acknowledge the division of MAVDT into the Ministry of Housing, Cities and Territory
               (MVCT) and the Ministry of Environment and Sustainable Development (MADS). It was
               decided that MVCT would be responsible for overall project implementation and
               management, and in particular for all activities under Category 1, with MADS as a sub-


                                                                               4
executing agency for Component D.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

19.    The project was mostly designed by DNP who managed the project preparation
grant and received technical support from the Bank. Due to the intricate agendas of DNP
as well as fiscal and time constraints, the consultation process during the design phase
was relatively limited. A number of workshops were organized and each executing entity
was entrusted with specific tasks, but most lacked a general understanding of the overall
program rationale, objectives and strategy. Considering the cross-cutting nature of DRM
and the complexity of the project implementation arrangements, further engagement
and coordination of relevant stakeholders during the design phase may have led to a
smoother implementation phase and more impacts.

20.     Context at preparation phase. The Government operated at the time under the
pressure of a national financial crisis, and a very limited fiscal space was allocated to
national, sector and subnational institutions to ensure the delivery of results committed in
the National Development Plan (NDP). The main driver at design phase was the urgent
need to address the challenge caused by this fiscal vulnerability and to set a policy
framework that would coordinate disaster risk prevention measures from the national to
the sector and subnational levels.

21.     Choice of lending instruments and implementation modalities. The project
sought to respond to the GoC’s needs by pioneering fiscal support at a time when
experience in this area did not exist in the region and executing modalities to this end
(such as Cat DDO and Payment4Results) were not in place yet. An innovative mix of
implementation options was designed and materialized in a large contingency component
under Component E), in the cost-recognition arrangement for ECOPETROL and INVIAS
(under Component B) and in a close alignment of the project’s RF to the indicators of the
NDP. Such a bold design would eventually deliver positive lessons and have a
groundbreaking demonstrative effect at regional level. However, such an ambitious and
innovative approach would also have to learn from its own experience, with no reference
point, and as a consequence the project had difficulties and high transaction costs during
implementation.

22.     Choice of implementation agency. Despite its command in the design (and
supervision) of the project, DNP remains a planning and coordinating institution with no
implementation mandate. The Unidad Nacional para la Gestión del Riesgo de Desastres
(UNGRD) did not exist at Entry, and the former Dirección General de Prevención y
Atención de Desastres (DGPAD) was the national institution with a DRM mandate, but it
lacked technical, procurement and financial management (FM) capacities to take on the
coordination of the project. MHCP lacked the mandate and experience in DRM activities
other than those directly related to fiscal management. It was therefore decided that
MAVDT, who had some experience in DRM and in managing multilateral credit, would
lead the implementation.




                                             5
23.     Critical risks and possible controversial aspects. The program’s overall
objectives and the priority setting were strategic, relevant and timely, but the
circumstances at that time were complex and risky, and the decisions made towards the
project design may have underestimated that context, eventually leading to a complicated
implementation scheme. The new operation responded to the Government’s challenge
and ambition, but the institutional framework was not ready for it yet. Technical
capacities and leadership, as well as conducive incentive schemes were missing.
ECOPETROL and INVIAS were not convinced by the added-value of the cost-
recognition modality (as opposed to DNP and MHCP who promoted it). During
implementation, it was difficult for the executing entities concerned by that modality to
follow the requirements. It was even impossible for the municipalities targeted under
Subcomponent B.2a (that eventually had to be cancelled). These flaws were not identified
or not adequately factored into the design, and had an impact on project implementation.

24.     Environmental and Cultural Property safeguards were triggered at Entry and
appropriate safeguard instruments were developed in anticipation of potential issues
arising from Components A and B. Small works at municipal level were expected to have
possible adverse effects, but that environmental risk was classified as “low”.

2.2 Implementation

25.    The project was restructured several times to address the implementation
challenges and adjust the design to an evolving context and a changing demand from the
GoC. The major changes were described in Section 1.6.

26.      The main factors contributing to the implementation challenges derived from
the design phase. The complexity of the project, the large number of executing entities
and institutional roles, the multiple implementation modalities, all contributed to
increasing delays and transaction costs for MAVDT and the other implementing agencies.
For the latter, the Bank’s rules and procedures were new and, at times, conflicting with
national administration rules. After a certain adjustment period, some executing entities
(MVCT, MADS, SGC, IDEAM, MHCP) have acknowledged and valued the training and
institutional support brought by the project, and today feel prepared to manage future
IBRD operations.

27.      Other factors that had a significant impact on the implementation phase were: (i)
there was no technical coordinator within the Project Implementation Unit (PIU); (ii)
the Technical Reference Group conceived during the design phase was never effectively
established, and specific consultancies rather were contracted on an ad-hoc basis; and
(iii) the 8 years of implementation came with a high staff turnover within the project
executing entities, which made the Bank’s training efforts less effective in the long term,
and coordination and communication amongst the partner entities even more challenging.

28.    Factors under Government control. As of 2010, the Government led by
President Juan Manuel Santos embraced the DRM agenda and accelerated the adoption
of the new legal framework supported by Component C of the project. DRM was
mainstreamed into the new NDP 2010-2014 and its indicators, sending a strong political
message to sectoral and subnational institutions.


                                            6
29.     The 2011 internal restructuring of the Government with the division of MAVDT
into MVCT and MADS, each keeping a “territorial department” and both responsible for
mainstreaming hazard and risk evaluation, had an impact on the coordination of the
project and increased the fragmentation of national efforts that the project was seeking to
consolidate in risk monitoring, identification and management. MVCT kept the technical
responsibility for addressing DRM in territorial planning (in the Territorial Land Use
Plans or POTs) while MADS was in charge of regulating the environment (e.g.: through
the Watershed Land Use and Management Plans or POMCAs). Meanwhile, the
responsibility for having DRM plans developed at the different levels belonged to
UNGRD. This institutional change may have affected the outcomes and efficiency of
some investments under Subcomponents B.1 and B.3 aiming to support risk reduction at
subnational level.

30.      External factors. Colombia was severely impacted by the “La Niña” phenomena
during 2010-2011. Recorded as one of the most devastating natural disasters in Colombia
in decades, massive flooding and landslide events across the country left a dramatic
account of loss and damage (with nearly 4 million people affected and an economic loss
estimated at over US$6 billion). The impact of such an extreme weather event also had an
eye-opening effect over the population and decision-makers, more and more aware of the
need for further action and enhanced planning to reduce the country’s vulnerability to
natural disasters. At the policy level, “La Niña” had a catalyzing effect and disaster risk
prevention became a priority for decision-makers, from the highest levels of the national
Government to the local authorities. This context bolstered the success of certain project
outcomes derived from Component D on awareness and preparedness, Component C on
institutional strengthening for DRM, and Component E on the development of a risk
financing strategy. “La Niña 2010 marked a turning point in terms of the institutional
engagement in DRM” (quoted from a public Official from the GoC).

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

31.     Design. The project outcome indicators were more process- than result-oriented.
Although the expectations from APL1 were placed at the national level and the activities
were implemented by national institutions, the indicators were designed for impacts to be
measured at the municipal level. The M&E Framework was largely determined by the
project’s alignment with the NDP, and the result was a set of indicators that could only
partially capture the variety of outputs and outcomes delivered by this complex operation.

32.   Implementation. The set of indicators was never substantially revised to reflect
the changes and new directions followed by the project over the course of
implementation. Only the targets were upgraded.

33.     Utilization. The M&E Framework served as an efficient tool to track progress of
capacity building activities at the subnational level. In particular, it helped identify during
the Mid-Term Review (MTR) the good progress of TA provision to municipalities and
the appetite from local authorities: funds were subsequently re-categorized and the reach
of technical backstopping activities was expanded. However, the Framework lacked
indicators to monitor the quality of the outputs and outcomes, for instance the quality of
data collection itself, or the level of integration of information (relevant to risk


                                              7
identification) from different databases.

34.    The Bank conducted regular supervision missions and the M&E Framework was
populated in a timely manner (in the bi-annual Implementation Supervision Reports or
ISRs). Nevertheless, all the M&E exercises (ISRs, MTR and ICR) have suffered from a
weak M&E Framework that was not able to capture all the outputs or their quality. On
the GoC’s side, in addition to the RF from the PAD, MAVDT and DNP requested the
executing entities to report annually on sub-indicators from the NDP.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

35.    Safeguard instruments addressing the two policies triggered at Entry were
developed in a timely manner and no major issue arose during implementation. The
Involuntary Resettlement policy was never triggered, but a Resettlement Plan was
developed in 2005 under the APL2 (Bogotá-specific) and also served as such for APL1
where no issue arose during implementation.

36.     FM arrangements were in place and effective during the project. MVCT
provided the required financial information in a consolidated, accurate and timely manner.
Based on the project supervision reports, the external audit reports (produced, for the
2006 to 2011 reports, by the Contraloría General de la República who decided to stop
auditing the project afterwards), and the way the improvement plans were implemented,
it can reasonably be assumed that project funds were used for the intended purposes. As
of February 2014, the external audit for 2012-2013 was not conducted yet (the hiring
process was underway by GoC, who will use its own funds).

37.     Overall, Bank’s procurement rules were complied with. However, the
procurement processes suffered from: (i) the high turnover of staff; (ii) significant delays
in the hiring processes due to Government changes and elections; and (iii) the high
number of executing entities and the lack of a consolidated procurement plan for the
project, in addition to the frequent changes in the procurement plans. These difficulties
became a real challenge for both the Borrower and the Bank, who developed some
strategies together to address it. The PIU was strengthened with a team of highly
qualified specialists, and focal points (on procurement issues) were established in each of
the sub-executing entities. Trainings were conducted in situ for the PIU, as well as for,
inter alia, SGC, IDEAM, and progress was gradually achieved.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

38.     In light of the success of APL1, the Borrower and the Bank are currently
discussing a potential follow-up project to APL1 that would be a second phase to the
national DRM program (Phase II). Both parties have undertaken evaluation processes to
assess project outcomes, and consulted with relevant stakeholders to draw lessons learned
from Phase I and see how a second phase could: contribute to the sustainability of the
outcomes from Phase I, further strengthen the ownership by the GoC and non-
government stakeholders, further build on technical aspects and innovation, and further
improve governance.




                                             8
39.      Institutional setting under the new legal framework. DNP played a critical
convening role during the design, implementation and evaluation of Phase I. Its
knowledge, vision and leverage capacity over sector Ministries and subnational entities,
should be capitalized for Phase II, yet without undermining stance and leadership of the
institution expected to be responsible for the implementation. Under the Ley 1523,
UNGRD is in charge of leading the National DRM Plan (PNGRD) and associated Fund.
UNGRD has gained political stance: what used to be a General Directorate under the
Ministry of the Interior is today an independent Unit directly attached to the Presidency.
Yet, the PNGRD’s “Programmatic Component” was not approved in time during Phase I
and UNGRD therefore still needs to achieve its institutional strengthening plan (including
adequate staffing) and to develop and implement an operational framework in order to be
able to convene, manage and technically supervise Phase II.

40.     Select interventions. The approach for Phase II may be to focus the efforts by
selecting key sectors and institutions and designing target interventions to deliver even
more effective and sustained impacts (from a technical point of view). At sector level,
some line-Ministries will need to be prioritized. At subnational level, an area to explore
relates to the Corporaciones Autónomas Regionales (CARs) who have the mandate to
ensure disaster risk reduction at regional level and to lead environmental actions in key
areas (such as integrated watershed management). During Phase I, some have proved to
have a real added-value in facilitating DRM interventions at subnational level. Besides
their specific mandate, CARs’ proximity to the municipal level may constitute an asset to
channel technical support and resources, and to enhance the integration of hazard and risk
management into territorial planning at local level.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: High

41.     The relevance of reducing the State’s physical and fiscal vulnerability to natural
disasters as a contribution to national development objectives remains high. Most of the
investments in DRM made by national entities over the duration of the project were
funded by APL1. In turn, national entities’ efforts were oriented to enhance the support
provided to municipalities. This way, the project anticipated and addressed the
institutional needs to better host the new policy and legal framework for DRM.

42.     The PDO remains relevant today even though the national context has evolved
significantly. The Bank’s assistance strategy has also been updated with the development
and use of new instruments for fiscal vulnerability reduction. Implementation modalities
were flexible enough to adapt to changing national circumstances and project
components were adjusted to remain relevant to development strategies and priorities.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

43.    The project has achieved its development objective. As captured by the PDO
overall outcome indicator, 75% (824) of municipalities have developed hazard risk
management plans or integrated DRM into their land use plans. This reflects a 30%


                                            9
                 overachievement of the expected outcome. Colombia also has a new DRM regulatory
                 and policy framework, introducing a conceptual shift from a post-disaster response
                 approach to an integrated management of disaster risk. The capacities of local and
                 national institutions to understand and manage risk and to reduce vulnerability to natural
                 disasters have been strengthened. Decision-making on policies and investments are today
                 better informed from DRM perspectives. The following table reflects the level of
                 achievement by project Component (against revised targets and amounts).
                        Outcome indicator and Target                                                                                             Amount allocated
                                                                                                                               Level of
  Component                (as in Restructuring Paper                                    Result                                                   (US$M and share
                                                                                                                             achievement
                               of December 2011)                                                                                                 of total project cost)
Overall            58% (632) of municipalities have hazard risk   75% (824 municipalities)                                    Target was
                                                                                                                                                         110.0
                   management program.                                                                                         exceeded
                                                                                                                                                      or 100.0%
                                                                                                                          (130% achievement)
Component A:       100% of the SNPAD integrated to DRIS           Only 1 agreement for information sharing has been
Risk               (SIGPAD).                                      effectively articulated with IDEAM. Other               Target was partially
                                                                                                                                                         22.0
Identification     i.e. 7 information sharing agreements with     institutions’ information databases relevant to risk         achieved
                                                                                                                                                      or 20.0%
                   SNPAD entities legalized / 7 conventions       identification and monitoring are not integrated into    (14% achievement)
                   scheduled.                                     SIGPAD)
Component B:       At least 100% (1,098) of municipalities are    95% (1,044 municipalities)                                 Target was
                                                                                                                                                         82.0
Disaster Risk      educated, trained and aware of hazard risk                                                                 achieved
                                                                                                                                                      or 75.0%
Reduction          reduction.                                                                                             (95% achievement)
Component C:       • National policy defining Government          • A new Law (Ley 1523/2012) establishes the
Institutional      responsibility in disaster management and      regulatory framework for DRM and mandates the
Development        reconstruction.                                development of a National DRM Plan (PNGRD).
                   • Preparation of two policy proposals by       • The “General Component” of the National DRM           Target was partially            4.0
                   DGR (updating Laws 46 of 1988 and Decree       Plan has been developed.                                     achieved                or 3.6%
                   Law 919 of 1989).                              • The “Programmatic Component” of the National
                   • National DRM Plan prepared and issued        DRM Plan is under development.
                   through Decree.
Component D:       112 municipalities (or 10%) have received      68 municipalities (or 6%)                               Target was partially
                                                                                                                                                          0.7
Awareness and      in-depth environmental education for risk                                                                   achieved
                                                                                                                                                       or 0.6%
Preparedness       awareness.                                                                                              (61% achievement)
Component E:       Policy Guidelines for “Financial Protection    By the end of 2013, MHCP published the document
Risk Financing     Mechanisms against Disasters” and final        “Colombia: Policy Strategy for Public Financial             Target was                  0.9
                   action plan adopted by MHCP by the end of      Management of Natural Disaster Risk”, and defined            achieved                or 0.8%
                   the project.                                   some policy objectives and priorities.

                 44.    Annex 2 provides detailed information on the outputs per Component and
                 contributions to PDO, while the following paragraphs simply intend to give a summary.

                 45.     Component A. The national DRM information system (SIGPAD) developed
                 under UNGRD does not meet the outcome expectation. SIGPAD has been developed as
                 an online information sharing platform mainly focusing on emergency response, while
                 this tool was initially conceived as an open information management system, able to
                 integrate scientific, geographical and other relevant data, assess vulnerability, draw risk
                 maps, capture risk mitigation activity and stockpile best practice in order to facilitate
                 knowledge management and enhance coordination for more effective disaster risk
                 prevention and recovery. Of the list of seven institutions that were expected to be
                 integrated into SIGPAD, only one (IDEAM) has.

                 46.    Nevertheless, the indicator used fails to capture some of the most outstanding
                 investments, such as the modernization of the National Volcanological and Seismic
                 Monitoring Network through SGC, with a 50% increase in the number of volcanoes



                                                                               10
monitored and 70% increase in the number of automatic stations installed. This
upgrading process allowed for a larger coverage of monitored areas, improved data
collection and hazard mapping, a 24/7 monitoring of seismic and volcanologic
earthquake activity and real time warnings with dissemination of emergency information.

47.      IDEAM has also expanded the coverage of its hydrometeorological stations
network and upgraded its equipment and information systems. Although the regional
coverage is not complete yet, the early warning system has significantly improved and is
widely consulted by national, sectoral and subnational stakeholders. About 70% of the set
targets (to improve risk mapping for flooding, landslide and fire hazards) were reached;
the dissemination of information and provision of knowledge management tools today
facilitate risk identification at regional and local levels. Nevertheless, the need to produce
guidelines that can help develop hazard/risk mapping at subnational levels, and maps that
can be used at the local level, persists (the level of details was successfully downscaled to
a minimum of 1:100,000 during the project, but not to 1:50,000 as expected for some of
maps).

48.     Component B. TA to strengthen local DRM capacities was delivered, ensured
by MVCT (1,007 municipalities were assisted and 542 Action Plans were developed) and
by UNGRD (674 municipalities were assisted and 624 Municipal Plans for Risk
Management were developed). MVCT benefited from the support from the regional
CARs, which facilitated a swift implementation of activities, enhanced the project’s
impacts and contributed to the sustainability of outcomes at municipal level. In addition,
both MVCT and UNGRD produced knowledge management tools (such as risk
assessment guidelines, methodologies, contingency plans for instance in the water and
sanitation sector). Municipalities have widely acknowledged the relevance and added-
value of the support provided through the project as well as the need for more in-depth
and continuous TA on DRM at local level.

49.     Component B also sought to support disaster risk reduction investments in two
sectors with relevance to the national interest: transport and energy supply, with the state-
owned enterprises INVIAS and ECOPETROL respectively. They included studies and
designs for disaster risk reduction, risk mitigation works, reinforcement and retrofitting
of existing infrastructure, all executed under the cost-recognition modality. By 2012,
100% of the US$72.4 million allocated to those activities were disbursed, with 74%
corresponding to INVIAS’ investments (mostly in post-disaster reconstruction of the
primary road network) and 26% to ECOPETROL’s (primarily in structural reinforcement
of infrastructure to improve resistance to seismic events).

50.    Component C. The National DRM Law (Ley 1523) that passed in 2012 and the
“General Component” of the PNGRD in 2013 constitute the highlights of Component
C. The TA delivered by the project provided guidance to develop an institutional and
policy reform that had a transformational impact on the conception of disaster
management at the national level. GFDRR (Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and
Recovery) funds facilitated consultancies and knowledge products related to the project,
as well as the policy dialogue. This included the development of a national risk
management analysis for Colombia (CCDRMA, particularly in collaboration with DNP)
published in June 2012 and serving as a critical piece of information and input to the


                                             11
PNGRD and ongoing institutional reforms.

51.     Yet, UNGRD struggled to operationalize the PNGRD. The “Programmatic
Component” of the Plan (expected to be an output) was significantly delayed due to
difficulties with procurement and internal management at UNGRD, and the funds that
were expected to be channeled through the DRM National Fund did not flow within the
lifetime of the project.

52.    Component D. The expected outcomes were not reached. The Curriculum for a
Diploma on Environmental and Disaster Risk Management was developed and used as
the basis for DRM awareness-raising and training at the local level, but only 68
municipalities effectively benefited from this output. MADS made the educational
materials available to regional and local civil society organizations as well as to
Academia to facilitate dissemination and continuity of awareness-raising activities, but
financial resources were not secured to ensure the sustainability of the outcomes.

53.     Component E. The target under this component was achieved: MHCP has
developed the Colombian Policy Strategy for Public Financial Management of Financial
Risk. While some outputs and targets (agreed over the 2011 Restructuring) such as the
modeling and estimation of financial contingencies associated with natural disaster risk,
were not fully delivered, others such as a study on catastrophe risk insurance mechanisms
to provide financial coverage to the inventory of State-owned property buildings, as well
as some collateral products from the project (like the design of a Cat Swap seismic risk
parametric insurance) have provided essential inputs to the financial Strategy. These
outputs have set the basis for further analytical work undertaken by the GoC and
continued policy dialogue and collaboration with the Bank, to develop a more ambitious
risk-financing framework and further explore risk transfer mechanisms.

3.3 Efficiency

54.     The investment planning process in Colombia includes by law an economic and
cost-benefit analysis for any project requiring public funding. This assessment is part of
an overall evaluation ensuring the viability of the proposal based on technical, economic,
environmental and social grounds. Besides, the cost-benefit methodology developed for
this particular project was based on the following: “(i) assessment of annual losses of
exposed public properties and infrastructure to arrive at expected damage loss figures
from which the fiscal cost of projected natural disasters would be gauged; (ii) assessment
of damage reduction achieved based on specific risk mitigation/prevention measures; and
(iii) comparison of the cost of risk mitigation investments for the selected works” (cf.
PAD). These assessments were supposed to be conducted annually on select structural
and nonstructural mitigation measures financed by the project. However, no assessment
was carried out. Furthermore, most of the structural mitigation measures that could have
been followed up and documented were cancelled during implementation (in particular,
the US$61 million Subcomponent B.2a for Municipal Risk Mitigation Investments), and
the project was largely left with only nonstructural TA activities.

55.    It is impossible to assess the remaining structural measures (i.e., the
investments through ECOPETROL and INVIAS based on a cost-recognition approach)


                                           12
against damage reduction: there was no technical oversight to guide the investment
decisions and no reporting requirement from the corresponding executing entities. Based
on the data initially provided in the PAD, the “probable maximum loss” (from a natural
adverse event) has been reduced by at least 50% by retrofitting select buildings and
infrastructure. Assessments on nonstructural measures could in principle be carried
out. However, the lack of data and accurate information linking activity to damage
reduction in this particular project render it an impossible feat. Based on the data initially
provided in the PAD, the US$9.8 million under Component B were used to enhance land
use allocation/control and identification of hazard prone areas and limits on their use and
incentives, will give the beneficiary municipalities the possibility to reduce by 25 times
the potential damages they would bear by not being aware of the stakes related to land
use and natural disaster risk and doing nothing.

56.     Aside from these assessments, it is possible though to justify: (i) the economic
rationale of the project and show the causal chain that linked project objectives/activities
and ultimate outcomes it influenced, as described throughout Section 3.5 and shown by
the significant increase in DRM investments in general when comparing the numbers for
the period 2001-2005 preceding the project, and 2006-2010 (2010 being the year of the
last set of data found in the report “Análisis de la gestión del riesgo de desastres en
Colombia, BM-Colombia, GFDRR”, 2012): investments at the national level are
multiplied by 3 at least, and up to 10 if split per priority area (governance) and 76 if split
per entity (IDEAM); (ii) the public rationale, given the Government’s fiscal constraints
at Entry and need for “liquidity funds”, and the key role the Government had and has to
play in the development and mainstreaming of the DRM agenda; (iii) the added-value
from the WB, already engaged in DRM through the Partnership Strategy and multiple
past and ongoing operations, and bringing in an innovative and long term approach
through a10-year program spanning a wide range of structural and nonstructural activities.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

57.      The PDO proved opportune to achieve the country’s development objectives.
The institutional reforms it promoted immediately proved their relevance when the
country was hit by La Niña. Important policies and tools were delivered and have
contributed to advancing the DRM agenda in Colombia. This is true at the institutional
level (with the new legal framework for DRM and the direct dependence of UNGRD on
the Presidency), the national level (with the improved technical capacities of some
institutions), and the local level (with the better understanding of vulnerability factors by
the municipalities across the country). The PDO was overachieved and the project
delivered positive “collateral benefits” over the 8 years of implementation.

58.     Some shortcomings were also identified. The complexity of project design and
management arrangements made implementation challenging and did compromise the
timely delivery of some of the outputs. Additionally, the new UNGRD would need to be
further strengthened to be able to operationalize the PNGRD and deliver its mandate. At
the local level, despite the delivery of TA (trainings and tools) in DRM, municipalities
are not ready yet to lead risk identification, mitigation and response.



                                             13
59.     In conclusion, the project was efficient in so far as it was successful and has, in
a challenging context, overachieved the expected targets. The ambitious design and the
bold implementation modalities attached to this project have eventually delivered
transformational results in Colombia and drawn relevant and timely lessons for the DRM
community of practice in the Latin America and Caribbean region.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

60.     The project promoted risk identification and prevention measures expected to
deliver benefits to the poorest population groups – generally more vulnerable to natural
disasters. Mainstreaming DRM tools in local development planning (as achieved in 95%
of the municipalities) will prevent damage to physical infrastructure and housing, and
secure DRM tracked investments (or mitigate risks of losing them against other sectors).

61.    The project supported hard investments in the retrofitting of key infrastructure
ensuring essential services (such as transport and energy supply). It contributed this way
to reducing the risk of macroeconomic loss and impact on social development in the
event of an adverse natural disaster.

62.     The sustainability of social programs in Colombia is usually compromised by the
financial shocks from natural disasters. The project has contributed to reducing the fiscal
vulnerability of the State with the development of risk transfer mechanisms. Those will
guarantee the budget stability that is necessary to ensure business continuity at the
Government level, provision of public services and swift mobilization of funds to provide
post-disaster response and adequate assistance to the most affected populations. National
budget investments into social and development programs will be better protected.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

63.      Over its 8 years of implementation (from 2006 to 2013), the project has
contributed to major institutional changes with regard to DRM, with the adoption of the
Ley 1523, and the capacity building within the institutions. At the national level: (i)
IDEAM and SGC have strengthened their technical and managerial capacities; (ii) the
establishment of UNGRD, placed directly under the Presidency and with the mandate to
ensure effective leadership and coordination of DRM action across national, sectoral and
subnational entities, constitutes a milestone to uplift disaster risk prevention as a national
policy priority; (iii) MHCP has been able to reduce fiscal vulnerability through the
development and use of risk retention and risk transfer instruments. At the local level: (i)
municipal authorities, local committees for disaster management and communities have
been sensitized and have strengthened their DRM understanding; (ii) TA provided by
MVCT and UNGRD has been acknowledged as a valuable contribution by local
institutions, and the increasing demand for further technical support shows a new
institutional commitment with long-term risk mitigation agendas by local authorities
(before the project, contingency planning or post disaster recovery was the usual
approach to support provision at municipal level); (iii) today, the national institutions
who participated in the project are able to provide TA for risk mapping and risk reduction.


                                             14
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

64.     In the field of risk transfer mechanisms, the GoC has gained substantial
knowledge. In connection with the national strategy for risk financing, MHCP has made
significant progress in the design of a seismic risk parametric insurance (Cat Swap) using
SGC data and GFDRR/CAPRA2 technical support (leveraging the Bank’s assistance).

65.    The GoC through DNP is now capable and committed to track and report DRM
investments per year per administrative division (at the national, departmental and
municipal levels), per priority area (e.g.: governance, knowledge & information,
education, risk reduction), and per entity (e.g.: Ministry, National Institution).

66.     A National DRM Fund has been established under the National Policy to promote
investments in DRM and contribute to capacity development at territorial and sectoral
levels.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

67.      The GoC also lead their own evaluation process and hired the local firm
Econometría to assess the project. The main results and conclusions from Econometría’s
report are detailed in Annex 6 and summarized as follows: (i) Approval of the Ley 1523
in 2012; (ii) Establishment of UNGRD; (iii) Strengthening of the risk monitoring and
early warning systems of SGC and IDEAM; and (iv) Progressive transformation of
disaster management at the local level. The institutional analysis led to the main
conclusion that despite the paradigm shift in DRM, the conditions required to effectively
implement the policy are not ready yet, especially at the local level. An example is the
critical lack of integration of the information into the (risk) studies, either from IDEAM,
SGC, the CARs, or from regional and municipal authorities. The analysis also
highlighted the lack of technical and management support to the executing entities
(especially without the establishment of the Technical Reference Group), and
subsequently of adequate budget.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

68.     Factors contributing to the sustainability of outcomes. Executing entities have
developed knowledge management products adapted to different local contexts and
going beyond the project’s timeframe and thus bringing long term benefits to the
municipalities and local authorities, the regional and local stakeholders in general
including the civil society (e.g.: methodological guidelines for municipal hazard risk
plans, training and awareness-raising materials, new Curriculum).

69.     Certain “Sectors” today in Colombia are able to take measures to address natural
disaster risk prevention and mitigation, including some of the executing entities who have


2
 CAPRA is an information platform to enhance decision-making in risk management across various sectors. See Box 5
in Annex 2 for more details.



                                                      15
developed existing or new competences throughout the project and strengthened their
technical and administrative capacities to carry out DRM activities. Even though these
measures need to be further informed (by analytical knowledge) and integrated into an
operational DRM framework coordinated and overseen by a transversal institution
(expected to be UNGRD), the capacities do exist in some of the line-Ministries and
Government entities (in terms of decision-making, implementation, human resources,
etc.) and are an important factor contributing to the sustainability of outcomes.

70.   Part of the investments will be followed up by the executing entities
themselves. For example, SGC and IDEAM have secured financial resources to either
complete the activities initiated under the project (e.g.: risk-mapping) or continue with
the modernization and expansion of the networks of monitoring stations and information
management systems.

71.     Similarly, some have secured and dedicated financial resources to the
maintenance of their equipment. For instance, as of the Ley de Regalías, SGC benefits
from a regular 2% share of State revenue from mining activity, in addition to other
incremental budgets. These funds will ensure routine and upgrading activities as well as
regular maintenance of the installations.

72.      Factors impinging on the sustainability of outcomes. The evaluation team
identified an over-reliance on external consultants for technical assignments. A
capacity development approach, promoting technical skills and training in-house staff
within the institutions, may have further contributed to the sustainability of the project’s
outcomes (particularly under Components A and B). While the better-established
institutions (SGC, IDEAM or INVIAS) have managed to retain their technical teams, the
staffing situation at UNGRD is more uncertain. For instance, it appeared that only two
staff members were familiar with the use of the integrated database system expected to
manage data for disaster risk prevention at the national level.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

73.      The operation’s design was bold and did introduce innovative approaches, but this
came along with a challenging level of complexity that would have required nurturing
coordination mechanisms and implementation arrangements since formulation (beyond
what was accomplished). Technical capacities were assumed without an ex-ante
assessment of the strengths and weaknesses of the national, sector and subnational
institutions, and the large scope of the project unfortunately limited the development of
institutional capacities.

74.    The cost-recognition modality associated with the disbursement Category 2 for
the national infrastructure agencies and municipalities effectively created some fiscal
space for MHCP, but it also came with some risks that were not identified nor mitigated



                                            16
at Entry. INVIAS’ investments were supervised by MHCP who had no technical capacity
to ensure that risk mitigation criteria were guiding the choice of investments. DNP had no
mechanism (complying with the requirements for Bank’s statement of expenses) to
account for disaster mitigation investments at the municipal level, and therefore the local
level DRM subcomponent had to be cancelled along implementation.

75.   Project indicators were designed to be aligned with the NDP as requested by the
GoC, but the RF was not conceived as a tool that would facilitate management and
monitoring of such a complex operation.

76.     The implementation arrangements added layers of complexity and processing
time for a set of institutions that were not familiar with Bank rules and procedures. The
transaction costs for MVCT and the sub-executing entities were high, and, frequently,
technical staff had to be mobilized for administrative and FM tasks.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

77.     Despite the discrepancies in the PDO statements (in the PAD and Loan
Agreement), the drawbacks of the RF and the several restructurings of the project, the
objectives and indicators were never formally revised (only the targets were). Over the 8
years of implementation, very little corrective action was undertaken, rendering project
supervision and evaluation more difficult.

78.    Nevertheless, the Bank was proactive, flexible and responsive in identifying,
addressing and resolving implementation issues. Both the Borrower and the Bank showed
considerable adaptation capacities that allowed the Project to reach the expected
outcomes and even beyond for some, as well as a number of positive “collateral effects”.

79.      The 2008 MTR made a good diagnosis of challenges and bottlenecks, and
recommended actions and ways forward which were effectively implemented. The re-
categorizations were an opportunity to expand the reach of TA activities to national
institutions and local authorities. Corrective measures to address the lack of coordination
were taken. MAVDT strengthened its management capacity and the PIU provided better
support to the sub-executing entities after the MTR.

80.     ISRs were produced in due time. The project had four Sector Managers and four
Task Team Leaders, and project supervision could only partially rely on the use of the RF.
This may explain why supervision relied significantly on the Borrower (which actually
had been suggested as a risk mitigation measure in the PAD) and on policy dialogue. A
closer and more “hands-on” supervision of technical aspects by the Bank though may
have enhanced project outcomes to some extent. There were some missed opportunities
of better guiding the investments (e.g.: in the case of INVIAS).

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

81.    Overall, the Bank took a bold approach at different stages of the project cycle. It



                                            17
sought for innovation at the design phase, and new implementation modalities were
tested and delivered lessons learned at the regional level. It sought solutions to address
the Borrower’s challenges and needs during implementation and the project delivered
outcomes beyond expectations.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

82.    The GoC sought implementation modalities that would increase MHCP’s fiscal
space and DNP’s margin for maneuver. The cost-recognition modality under
Component B satisfied these goals, but the Borrower failed to identify the institutional
constraints associated with this arrangement, which turned out to be burdensome for
ECOPETROL and INVIAS, and impossible to implement for municipalities.

83.     MVCT and DNP both played a key role in the success of the project. DNP not
only drove the design phase, but it has also shown a very active interest in the
implementation and evaluation phases, solving problems and ensuring project monitoring
against the NDP and the Annual Operations Plan (POAs). MVCT was given overall
responsibility for implementation and took on the management of a complex operation. It
was a challenge to lead and coordinate all the executing entities’ activities, but MVCT
made a significant effort to upgrade its institutional, management and technical capacities
to be able to orchestrate them all and bring the project to a successful conclusion.

84.    The GoC was responsive to the recommendations made in the periodic ISRs and
the MTR undertaken by the Bank. It was proactive, searching for solutions to unlock
bottlenecks and to keep up with implementation. Project supervision missions were
usually a joint effort between the Borrower and the Bank, with MVCT endorsing the
responsibility for ensuring that follow-up actions are implemented. Overall, the GoC
showed strong ownership and commitment to the project.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

85.     The project had 9 different entities involved in implementation: 2 direct executing
agencies (MVCT and MHCP), 1 supporting agency (DNP), and 6 sub-executing entities
(MADS, UNGRD, SGC, IDEAM, INVIAS and ECOPETROL). Furthermore, some of
them had to implement activities in coordination with regional and municipal entities.
Some lacked the general vision of the project and focused on their parcel of expertise and
responsibilities endorsed in the POAs. Only towards the end of the project was the
coordination of actions and project components more consistent. Most encountered
difficulties with complying with Bank rules especially during the first half of the
implementation phase. The Procurement and FM ratings (given to the executing entities
by the Bank in ISRs) remained “Moderately Satisfactory”, mostly due to untimely
procurement planning and delays in audit exercises. During the ICR mission, several
executing entities (in particular SGC who delivered outstanding results beyond
expectations, IDEAM and MVCT) expressed that they now felt substantially trained and


                                            18
ready to run similar Bank operations and take on the direct execution of a potential
follow-up phase.

86.     Despite the complexity of implementation arrangements, the executing entities
were able to adapt to the changes, jointly disburse 93.6% of the loan and deliver
results beyond the expected outcomes. Some benefited from extra-funds for specialized
TA (mostly from GFDRR) and/or managed to secure regular budget allocations to sustain
the investments.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

87.    Considering the project’s ambition and complexity, the satisfactory rate of
disbursement and the overachievement of the expected outcomes, the overall Borrower’s
performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

88.      Lessons learned particularly relevant to a follow-up operation. There is existing
demand at the municipal level for in-depth and continuous technical support for risk
mitigation actions. Several aspects may need to be considered to address this challenge in
the future: (1) The need to strengthen risk identification and analysis, fundamental to
any further step in DRM, and starting with an assessment of the strengths and
weaknesses, the skills and resources, and the investment and implementing capacities of
the entity to be supported. At the local level, the evaluation highlighted three types of
municipalities corresponding to three levels of understanding and capacities: (i) the more
enhanced municipalities (such as Medellín) with significant resources and capacities are
able to develop, update and turn their hazard risk management plans into mitigation
actions; (ii) less enhanced municipalities are able to develop substantial plans and actions,
but still show weaknesses on key issues such as the consultation process and the dialogue
that is necessary with the population during the risk/vulnerability analysis, the
prioritization of actions, etc.; (iii) lastly, the “small” municipalities (in terms of size, but
most importantly in terms of capacities) do not have the competences or resources to
develop such plans or to even engage in a bidding process to contract the specialized
services of the private sector; (2) The option to tap the potential role that the CARs
could play in coordinating DRM actions at the regional level and facilitating the
reinforcement of DRM capacities at the municipal level; (3) The need to strengthen
communication flows and coordination mechanisms between the national, regional
and local levels, and to develop context-specific guidelines for risk identification and
management tools. This would ensure that the national specialized agencies provide
adequate support to the regions, which in turn can respond to the demand from the
municipalities for technical and institutional support. Such framework should be aligned
with the “Programmatic Component” of the PNGRD, and specific guidance for regional
and local institutions should be developed within the plan.

89.   Local authorities often see the issue of lack of funds (to implement actions
recommended in the municipal hazard risk management plans) as a serious drawback for
enhanced DRM action at the local level. The operationalization of the National Fund


                                              19
(supposed to channel funds for risk mitigation actions) was delayed and the
municipalities could not have access to it during project implementation. This lack of
financing and investment capacity at the local level may have impinged on more
tangible outcomes from the project. Because of the disconnect between the TA provided
to local institutions and their actual (in)capacity to finance follow-up actions, the
assistance provided for risk identification and vulnerability reduction tools had a limited
impact on investment decisions at the municipal level. In this sense, the cancellation of
the municipal investments (under Component B) removed an incentive for municipalities
to bring risk mitigation theory into practice. For the follow-up operation, it may be
relevant for the GoC to explore how other countries with similar challenges have
managed to channel funds for DRM at the local level.

90.     Similarly to how SGC’s data helped MHCP develop seismic risk parametric
insurance, IDEAM’s work has the potential to contribute to the development of climate
risk parametric insurance tools. Such tools could be supported in a follow-up operation,
and furthermore, use the successful experience from other countries in that area.3

91.    An in-depth institutional assessment as well as the preparation of a capacity
development plan for UNGRD would help define the institutional and implementation
arrangements for a potential Phase II.

92.      In terms of efficiency of implementation arrangements and day-to-day operations,
there is room for improvement: there were too many executing entities, all relying on the
lead PIU for support and supervision, with high transaction costs for all parties, and
unnecessary delays in the delivery of outputs. Alternative arrangements were suggested
by the national stakeholder institutions and the Bank during the ICR missions: (i)
facilitating direct execution arrangements for executing entities who are prepared for it,
(ii) training the executing entities’ FM and procurement experts on Bank rules and
procedures and facilitating direct Bank supervision with those (as opposed to having an
intermediate PIU filter the processes and manage communications), and (iii) reinforcing
the Bank’s support on operational issues and strengthening the PIU with the addition of
specialized staff dedicated to facilitating all the operations and processes.

93.     In terms of M&E, the project demonstrated the limits of a quantitative RF. It
highlighted the critical need to design, from Entry, some indicators and/or an M&E
system that can capture the outcomes produced by the project (through the quality of the
outputs first). This includes the need to constantly assess the RF against the original PDO
throughout implementation, and make the necessary adjustments to best capture the
project’s impacts.

94.    Broader lessons learned (potentially also relevant to the sector and other
countries). There was a good synergy between this IBRD operation and GFDRR
grants, targeting specific areas of TA and delivering extra-outcomes and positive impacts
around the project. MHCP was able to explore risk transfer mechanisms for seismic risk


3
 Initiatives such as the “Regional Insurance Facility for Central America” supported by the IDB, or the “Integrated
Risk Management and Agriculture Insurance” supported by CEPAL are some examples (see references in Annex 9).



                                                       20
in Colombia thanks to the TA from GFDRR/CAPRA combined with outputs and data
delivered by SGC under the project. Although not formally linked to the IBRD credit,
GFDRR funds operated as a “top-up” investment for TA, facilitating the project’s
implementation and the delivery of some outputs under Components C and E. The Bank
has also been working with GFDRR/CAPRA to support the integration of probabilistic
risk information into other policy-making processes 4 , and the development of a
methodology to take inventory of urban settlements in high risk areas (through the
provision of TA to MVCT for the latter). This experience, as well as similar ones in other
countries in the region, show the added-value of IBRD and GFDRR partnership for both
institutions and far and foremost for the Client.

95.     At the broader regional level, Colombia has emerged as an icon in terms of
DRM. It has successfully adopted (by Law) an integrated DRM approach; it has
mainstreamed DRM in land use planning (through the POTs); it has one of the most (if
not the most) sophisticated seismic/volcanologic monitoring system in the region; and as
a participating country in the Hyogo Framework for Action, its average score of progress
is amongst the highest (cf. data from the 2011 Global Assessment Report). Honduras and
Jamaica for instance have developed DRM operations based on the Colombian
experience, particularly by using a comprehensive approach to disaster risk reduction.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

96.    The ratings proposed for the project in the ICR were endorsed by the GoC and the
executing entities during the “ICR Presentation and Validation Workshop” held in
Bogotá (on April 29th, 2014). The main issues raised by the Borrower during the
Workshop are summarized below, while Annex 7 provides further details.

97.    Details on results (minor). IDEAM and MADS provided further details about
the completion of certain activities and achievement of results.

98.     Factors that affected Project implementation. The GoC and the executing
entities identified the need to thoroughly assess their institutional capacities (both
technical and managerial) before taking on the responsibility for managing Multilateral
Bank loans and implementing such ambitious operations. The responsibilities are
significant and need high commitment from the executing entities: it is therefore
fundamental to assess their engagement upfront and the efforts needed against the added-
value of the operation(s). Furthermore, despite the operational trainings delivered by the
WB, the impact of those was compromised by the high turnover of staff, and all too often,
technical staff had to be mobilized for administrative/managerial tasks to ensure timely
implementation.

99.    Further lessons learned. The executing entities suggested the WB strengthen its
support throughout implementation not through capacity building and trainings “only”,
but also through the establishment of a dedicated support-unit that would facilitate
compliance of operations and processes with WB rules (especially related to


4
    See Box 5 in Annex 2 for more details.



                                             21
procurement) and be in direct contact with the executing entities. This support-unit
should be staffed with Colombian nationals with knowledge and expertise in both
national and WB rules. Additionally, the operational trainings delivered by the WB
should not be limited to the staff members specifically hired to help implement the
project within the executing entities, but it should also be open to the GoC and executing
entities’ personnel in general.




                                           22
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

 (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                        Percentage of
          Components                                 Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                           Appraisal
                                                        millions)
 DISASTER RISK
                                         6.18               22.00               356%
IDENTIFICATION
 RISK REDUCTION                        102.46               82.00               19%
 INSTITUTIONAL
                                         0.78                4.00               513%
DEVELOPMENT
 RISK PREVENTION AND
                                         0.17                0.70               418%
AWARENESS
 RISK FINANCING                        150.29                0.90               6%

            Total Baseline Cost             260.00            110.00            42%
Physical Contingencies
                                              0.00              0.00            0.00
Price Contingencies
                                              0.00              0.00            0.00
             Total Project Costs            260.00            110.00            42%
Front-end fee PPF                             0.00              0.00             .00
Front-end fee IBRD                            0.00              0.00             .00
     Total Financing Required                 0.00            109.88




(b) Financing
                                                       Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                           Type of     Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing    (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                       millions)   millions)
 Borrower                                                     0.00        0.00         0%
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                           260.00      110.00          42%
and Development




                                               23
Annex 2. Outputs by Component
The table here below completes the description of project components and eligible
disbursement categories, as approved in the PAD and as summarized in Section 1.5.


Component A: Disaster Risk Identification (US$6.2 million)

This component aims to strengthen SNPAD’s capacity for comprehensive action in two areas: (1) technical capacity for risk
monitoring at the national level through the upgrading of outmoded hydrologic, seismic, and volcanic detection and forecasting
systems, and (2) integrated national system for managing and sharing information on DRM. The two subcomponents are:

   Subcomponent A.1. [Category 1] Disaster Risk Information System (DRIS)
   Subcomponent A.2. [Category 1] Improving Information Gathering

Component B: Disaster Risk Reduction (US$102.5 million)

This component aims to strengthen risk analysis for municipal and sector development plans, support ongoing disaster reduction
investments, and provide TA for improving the effectiveness of local risk reduction measures. The project supports risk reduction at
sector and subnational levels by making financing available for investment in risk reduction at local government level and for sector
agencies focusing on lifeline infrastructure. In addition, the project aims to strengthen capacity to improve effectiveness of these
investments through: (i) improved monitoring of the risk reduction investments; (ii) the promotion of comprehensive planning for risk
reduction at local and sector levels; and (iii) TA programs aimed at local governments. Component B has three subcomponents:

   Subcomponent B.1. [Category 1] Risk Analysis for Municipal Development Plans
   Subcomponent B.2. [Category 2] Investments in Disaster Risk Mitigation
         Subcomponent B.2a. Support of Local Disaster Mitigation Investments through the National Revenue Sharing Program
         Subcomponent B.2b. Support of Disaster Risk Reduction Investments in Lifeline Infrastructure
   Subcomponent B.3. [Category 1] Strengthening Local Capacity for Risk Management

Component C: Institutional Development (US$0.8 million)

This component aims to strengthen SNPAD’s capacity and to broaden its mandate to include risk reduction and risk transfer. It aims
to strengthen its financial and institutional capacity to coordinate, monitor and evaluate a comprehensive disaster risk reduction
program, while also supporting MAVDT’s capability to manage the disaster vulnerability reduction program. Component C has two
subcomponents:

   Subcomponent C.1. [Category 1] Strengthening of National Disaster Management System
   Subcomponent C.2. [Category 1] Project Management

Component D: Awareness and Preparedness (US$0.2 million)

This component aims to support emergency preparedness activities, emergency and contingency planning, and programs to
improve risk awareness. Activities carried out include education in disaster management and the preparation of emergency
response plans. Component D has three subcomponents:

   Subcomponent D.1. [Category 1] Environmental Education for Risk Awareness
   Subcomponent D.2. [Category 1] Emergency Preparedness
   Subcomponent D.3. [Category 1] Emergency and Contingency Planning

Component E: Risk Financing (US$150.3 million)

The objective of this component is to promote and strengthen the use of risk financing instruments to reduce the financial
vulnerability of the State. Natural disaster risks that cannot be totally eliminated are addressed by establishing a comprehensive
strategy of risk retention/financing at State level. The program included a contingent loan facility in case of national emergency.
Component E has two subcomponents:

   Subcomponent E.1. [Category 1] Development of Risk Financing Strategies
   Subcomponent E.2. [Category 3] Disaster Emergency Assistance




                                                                  24
1.      A general account of overall achievements under each of the five components of
the project is included in Section 3.2 of the ICR. This annex is not an exhaustive
description of each of the outputs, but rather an extended analysis of those outputs under
subcomponents of the project that have produced particularly relevant results and
contributed to delivering project outcomes, even beyond what was initially expected.
Outcome indicators as in the PAD have only partially captured the achievements of the
project. Therefore, this annex will seek to further explore products or process results that
have contributed in a special way to enhancing the institutional capacities for DRM in
Colombia.

COMPONENT A

2.      The outcome indicator for Component A sought to measure the degree of
integration of databases from national agencies managing information relevant to DRM
into the National Disaster Risk Information System (SIGPAD). By the end of the project,
only IDEAM’s database was successfully integrated into SIGPAD; this way, the project
indicators showed poor results for Component A. Yet, the several re-categorizations that
occurred during project implementation were critical to achieve outstanding results
under Subcomponent A.2 (Improving Information Gathering) that were not captured by
the M&E Framework. Thanks to the leadership of SGC, impact results of the project
were particularly positive and relevant in improving the seismic and volcanologic
knowledge by upgrading SGC’s national networks.

IMPROVED RISK KNOWLEDGE              BY   UPGRADING     THE    NATIONAL     SEISMIC    AND
VOLCANOLOGICAL NETWORKS

3.     SGC (formerly INGEOMINAS) is the Institute in charge of monitoring
geophysical risks and the seismic and volcanological activity in the country. Starting in
the 80s, Colombia has systematized the analysis of seismic and volcanologic parameters
as a basis for hazard and risk mapping. SGC’s networks include the National
Seismological Network for seismic events, the National Accelerometers Network for
strong motion earthquakes, and specific networks to monitor the activity of the most
active volcanoes. Each of these networks has been upgraded through the project’s
investments, thus significantly improving SGC’s capacity to identify and monitor risk at
national level.

4.     The National Seismological Network (RSNC: Red Sismológica Nacional de
Colombia). The RSNC was established in 1994 with 15 satellite stations. Shortage of
funds for maintenance and upgrading of this network contributed to a rapid decrease of
the number of operational stations. By the late 90s, the coverage rate and SGC’s capacity
to identify, analyze and monitor seismic activity, were largely insufficient. The project
contributed to fill the gaps SGC was facing, by financing investments to upgrade and
upscale the RSNC. In 2002, the RSNC had 18 satellite short-period stations. By 2013, the
RSNC had an installed capacity of 49 satellite stations: 14 short-period stations and 35
broadband stations. This combination of both types of stations makes it possible today
able to register all kinds and magnitudes of earthquakes, thus improving SGC
seismic activity records and hazard analysis. Figure 1 here below shows an increase of



                                            25
the capacity to record seismic activity from 1993 to 2012. Moreover, the coverage rate
has improved, and stations are being installed in difficult areas too (areas with difficult
access). Figure 2 shows the situations in 2008 and 2013, comparing the coverage rates
over the country. The project also contributed to upgrading communication systems (data
acquisition and processing), and the stations are today all able to send real-time
information to the Operations Center located in Bogotá.
                  Figure 1 – Increase in the seismicity recorded from 1993 to 2012.




     Figure 2 – Expansion of the coverage: influence area of installed stations in 2008 and in 2013




5.     The National Accelerometers Network (RNA: Red Nacional de Acelerógrafos).
In the 90s, Colombia started to develop its RNA network to be able to record strong
motion data from earthquakes over the country. These data is fundamental to analyze
seismic risk and inform building codes. Through the project, SGC was able to upgrade


                                                  26
the RNA, currently counting 100 accelerometers (27 of them with real-time recording
systems and 73 for in-site data collection). The RNA provided data that were used to
upgrade national seismic hazard maps and inform the new National Code for Seismic
Building (2010).

6.      Volcanological Stations Network. Colombia has 21 active volcanoes. Over the
last two decades, despite the efforts made to equip SGC appropriately to be able to
monitor those volcanoes, there was slow and insufficient progress: in 1986, the Nevado
del Ruiz was the first volcano to be monitored; in 1990, four volcanoes were monitored in
total; and in 2007, eight. By the end of the project in 2013 Colombia was able to monitor
14 volcanoes, monitored by a network of 503 stations (236 telemetric ones and 267 non-
telemetric). The project financed equipment that enabled SGC to monitor data on 22
different parameters, while in 2006 only 13 variables were measured. Additional
parameters currently recorded include: thermometer data, magnetometer data and
gravimetric data that are sent by telemetric stations to three new volcanological
observatories located in Manizales, Pasto and Popayán. The coverage rate and sensing
capacity of the network has significantly improved and SGC is today able to
monitor the activity of the most active volcanoes in the country. Figure 3 shows the
coverage of the volcanological network in 2013.
                     Figure 3 – Colombia’s volcanological network in 2013




7.     Colombia is currently much better prepared to monitor volcanological risk
and manage disaster situations, thanks to an enhanced early warning system to alert
local communities, inform SNGRD and support national and subnational authorities in
the decision-making process. During project implementation, several crisis situations



                                             27
occurred with the activities of volcanoes Galeras (2007-2011), Nevado del Huila (2007-
2009), Machín (2007-present), Sotará (2012-present), Cumbal (2012-present) and
Nevado del Ruiz again (2010-present). SGC consistently managed to collect and analyze
the data and trigger early warning systems to prepare local communities. As a result, the
number of victims from mudflows after seismic and volcanological events has decreased.

8.      SGC’s data have also informed land use planning and municipal DRM plans.

9.    Colombia has today one of the most complete seismic and volcanological
networks in Latin American countries.

IMPROVED       RISK KNOWLEDGE BY UPGRADING HYDROMET DATA MANAGEMENT
SYSTEMS

10.    IDEAM is the Institute in charge of monitoring hydro-meteorological risks in the
country. The national network of hydro-meteorological stations and the data management
systems were upgraded with the project’s investments, thus improving IDEAM’s
capacity to identify and monitor risk at the national level and enhance early-warning
systems.

11.    The project also supported risk mapping activities at the national level, to identify
and map areas at risk of fire, landslides and floods. The scale for geomorphological maps
was brought down to 1:100,000. Figures 4 and 5 show some work in progress in that field.
Figure 4 – Geomorphological mapping showing critical areas (risk of landslides, vulnerability) (1:100,000)




                                                   28
              Figure 5 – National zoning map for fire-risk, based on 2009 data (1:500,000)




Fire-risk under normal temp. and rainfall conditions          Fire-risk under El Niño conditions


12.     Colombia can today rely on information of higher resolution (both spatially and
temporally), enhanced methodologies and data management software to manage disaster
risk. However, the activities planned under the project were not entirely completed, and
considering the increase of the risk of hydro-meteorological events, the need to continue
strengthening IDEAM’s institutional capacities remains.

COMPONENT B

13.     Under Component B, the project sought to capitalize on the enhanced technical
capacities of national institutions and provide training and technical assistance (TA) to
subnational authorities in DRM to achieve vulnerability reduction at the local level. By
the end of the project, 95% (1,044 municipalities) of Colombian municipalities have
benefitted from capacity building in DRM. As captured by the project outcome indicators,
the project target was delivered. Beyond the numbers, other relevant outputs and process
outcomes were achieved and deserve some closer attention.

ENHANCED CAPACITIES FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION AT SUBNATIONAL LEVEL

14.    In Colombia, municipalities are the key institutions for territorial management
and therefore considered to be part of the main actors in the risk management system.
Mainstreaming DRM into municipal planning and investment decisions is one of the
drivers to enhance the country’s capacity to reduce vulnerability. The working



                                                   29
assumption is that, if risk is managed through adequate planning at the local level,
resources will be available and optimized so that investments can be made in a timely and
appropriate way.

15.     At the start of the project, land use planning in light of risk management was
relatively new in Colombia and progress made to this regard at municipal level was
uneven. Obstacles persist, such as a low level of awareness of risk scenarios, a lack of
knowledge of hazards and vulnerabilities, a lack of coordination between land use,
development and investment plans, and weak mechanisms to monitor and oversee the
implementation of the territorial land use plans (POTs). Integration of DRM into local
planning tools still is a challenge in Colombia, but significant process outcomes were
achieved through the project. Box 1 here below provides further information about the
baseline in DRM capacity at local level at the start of the project.

 Box 1. Assessment of institutional capacities at municipal level to mainstream DRM in land use
                and development planning (at the start of project implementation)
              Lack of disaster risk information and technical studies at appropriate scales.
              Conceptual problems regarding the notions of hazard, vulnerability and risk.
 Low technical capacity for the identification, evaluation and categorization of hazards in the territory.
 Weak knowledge by local actors of the different methodological guidelines to assess and mainstream
                                     disaster risk into land use planning.
 Low consistency between risk analysis at diagnostic phase and formulation/regulation phases of POT.
  Lack of tools to guide DRM actions (knowledge, risk reduction, and disaster management) within
                     development planning, policy design and investment decisions
Low articulation of entities at territorial, sectoral, national and local levels, impinging on the integration
                         of risk management into zoning and land use planning.


16.      In this context, under Component B, MVCT sought to support local and regional
territorial entities in the integration of hazards and disaster risks into territorial planning
processes, and make DRM factors relevant in decision-making. On the other hand,
UNGRD sought to strengthen the capacities of the departmental and municipal levels to
deliver their DRM mandates. MVCT delivered its support to municipalities through
training, workshops, TA, pilot studies on hazards and risks in critical areas of the country,
the development of action plans to integrate DRM into POTs (planned for 12 years), and
the development of methodological guidelines 5 . UNGRD delivered its support to
municipalities and departments for risk management at subnational level through
training, workshops, TA, meetings with Local and Regional Committees of DRM, the
development of risk management local plans and municipal emergency and contingency
plans, the integration of DRM into the PDMs (planned for 4 years and serving as an input




5
 “La Gestión de Riesgos, un tema de Ordenamiento Territorial. Ruta para la toma de decisiones (MAVDT, 2006)”
and “Planes de Acción para la Incorporación de la Gestión del Riesgo en los POT” (MAVDT, 2006)



                                                      30
to the POTs), as well as the publication of methodological guidelines6. Box 2 here below
shows the impact result of all these activities based on the project outcome indicators.

                Box 2. Component B, Project impacts based on outcome indicators
Expected outcome: Local and sector capacity for risk reduction improved.
Target indicators proposed: At least 100% (1,098) of municipalities are educated, trained and aware of
hazard risk reduction.
Main outcomes: By August 31st 2013, a total of 1,044 municipalities have received assistance in risk
management from MVCT + UNGRD, reaching a percentage of 95% of the goal.


17.    Beyond the project indicators, TA delivered other positive results at the municipal
and departmental levels, including:

        (a) The local authorities and populations realized the importance of
        integrating hazards and risk into planning processes. The project supported
        the development of knowledge on risk, including a better identification of the
        causes and consequences from natural and socio-natural phenomena. The society
        then became more and more aware of its own responsibility to mitigate the
        generation and accumulation of risk, and to bring together the efforts to address
        the different risk factors (general and specific), through a preventive and a
        corrective approach.

        (b) Hazards and risk management components are included in the POTs.
        Action plans and/or context specific studies were developed as a result of the
        remarkable effort from MVCT to check on the status of municipalities’ POTs
        with regard to the consideration of hazards and risk. A capacity assessment of
        local institutions on DRM was undertaken, allowing for a more effective and
        demand-driven support to be provided for the development of future POTs. The
        actions plans also served as a flexible tool for the municipalities to monitor and
        assess hazards and risk management components of their POTs. At the end of the
        project, municipalities had access to methodological guidelines on how to use the
        information on hazards and risks and integrate risk management in POTs and
        development plans.

        (c) The project gave a dynamic vision of risk and hazard management
        together with land use, and project results can guide decision-makers in
        prioritizing investments for risk management in land use planning processes,
        linking those with other instruments such as municipal development plans. These
        are supposed to turn disaster management policy into practice, guiding the
        investments to execute mitigation actions. Furthermore, the project increased the

6
  “Guía Municipal para la Gestión del Riesgo” (UNGRD, 2012); “Actualización de la Guía metodológica para la
formulación de los PLECs” (UNGRD, 2010); and “Guía Metodológica: Plan Escolar para la Gestión del Riesgo”
(UNGRD, 2010).




                                                    31
        technical competences of the local officials in charge of conducting hazard
        assessments and of updating the information (exposure to risks, both for the
        communities and infrastructure).

        (d) Municipalities can now reach out to the national and regional authorities
        for technical support on risk management and territorial planning.

COMPONENT C

18.      The outcomes expected under Component C were central to the impact and
sustainability of the project. In 2012 a new Decree-Law (Ley 1523) established the
regulatory framework for DRM and mandated the development of a National DRM Plan.
The “General Component” of it was developed in 2013 (currently under revision), while
its “Programmatic Component” is still under development. The formal targets of
Component C were only partially achieved, but the institutional process and the visible
shift in how Colombian national and subnational authorities and the civil society address
risk today are notable and deserve some closer analysis.

INSTITUTIONAL AND CONCEPTUAL DEVELOPMENT TOWARDS INTEGRATED DRM

19.      Despite Colombia’s long history of developing institutional responses 7 to the
challenges that natural disasters pose to the development of the country, the new
conceptual approaches to DRM often failed to permeate the Government practices. The
operationalization of risk reduction policies, by-nature cross-cutting sectors and
territories, demanded to overcome a long-standing “passive-reactive” approach to disaster
management. Before the project, Colombia had no national policy on integrated DRM.

20. Since 1988, Colombia has had a National System for Disaster Prevention and
Response (SNPAD) that has been considered as a model in Latin America. Although in
recent years significant efforts had been made to review and update the SNPAD, at the
start of the project the system was still inconsistent with new realities of the national
context. What had initially led to the creation of the SNPAD were: economic and social
impacts, loss and damage from natural disasters and the need to mobilize resources for
recovery after the occurrence of extreme events. Further progress was made with the
formulation of the National Plan for Disaster Prevention and Response (PNPAD) in 1998,
introducing a broader conceptual approach going beyond recovery, but in practice,
comprehensive interventions and mitigation of risk remained very limited. The need to
articulate the SNPAD with other frameworks encompassing land use planning such as the
National Environmental System (SINA) or the National Strategy for Adaptation to
Climate Change were additional reasons for institutional reform. The need to revisit the
SNPAD in light of evolution of DRM concepts and practice was finally felt and the GoC
requested the assistance from the Bank to reinforce its national capacities for integrated
DRM. Box 3 here below summarizes the institutional framework for DRM before the
start of the Project.


7
 A National System for Disaster Prevention and Response was developed in 1985, a National Plan for Disaster
Prevention and Response was approved in1999 and a first CONPES Document dates from 2001.



                                                    32
          Box 3. Assessment of institutional capacities at national level for DRM in Colombia
                                           (at start of the Project)
The SNPAD regulatory framework had not been revised since 1989.
At national level, the institutional approach to DRM was mostly reactive and focused on protection and
emergency management. There was limited coordination amongst different national and subnational
institutions and functions were often duplicated.
Some progress had been made in integrating risk management into development planning (PNPAD and
Development Plans). Yet, DRM commitments in the plans were rarely executed, nor were there effective
indicators or end-goals established.
The former Directorate for Risk Management (current UNGRD) had multiple functions and large
responsibilities, but it had limited leverage capacity over line-Ministries and subnational authorities and
it operated mostly as an Advisory body.

21. Implementation of Component C has arguably delivered the most important
outcome of the Project, with the development and approval of the National Policy and
a National System for DRM (as established by Ley 1523, April 2012). In line with this
new regulatory framework, UNGRD further sought to articulate the restructuring of the
SNPAD, by adopting a more comprehensive approach to risk management, establishing
new structures and functions for the different subnational levels, and ensuring a more
explicit alignment with the Constitution of 1991, oriented towards sustainable
development.

22. Between 2008 and 2010, an institutional diagnosis of the SNPAD was conducted
to identify strengths and weaknesses, develop an organizational plan, and provide
recommendations for new areas responding to DRM dimensions. In 2010, an initial
proposal for a National Policy on DRM was drafted and the regulatory framework and
management tools of the SNPAD were updated through the new Ley 1523 that was
enacted in 2012. By 2013, a version of the National Plan for DRM was ready, with a
finalized “General Component” promoting the participation of multiple actors from
local, regional, and national Governments, as well as from social sectors (currently under
review). Box 4 here below outlines the main impact results under Component C, based on
the project’s outcome indicators.

                  Box 4. Project impacts under Component C based on outcome indicators
Expected outcome: Institutional capacity for DRM strengthened
Outcome indicators proposed:
(i) National policy defining Government responsibility in disaster management and reconstruction
(ii) Preparation of two policy proposals by UNGDR, to update Law 46 of 1988 and Decree Law 919 of 1989.
(iii) Resettlement Policy Guidelines for Settlements in High Risk Zones to be issued
Main outcomes: By August 31st 2013 the targets were mostly reached through:
       National Policy for DRM, as approved within Law 1523 of April 24, 2012
       National System for DRM, as approve within Law 1523 of April 24, 2012
       National Plan for DRM (“General Component”) developed and enacted through Decree 1974 of
          September 2013
       80% progress in the formulation of Policy Guidelines for Settlements in Risk Zones




                                                     33
23.     The project’s most salient impact results in relation to the development and
strengthening of the institutional framework for DRM are the following:

         (a) A new institutional framework for DRM at national level with a modern
         and clear vision of risk management, that is integrated and multi-
         dimensional. The National Policy on DRM and the National Plan for DRM were
         developed based on a broader understanding of risk reduction and its multi-
         dimensions, rather than on the former vision of disaster or calamity response. This
         new approach facilitates the mainstreaming of DRM into land use and territorial
         planning and contributes to applying the principles of sustainable development.

         (b) The notion of DRM has gained political stance, particularly since the
         episode of La Niña8, and is now integrated as a guiding principle into National
         Development Plans. DNP is consistently stressing the need for both a short and
         long term strategy to reduce the impacts of natural disasters on the population and
         the economy.

         (c) The Government has made risk management as a State policy and seeks
         to overcome imbalances in the DRM System through the adjustment of the
         regulatory and institutional frameworks. A National Unit for DRM (UNGRD)
         was established, directly under the Presidency to manage this process.

         (d) A National Fund for DRM has been established under the National Policy
         to encourage investments in DRM action and contribute to capacity development
         at territorial and sectoral levels. The former National Calamity Fund was
         reconstituted as a Fund for Risk Management to articulate and co-finance priority
         actions for DRM at different levels.

24.      Despite the progress made under Component C, UNGRD may still need some
capacity building to fully take on its responsibilities as the lead institution for the
national DRM System. Emergency response remains a priority for UNGRD, while risk
reduction and integrated approaches should be applied extensively. UNGDR would still
need to gain political leverage and technical capacity to promote and fully deploy DRM
approaches and be able to influence strategic policy and investment decisions at national,
territorial, and sectoral levels.




8
  Close to 5% of the national territory was flooded (IGAC, IDEAM, DANE, 2011). UNGRD estimated that 3.7 million
people were affected and about 15,300 houses were destroyed. According to CEPAL-BID (2012), economic loss was
as high as COP$2.1 trillion (0.4% PIB-2010) and the total damage was estimated at COP$11.2 trillion, or over US$6.1
billion. Most damaged sectors were: housing (4%), infrastructure (38%), social services and public management (11%),
and productive sectors (7%).



                                                        34
COMPONENT D

25.     Component D mainly focused on mechanisms to raise awareness and on piloting
approaches to integrate DRM into environmental education at local level. The most
significant outputs under this component were the design of a Diploma on Environmental
and Risk Management that targeted public officials at municipal level, and the
formulation of pilot projects at community and school level to promote the links between
environmental education and management and DRM.

26.     For the Diploma, MADS developed a methodology9 with technical guidelines
and tools to active interact with and mobilize the community, and capitalize on
indigenous knowledge and existing practice of environmental and risk management
in different contexts. This way, local communities had the opportunity to systematize
knowledge and promote local exchange. At the same time, the approach sought to
promote participation of local communities and the civil society in decision-making
processes.

27.     The Diploma’s curriculum was developed around five thematic areas: (i)
environmental education for integrated risk management; (ii) risk management and
sustainable development at territorial level; (iii) water as an element of life and risk
factor; (iv) evaluation, communication and risk management; (v) project management in
the context of environmental risk management.

28.     Pilot projects for environmental risk management at local level were initially
developed in the framework of “Institutional Education Projects” at school level.
Through those, specific interventions at the field level were promoted and, at the same
time, ways of working and deeper reflections were triggered amongst the pedagogic
community. The same dynamic was sought with the pilot initiatives for environmental
education, through which communities, civil society organizations and local groups
conceived and managed small projects at the local level to raise awareness and promote
conflict resolution in areas relevant to environmental risk management.

29.     The engagement strategy was successful and more municipalities than
initially planned were attracted by the project, with a wide participation of both
municipal authorities and civil society groups. In 2008, public officials from 8
municipalities in the Huila department benefited from the Diploma. In 2009, the training
program was extended to Tolima where 11 municipalities joined. From 2010, about 20
municipalities each year were selected to participate. By 2013, more than 45
municipalities from Risaralda, Valle del Cauca, Magdalena and Bolívar benefited from
the program. Adjustments of the Diploma curriculum were made to be tailored
specifically to the local context and useful for future training. In 2013, municipalities
from Caldas were selected to participate but the adequate budget had not been secured by


9
 The full document (Diseño y ejecución del Diplomado en Gestión Ambiental del Riego con aplicación piloto en 11
municipios del Sur del Huila en el marco del Componente D del Programa de Reducción de la Vulnerabilidad Fiscal
del Estado ante Desastres Naturales (crédito BIRF 7293.CO), is available at: http://www.guadalupe-huila.gov.co/apc-
aa-files/32653537373465383362633462353034/Diplomado_Gesti_n_del_riesgo.pdf



                                                        35
MADS (from the loan) that last year of project implementation. In conclusion, between
2008 and 2012, 68 trainings based on the Diploma were delivered (though the loan) and
about 2,127 local decision-makers took part. Over 20 projects on environmental risk
management have been supported by the project and over 200 different editions of the
environmental risk management guidelines have been published, responding to local
socio-economic and environmental contexts.

COMPONENT E

30.     After the cancellation of the Disaster Emergency Assistance, Component E mainly
sought to develop a strategy to cover the residual risk of natural disasters and to reduce
the fiscal vulnerability of the State. By the end of the project, the Government published
the “Colombia Policy Strategy for Public Financial Management of Natural Disaster
Risk”. This end-product implied the achievement of the project’s outcome target under
Component E, but the process towards it delivered more outputs that are worth analyzing.

DEVELOPMENT OF A RISK FINANCING STRATEGY FOR COLOMBIA

31.     The project sought to assist the Government in managing the fiscal
vulnerability of the State through four main action lines: (i) the establishment of a
clear accountability framework defining the scope and modalities of state interventions in
the occurrence of natural disasters; (ii) the development of risk transfer tools to engage
with private insurance markets; (iii) the optimization of existing insurance programs for
public assets in the country; and (iv) the development of a cost-effective financial
strategy to reduce the residual risk of the State.

32.     A first study on the insurance options for the State 10 was commissioned and
catalogued State property, buildings and public assets. The risk assessment exercise also
involved the collection and analysis of data related to the probability of occurrence of
natural disasters in order to establish the “Probable Maximum Losses”. The need for a
collective approach to insuring public buildings was the main conclusion of the study. As
part of the recommendations suggested, MHCP sought for TA for the design of a
comprehensive strategy, including the lines of action defined within the project.

33.      During project preparation, a series of studies funded by the Government of Japan
made it possible for DNP to demonstrate the extent to which national development goals
were compromised by the State’s fiscal vulnerability. The 2010-2014 National
Development Plan (PND)11 established that MHCP would support the management of
fiscal risk resulting from natural disasters, within the broader context of macroeconomic
stability and fiscal balance. Article 220 of the PND further established that MHCP would
be in charge of designing a strategy to reduce the State’s fiscal vulnerability to natural
disasters. In this context, MHCP sought external technical support.



10
   “Implementación de mecanismos de aseguramiento de los inmuebles propiedad de la nación que permitan su
protección financiera frente al riesgo catastrófico” (ERN, 2007).
11
   “Prosperity for All”, Law 1450 of 2011



                                                   36
34.     In 2011, with the financial support from the Swiss State Secretariat for Economic
Affairs (SECO) and GFDRR, the Bank facilitated TA to MHCP for the design and
implementation of the national financial strategy. A specific program to reduce the
financial vulnerability of the State to natural disasters was implemented and contributed
to improving the State’s financial capacity to respond in the aftermath of natural disasters,
while protecting the long-term fiscal balance.

35.     In 2012 and 2013, MHCP made significant progress in designing a
comprehensive strategy for the financial management of disasters. The Ministry
identified three priority policy areas for assessing, reducing, and managing fiscal risk
from natural disasters: (i) identification and understanding of fiscal risk due to natural
disasters; (ii) financial management of disaster risk, including the implementation of
innovative financial instruments; and (iii) catastrophe risk insurance for public assets. As
the Strategy was being developed, the GoC implemented parallel activities in these three
areas to improve its financial capacity to respond to emergencies and to mitigate long-
term fiscal impacts from disasters. With World Bank support, MHCP launched the
“Colombia: Policy Strategy for Public Financial Management of Natural Disaster Risk”
in December 2013. The document was presented in a national Forum jointly hosted by
MHCP and UNGRD.

36.     The development of this financial risk management strategy and the
activities implemented along the process, have contributed to enhancing the national
capacities for DRM. Furthermore, Colombia is currently developing risk mitigation and
risk transfer tools (e.g.: Cat Swap for seismic risk) that will further contribute to reducing
the fiscal vulnerability of the State and being financially better prepared in the occurrence
of future natural disasters.

                                         Box 5. CAPRA at a Glance

CAPRA is an information platform to enhance decision-making in risk management across various
sectors. Through the application of probabilistic risk assessment principles to threats, CAPRA allows to
measure and compare different types of risks, and to develop sector-specific applications for risk management.
CAPRA is a joint project of the Central America Coordination Center for Natural Disaster Prevention, the
United Nations International Strategy for Risk Reduction, and the World Bank in collaboration with the
national authorities of Central America.

The Bank has been working with GFDRR/CAPRA to support the integration of probabilistic risk information
into other policy-making processes. GFDRR grants supported the use of CAPRA in four different processes to
assist decision-making: (1) the development of a seismic risk assessment in Pereira to inform education, health
and housing portfolios, (2) the development of a risk assessment for the Galeras Volcano to inform the housing
sector; (3) a technical workshop to develop institutional capacities in floods risk assessment of National
Agencies, and (4) a technical workshop on seismic risk analysis for local agencies of the Pasto municipality.
The joint effort has also been supporting the development of a methodology to take inventory of urban
settlements in high risk areas, through the provision of TA to MVCT.




                                                   37
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1.      The cost-benefit methodology developed for this project was based on the
following: “(i) assessment of annual losses of exposed public properties and
infrastructure to arrive at expected damage loss figures from which the fiscal cost of
projected natural disasters would be gauged; (ii) assessment of damage reduction
achieved based on specific risk mitigation/prevention measures; and (iii) comparison of
the cost of risk mitigation investments for the selected works” (cf. PAD).

2.     These assessments were supposed to be conducted annually on select structural
and nonstructural mitigation measures financed by the project. However, no assessment
was carried out. Furthermore, most of the structural mitigation measures that could have
been followed up and documented were cancelled during implementation (in particular,
the US$61 million Municipal Risk Mitigation Investments under Subcomponent B.2a),
and the project was largely left with only nonstructural TA activities.

3.       It is impossible to assess the remaining structural measures (i.e., the investments
through ECOPETROL and INVIAS based on a cost-recognition approach) against
damage reduction: there was no technical oversight to guide the investment decisions,
and no reporting requirement from the corresponding executing entities. Nevertheless,
based on (i) the data provided in the PAD suggesting that retrofitting a US$100,000
building at a cost of US$1,000 should reduce the “probable maximum loss” (from a
natural adverse event) from US$10,000 to US$3,000 or in a more conservative way by 50
percent, 12 and (ii) the US$72.2 million disbursed by INVIAS and ECOPETROL (for
retrofitting works on NSR-98-Group IV “indispensable” classified buildings of the
National Seismic Regulation) 13 , an estimated US$361.0 million loss was avoided
(“probable maximum loss” reduced from US$722.0 million to US$361.0 million).

4.      Assessments on nonstructural measures could in principle be carried out.
However, even though there is a database at the national level collecting damage
reduction data and tracking investments in DRM, the lack of data and accurate
information linking activity to damage reduction in this particular project render it an
impossible feat. The PAD intended to consider two forms of nonstructural measures
addressing risk mitigation: (a) enhancing disaster preparedness and early warning
systems (to save lives), on which Components A and D were focusing; and (b) enhancing
land use allocation/control and identification of hazard prone areas and limits on their use
and incentives. The associated investments amounted to a total of US$32.5 million:
US$22.7 million for (a) (amounts of Components A and D) and US$9.8 million for (b)
(amount of Component B minus the US$72.2 million of INVIAS and ECOPETROL).
Based on the Benefits-to-Investment-Ratio of 25 provided in the PAD, characterizing the
effectiveness of Land Use Plans when they are used to “reduce growth rate by half”



12
   The more detailed reference given in the PAD (in its Annex 9) is that retrofitting buildings at costs running from 1.8
to 3.4 percent of total building value for residential buildings and from 2.0 to 3.8 percent of total building value for
commercial buildings should reduce “probable maximum loss” (from a natural adverse event) by 50 percent.
13
   Information from Econometría’s report.



                                                          38
(compared to a ratio of 0 when they are used to “do nothing”), it can be assumed that the
US$9.8 million that were spent for (b) will give the beneficiary municipalities the
possibility to reduce by 25 times the potential damages they would bear by not being
aware of the stakes related to land use and natural disaster risk and doing nothing.

5.      In practice, conducting a proper cost benefit analysis to assess a mitigation
activity’s expected net benefits (discounted future benefits less discounted costs) proves
difficult. A few results found in the literature help put the efficiency of the investments
made under the project in perspective. A study that applied cost benefit analysis
methodologies to a statistical sample of approximately 5,500 mitigation grants from the
U.S. Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for earthquake, flood and wind
hazards shows that the overall benefit-cost ratio for these grants was about 4 to 1. The
ratio, however, varied from 1.5 for earthquake mitigation to 5.1 for flood mitigation. 14
Other analyses focusing on flood and drought hazards in South Asia show that return
rates of mitigation investments are particularly robust for lower-cost, local interventions
that reduce risks associated with high frequency but low magnitude events,15 and that
should be a driver for the development and investment plans at the local level. Finally,
the investment planning process in Colombia includes by law an economic and cost-
benefit analysis for any project requiring public funding. This assessment is part of an
overall evaluation ensuring the viability of the proposed project based on technical,
economic, environmental and social grounds. This information was nevertheless never
collected from the Borrower during project implementation and neither was it possible to
obtain it during/after the ICR mission.

6.       Aside from these assessments and information, it is possible to justify:

        (i) The economic rationale of the project and show the causal chain that linked
project objectives/activities and ultimate outcomes it influenced, as described throughout
Section 3.5 of the main text. The numbers in the following Table, calculated from the
“Análisis de la gestión del riesgo de desastres en Colombia” (2012)16, also show the shift
brought by the project, with significant increases in the DRM investments: total
investments in DRM at the national level were multiplied by 3.8 for the period 2006-
2010 (when the project started until the year of the last set of data found in that report)
compared with the preceding period 2001-2005, and the same observation can be made
for investments per area (governance, knowledge and information, education, reduction,
disaster management) or per entity (e.g.: IDEAM, SGC, INVIAS and MAVDT). (Note
that these calculations were possible thanks to the database developed and maintained by
DNP with the tracking and reporting of DRM investments per year.)




14
   Adam Rose et al. “Benefit Cost Analysis of FEMA Hazard Mitigation Grants”. December 2006.
15
   Marcus Moench and the Risk to Resilience Study Team. “Understanding the Costs and Benefits of Disaster Risk
Reduction under Changing Climatic Conditions.” Working Paper 9, October 2008.
16
   This refers to an analytical work financed by WB/GFDRR: “Análisis de la gestión del riesgo de desastres en
Colombia; Un aporte para la construcción de políticas públicas. BM-Colombia, GFDRR” (2012).



                                                     39
                                                  Cumulated investments from 2001 to 2005 Cumulated investments from 2006 to 2010        Increase
                                                                  (in US$)                                (in US$)                  (multipliying effect)
Total investments in DRM at the national level                             460,827,530                           1,733,489,220                        3.8
                        Governance                                             189,631                               2,047,282                       10.8
Total investments in    Knowledge & Information                             15,910,610                              44,170,745                        2.8
DRM at the national     Education                                               87,445                                 603,056                        6.9
level by priority area  Reduction                                           96,991,853                             421,908,441                        4.3
                        Disaster Management                                347,647,990                           1,264,759,697                        3.6
Examples of             IDEAM                                                  144,715                              11,088,530                       76.6
investments in          INGEOMINAS (SGC)                                     1,342,618                              25,576,029                       19.0
Knowledge &             INVIAS                                                  33,138                               1,227,503                       37.0
Information per entity  MAVDT                                                  290,164                                 631,079                        2.2



       (ii) The public rationale, given the Government’s fiscal constraints at Entry and
need for “liquidity funds”, and the key role the Government had and has to play in the
development and mainstreaming of the DRM agenda;

        (iii) The added-value from the World Bank, already engaged in DRM through the
Country Partnership Strategy and multiple past and ongoing operations, and bringing in
an innovative and long term approach through a10-year program spanning a wide range
of structural and nonstructural activities.




                                                                40
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                             Responsibility/
          Names                            Title                   Unit
                                                                               Specialty
Lending
Anna Wellenstein          Sector Leader                        LCSFP
Fabio Arjona              Consultant                           LCSUW
Daniel J. Boyce           Sr. Financial Mgmt. Specialist       LCOAA
Eduardo Brito             Sr. Counsel                          LEGLA
Elena Correa              Sr. Social Scientist                 LCSEO
Enrique Pantoja           Peer Reviewer                        SACBA
Eugene Gurenko            Sr. Insurance Specialist             OPD
Fabio Arjona              Environmental Specialist             LCSUW
Francis Ghesquiere        Sr. Urban Specialist                 LCSFU
Jeannette Estupiñán       Financial Mgmt. Specialist           LCOAA
John Pollner              Lead Financial Sector Specialist     LCSFF
José C. Joaquín Toro L.   Disaster Mgmt. Specialist            LCSFU
José M. Martínez          Procurement Specialist               LCSEO
Joseph Formoso            Sr. Financial Officer                LOAG3
Juan D. Quintero          Sr. Environmental Specialist         LCSEN
Margaret Arnold           Peer Reviewer                        TUCHM
Osmar E. Velasco L.       Consultant                           LCSUW
Rosa Elena Bellido        Language Program Assistant           LCSSO
Luz Meza-Bartrina         Sr. Counsel                          LEGLA
Tova Solo                 Sr. Disaster Mgmt. Specialist        LCSFU
Supervision/ICR
Alden Rivera Montes       Consultant                           LCSUW
Ana Campos García         Sr. Disaster Risk Mgmt. Specialist   LCSDU
Ana F. Daza               Language Program Assistant           LCSDU
Ana María Torres          Consultant                           LCSUW
Cecilia María Balchún     Consultant                           CTRDM - HIS
Carolina Díaz Giraldo     Consultant                           LCSDU
Celso Saúl Alfaro A.      Consultant                           LCSUW
Daniel J. Boyce           Manager, Financial Management        LCSFM
Diana M. Rubiano V.       Consultant                           LCSDU
Diomedes Berroa           Lead Specialist                      OPSOR
Eric Dickson              Sr. Urban Specialist                 LCSDU
Fernando Ramírez C.       Sr. Disaster Risk Mgmt. Specialist   LCSDU
Francis Ghesquiere        Manager                              GFDRR
Jeannette Estupiñán       Sr. Financial Mgmt. Specialist       LCSFM
José C. Joaquín Toro L.   Sr. Disaster Risk Mgmt. Specialist   ECSUW
José M. Martínez          Sr. Procurement Specialist           ECSO2
Joseph Paul Formoso       Sr. Finance Officer                  CTRLA
Manuel A. Vargas M.       Lead Financial Mgmt. Specialist      MNAFM
Maricarmen Esquivel       Consultant                           LCSUW



                                          41
Michel Matera             Sr. Disaster Risk Mgmt. Specialist    LCSDU
Natalia Cecilia Bavio     Finance Analyst                       CTRLN
Niels B. Holm-Nielsen     Lead Disaster Risk Mgmt. Specialist   LCSDU
Osmar E. Velasco L.       Consultant                            LCSUW
Patricia Kelly            Program Assistant                     FFSFT
Rosa Elena Bellido        Language Program Assistant            LCSSO
Rosemary Bendeck          Consultant                            LCSUW
Santiago René Torres      Procurement Specialist                LCSPT
Tova Solo                 Sr. Disaster Mgmt. Specialist         LCSUW
Ulrich Cedric Myboto      Consultant                            LCSUW


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including
                                     No. of staff weeks
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY03                                          9.56                    40.91
  FY04                                         36.43                   251.00
  FY05                                         42.82                   177.24
                          Total:               88.91                   469.15
Supervision/ICR
  FY05                                       3.28                       11.54
  FY06                                      26.65                      152.82
  FY07                                      21.52                      125.36
  FY08                                      19.16                      111.91
  FY09                                      11.53                      121.06
  FY10                                      15.98                       94.94
  FY11                                      14.87                      114.23
  FY12                                      19.90                      134.74
  FY13                                      15.83                      102.61
  FY14                                      12.87                       64.37
                          Total:           161.59                    1,033.58




                                          42
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

N/A




                                      43
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

1.      The GoC commissioned the consulting firm Econometría to undertake an external
evaluation of the project. The ICR mission was coordinated so that the initial findings
from that evaluation could be shared with the Bank and the final report sent shortly after
(early December 2013). The final report was transmitted to the Bank on January 14, 2014.
There was no formal workshop held by the Stakeholder but a videoconference was
organized on February 11 to share the findings from Econometría with the Bank and
participation from most executing entities. They are summarized in this Annex.

2.         Main results from the project, contributing to the expected outcome:17
       -   Approval of Ley 1523/2012;
       -   Establishment of the National Unit for DRM (UNGRD);
       -   Strengthening of the risk monitoring and early warning systems of SGC and
           IDEAM;
       -   Progressive transformation for disaster management at local level;
       -   PAD’s expected outcomes and targets accomplished and overcome.

3.         Main conclusions from the institutional analysis:18
       -   The institutional capacities of the National System for DRM (SNGRD) were
           strengthened between 2006 and 2013. At the national level, risk identification was
           improved, and at the local level DRM was mainstreamed in planning processes;
       -   Despite an undeniable paradigm shift in DRM, there is still a long way to go,
           especially at territorial level, where risk studies that integrate information from
           IGAC, IDEAM, INVIAS, SGC, CARs, and regional and municipal authorities
           need to be developed;
       -   Some executing entities missed guidance, direction and management support
           during implementation, which led to a budget planning below the needs of the
           program;
       -   Other executing entities planned to execute more resources than what they were
           used to but failed to strengthen their in-house capacity for implementation;
       -   In several occasions programmatic commitments were not met and resources were
           only partially executed;
       -   In general, institutions resisted change, in particular with respect to the
           application of rules and procedures of the Multilateral Bank in areas such as
           procurement. This led to implementation delays and the need for training
           schemes;
       -   In some cases, the executing entities were not equipped for the project
           implementation. The necessary staff with the necessary skills were not available;
       -   Other than the PIU, the need for coordination mechanisms that would articulate
           the different project components was not addressed during project design. The
           Technical Reference Group conceived to this end, was never established.


17
     Extracts from the presentation given by Econometría.
18
     Extracts from the presentation given by Econometría.



                                                     44
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

COMMENTS ON THE DRAFT ICR

Provision of details on project results
1.       IDEAM insisted on having the specific progress made on early warning and
flooding scenarios reported in the ICR, as well as the overall progress made in terms of
institutional capacities strengthening within the Institute.

2.      MADS insisted on having the efforts made by the Ministry to strengthen the
CARs and their DRM and planning capacities, reported in the ICR. MADS wanted to
make sure that: the numbers associated with the results under Component D add up
(number of benefiting municipalities); the ICR well describes the Diploma Curriculum
developed by the Ministry; the ICR also reports the extension of training and awareness-
raising activities to 22 additional municipalities (thanks to materials developed under the
project but through another source of funding). MADS emphasized their commitment to
the long-term objectives of the project. They have mainstreamed DRM in their macro-
projects and sustainability strategies, aiming at strengthening the sector.

Factors affecting implementation
3.     DNP addressed the difficulties experienced by the executing entities in complying
with the Bank operational procedures (related to procurement in particular) and the need
for each of them to take on the responsibilities such loan and associated project entail.
Despite the availability of resources offered by the loan, the fiscal margin over the last
few years, and their initial commitment to the project, some executing entities failed to
plan and allocate adequate budgets to implement their parts of project activities to
completion.
4.      SGC pointed at the frequent “administrative bottlenecks” technical staff had to
deal with (and resolve) in addition to their own workload in order to guarantee the timely
implementation of project activities. SCG and several other executing entities addressed
the difficulty of meeting both the national procurement requirements for public
expenditure (to be audited by the national Contraloría General de la República) and the
WB rules. Furthermore, the high turnover of staff within the institutions (particularly
managing all the legal and administrative aspects, rather than the technical ones) over the
lifetime of the project did have an impact on its implementation. It is also likely to have a
negative impact on the sustainability of the results achieved.
5.     MVCT pointed at the difficulty of finding the right profile for taking on the
technical coordination, on a day-to-day basis, of such a complex and multifaceted
operation. According to MVCT, before an executing entity can take on the responsibility
of managing any future WB operation, its institutional capacities should be strengthened.
During project implementation, it was challenging for IDEAM and SCG for instance to
form and keep a team of dedicated staff able to manage and follow up project activities.




                                             45
Inputs to lessons learned
6.       DNP’s specific comments. (i) “La Niña” phenomena strengthened the political
commitment at the national level to mainstream DRM into development plans (e.g.:
through POMCA). Yet, the application of risk mitigation measures can increase the
investment cost by up to 80 percent: therefore, special funds associated with DRM still
need to be mobilized. (ii) Both the GoC and the executing entities should undertake an
institutional assessment of their needs and capacities before they embark on this kind of
operations.
7.      SGC’s specific comments. (i) National institutions should undertake an analysis
of opportunities and implications brought by such large operations funded by Multilateral
Banks. They should embark on the implementation of the project only if the objectives
contribute to the institutional goals and priorities. (ii) How could the Bank rules and
procedures better accommodate the national procurement requirements? The proposed
answer from SGC is to have a dedicated “support-unit” staffed with national procurement
experts familiar with both the national rules and the WB procedures. This unit would
provide assistance both ways, “translating” WB and national procurement rules both
ways. This would free up the technical agencies from the administrative/managerial
workload they experienced throughout the project. Such a unit would also contribute to
ensuring business continuity as it would be a central unit, with fewer chances of staff
turnover than within all the national institutions combined. (iii) The high staff turnover
observed during the lifetime of the project within the national institutions showed the
limitations of the “capacity building strategy” applied by the Bank.
8.      MVCT’s specific comments. (i) MVCT concurs with the “support-unit” concept:
it would directly depend on the WB with the exclusive purpose of facilitating the
operations during implementation, including resorbing operational bottlenecks (especially
linked to procurement issues). (ii) MVCT expressed their concern related to delays in
Bank’s responses that would delay the procurement processes and compromise the GoC’s
budget allocations following an annual plan (vigencia). Despite the constant availability
and diligence of the Bank’s task team, this occasionally happened, and the idea of having
the Task Team Leader backed up by another person entitled to make decisions equally
(e.g.: provide No-objections) was raised. (iii) MVCT insisted on the fundamental
commitment from the executing entities to timely deliver the project, ensure the quality
of supervision and performance of in-house staff, including guaranteeing the availability
of a procurement specialist(s). MVCT expressed a request to open up the capacity
building activities (especially for procurement) to in-house staff in addition to “project
staff”.

VALIDATION OF RATINGS PROPOSED IN THE ICR

9.     All ratings were validated by the GoC and the executing entities. The comments
below were collected directly from the Workshop participants, who were divided in two
groups (Grupo 1 and Grupo 2) and asked to discuss the ratings and summarize their
discussions in a chart provided upfront. Their comments appear in italic below.




                                           46
Rating #1. CALIFICACIÓN SOBRE CUMPLIMIENTO DE OBJETIVOS


Definición: La medida en que los objetivos más relevantes de la operación fueron
alcanzados de manera eficiente.
Criterios establecidos: Relevancia de los objetivos, Cumplimiento y Eficiencia

Gradiente de calificación:
                                   No hubo deficiencias en la consecución de los
 Altamente satisfactorio           objetivos de la operación, ni en su eficacia o
                                   relevancia.
 Satisfactorio                     Hubo deficiencias menores
 Moderadamente satisfactorio       Hubo deficiencias moderadas
 Moderadamente insatisfactorio     Hubo deficiencias significativas
 Insatisfactorio                   Hubo grandes deficiencias

Calificación propuesta en el ICR: SATISFACTORIO (justificaciones en las p 9-15
del ICR)

El GoC/las EE están de acuerdo con la calificación propuesta?     SI

Por qué motivos? (en función de criterios establecidos).


GRUPO 1:

Los participantes manifiestan estar de acuerdo con la calificación de
SATISFACTORIO, dada por el Banco Mundial, teniendo en cuenta que hubo
deficiencias menores, que no impactaron en el cumplimiento de objetivos del proyecto,
por parte de las Entidades Ejecutoras (EE). Resaltando que en la posibilidad de una
nueva fase, se debe tener en cuenta las falencias identificadas para tomar los
correctivos.

GRUPO 2:
Desde el SGC se considera que los logros del proyecto evidencian un cumplimiento en
el objetivo general, a pesar de la deficiencia que se tuvo que sortear con no tener unos
indicadores que permitieran evaluar de manera más pertinente. Si se hubieran
establecido unos indicadores para cada objetivo y para cada entidad se hubiese
podido evidenciar mejor los resultados.
Se aclara que los objetivos, algunos con indicador y otros sin indicador, dejaron
entrever un grado de cumplimiento asociado a los “efectos colaterales”. En algunos
casos el indicador sí estaba claramente definido pero no se lograron resultados
altamente satisfactorios.
El hecho de que las metas no se hubiesen cumplido totalmente, justifica que la
calificación sea SATISFACTORIO, y que las deficiencias menores se vean reflejadas
en el no cumplimiento del 100% de las metas.



                                           47
Rating #2. CALIFICACIÓN SOBRE SOSTENIBILIDAD DE RESULTADOS

Definición: Se define la sostenibilidad en función de los riesgos existentes (en el
momento de la evaluación) que puedan comprometer el mantenimiento de los
resultados del proyecto
Criterios establecidos: los riesgos pueden ser de índole: Técnica; Financiera;
Económica; Socio- política; Medioambiental; Gubernamental/Institucional; Exposición
a desastres.

Gradiente de calificación, el riesgo puede ser considerado como:
- Nulo o despreciable
- Moderado
- Significativo
- Alto

Calificación propuesta en el ICR: MODERADO (justificaciones en las p 15-16 del
ICR)

El GoC/las EE están de acuerdo con la calificación propuesta?      SI

Por qué motivos? (en función de los criterios establecidos)


GRUPO 1:
Los participantes concluyen estar de acuerdo con la calificación de Moderada.

GRUPO 2:

- UNGRD: se da continuidad a los proyectos y se incorporan a los planes de acción. El
proceso de reestructuración de la entidad hace que desde sus directrices misionales se
pueda dar un direccionamiento a los proyectos. No obstante durante el proceso de
reestructuración (de SNPAD a UNGRD) de la entidad se descapitalizó el cuerpo
técnico debido a que la mayoría equipo de proyecto dependía en gran medida de
consultores que no renovaron sus contratos.

- INVIAS: Es incierta la continuidad, se han creado áreas y grupos específicos para la
gestión del riesgo que antes no existían, pero depende del interés de la dirección del
sector.

- MHCP: han acumulado experiencia con este crédito. Se requiere que exista un
acompañamiento por parte de la institución para que la experiencia lograda no se
pierda y pueda tener continuidad. La sugerencia es que desde el momento en que se
esté negociando el crédito, todas las EE participen en la negociación para saber qué
medidas se deben tomar. La participación del DNP es imprescindible.



                                            48
- IDEAM: considera que estos proyectos conllevan a repensar las estructuras de cada
entidad: tema de escalas, demandas de las regiones (evidenciadas por los resultados
del proyecto y las expectativas creadas).

- SGC: los requerimientos y demandas en el área de conocimiento del riesgo (escalas y
resoluciones para el uso de la información, etc.) deberán obtener respuesta desde
direccionamiento metodológico del nivel nacional, quien determina qué se hace y
cómo se hace. Las instituciones no pueden hacer todo, las necesidades son
diferenciadas (Ej.: los enfoques de los consultores vs las necesidades de la población
local). En ese sentido es importante que los resultados alcanzados se capitalicen para
las instituciones y entidades.

- MVCT: todas las entidades hemos logrado una concientización con relación a la
gestión del riesgo, lo que imprime sostenibilidad resultados obtenidos sean pensados
de aquí en adelante y esto asegura su sostenibilidad.



Rating #3. CALIFICACIÓN SOBRE EL DESEMPEÑO DEL BANCO MUNDIAL

Definición: La medida en que los servicios ofrecidos por el Banco Mundial aseguraron
la calidad en el diseño de la operación y apoyaron la ejecución efectiva a través de una
supervisión adecuada para el avance hacia los objetivos del proyecto.

Criterios establecidos:
- Calidad de servicios en la fase de diseño: identificación, preparación y formulación
del proyecto

- Calidad de servicios en la fase de supervisión: la identificación proactiva de
oportunidades y resolución de amenazas al proyecto

Gradiente de calificación:
                                    No hubo deficiencias en la calidad de los servicios
 Altamente satisfactorio
                                    prestados (diseño/ supervisión)
 Satisfactorio                      Hubo deficiencias menores
 Moderadamente satisfactorio        Hubo deficiencias moderadas
 Moderadamente insatisfactorio      Hubo deficiencias significativas
 Insatisfactorio                    Hubo grandes deficiencias

Calificación propuesta en el ICR:

Diseño: MODERADAMENTE SATISFACTORIO (justificación en p16 del ICR)

Supervisión: MODERADAMENTE SATISFACTORIO (p17 del ICR)

Global: MODERADAMENTE SATISFACTORIO (p17 ICR)




                                            49
El GoC/las EE están de acuerdo con la calificación propuesta?
Diseño: SI
Supervisión: SI
Global: SI

Por qué motivos? (en función de criterios establecidos)

GRUPO 1:

Con relación a la calificación se advierte que la responsabilidad del diseño del
proyecto era recaía sobre del Gobierno Nacional. El Banco Mundial debe profundizar
aún más en el apoyo técnico a las entidades ejecutoras. El grupo está de acuerdo con
la calificación de “moderadamente satisfactorio”.

GRUPO 2:
- Desde el proyecto hubo una apuesta importante en colocar a diferentes entidades
ejecutoras a trabajar para un objetivo común. Desde esa perspectiva, y a pesar de las
falencias de diseño y planificación, se alcanzaron resultados y las instituciones se
pusieron en marcha al servicio del proyecto.
- Frente al tema de capacitaciones que haga el BM es importante que dichas
capacitaciones sobre normas BM se socialicen de manera más amplia para que no
quede solo en unas cuantas personas. El riesgo siempre es que algunas capacitaciones
se pierden si quien las recibe no continúa en las entidades. El compromiso que debería
establecerse es que quien reciba capacitaciones las replique al interior de las
entidades.


Rating #4. CALIFICACIÓN SOBRE EL DESEMPEÑO DEL PRESTATARIO

Definición: La medida en que el prestatario (incluyendo el Gobierno así como las
Entidades Ejecutoras) han asegurado la calidad en la preparación y ejecución y han
cumplido con los acuerdos convenidos para la consecución de los objetivos del
proyecto.

Criterios establecidos: El desempeño del prestatario se califica evaluando dos
dimensiones:
-El desempeño del Gobierno (central y/o local según aplique)
-El desempeño de las EE

Los criterios relevantes incluyen: la identificación de oportunidades en el diseño y
mecanismos de resolución de amenazas y la promoción de medidas de sostenibilidad.
Gradiente de calificación:
 Altamente satisfactorio          No hubo deficiencias en el desempeño del GoC/EE
 Satisfactorio                    Hubo deficiencias menores
 Moderadamente satisfactorio      Hubo deficiencias moderadas
 Moderadamente insatisfactorio Hubo deficiencias significativas
 Insatisfactorio                  Hubo grandes deficiencias


                                           50
Calificación propuesta en el ICR:
Gobierno: MODERADAMENTE SATISFACTORIO (justificación en p17 del ICR)

Entidades Ejecutoras: MODERADAMENTE SATISFACTORIO (p18 del ICR)

Global: MODERADAMENTE SATISFACTORIO (p18 del ICR)

El GoC/las EE están de acuerdo con la calificación propuesta?
Gobierno: SI
Entidades Ejecutoras: SI
Global: SI

GRUPO 1:

Los participantes coinciden en ratificar la calificación global de Moderadamente
satisfactorio, resaltando el apoyo dado por el Gobierno Nacional y el Congreso de la
República (Expedición de la ley 1523 de 2012) y los gobiernos territoriales. Destacan
la necesidad de mejorar la parte gerencial y de coordinación al interior de las
instituciones.

GRUPO 2:

- Según MHCP, quien debe revisar la ejecución del proyecto es DNP. MHCP se hace
responsable del crédito, pero la ejecución debe ser seguida por el DNP. MHCP
cumplía el papel de administradora del crédito, y además cumplía con otra
responsabilidad: la ejecución de una componente del proyecto (la relacionada con la
estrategia financiera) cuyo porcentaje era menor en relación con el total del crédito.

- MVCT: el ministerio necesita un grupo grande de consultores para la capacitación y
asistencia técnica a los municipios. El problema se presenta al justificar esto ante
MHCP y ante DNP en términos de contratación de personal externo. Sin embargo, el
fortalecimiento institucional depende de la contratación de consultores. Los dos
grandes temas que aborda el ministerio tienen implicaciones políticas y sociales: el
tema de vivienda y el tema de agua potable y saneamiento. Desde la perspectiva del
DNP y MHCP, en la programación de los recursos para los techos presupuestales se
prioriza la inversión en subsidios de vivienda. La discusión presupuestal se debe dar
en presencia de los técnicos para que la justificación de la contratación de consultores
tenga el peso y la validez para la asignación de los recursos.




                                           51
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                      52
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   Análisis de la gestión del riesgo de desastres en Colombia; Un aporte para la construcción de
    políticas públicas. BM-Colombia, GFDRR. (2012).

   Evaluación institucional y de resultados del Programa de reducción de la vulnerabilidad fiscal del
    Estado frente a desastres naturales (APL-1); Informe final. Econometría Consultores, MVCT.
    (Diciembre de 2013).

   Evaluación del crédito BIRF 7293-CO proyecto “Actualización instrumental del Sistema Sismológico
    y Vulcanológico Nacional”. Servicio Geológico de Colombia (SGC, 2013).

   Valoración de daños y pérdidas - Ola invernal en Colombia 2010-2011. CEPAL, BID, DNP (2012).

   Áreas afectadas por inundaciones 2010-2011. Reporte final. IGAC, IDEAM, DANE (2011).

   Retención y transferencia del riesgo sísmico en Colombia. Evaluación preliminar de una posible
    estrategia financiera y del mercado potencial. Universidad de los Andes- Centro de Estudios sobre
    Desastres y Riesgos (CEDERI), BM, DNP (2002).

   Estrategia Financiera para disminuir la vulnerabilidad del Estado ante la ocurrencia de un desastre
    natural. Subdirección de Riesgo, Dirección General de Crédito Público y Tesoro Nacional, MHCP
    (2012).

   La Gestión de Riesgos, un tema de Ordenamiento Territorial. Ruta para la toma de decisiones
    (MAVDT, 2006); Planes de Acción para la Incorporación de la Gestión del Riesgo en los POT
    (MAVDT, 2006).

   Guía Municipal para la Gestión del Riesgo (UNGRD, 2012); Actualización de la Guía metodológica
    para la formulación de los PLECs (UNGRD, 2010); and Guía Metodológica: Plan Escolar para la
    Gestión del Riesgo (UNGRD, 2010).

   Prosperity for All, Law 1450 of 2011

   Implementación de mecanismos de aseguramiento de los inmuebles propiedad de la nación que
    permitan su protección financiera frente al riesgo catastrófico (ERN, 2007).

   Marcus Moench and the Risk to Resilience Study Team. “Understanding the Costs and Benefits of
    Disaster Risk Reduction under Changing Climatic Conditions.” Working Paper 9, October 2008.

   Adam Rose et al. “Benefit Cost Analysis of FEMA Hazard Mitigation Grants”. December 2006.

   2011 and 2013 Global Assessment Reports on Disaster Risk Reduction.

   Natural Disasters Insurance Facility for Central America and the Caribbean. IDB (2012).

   Information on the IBD-financed “Regional Insurance Facility for Central America” can be found at
    http://idbdocs.iadb.org/wsdocs/getdocument.aspx?docnum=35128760.

   Information on the CEPAL-financed “Integrated Risk Management and Agricultural Insurance” can be
    found at http://www.eclac.cl/publicaciones/xml/9/51609/Gestionintegralderiesgos.pdf.

   Information on the Diplomado developed by MADS can be found at http://www.guadalupe-
    huila.gov.co/apc-aa-files/32653537373465383362633462353034/Diplomado_Gesti_n_del_riesgo.pdf.




                                                  53
          Internal documents listed in the table below:

                                                                     Document     Report
Document Name                                                                                Document Type
                                                                       Date       Number
Colombia - Disaster Vulnerability Reduction First Phase APL :                                Implementation Status
                                                                     11/28/2013   ISR12501
P082429 - Implementation Status Results Report : Sequence 17                                 and Results Report
Colombia - Disaster Vulnerability Reduction First Phase APL :                                Implementation Status
                                                                     4/24/2013    ISR10046
P082429 - Implementation Status Results Report : Sequence 16                                 and Results Report
Colombia - Disaster Vulnerability Reduction First Phase APL :                                Implementation Status
                                                                     10/3/2012    ISR7874
P082429 - Implementation Status Results Report : Sequence 15                                 and Results Report
Colombia - Disaster Vulnerability Reduction First Phase APL :                                Implementation Status
                                                                     2/13/2012    ISR5683
P082429 - Implementation Status Results Report : Sequence 14                                 and Results Report
Colombia - Disaster Vulnerability Reduction First Phase APL :                                Implementation Status
                                                                     2/13/2012    ISR5683
P082429 - Implementation Status Results Report : Sequence 14                                 and Results Report
Colombia - Disaster Vulnerability Reduction First Phase APL :                                Implementation Status
                                                                     6/28/2011
P082429 - Implementation Status Results Report : Sequence 13                                 and Results Report
Colombia - Disaster Vulnerability Reduction First Phase APL :                                Implementation Status
                                                                     10/5/2010
P082429 - Implementation Status Results Report : Sequence 12                                 and Results Report
Official Documents- Amended Disbursement Letter for Advance
                                                                     11/27/2012              Disbursement Letter
P448-AR
Official Documents- Fourth Amendment to the Loan Agreement
                                                                     5/16/2012               Agreement
for Loan 7293-CO
Amendment to the Loan Agreement for Loan 7293-CO Ref.
                                                                     9/30/2010               Agreement
Cross-Debarment Conformed
Loan Agreement, L7293-CO Conformed                                   10/4/2005               Loan Agreement
Colombia - Natural Disaster Vulnerability Reduction and First
                                                                     7/11/2013    RES11363   Project Paper
Adaptable Program Loan Project : restructuring
Colombia - Generando sinergias para la reducción del riesgo de
                                                                      1/1/2013     75253     Working Paper
desastres en el nivel local
Colombia - Programa de Reduccion de la Vulnerabilidad Fiscal
del Estado ante Desastres Naturales : mision de supervision -        12/8/2012     77052     Aide Memoire
Diciembre 5 al 8 de 2012
Generando sinergias para la reduccion : del riesgo de desastres en
                                                                      6/1/2012     75254     Working Paper
el nivel local
Data sheet                                                           5/14/2012     67872     Project Paper
Main report                                                          5/10/2012     67872     Project Paper
                                                                                             Other Public Sector
Main report                                                           3/1/2012     70103
                                                                                             Study
                                                                                             Other Public Sector
Resumen Ejecutivo                                                     3/1/2012     70103
                                                                                             Study
Data sheet                                                           12/15/2011    65654     Project Paper
Main report                                                          12/13/2011    65654     Project Paper
Analysis of disaster risk management in Colombia : a
contribution to the creation of public policies - executive           1/1/2011     74786     Working Paper
summary
                                                                                             Other Public Sector
Main report                                                           1/1/2011     70103
                                                                                             Study
Data sheet                                                           3/18/2010     53147     Project Paper
Main report                                                          3/12/2010     53147     Project Paper
Plan de contrataciones y adquisiciones : procurement plan            2/9/2010      55676     Procurement Plan
Colombia - Plan de adquisiciones : procurement plan                  1/1/2010      56463     Procurement Plan



                                                              54
                                                                    Document     Report
Document Name                                                                              Document Type
                                                                      Date       Number
Colombia - Natural Disaster Vulnerability Reduction and First
                                                                    5/21/2009     49007    Project Paper
Adaptable Program Loan Project : restructuring
Marco de politica y metologica de reasentamientos de poblacion
localizada en zonas de alto riesgo no mitigable rondas de cuerpos    7/1/2005    RP901     Resettlement Plan
de agua
                                                                                           Project Appraisal
Colombia - Natural Disaster Vulnerability Reduction Project         4/11/2005     30123
                                                                                           Document
                                                                                           Integrated Safeguards
Colombia - Disaster Vulnerability Reduction Project                  7/8/2004    AC734
                                                                                           Data Sheet
Colombia - Disaster Vulnerability Reduction Project :                                      Environmental
                                                                     3/1/2004     E909
environmental assessment                                                                   Assessment
                                                                                           Integrated Safeguards
Colombia - Disaster Vulnerability Reduction Project                 10/24/2003   AC367
                                                                                           Data Sheet
                                                                                           Project Information
Colombia - Disaster Vulnerability Reduction Project                  7/3/2003    AB128
                                                                                           Document
                                                                                           Implementation
Colombia - Disaster Risk Management Development Policy Loan
                                                                    7/30/2012    ICR2275   Completion and Results
with a Catastrophic Risk Deferred Drawdown Option
                                                                                           Report
Colombia – Second Disaster Risk Management Development
                                                                                           Project Appraisal
Policy Loan with a Catastrophic Risk Deferred Drawdown                2012
                                                                                           Document
Option
Capital District of Bogota with the Guarantee of the Republic of
Colombia – Bogota Disaster Vulnerability Reduction Project in                              Project Appraisal
                                                                      2006
Support of the Second Phase of the Disaster Vulnerability                                  Document
Reduction




                                                          55
MAP (IBRD 33388R1)




                     56
