Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3230-PE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP?
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
PETROLEOS DEL PERU
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR A
PETROLEUM REFINERIES ENGINEERING PROJECT
March 3, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The exchange rate is being adjusted daily roughly in line with the
difference between domestic and international inflation. The exchange rate
and currency equivalent in 1981 and as of February 15, 1982 were as follows:
Currrency Unit - Sol (SI.)
Calendar 1981       February 15, 1982
US$1       =         SI. 426.60           S/. 540.66
S/. 1      =         US$0.0023            US$0.0018
S/.-1,000  =         US$2.34              US$1.85
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
bpd               -  Barrels per day
COFIDE            -  Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo
(State Development Finance Corporation)
ERP               -  Economic Recovery Program
IDB               -  Inter-American Development Bank
IPC               -  International Petroleum Company
MEM               -  Ministry of Energy and Mines
MW                -  Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
PETROPERU         -  Petroleos del Peru
(National Petroleum Company)
toe               -  Tons of oil equivalent
tpd               -  Tons per day
typ               -  Tons per year
USAID             -  United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PERU
PETROLEUM REFINERIES ENGINEERING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Petroleos del Peru (PETROPERU).  In accordance
with Peruvian law, the Corporacion Financiera de
Desarrollo (COFIDE) would act as PETROPERU's
financial agent.
Guarantor:                  Republic of Peru
Amount:                     US$5.3 million
Terms:                      Repayable in 17 years, including four years of
grace, at 11.6 percent interest per annum. The
loan includes a capitalized front-end fee of
US$78,000.
roject Description:         The objectives of the project would be to carry
out studies, and prepare possible investment
projects to: (i) reduce energy consumption in
Peru's largest energy-intensive industry -- oil
refining; (ii) improve the overall efficiency of
refining and other PETROPERU industrial oper-
ations; and (iii) strengthen planning for
PETROPERU's industrial operations. The project
would consist of: (i) preparation of a program to
reduce operating costs through the introduction of
equipment and techniques for energy saving,
process optimization, and pollution and corrosion
control; (ii) development of a maintenance program
and reorganization of the maintenance system for
industrial plants; (iii) training for the staff of
the Technical Department which is responsible for
PETROPERU's industrial operations; and (iv) other
studies to improve industrial operations and
project planning.
Special Risks:              The project poses no environmental risks.  It also
involves no special technical or managerial
risks.  PETROPERU's Technical Department, which
would be responsible for project execution, has
capable staff and would be strengthened to insure
adequate counterpart personnel and support for the
foreign specialists to be hired in connection with
this operation. The risk of PETROPERU's losing
experienced professionals, a problem in the past,
has been reduced since the company was recently
granted authority by the Government to pay
salaries competitive with those offered by the
private sector.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:
Local      Foreign      Total
--------US$ millions--------
Studies and Programs
(i) Energy savings, efficiency
improvements and pollution
and corrosion control,
including testing equipment          0.8        2.1         2.9
(ii) Maintenance Program                  0.2        0.6         0.8
(iii) Training Program                     0.4        1.2         1.6
(iv) Other Studies                        0.3        0.6         0.9
Base Cost                      1.7       4.5         6.2
Contingencies                            0.3        0.722       1.022
Front-end fee on Bank Loan                -         0.078       0.078
Total Cost                     2.0       5.3         7.3
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign      Total
------US$ millions-- -----
Bank                                     5.3         5.3
PETROPERU                      2.0        -          2.0
Total                    2.0        5.3         7.3
Disbursement Estimates:
Bank FY                  1982    1983    1984    1985
-------US$ millions------
Annual                   0.3      2.0      1.8     1.2
Cumulative               0.3      2.3     4.1      5.3
Rate of Return:             Not applicable
Staff Apppraisal Report:   None



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO PETROLEOS DEL
PERU WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF PERU FOR A
PETROLEUM REFINERIES ENGINEERING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Petroleos del Peru (PETROPERU) with the guarantee of the Republic of Peru
for the equivalent of US$5.3 million to help finance a Petroleum Refineries
Engineering Project. The loan, which includes a capitalized front-end fee of
1.5 percent, would have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with
interest at 11.6 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Peru-Major Development Policy Issues
and Recommendations" (Report No. 3438-PE) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 4, 1981. This part is based on the report's findings and on
those of economic missions to Peru in June and September 1981. Country data
sheets are attached as Annex I.
Natural and Human Resources
3.        Peru, the fourth largest country in Latin America, is divided by
the Andes mountains into three distinct regions: the coastal region (Costa),
with 46 percent of the population and most of the country's modern economic
activity; the mountain region (Sierra) with 44 percent of the country's
population; and the sparsely populated tropical rain forests east of the
Andes (Selva). The country's rugged topography limits trade between the
three regions.
4.        Peru's natural resources include large deposits of minerals--
particularly copper, iron, silver, and zinc-located mainly in the Sierra and
the southern Costa. There are also large phosphate deposits located in the
northern Costa.  Petroleum resources found in the jungle areas and offshore
are also substantial, but their full extent has not yet been ascertained.
Another major natural resource is the large fishing potential in coastal
waters, although the magnitude of the catch is subject to sharp fluctua-
tions. Only a small portion of Peru's total land area is arable, and most of
the soils suitable for intensive agriculture are already being farmed.
5.        Although Peru's energy resource base is relatively diverse, with
scope for expanding hydro- and coal-based power generation, petroleum is
expected to remain the major energy source in Peru through the rest of this
century. Peru increased domestic oil production almost threefold between
1976 and 1979 to about 190,000 barrels per day and became a net exporter of
about 60,000 barrels per day. To enable Peru to remain a net petroleum
exporter, the Government has embarked on a strategy of accelerated secondary
recovery and exploration efforts to increase production and of rational
pricing policies to contain demand growth.   Prices for domestically consumed
petroleum products have been increased at regular intervals. In addition,



- 2 -
new legislation was enacted offering special tax incentives to domestic and
foreign investors (see para. 18), and response has been positive. The
Government strategy is already bearing fruit with petroleum output expected
to increase in 1982 to an average level of 207,000 barrels per day.
6.        As a result of three decades of rapidly falling mortality rates,
Peru's population groluth accelerated during the 1930-1960 period. Since the
early 1960s, birth rates have fallen gradually, mainly caused by the
urbanization process and improved education. But with declining death rates,
population has continued to grow at about 2.6 percent p.a. and is currently
estimated at about 17 million. It is expected that population growth will
fall only slight.y to about 2.4 percent p.a. over the next 20 years, unless
an effective population control policy is adopted.  The Government is
conscious of the need to slow down Peru's demographic growth rate and is now
developing a primary health care program which would contain a family
planning component.  The urban population is increasing at 4.3 percent p.a.,
and about a quarter of all Peruvians live in the Lima area. Given the
structure of Peru's population, the labor force is expected to grow in excess
of 3 percent per year during the next 20 years.
Past Development Policies and Performance (1968-78)
7.o 9-tac snessive Hilitary Governments, in office from October 1968
untitl July 1980 followed a develo?ment strategy aimed at promoting economic
g-rowth and improving distributi:on of income and wealth, not only between
irndi.viduals but also between regions.  The pattern of asset ownership in the
economy changed drastically through nationalizations and a sweeping land
reform. The Government took direct control of key economic sectors and
imposed complex legislation to control the private sector.. Many of the
policies carried out after 1968 hacd an excessive cost and their
implementatic:n ias inefficient.
3. >         c~-Ln;\-4een 1968 and 1977, Peru's Governments followed expansionary
fiscal and credi' polI4 cies.  As a result, aggregate demand considerably
exceeded aggregate supply resulting in strong inflationary pressures and
widening external gaps. Inflation accelerated from 5 percent per year in
1970 to 38 percent in 1977. Interest rates, however, remained substantially
negative in real terms, discouraging financial savings and stimulating
capital flight. Moreover, the exchange rate remained practically constant
between 1968 and 1975, thus contributing to the overall disequilibrium.
9.       Tihe gra -ir ing disequilibrium was reflected in the balance of pay-
ments.  The current account deficit averaged US$1.1 billion per year in
1974-77, equivalent to nearly 9 percent of GNP. To finance this deficit,
Peru accumulated a massive external debt, which at year-end 1977 stood at
almost US$8.4 billion (including short-term indebtedness), equivalent to
two-thirds of GDP and almost four times annual exports of goods and non-
factor services.
10.       Following the 1968-74 period of rapid expansion during which GDP
grew by more than 6 percent per year, the growth rate dropped progressively
and became negative in 1977 and 1978. In this two-year period, GDP per
capita dropped by over 6 percent and unemployment and underemployment rose to
almost 60 percent of the labor force, up from less than 50 percent during the
early 1970s.



- 3 -
Stabilization Policies and the Economic Recovery Program (1978-80)
II.       From 1975 on, several unsuccessful attempts were made to cope with
Peru's deteriorating economic situation. By mid-1978 the economic crisis had
reached grave proportions, with a drop in real GDP and inflation approaching
100 percent on an annual basis. Moreover, the private sector was finding it
increasingly difficult to open letters of credit for new imports and the
banking system's net international reserves had dropped to a negative level
of US$800 million.
12.       Beginning in May 1978, the Government adopted a number of important
measures aimed at strengthening public finances, improving the balance of
payments and curbing inflation. The Government also negotiated a stand-by
arrangement with the IMF in support of the stabilization program. Peru's
debt outstanding to the IMF as of December 31, 1981 amounted to SDR 578.9
million.
13.       Major debt-relief operations carried out through the Paris Club and
with the Soviet Union and commercial banks in 1978 enabled Peru to reduce the
debt service burden for 1979 and 1980 by postponing repayment of about US$1
billion to the 1982-1986 period. In view of the strong balance of payments
performance in 1979 and 1980 (para. 15), the Government decided to forego
parts of the rescheduling options in exchange for slightly better conditions
for new loans from commercial sources.
14.       To overcome the economic recession, in late 1978 the Government
adopted a comprehensive Economic Recovery Program (ERP), which, in addition
to the above-mentioned stablization actions, included measures to open up the
economy, promote non-traditional exports, strengthen the tax system by
broadening its base, and generally improve the efficiency of resource
allocation in the private and public sectors. These policy changes --
together with a declining domestic market because of the recession 
resulted in a major reorientation of industrial development, with a large
increase in the value of manufactured exports from US$200 million in 1977 to
the US$750-800 million range in 1980-81 (equivalent to about 8 percent of
output). The Government also drew up a public sector investment program that
aimed at redirecting investment towards projects of clear economic priority
and with positive effects on production and employment. In support of the
ERP, the Bank approved a US$115 million Program Loan in May 1979.
15.       The Government's stabilization-cum-economic recovery program
resulted in a strong improvement in public sector finances in 1979. Public
v          sector current account savings rose from -0.5 percent of GDP in 1978 to about
3.7 percent of GDP in 1979, and the overall deficit was reduced from 5.7 per-
cent of GDP in 1978 to 1.7 percent in 1979. In spite of Peru's improved
fiscal performance, inflationary pressures remained strong with consumer
price increases of 67 percent in 1979 and of 59 percent in 1980. The more
careful management of public finances also had a positive impact on the
balance of payments. Moreover, an increase in petroleum exports and a
substantial improvement of Peru's terms of trade contributed to high overall
surpluses of the balance of payments in 1979 and 1980. At year-end 1980, the
net reserve position had improved to about US$1.3 billion, equivalent to
about 4 months of imports. Peru also made greater use of assistance from
official bilateral and international sources thus improving the structure of
its external debt. Real GDP growth rebounded to 3.7 percent in 1979; in
1980, growth dropped to 3.1 percent owing, in part, to a drought which
affected the agricultural sector.



-4-
Recent Developments and Outlook
16.       In July 1979, the militairy Government promulgated a new constitu-
tion, written by a popularly elected constituent assembly. Elections were
held in May 1980 and, following hLs electoral victory, President Fernando
Belaunde was inaugurated on July 28, 1980. His Government faced a challen-
ging economic and social situation including a number of acute problems which
had been disguised by the apparently solid financial situation. These
included: high levels of under- and unemployment, particularly in urban
areas; higher underlying inflation than had been reported because of price
controls and deferred price adjustments for public goods and services; a
public sector deficit that had been reduced by freezing expenditures for
economic and social services (including education, health and housing),
combined with a rigid expenditure structure which did not leave much margin
for any significant reallocation of funds to these and other high priority
areas; a balance of payments situation which showed a substantial surplus,
but which was partly due to high commodity prices and to the fact that import
levels were depressed; and, finally, deteriorated income distribution over
the previous several years resulting in increased social unrest.
17.       The Government named an experienced economic team committed to
economic efficiency, decontrol of the economy (including divestiture of some
of the State-owned enterprises), promotion of the private sector (including
foreign investment), and policies aiming at a more equitable sharing of the
benefits of development through job creation and specifically targeted social
programs.   A major difference between the present Government's philosophy
and economic program is its reliance on, and promotion of, private initia-
tive.
18.       The Government has made important headway in a number of areas.  It
was successful in accelerating import liberalization by eliminating non-
tariff barriers and lowering tariffs. At the same time, export incentives
were streamlined and revised to eliminate abuse and make the system more
responsive to exports of products with high manufactured content. The
Government also enacted new legislation for the agricultural, mining and
petroleum sectors offering greater financial incentives to investors.
Finally, it made significant institutional changes in the financial sector,
revised the interest rate structure through substantial upward adjustments,
and is preparing a new banking law which would allow further rationalization
and liberalization of the financial system.
19.       In an effort to improve resource use, the Government made progress
in correcting major price distortions. Food subsidies were greatly reduced
and most controlled agricultural prices were adjusted to international
levels. The marketing of agricultural products was liberalized, and public
utility and petroleum prices were adjusted at regular intervals. Moreover,
the Government endeavored to rationalize public investment and its financing
-- an effort that was supported by a Bank sponsorerd Consultative Group
meeting in May 1981.
20.       The above efforts were complemented by measures to strengthen
public sector institutions. The important public enterprise sector, for
example, was granted greater autonomy by transforming most public enter-
prises into State-owned limited liability corporations operating under



-5-
private law. This measure gives these companies, inter alia, greater freedom
in fixing staff compensation and, thus, helps them to recruit or retain
capable personnel. Many of the above measures have already had positive
short-term effects and have laid the ground for medium-term structural
adjustments of the Peruvian economy.
21.        In spite of the above policy initiatives, economic performance in
1981 lagged behind expectations. GDP grew only at about 4 percent and
employment generation was also sluggish. The balance of payments deterio-
rated substantially as a result of declining export prices, high interest
rates on the country's debt with commercial banks, and a rapid expansion of
import-s. The loss in net reserves is estimated to have amounted to over
US$700 million, equivalent to about 3 percent of GDP. A major factor in the
deterioration of the balance of payments was the large public sector deficit,
which is estimated to have reached about 8 percent of GDP. On the positive
side, some progress was achieved on inflation during May-December 1981 which
decelerated to an annual rate of about 50 percent, mostly because of the
openness of the economy and the price dampening effects of an increase in
imports. The Government is aware that this level is still too high, however,
and is following actions which it expects will result in a further drop in
inflation in 1982.
22.       Reducing the public sector deficit has, once again, become the
major challenge facing Peru's economic managers. While the deteriorated
export situation has had a negative impact on tax revenues, the deficit is
mostly the result of steep increases in expenditures and somewhat lagging
adjustments of petroleum and rice prices. Excess expenditures over initial
budget allocations were incurred mostly for investment projects of lesser
priority. To tackle the difficult public finance situation, the Government
is drawing up a restrictive financial program for 1982 with tight credit
ceilings and limits to foreign indebtedness. It is also expected that the
Government will trim the public investment program in line with its   invest-
ment priorities. The Bank has an ongoing and frank dialogue with the
Peruvian Government on these issues.
23.       Based on cautiously optimistic assumptions with regard to economic
management, through the medium term the country is expected to have economic
growth of about 4-5 percent per year and a manageable balance of payments
situation. Peru's balance of payments could, however, become precarious, if
the exportable surplus of oil declines. While measures are being undertaken
to speed up petroleum exploration and to increase manufactured exports, the
results of these endeavors may not come in time to countervail the potential
foreign exchange shortfalls. Against this background, there is a continuing
need for official development assistance. Taking the above factors into
account, considering an expected debt service ratio hovering around the 30
percent mark and assuming that the Authorities continue the initiated course
of economic policies, Peru is creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU 1/
24.       The Bank has approved 45 loans to Peru for a total amount of
US$1,053.4 million, net of cancellations. About 35 percent of the Bank's
lending to Peru has been for transportation (mainly highways and ports),
17 percent for agriculture, 16 percent for the energy sector, 17 percent for
1/   This part is an updated version of Part II from the Peru Eighth Highway
Project President's Report of January 25, 1982 (Report No. P-3193-PE).



-6-
mining and industry, about 4 percent for education and urban development and
11 percent for a program loan in support of the ERP in 1979.
25.       As of September 30, 1981, US$ 360.9 million was undisbursed on Bank
loans currently in execution. (Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans as of September 30, 1981 and notes on the execution of on-going
projects.) Disbursements on Bank-financed projects moved slowly in the mid-
and-late 1970s, primarily because of weak project execution capacity and a
shortage of counterpart funds that worsened as the economy deteriorated
during this period. In an effort to improve disbursements: (i) the Bank
opened a resident mission in Peru and restructured a number of slow moving
projects; (ii) the Government toolk steps to provide adequate counterpart
funds for Bank financed projects; and (iii) the Government also set up a
special commission to monitor loan execution and resolve administrative
problems. These actions are bear:Lng fruit. About US$44.0 million was
disbursed on project loans in FY1980 and US$70.5 million during FY1981. This
compares with average yearly disbursements of US$27.5 million during
FY1977-79.
26.       The main objectives of Bank lending to Peru are to assist in (i)
the creation of the physical infrastructure needed to sustain and foster
economic development; (ii) the expansion of productive capacity in crucial
sectors, i.e., petroleum, agriculture and mining; (iii) the strengthening,
through technical assistance loans and regular operations, of local capacity
to prepare, implement and operate projects effectively; and (iv) the
improvement of living conditions for the urban and rural poor. In the past,
Bank lending concentrated on infrastructure in the transportation and power
sectors.  More recently, the Bank's emphasis has shifted to more directly
productive fields -- mining, petrcleum, agriculture and industry -- to help
Peru to strengthen its balance of payments. Lending for social projects has
also grown. As part of its assistance strategy, the Bank convened a
Consultative Group Meeting for Peru on May 25-26, 1981 to help the Government
arrange financing for its public investment program. The next operations
that would be ready for the Executive Directors' consideration include
projects in power, agricultural research and extension, water supply and
petroleum production. These would be later followed by projects in rural
development, health, education and housing. The Bank is also considering a
technical assistance loan to lhelp strengthen public sector management.
27. Bank loans constituted an estimated 5.8 percent of Peru's total public
external debt outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1980, and absorbed
about 2.6 percent of the country's external debt service in 1980. Assuming
increased recourse to long-term bilateral and multilateral aid by Peru, the
Bank's share in the country's outstanding public foreign debt by 1985 could
reach about 10 percent, and its share of debt service would be around 4.5
percent.
28.       IFC commitments as of September 30, 1981 were US$38.3 million
(including US$15 million to the Southern Peru Copper Corporation for the
Cuajone Copper Mining Project) of which US$15.9 million were held by the
Corporation. A summary statement of IFC investments as of September 30, 1981
is presented in Annex II. The IFC is now considering assistance for a
palm oil venture.



-7-
29.       The other principal lending agencies active in Peru are the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID). Total loan commitments as of December 31,
1980 by IDB and USAID were US$652.4 million and US$348.6 million, respec-
tively, and their shares of debt service as of end-1980 were estimated at 0.6
percent and 0.5 percent, respectively. In its future lending, IDB is
expected to emphasize lending for agriculture, industry, mining, roads, and
small scale irrigation. USAID is expected to stress rural development and
health.
PART III - THE ENERGY AND PETROLEUM SECTORS
The Energy Resource Base and Balance
30.       Peru has large, diverse energy resources consisting of
hydroelectric power, oil, coal, natural gas, some geothermal power, and
renewable resources such as firewood and bagasse. However, in spite of the
recent acceleration of exploration and production activities, Peru's energy
resources are relatively untapped. The country's economically viable
hydroelectric potential, for example, is estimated at 60,000 MW of which only
about 1,650 MW are currently being exploited. Estimates of total oil, coal
and natural gas reserves vary from 970 to 3,500 million tons of oil
equivalent (TOE), and the current annual rate of energy consumption is
estimated at 12 million TOE.
31.       Known (proven and probable) oil reserves are estimated at about 110
million TOE or 800 million barrels. Some coal deposits suitable for thermal
power generation or for metallurgical coke have been identified but most of
the country has not been adequately explored. The Government has recently
formed a coal exploration company to stimulate coal exploration efforts.
Further, there are some natural gas reserves and substantial geothermal
potential which the Government is now beginning to study systematically.
32.       Peru's gross energy balance in 1980 was estimated to be as follows:
Primary Energy Source      2 Share             End Use                 % Shlare
Oil                          60.0       Industry and Agriculture         36.3
Firewood and Dung            26.0       Residential and Commercial       36.2
Hydropower                    6.2       Transportation                   21.4
Natural Gas                   4.7       Public Sector                     3.0
Bagasse                       2.5       Other                             3.1
Coal                          0.6
100.0                                      100.0
Source: MEM - National Energy Balance, 1980
33.       As is evident from the preceding table, the country depends heavily
on petroleum to meet its energy needs. Oil accounted for about 60 percent of
the country's energy consumption and about 80 percent of commercial energy
requirements. Even with the accelerated exploitation of hydroelectric power
and coal resources, oil will continue to be the most important source of
energy during the next two decades, and its share in total energy consumption



-8-
is expected to be around 50 percent by the end of this century. The second
major source of energy in Peru is firewood, principally in the rural areas.
About 60 percent of Peru's land surface is covered by natural and cultivated
forests. However, measures to pr,event deforestation and the continued shift
of population from rural to urban areas will tend to decrease, in the long
term, the share of this resource in total energy consumption.
Energy Sector Organization and Planning
34.       Operational responsibility for the various energy subsectors in
Peru is divided among several autonomous Government entities. PETROPERU, the
national petroleum company, has principal responsibility for all phases of
production, refining and distribution of petroleum products. International
petroleum companies (such as Occidental and Belco) explore for, and produce,
petroleum under contracts with PETROPERU. Primary responsibility for power
generation lies with the national power company, ELECTROPERU, and various
local State-owned companies handle distribution in the larger cities. Coal
exploration and development are matinly undertaken by the state mining
company, MINEROPERU. Development and conservation of forestry resources is
under the aegis of the Ministry of Agriculture.
35.       The Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) is responsible for overall
planning and policy making in the energy sector and for initiating pricing
actions, which must be approved by the Minister of Economy and Finance.
In recent years, MEM has received considerable technical assistance for
energy planning. This has included an energy balance study (completed in
1976 by UNDP) and an assessment of energy resources and energy planning
efforts (done in 1979 by a team composed of U.S. Government and Peruvian
officials). The German Government financed a survey of hydroelectric
potential in 1979 and has, together with the Bank under the Fifth Power Loan
(Ln. 1215-PE of 1976), financed a power sector master plan (completed in
1980) in order to develop a least-cost investment program for the sector.
HEM thus has sufficient knowledge of the country's energy situation -- except
in the areas of coal resources and geothermal potential -- to develop a
comprehensive resource development program. The Government is now
considering the establishment of a national energy council to develop such a
program and coordinate sector policies.
Government Energy Sector Strategy
36.       The principal objectives of Government policy in the energy sector
are to increase hydroelectric capacity and expand petroleum production to
continue to satisfy domestic requirements and maintain oil exports, while
reducing the growth of demand through adequate pricing and other demand
management measures.
37.       Currently, installed hydroelectric generating capacity accounts for
less than three percent of Peru's estimated 60,000 MW of economically viable
hydro potential. The failure of previous Governments to develop this poten-
tial in a timely manner has put Peru in the position of having to install at
least one, and perhaps more, thermal plants to meet growing power demand.  In
order to minimize costly investment in thermal plants, the Government has
adopted an ambitious hydro power development program, which calls for the
expenditure of about US$500 million per year through the late 1980s. The
Bank's recent US$25 million Power Engineering Loan (Ln. 2018-PE of June 1981)
will finance the preparation of 12 hydroelectric projects. The construction
of most of these would begin in thie next two to four years. The high cost of



-9-
this program, which is in large measure a result of the location of most
hydroelectric sites on the eastern side of the Andes mountains far from
population centers, will require a substantial increase in power tariffs.
Toward the end of 1980, the Government initiated a program of monthly power
tariff increases, which are now averaging close to three percent per month in
real terms. The objective of these increases is to enable the sector to
finance one-third of the cost of its investment program from internally
generated resources.
38.       As a result of petroleum exploration and development in Peru's
northern jungle, which began in the early 1970s, the country had become
self-sufficient by mid-1978. Total oil production in 1981 -- primarily from
Occidental and PETROPERU -- reached 70 million barrels, of which about 19
million barrels, or 27 percent was exported. Nevertheless, because of low
levels of petroleum exploration and development in the second half of the
seventies and growing domestic demand, Peru faces the possible need to import
petroleum in the late 1980s. To avoid this, the Government has adopted a
strategy of promoting investment by foreign companies, under
production-sharing arrangements with PETROPERU. To attract foreign
companies, the Government put into effect a reinvestment tax credit and
eliminated restrictions on their participation in secondary recovery
projects. On this basis, Occidental and Belco have increased their
investment programs. Exploration contracts for northern and southern jungle
areas have been signed with Shell and Superior Oil and discussions are
underway with a number of other firms. PETROPERU would restrict its
operations to two jungle blocks and the coastal area, and the company is
being strengthened so it can more effectively exploit these traditional
areas. Its administration, staff and operations are being upgraded with
support from the Bank's US$32.5 million Petroleum Rehabilitation Loan (La.
1806-PE of 1980). This support would be continued under the engineering loan
recommended in this report and a petroleum production enhancement project
under preparation.
39.       In order to induce energy conservation and make PETROPERU finan-
cially viable, the Government has been periodically raising domestic petrol-
eum prices. In 1981, prices were increased 25 percent in real terms, and the
Government's objective is to continue a program of regular price increases
so as to gradually reach international levels for average petroleum product
prices in the medium term.  More recent action on domestic prices is
summarized in para. 48. Attention is also being given to reducing demand by
improving energy efficiency in industry and, where feasible, by electrifying
urban transport systems. The proposed engineering project would help in this
effort by preparing a project for the reduction of energy consumption in oil
refineries -- Peru's largest energy-intensive industry.
The Petroleum Sector
40.       Production Prospects.  Peru has four major geological zones, each
of which contains sedimentary basins with hydrocarbon potential: (i) the
Costa, particularly around Talara in the north where, until the 1970s, almost
all of Peru's oil production was concentrated; (ii) the Selva region - the



- 10 -
low jungle plain east of the Andes mountains -- currently the source of most
production and the area with the largest potential reserves; (iii) the
offshore regions lying between the Peru_-Chile trench and the coastline where
four basins have already been detected; and (iv) the Sierra, where the like-
lihood of finding commercially attractive oil deposits appears low. Peru was
one of the world's first oil producing countries and was self-sufficient in
petroleum for many years. During the 1950's, however, with domestic prices
for petroleum products as well as producers' margins at low levels, domestic
consumption began to out-strip lagging production. As a result, Peru became
increasingly dependent on crude oil imports in the 1960s and during most of
the 1970s.  As noted in para. 38, in the late 1970s-following the discovery               I
of oil in the Selva--Peru became once again self-sufficient in petroleum and
began to export.
41.       Based on increased production from the Occidental-Bridas secondary
recovery project on the coast and the incorporation of new reserves recently
discovered by PETROPERU in its jungle area, petroleum production is expected
to increase to about 75 million barrels per year in 1982, of which 25 million
barrels would be exported. Not taking into account the possible results of
new exploration now being undertaken by private companies and PETROPERU, the
outlook is for total production in Peru to remain above 73 million barrels
per year through the end of the 1980s. With demand expected to grow at a
rate of five percent p.a., Peru would again become a net importer by the late
1980s unless the new explorat:Lon 1program is successful.
42.       PETROPERU.  The State-owned national petroleum company, PETROPERU,
was established in 1969 following the nationalization of the International
Petroleum Company (IPC), a subsidLary of Exxon. PETROPERU incorporated the
assets of IPC, and those of a sma:Ll Government-owned oil company and several
other privately owned oil firms. Currently, PETROPERU's own operations
account for 22 percent of the country's crude oil production, 100 percent of
refinery capacity and 98 percent of the marketing of petroleum products. In
addition to conducting all State exploration and production activity, it owns
and operates the Transandean pipeline and produces petrochemicals and
fertilizer. Although the Government's strategy calls for foreign companies
to continue to be the major petroleum producers, PETROPERU is expected to
retain its dominant position fn petroleum refining and distribution.
43.       PETROPERU is the largest: public sector corporation in Peru and
employs about 8,700 staff. It has a Board of Directors of 10 members. Four
are appointed by the MEM, three by the Economy and Finance Ministry, one by
the Armed Forces, and two are representatives of the employees of PETROPERU.
The Company's President, who is also Chairman of the Board, has broad
management authority within the Company. PETROPERU's senior management is
generally competent and has extensive experience in the petroleum industry in
Peru. PETROPERU's middle management, especially in its exploration
operations, on the other hand, was weakened by the loss of many of its
technical and administrative personnel in 1977/78, primarily because of the
limitation placed on salary levels. However, the Technical Department of
PETROPERU, which is responsible for all refinery and industrial operations,
was able to retain a substantial number of its capable and experienced middle
managers since they had more limited opportunities in the private sector than
had exploration and production personnel. In early 1981, PETROPERU was given
greater autonomy to improve its salary structure (see para 20). As a
consequence, its salary scales are now competitive with those of the private
petroleum companies in Peru and the loss of experienced personnel has
declined.



- 11 -
44.       The headquarters of PETROPERU, which include the Industrial
Department, are located at Lima. Diverse functions such as personnel manage-
ment, training, finance and budgeting, marketing, legal, planning, research
and development, engineering and project management, and procurement are
controlled from headquarters. The operations of the company are divided into
five units: (i) Northwest Operations including the Talara Refinery and
petrochemical plants; (ii) "Selva" Operations, including the Luis F. Diaz
Refinery; (iii) Pucallpa Operations; (iv) Oil Pipeline Operations; and
(v) the La Pampilla and Conchan Refineries operations.
Jr       45.        With financing provided under the FY80 Petroleum Rehabilitation
Loan, PETROPERU has appointed Price Waterhouse to review its financial
management system and make recommendations for its improvement with emphasis
on management information systems, financial planning and capital budgeting.
In addition, PETROPERU has hired the consulting firm of Arthur D. Little to
make a detailed study of its management and organization at the corporate
level. There is also a need to review management and organization at the
industrial plant and regional levels. PETROPERU has, therefore, agreed to
expand the scope of the ongoing studies and/or carry out an additional study
to include a review of industrial plant and regional level management and
organization with a special emphasis on introducing improved budgetary
systems and cost and inventory controls. PETROPERU has further agreed to
furnish to the Bank the findings and recommendations of such studies not
later than December 31, 1984 (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
46.       PETROPERU's Financial Situation.  Aside from the loss of profes-
sional staff, PETROPERU's most serious problem in recent years has been
financial. A number of factors resulted in a financial crisis in 1979, which
required Government action to help PETROPERU avoid bankruptcy. These
factors included: (i) the incurrence of US$400 million in short-term debt by
the company to finance petroleum purchases which were sold domestically at
subsidized prices; (ii) the contracting of almost US$800 million in loans on
relatively stringent supplier and commercial terms to finance the Transandean
Pipeline which, until the late 1970s, yielded no revenue; and (iii) the
requirement under its production sharing contracts with foreign oil companies
that PETROPERU pay all their taxes. In 1979, the Government took a series of
measures to help resolve PETROPERU's financial problems and restore its
creditworthiness. Further measures were taken in connection with the
Petroleum Rehabilitation Loan. These actions included provision of SI. 70
billion (about US$242 million) in 1980 to strengthen PETROPERU's capital
structure and SI. 30 billion (about US$65 million) in 1981 as equity to
finance the company's capital investment.
47.       Due primarily to the large equity contributions made by the
Government, PETROPERU's financial situation improved considerably in 1980.
As a result, the company complied with the financial covenants of the
Petroleum Rehabilitation Loan (Ln. 1806-PE of 1980). In 1981, however,
despite the substantial progress made in increasing petroleum prices (para.
39), there was again a serious deterioration in the company's financial
position. The main contributing factors were: (i) the continued need to
purchase oil supplies at international prices from its contractors



- 12 -
for sale at subsidized prices on the domestic market; (ii) a reduction in
PETROPERU's production; (iii) passage into law of a reinvestment tax credit
which reduced the income tax liabilities and payments by foreign oil
companies to PETROPERU; and (iv) a decrease in export earnings because of
lower spot market prices. As a result, PETROPERU is estimated to have
incurred losses of about US$27 million equivalent in 1981. The company
covered its cash flow needs through extensive short-term borrowing, and it
was not able to meet the 1.4 debt service coverage ratio agreed under Loan
1806-PE for 1981; the actual debt service coverage is estimated to have been
1.0. PETROPERU, however, was able to substantially meet all other financial
covenants for 1981 under that loan.  The quick ratio for the year is
estimated to have reached 0.6:1 as compared to the agreed level of 0.7:1, and
the debt/equity ratio is estimated at 69/31, well within the agreed level of
75/25. Financial data on PETROPERU for 1980 and 1981 are contained in
Annex IV.
48.       In order to help deal with PETROPERU's financial problems, in mid-
December, 1981, the Peruvian Congress passed a law authorizing MEM to
increase domestic prices for regular gasoline from US$0.95/gallon at the end
of December 1981 up to US$1.25/gallon by June 30, 1982. The prices of other
petroleum products would be raised in line with gasoline prices. The law
provides for an overall increase of 25 percent in petroleum product prices in
real terms for calendar year 1982. This is being achieved in monthly
increases. Two consecutive increases, averaging approximately 4.5 percent in
real terms, were implemented in January and February 1982. The proposed
price increases would put PETROPERU's finances on a sound footing and would
enable the company to substantially meet its financial covenants under Loan
1806-PE for 1982, including the 1.9 times debt service coverage ratio and the
70/30 debt/equity ratio. The quick ratio is expected to reach 0.8:1 compared
to the agreed level of 0.9:1.
49.       PETROPERU's Refinery Operations.  PETROPERU has six refineries,
with a total capacity of 178,400 bpd. Two of these--the La Pampilla
Refinery, near Lima, with a capacity of 100,000 bpd and the refinery at
Talara, 1,000 km northwest of Lima, with a capacity of 65,000 bpd together
account for approximately 92 percent of the total refining capacity in Peru.
The remaining four refineries are suall--their average capacity is about
3,350 bpd. Although Peru's two major refineries operate at an average rate
of 90 percent of capacity, this is achieved by operating them continuously,
without allowing for reasonable mainatenance.  The refineries, therefore, face
the risk of breakdown and consequent stoppage of production over prolonged
periods. In general, the maintenance system in the refineries is weak, as
inadequate attention is given to forward planning of maintenance needs and
to carrying out preventive maintenance on a systematic basis. Moreover,
energy consumption in the refinerieis is high since they were built at a time
when energy was cheap and the main emphasis was on keeping capital costs
low. As a result, inadequate attention was paid to energy saving. The
proposed engineering loan would help PETROPERU carry out studies and develop
programs for overhauling the maintenance system, achieving energy saving and
improving the operational efficiency of its refineries.



- 13 -
50.       Supply/Demand Balance for Refinery Products.  Consumption of
petroleum products grew at an annual average rate of 6.2 percent during
1960-75, reaching 1.78 billion gallons in 1975. During 1975-80, however,
consumption grew at only 2.3 percent a year mainly because of the economic
crisis and increases in petroleum prices. The consumption of light and
middle distillates -- such as gasoline, diesel, kerosene and jet fuel -
account for nearly 70 percent of total consumption.
51.       Although Peru had a surplus of some petroleum products in 1980, by
1990 it will have to import most refined products except gasoline unless the
country's refinery capacity is expanded. This is based on the assumptions
that the demand for refinery products would grow by about five percent during
1980-90, as the economy resumes growth, and that only the new plants/
expansions currently firmly planned and/or underway would be completed during
the 1980s (see para. 52). These projections indicate a need for additional
capacity during this decade. The size and configuration of additional
facilities required will depend largely on the demand for individual products
which, in turn, will depend on overall energy demand growth and the success
of conservation and inter-fuel substitution efforts. It is, therefore,
important that future refinery investments be based on careful planning and
on an analysis of alternatives. The planning assistance proposed under the
project would improve PETROPERU's capabilities for carrying out such an
assessment.
52.       Expansion Plans.  Currently, PETROPERU has only one major indus-
trial project under execution--a 10,500 bpd new refinery at Iquitos (sched-
uled for completion in 1984) to replace the existing small, old refinery
which serves the remote selva region. Furthermore, the company has decided
to carry out some minor refinery expansions at Talara at a total cost of
about US$15 million to more closely adjust the product mix to demand. The
company is now doing feasibility studies for: (i) an 80,000 bpd refinery at
a location yet to be decided, and (ii) a new fluid catalytic cracker at the
existing refinery complex at La Pampilla.
53.       Other Industrial Operations.  In addition to refineries, PETROPERU
also operates an ammonia/urea complex, an isopropyl alcohol plant, an acetone
plant and a carbon black plant, all located at Talara. The ammonia/urea
complex consists of a 300-ton per day (tpd) ammonia plant and a 510 tpd urea
plant. The production of ammonia is based on associated natural gas obtained
from oil production in and around Talara. Ammonia is used as an intermediate
product to produce urea, a high-nutrient fertilizer for use in Peru. The
isopropyl alcohol plant has a capacity of 10,000 tons per year (tpy) of which
5,000 tpy is for the production of acetone in an adjacent plant and the rest
is for outside sale to local chemical enterprises. Acetone is used in the
production of methyl methacrylate, an input for the manufacture of certain
plastic goods. It is currently in short supply in the world. The carbon
black plant has a capacity of 7,700 tpy and uses low-value residual oil from
the nearby Talara Refinery to produce carbon black, which is used mostly in
the production of rubber products.



- 14 -
54.       The ammonia/urea complex commenced operation in February 1975 and
its capacity utilization increased gradually to about 75 percent in 1980 but
will probably decline to 63 percent by 1985 unless the maintenance system is
improved. The isopropyl alcohol and the acetone plants were commissioned on
January 1, 1980 and their capacity utilization in that year was 29 percent
and 15 percent, respectively. The low capacity utilization rates in these
two plants are due to process and (design defects. It is unlikely that their
capacity utilization could be increased beyond 45 percent and 30 percent,
respectively, unless bottlenecks in the production processes are eliminated,
technical deficiencies are overcome and maintenance work is improved. The
carbon black plant was commissioned in March 1976 and its capacity utiliza-
tion gradually increased to 71 percent in 1980. In the first part of 1981,
however, its capacity utilization declined to about 50 percent, partly
because of lack of proper maintenance and other technical problems. The
proposed project would finance studies to determine whether their continued
operation is economic, if so, what improvements are necessary to increase
their capacity utilization from present levels.
Previous Bank Energy Lending and Strategy
55.       The Bank began supporting the development of Peru's petroleum
sector through a loan of US$32.5 million made in February 1980 (Ln 1806-PE).
This operation aimed at helping PE1ROPERU to finance rehabilitation of its
existing producing wells, reactivate temporarily abandoned wells, and
develop new production potential through seismic and reservoir studies and
preparation of a secondary recovery project. After getting off to a slow
start, satisfactory progress has been achieved in recent months. Bids for
most equipment are either now being evaluated or invitations will be issued
in the second quarter of CY 1982 and seismic and reservoir studies are now
well underway. Disbursements currently stand at about US$4 million, but
should increase substantially in coming months.
56.       The Bank's lending strategy in the petroleum sector is to continue
to help strengthen PETROPERU's ability to effectively carry out the role
assigned to it, to support the Government's petroleum pricing policy, and to
assist its efforts to attract foreign investment to the sector. Substantial
institution building would be a major feature of the proposed engineering
loan and of follow-up operations in the sector. This would help upgrade the
company's management systems, staff quality, financial administration, and
exploration, production and industrial operations. In addition, the Bank
would give special attention to putting PETROPERU on a sound financial foot-
ing. The Bank's participation in the petroleum sector would also continue to
provide a vehicle for a dialogue on a rational domestic pricing policy for
hydrocarbons. Finally, as in the p.ast, the Bank would support an increased
role for foreign investment in petroleum exploration and development.
Through lending to the sector, the Bank has been in a position to provide the
Government with an objective assesstment of PETROPERU's capabilities. Such an
evaluation has helped the Governmenl: define an important but limited role for
the company consistent with its operating capacity. Bank staff have also
helped the Government in the design of incentives to attract foreign
investors. The Bank would continue to support these objectives in Peru
through the proposed engineering loan and the upcoming petroleum production
enhancement loan for PETROPERU.



- 15 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
57.       The project was identified by a Bank mission which visited Peru in
May 1981 and it was appraised in September 1981. Negotiations took place in
Washington from January 28 to February 3, 1982, and the Peruvian delegation
was headed by Mr. Jorge Fernandez Cornejo, Manager of the Technical
Department of PETROPERU.   Because this is an engineering loan, there is no
separate appraisal report. Supplementary project data are contained in Annex
III.
Objectives and Project Description
58.       The proposed project, developed by PETROPERU in close consultation
with the Bank, would complement the Bank's effort under Loan 1806-PE to
strengthen PETROPERU's petroleum production operations by providing consul-
tant and technical services and training to improve the company's industrial
operations. This project represents the first effort by the Government to
plan for conservation in its largest energy-intensive industry--oil
refining--and to improve the overall efficiency of PETROPERU's refinery oper-
ations, as well as its other industrial plants, with particular attention to
maintenance, organization and management.
59.       The studies and programs to be developed under the project are
technically complex and PETROPERU is counting on Bank experience and support
in their execution. Furthermore, the Bank's continuing technical assistance
would be available to back PETROPERU's management as it undertakes institu-
tional improvements with respect to its industrial operations. Bank involve-
ment in the technical assistance project would also make it possible for the
Bank to ensure that the designs of the follow-up projects are sound, thus
improving subsequent financing prospects for them. The follow-up projects
are expected to increase substantially the production of refinery products
and industrial chemicals. The project also affords the Bank an opportunity
to continue a dialogue with the Government regarding petroleum product prices
and rehabilitation of PETROPERU's finances. Terms of reference for the
studies and programs under the project are contained in Annex V.
60.       The project would consist of the following four components:
(i)  consulting services and procurement of related laboratory
equipment and instruments to carry out studies of energy
saving, efficiency improvement and corrosion and pollution
control investments for the La Pampilla and Talara refineries
and other PETROPERU industrial plants;
(ii)  consulting services to develop a maintenance program and
reorganize the maintenance systems for the La Pampilla and
Talara refineries and other PETROPERU industrial plants;
(iii)  consulting services to develop and implement a training
program for PETROPERU's industrial staff. Specialized
overseas training for about 40 staff members would also be
provided; and



- 16 -
(iv) consulting services to strengthen PETROPERU's Technical
Department to carry out industrial project planning, studies
of possible improvements in PETROPERU's chemical plants, and
to develop a program to improve product quality in its grease
and lubricating oil plants.
These four components are discussed in detail in paragraphs 61-64 below.
61.       Development of Energy Saving, Efficiency Improvement and Corrosion
and Pollution Control Programs.  There is substantial scope for saving energy
in the Talara and La Pampilla refineries through such techniques as: (i)
waste heat recovery from refinery heaters and gas turbines; (ii) energy
recovery from regeneration of flue gases of the fluid catalytic crackers;
(iii) co-generation of power and steam; and (iv) use of improved instrumen-
tation and process analyzers to mLnimize energy requirements. Under this
component, a proposed investment program and basic engineering would be.
prepared to apply these techniques, taking into consideration their technical
and economic feasibility. Studies and basic engineering would also be
included for possible process optiLmization, efficiency improvement and pollu-
tion control investments in the refineries and other industrial plants.
Further, the existing engineering and construction standards used by
PETROPERU would be reviewed in order to modify them in line with modern prac-
tices. In addition, PETROPERU would establish a computerized system for
reliably estimating construction and operating costs for its future indus-
trial projects. Finally, the project would include provision for the pro-
curement of instrumentation and laboratory equipment, which is critical for
carrying out the necessary studies. This component would require 112 man-
months of consultants' services arnd represents about 46 percent of total
project costs.
62.       Development of a Maintenance Program.  PETROPERU's maintenance
system is weak, and its capacity for forward planning of maintenance needs
and for carrying out preventive maintenance on a systematic basis has not
been developed. Under this component, the maintenance needs of the refin-
eries and industrial plants at Talara and La Pampilla would be analyzed, a
modern maintenance program would be developed, and the maintenance systems
would be reorganized. Development of the maintenance program would require
54 man-months of consulting services. It would account for about 13 percent
of total project costs.
63.       Development and Implementation 6f Training Program.  PETROPERU's
industrial operations employ over 3,000 people. Development and implementa-
tion of an effective training program is needed to improve the operation,
maintenance and management of its industrial plants. Under the project,
training needs--including necessary training equipment--would be identified
and a comprehensive program would be prepared to meet those needs. The
project would also include implementation of the training program over a
12-month period following its development. Experts in different fields would
be hired to train PETROPERU staff and about 40 selected staff members would
be sent abroad for specialized training. This project component calls for 75
man-months of consultants' services and it represents about 26 percent of the
total project cost.
64.       Other Studies.  PETROPERIU's Project Division in the Technical
Department would receive technical assistance to improve its capability to
conduct feasibility studies and carry out industrial planning. This assis-
tance would emphasize the use of modern planning tools such as cost benefit
analysis and linear programming. In addition, techno-economic reviews of
PETROPERU's carbon black, isopropyl alcohol and acetone plants would be
carried out to find out what modif:ications are required to improve their



- 17 -
efficiency and capacity utilization, how much the modifications would cost
and whether it is economical to make the additional investments. Finally,
PETROPERU has grease and lubricating oil plants, but the specifications and
quality of the products they manufacture are not satisfactory. Studies to
determine the measures necessary to improve their quality are included in the
project. The planning, industrial techno-economic reviews and grease/oil
studies would require 34 man-months of consultants' services and would
represent about 15 percent of the total project cost.
Project Execution
65.       The project would be executed over a period of about 30 months.  It
would be carried out by the Technical Department of PETROPERU with the help
of foreign experts. Consultants provided under the project would have
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank and would be selected and hired under
conditions and terms acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.02(a) of the draft
Loan Agreement). The Department currently has 11 competent professionals but
needs strengthening to handle the increased responsibilities envisaged under
this project. PETROPERU has agreed to assign seven additional local profes-
sionals to this Division (one maintenance specialist, three energy saving
specialists, one training specialist, one financial/economic analyst and one
linear programming specialist) to provide adequate counterpart support for
the foreign specialists to be financed under the proposed loan. These addi-
tional staff, who would be satisfactory to the Bank, would be provided partly
by reassignment from within PETROPERU and partly by hiring from outside by
July 1, 1982. (Section 3.02 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing Plan
66.       Total project costs, exclusive of taxes and duties, are estimated
at US$7.3 million, of which US$5.3 million, or 72 percent, represents foreign
exchange. The US$5.3 million loan recommended in this report would cover the
project's estimated foreign exchange component, including contingencies and a
capitalized front-end fee of US$78,000. Local costs of US$2.0 million equiv-
alent would be covered by PETROPERU. The project's principal foreign
exchange cost component would consist of 275 staff months of consulting and
technical services, whose cost is estimated at about US$13,000 per. staff/
month, which is reasonable for this sector for this kind of work. Consultant
and technical services, including contingencies, represent about three-
quarters of total foreign exchange costs. The balance of the foreign
exchange cost would be for equipment..
67.       Retroactive financing of up to US$200,000 is proposed for downpay-
ments made after October 1, 1981 on services and instrumentation equipment
needed to facilitate the studies on energy saving, process optimization,
efficiency improvement and pollution control.
Procurement and Disbursement
68.       On the basis of need for early delivery of instrumentation equip-
ment, the equipment's specialized nature and limited availability, and
because of the small estimated cost of the individual items, as well as the
impossibility of their useful grouping, limited competitive tendering proced-
ures would be used for procurement of all goods. Their estimated total cost,
including contingencies, is expected to come to about US$1.3 million. Under
these limited procedures, the equipment would be procured through the solici-
tation of price quotations from suppliers from not less than three different



- 18 -
eligible countries. These procedures are acceptable to the Bank. Loan
disbursement is expected to take about two and a half years running from mid
1982 through end-1984. The Bank loan would be disbursed against 100 percent
of the foreign expenditures for services and training, and 100 percent of
foreign expenditures and 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory) on
equipment and materials.
Economic Benefits
69.       The studies to be carried out under the project represent the first
concerted effort by Peru to reduce energy consumption in a major energy-
intensive industry.   One of the important benefits from the project is that
it would help prevent deterioration in the performance of the existing indus-
trial facilities at Talara and La Pampilla by improving maintenance prac-
tices. The project would also have a strong impact on institution building
through improvements in the organLzation, management and planning of the
industrial operations of PETROPERIJ.
70.       The studies and programs to be carried out under the project are
expected to result in projects for energy saving and efficiency improvement
that are expected to yield high economic rates of return. Taking into con-
sideration the deterioration in capacity utilization that is likely to take
place if the current maintenance system is not overhauled, the incremental
production that is likely to take place in 1985 is substantial. Expected
incremental production would be of the order of 10-20 percent in the refin-
eries and 30 percent in the fertilizer plant. In the case of the carbon
black, isopropyl alcohol and acetone plants, the expected incremental
production would be of the order o, 70 to 75 percent, if their continued
operation is found to be viable.
71.       The project does not face any major risk, as the Technical Depart-
ment of PETROPERU consists of capable professionals and would be strengthened
with foreign technical assistance. The risk of PETROPERU's losing expe-
rienced professionals has been greatly reduced since 1980 with the flexibil-
ity granted to the company by the Government to hire qualified professionals
at salaries competitive with the private sector (paras 20 and 43).
72.       The project poses no environmental risks.  Studies of the indus-
trial plants of PETROPERU would examine environmental aspects and recommend
measures to control pollution.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.       The (i) draft Loan Agreement between PETROPERU, COFIDE (which under
Peruvian law must be a party to all agreements providing for external loans
for public enterprises) and the Bank; (ii) draft Guarantee Agreement between
the Republic of Peru and the Bank; and (iii) Report and Recommendations of
the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Bank's
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors sepa-
rately.
74.       These draft agreements conform to the normal pattern for loans for
engineering projects. The main features of the draft Loan and Guarantee
Agreements are referred to in the text of this report and are listed in Annex
III.



- 19 -
75.       1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
76.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
by M.A. Qureshi
Attachments
March 3, 1982
Washington, D.C.



-20-                                                ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
Page I
TABLE 3A
PERU - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PERU                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEMGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                            - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            1285.2                                   MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      303.5                1960  /b    191O /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN               EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US5)                    230.0        410.0      730.0                1616.2                      2609.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       436.3        691.8      736.9                 1324.1                     2368.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOPULATIUN, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 10181.0         13461.0   17149.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 46.3            57.4       66.5                  64.2                        53.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          28.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIUNS)                            55.0
YUAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2085
POPULATION DENSlTY
PEE SQ. KM.                          7.9          10.5      13.3                   34.3                       80.6
PEE SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       33.0         44.1       54.6                   94.5                      133.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YKS.                           43.6         44.3       42.8                   40.7                       30.1
15-64 YRS.                           52.0         51.93      53.6                   55.3                       61.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      4.4          3.9        3.6                   4.0                        8.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 2.4          2.,3      2.7                    2.4                         1.5
URBAN                                5.1          5.0        4.3                    3.7                        3.1
CRUDE BlRTh RATE (PER THOUSAND)       46.4          41.8      37.8                   31.4                       22.9
CKUDE DEATH KATE (PER THOUSAND)        19.7         14.3       11.1                    8.4                        9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.4          3.0        2.6                   2.3                         1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..
FPOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OP FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)            96.0        102.0       86.0                  108.3                      119.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT OP
REQUIREMENTS)                     95.0         99.C       97.0                  107.6                      125.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            62.0         61.C       59.0                   65.8                       92.5
OF WH1lH ANIMAL AND PULSE         27.0         25.C       24.0                   34.0                       39.7
IHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       28.5          19.6      13.7                    7.6                        3.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    47.7            53.5      58.0                   64.1                       68.9
INPANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
IHOUSAND)                                ..        122.0/c    86.0                   70.9                       25.2
ACCESS TO SANE WATEk (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               14.6          35.0      48.3                   65.7
URBAN                               30.2         58.0       60.0                   79.7
RURAL                                0.8          8.0       25.0                   43.9
ACCESS TO EXCKETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF PUPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..        36.0       34.0                   59.9
URBAN                                  ..        52.0       51.0                   75.7
RURAL                                  ..        16.0         ..                   30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            2011.7       1904.9    1545.1                  1728.2                      973.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       2205.0/d      738.0      745.0                 1288.2                      896.6
PUPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              425.1/e      469.6      542.7                  471.2                      262.3
URBAN                                  ..       524.8      430.1                  558.0                      191.8
RURAL                                  ..      3055.3    5747.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..        19.0       23.0                     ..                       18.2
hOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                4.9          4.8/f
URBAN                                4.8          4.9T        ...
RURAL                                4.9          4.6/f       .
AVERAGE NUMBER oP PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                2.3          1.9/f
URBAN                                2.0          1 . f, f
RURAL                                2.7          2. 4        ...
ACCESS TU ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               26.0         32.1/f
URBAN                               50.7         54.3/f
KUKAL                                4.2          2.7/f



-21-                                                ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
PER      SAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PERU                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA9ES
- MOST, RECENT ESTIMATE)  -
MOST RECENT              HUDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN              EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                 83.0        103.0      112.0                  101.7                     105.9
MALE                  95.0        111.0      116.0                  103.0                     109.6
FEMALE                71.0          96.0     106.0                  101.5                     102.2
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  15.0         30.0       50.0                   35.3                      66.3
MALE                   18.0        34.0       53.0                   34.9                      73.2
FEMALE                13.0         26.0       46.0                   35.6                      59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)  20.0            17.0       16.0                  30.1                      28.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             34.0         35.0       40.0                   29.6                      26.8
SECONDARY                           12.0          17.0      29.0                   15.7                      23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          61.0         72.5/f    79.7                   80.0                      75.4
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER LARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           8.0         17.1       18.5                   42.6                      83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         108.0        135.1      135.4                  215.0                     181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            3.2         29.3      50.8                   89.0                     131.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                      ..        123.3      51.0                   62.8                     123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..              ..        ..                    3.2                       5.7
LANOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       3193.9       3896.8    5079.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    21.1         20.7       22.8                   22.6                      32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               53.0         44.8       37.8                   35.0                      34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  19.0         20.1       20.0                   23.2                      28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  31.4         28.9      29.6                   31.8                      42.3
MALE                                   49.6         45.8      45.6                   49.0                      56.5
FEMALE                                 13.2         12.0       13.6                  14.6                      28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.5          1.7        1.6                    1.4                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   39 .O/
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  64.4/S         61.0/f
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF ROUSEHOLDS    2.5/7           1.9/f
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    8.0/g           7.07        .
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..     235.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..      180.0                  187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US5 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      293.0                  513.9
RURAL                                  ..           ..     200.0                  362.2                     385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..           ..      49.0
RURAL                                 ..
.ot available
Not applicable.
NDTES
Is   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 snd 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1.976 and 1979.
/c   1970-75;  /d 1964;  /e 1962;  /f 1972;  j Personal income within labor force.
* The updated 1980 GNP per capita to be shovwn in the 1981 Bank Atlas
is $930 (at 1978-80 prices).
May 1981



ANNEX I
-22-                                                              Page 3 of 5
DEOOIAlTlllt 01 SocIa1. ItOICAhlln
th e . usful to de..cibe order  of magnitude,  udbo-ne trends, and                   -oeurloetlr. color difference  bo-nta..c..oo--
Therefeonce gropazeedldtbesmtnoootygroacfnhen       -ocncooryoo-dtcar2goceibamabothifben-o--gtcnco-enbamnbhna--yrg-op
nfnetb ga  ntn   (eestebpsllni-a Oliipotnt t-pr wher  'Middle  locat  onc,h  frica and Middle hE-n' On chose  bocacafs                                        lb
LAlId ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ h drt  (cc1n nk.Ppooor  a  oocolnl-no    rbr  o-rd tolh - dp-oooOorl
ccnti -foaT.    nar   ananersOgadar-oaodfnfoloonrn                                                  orn,n-rna.. Ordaidlbnoceconey... cc. tn.ne......pI calhbod
lanrctrcal    labu nen    grrbriarea usod  teap-an,Ify or    ....o.e. ly                     octef    r  r10dd  ont-enrlcnuycoco   bopia  adr-
tot.. crps. poandres  earbo  nod kOnch-  fards-  or solobalc;  98  an.thOfoIo  onor                                          ntlof-orcblnoenoemony ar-ffod
SOP ftp cPITA   sup- It? co  caylna   nolnuotano Oconeo  eaocon  rbcos, cl-        fOul  oon ace  20  -c fced   dnoulfoo_yintt , bdaner,RO-olda healt
rolacd byaaeaconoetionothd as  nnd cook oonu  d1977-79 hotbed; i96f,                       nod neduculrntr  co   oraonf  snaTfo               cpya  to(o
1971. and 197 d-nn.                                                                                cudicoonucn,uoo   ilnc    r.  uhoob  ifonl-un-                         noov
netGIn CcNlIffTIlN PIR caPITA -  nulcneooo    f nal               roa  -oeny i-ol                     -l  psye  rrhar              I"   IItrncuOc-de -ODOs ororcpoognero   h-upitala,
otuitylI  knanaao  col.eooln   co                -olo  1961, 1077  ao   971                         ecn      pcaoa    oyoc   o   nfddclndnntl
dana.                                                                                 OOniosiouucnt hoan-pi  p inuf td -V. nn nR ab d nf  _dlafn  c   t_dooo
den  honoiltl di-nIdo   by ob   nso   f teda.
PPUFiLATIcON 01 VIALd, STATISICS
Tona  PoRnla-1-n  Mid-cYn  tbcunad-Au of joby     1961019170, aol fLl7                          cIflInG
aman  roshois;  967,fil, nod 191 dune,                                                     cOnhnc      l  OnP-atnnu             ,-tysm
Pooclenan rnionon                                                                              nooaadoboofeoscc  cenna-o.a...p IorrlA -oogon-
Innato   iootn- lblfrecooocoyntuntr    aeanlfbo Iac    coornlnbotlnofccOdocn.o
nna   noocnb   g   r   oo   o   bl  oulo    n   ori  c   ao.nalns   eoeocny.bl  cnm  o onoproetaroos   o
Pr-leconoooaoI.enan   foocnlonttopletbo    folaao                                               ocnllrru
Each oonntrd  ot char asuignod  one nt nntee cOoo oceotnoocoot of~~~ nb-tIfinc-fljflfff
ar.ctennhbnnynoenlttnsono)ecolooc,crpntet.                                   blfnunIdtdsnnn           N. -lh OIi... it,yj,  ,,j,s
tainornfaIn-onsnceyouolnhoalnncIhinaPleoooo-cu,s_nnfmf-raoto,aanfef
niouoonnecfobnohon,cdloftlarcosa                                                                nrlennafgosh                     orolrro    ecneo   foseuc
main ... Ioen .1 Thus -on uiod           n       ...aoe  .e..... e  dc  o   opinoa   o-g    otltoa    oeef    rae    nido   udtl
tbtrelaceent fntlonncsauropodaninnoau,oh .e.. gIf          tOc                     ertuaoso.....rootgnrfrreydcoO                                         n
ofonnopeastel  eenf,   TeOa-terrrfacnteaa                                                     o       -trtnlh   soat-enntonnofsooa   ecodllpnou
tnao fe besooacbo .                                                        __al_yIflclb         eas  ffeocrsr_dc_accrtaregotefl
ttlae;107, flO tnd f9.71  data.        I                                                  inbrttcbinl,   bnnnl-              r  ne-pogee -noh. IpaSo u...            pond-
feton   icbh..  7,  t  1901 dena.                                                               Iduit_ riteau   rt   Yracan  I                    dpestel lta -dae toned  mdnose
P.,nletio    Anee  dat- P tocno  -ohn,-  coolgrsd...e.ofcnog_on-                              l_tlfjI
19cenct  fOl, 191. ul179 dn,nlnn   obh
ppltt;196.170,-d17 sd 17   ee                                                              ranseoentllbi e-haelnlpltn;ecue    n
n64m   oara  aena_l ios-ot5 nrssrddc-it96,  97,en-91.                                              et  eunis   hoiddllieebg
P7oltPioto  -far  drncn  ofmdiedsms  -rnoteeoiadidtcoreacdi   easee                                                                   bYgetonin   o    If eane - net loe hei
some  nf  hildhanroteg   (13Au f Are   lo  e   lu  rsr    aiar                       esae    ioa  o  (tarItooseLied roalnon     Soe  h  eneag  ri--
PIll dT oPhII fIlIto9he   aI0y                                                                                      f l  .taroeers tlastfo_ inssek
`96oaarog    rdcr  rc    egts   910.191   e   iO   aa                                     ne  laborI Ponc- dh,,,eandi-ne icleunayrs                          inedg
pee dy doaet   AIpltcroe   onncpouto,Oaneln                                                       not       . onpnbt;  .ic  17         ....190    ldmn
.eoly  sae      -1snne   y  u   hte   nryllols    ed   o   otlct-dss ie ronen60eof1thu70ebt  font;1967.191  anl 191   ldat
-e    n  Aolbnrfeogeoiocrultmeeoce    oyauba    It                                     Iier   one.   taboo.force in nhnng   -omaocbo ion,pmaafblteiog
andee  laoihrtn  f  npiaio.  adflorng10yeoen  ornate00andelonucti',neenno  gse   prcntgeofruallaorPont-161
houehld  an  ;  90I.acl   n   Of dare,.                                                           1971 emd 1979 data,- f- b..d
Pe   aiaennyo   roandrseordy     Poenrsrn   fyn  wpr                                   etitainRoa(esnid                   ae,mae mIeoeePrioieiso
ne htlpiydtodote, tc-upbofad-edeeoatn. Ge                                                    rinrrtceeaeueesoa_'eeetfsleenf                                      _c
sP beIll prtInlsaneel        g   o  the meld,-reoadI byra In  h    hr                           nnmsPn         ec A lIleno-  ai  ofppesiuede  IS erd StI emIfe
lo       _ foldana;iic-- 17  ad  99-ae,s   thek tons6  leho  bone,                                                        i1,i
-eocniuann     hioe,lytn  animal  al  ele yogd --upp,y of md-               e
nefemniaead_pieeO Igreat          e  dy  19t61-0 90ed'  191Adoe.                      R FORCEMTIO
at bdeth  lAt,ilbl, appl 97  dai,-                                                               end c-iboal  be1i isfeptell aIn- osesilera ... oaIIan.
lotat mrseltrlat  ler ooesed)    anualleohe  f itoni  noen  ne  ear                 Eetsaed AeeP,e PIl Imoes eve.P. blnpomir19-  eho  eeJeaa_ 
of  ge  ee  tocsan  lie brth.                                                         osolno  ovety  nnae lvelvs  hartnnme  ene  bosLtibbbFa.-I.o
hen cips fpl        p_-el ietem,an  octal)d myth                                     ~ ooemnablnenoamhemtseggop le
t      _reno  eado loee   o  mate sian - l   eaer  fromy -lohte may bebilanba) -eem     for _highe  sseo a   olng it  re   ra 
rhane....    cesmoldimlythtdh  hnaaIo196on65esber0  of the7boetel1o7l end repel - dPnnet aP  oaaocdra.o   ualosaeat
-member    I of Ipeopl   (toal,urbN, end 1 rura  f.sid byeceh   bpaie
praegsotIeprspnIne popbleiohdsa-~1 Esneede dt e-  s Inoln_drtyP:
bh   alotnedIhapee   abt-i or        -  ebhut  re 'son   of  tame  eacai                 1960nmmu70and looSeS IstelTh.hoino
Pat re -inno   huet  Morss-,!epolrnilb. b-ldc  by. cbesA.i of Tono indingp
malealfemlegp    1u96earee, 19racoto9e  dlses.ecl esetatsod-enaree5a..  I--



I olo. NON -1.4000
2
tO N
II                                  0                       -2
0                                        -l  NC::        -o'OC  .o 0
IN
2 4&2o                                                                      -c
-  .-           ouo                       00
000,  0100' 0             00                          -t
00. 0 lOON1 C             00
00 0    I                 No
2 NOfl N               -
N                         004
O                         0
00.40000-NON           N                         N
2                         0                    0000
*  .  .  .         0
N              0
OO 0.0010            4140...
-.     N                N
0              N ON  NON-N N
0                      N ON 0 NON
o   0                       N  N                    NO 00
NNON     NO       ONI N .00 -                             0   NON0
ON  ONOONOOOO        NO     j          .                              -   NOON ON  NON
N .-.[ .4 -
NOON   dolif
N...ONNNOOHO     0N
N N NOIN 000                    *40
NON 000000 N     --      2          2NO0O            ON 00
-N N 000 0                     NO 0
0000000000       ONON                N -00000    00    0 00
N 000000000      -N                  Ni      *    ON    C
I 000                         0,NNONN     N            N
NON NOON N---   
ON NJ NON S               0N   NO 00    N   ONNO 0
000 ONOONON      00   -N             NI ONONO   002   NOON
. .                 0'    .    ON'-  <NON
0-                          I                        ON
O NNOONONO N     --           NO N                                       00
00 000 N                                       0000   000
001 NON                                        N N 00
2
ONNOO000.NO      NO                    00000                     N   0N00 -
00    -  NOONNoNOON        N            0010                                I     000
0'       N 0NO1lI
-I
"o0N0   N NONNOoN
OONNOOONON       NOoN                             0
N 0                       . . . .               000000 000002Oi 0                NOON NON
0     0  NOONOON000       0000                 -l ONI     0           2   21          oo  000
20  20040001400      0000                                            2!
0 0 N N N  000 0--N  0
00000000 NO      ON-ON               OjONI         0   0-0    0   00000
O  N 0000000 N N    0000        0000                                     NOON
N oNO 0              0
--      -                    00010
0 00000   0 N 0 N 0 0 N 0 0
00000.NOOO     ON         '-000                                 NJ   4.40000   000
0  0000000000       ONON 0004000
-  0O..NNO00.N       0         1     -
2400000000
000-000000       oo    IN 0 0021    2'  0O        00
o                    .                                           0             oo  0).-
NOON   0 00000  IN 0000000 0   21
- . .  0    ..    N'              NI  0000 Ni-  000
10000   0 oONN   2120002NH  -   .-p  000000    00
0000     olooN  0
2
N                           N  NON
o         44<      - o
ON      0              00    ON,          00                     040      - 00
0  00  01.      0              00    00        N  NO                      NO    4  40
N  04                     000  -
NO    o           04                     N N N  040
-      N                             N  0                       NNO 00 0004
- 000    0       040000                           22                       44 00 0040
No      0                            22                2    04 NOON NO
ON     A 0000   0                 N ON  04                      440
0  NON   4000000000                            00  ON                NON  100040  0044
N- 0  0 4                       0.-ON.-  -       ON               0440400
o           .. oo.o 0000    0   2       2  NON-NO  00                      NN4  0N
0    N   00 NO        00  00              NOON.-  010    --0              NON  400400
004004000   00                  40000  0.                         0 40.
04 0 0  004 00 0 4                            O0                          00.0 NO
O  o0   NOooOo    0000   NO
O           0   0 00 0000   00                        000   0 0044
- N                           N   N                      N oN 'o 0000
0          40000                ,40 000  00000  NO                         440 oN   4
O 004 0 0                       44000  00 NON 00                000   0o000
O          0-00400400           N 04oN0            00                      004 oo 4400
-- oooNOoNooONO           00)                     o  oo.oooo                0 04 4040
0.-  oN ONNNO   0 0        NI   400 - 0004004              0000      000   040400 NON
2   2      22222  2                                                      0222 2  2



I                                                                                                                                          I



I    -11 .1   41 ~~~~~~1   -1 I 4   -Z ~~~~~~4 ~~4I   -i I'4444
_4     1~ ~ 9   644A   9  .,44 6 4 4
.......4..44A444.                                         44        4,-A4.            344       A3      4.43.44.                           -44.               .
...444A44  44.. ....-.                                               44    -A.4444 .                   -444.     44,              444              4.4
4A 4  44.4  44.4  49,4  33.A      6.9     3A~~~~~~~~~~~~~11.4  A4-4    43.II.                4.
44444 444434                                -4.,      44.6     64.4      33,444.433,4 I I ,          34. '4 .4444                                *
444444444  444444             44,4 ~~~~~~~44,4    434.4  -33 .4   -44,     -43.3    444.4    4,44,4             444.4          444,471  11    4.~ 
44  ,g~~~4  6444444   '44444-44  -4.4  4.4    44.       44,4    49,4      9.44344,4         444,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I'  444.4      64.4        4
'..4444 434444444444944444444444444  44.4444.4~~~~~1-       444.4   -   4-44.4 44.                 43      4.               34.44.
411:~ ~   ~     ~ ~ 6  444              44494             4444  44   -444                4444   444
4444444444444444                  444,       944      4 6      444      4944     4444      4.4      4434            4444           4494         4634 44    444A  444364-4444344463l  l
.444  44.4  44.4  444,4    44,4    444,4    494,4    444,4    444,     434.4             444.4         944.         44.4        44.4        4.4         4.3         3.4W         ---117
444444444.. .444444444444444444      44.4~~11-  44,4        . 44 4244,,4   "-I    44,         44       4.4      4,                44             9,          44        -47           34         44           .
4444 444,.-4,,~~~4~ 444 444 49444444944  4, .4    444,9    444.  44,1-4    244l.4  3.  4.      444.     494I4344 4I,4                                  44          .          441         9     -,44-4,-
444444444   I44.. I4,44,                                        44,        '.      4444,              44.3444          44I4              44.              44,4 .I4.                                       34        3.
4'44444444 4444444                 44,934.4         -44,    44.        4,        3.      444      344       643             4444           44.            44           ,          ,            4        4.
44444444  .9  43.4     44.4      43.4     43,4433,4         444,4    444,4    444.4              4,4.4         444.4        -3,4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4,44,4-4 - 9,44,44.
44444444444444   44..44           444,4    444.3~~~~~~~~2    7 5,  4,   4,        4.       4,        4,       6.                4.             9,          4.4        - 4        464          4.           .
444444  44.4    '6.4    444.4    4 4.4    444.4    434.4    449.4    663.3    444.4           344. 44 Q 44,9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,444,34.444.4I44 4.4 ~         l        11 
3444 3444444  44,4    444.4    46.- 4    444.4    449.4    444.4    144.A    444.4    464.4  449.4         '44,4        43.6         4.4        44,4       44,4        44.4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-2  "1  4- :1  -  -3
-  43444,44444444 44~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:6                                         14    :
444444444  494,4    444.3    44 .4    444.4    444,4    364. 4    443,4  3,3444446444444444444446444 ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~19~






-25-
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
A.    STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as at September 30, 1981) 1/
---US$ million ---
Amount
Loan                                                         (less cancellations)
Number     Year           Borrower             Purpose         Bank    Undisbursed
27 loans fully disbursed                                       409.2
949       1973    Republic of Peru        Education            24.0        2.7
1196       1976    Republic of Peru        Transport            76.5       39.0
1215       1976    Republic of Peru        Power                35.6        7.4
1281       1976    CENTROMIN               Mining               39.7       13.5
1283       1976    Banco Vivienda          Urban Dev.           21.6       11.2
1358       1977    COFIDE                  Industry             35.0        8.6
1403       1977    Republic of Peru        Agriculture         25.0        22.3
S-11       1978    Republic of Peru        Preinvestment         8.8        3.1
1771       1980    Republic of Peru        Irrigation           56.0       54.0
1806       1980    Petroleos del Peru    Petroleum Prod.    32.5           30.5
1812       1980    Republic of Peru        Rural Dev.           15.0       14.6
1888       1980    Republic of Peru        Prelnvestment         7.5        6.0
S-19       1980    SIDERPERU               Technical Asst.       5.0        5.0
1963       1981    CORPAC                  Aviation             58.0       58.0
1968       1981    COFIDE                  Industry            60.0        60.0
2018       1981    ELECTROPERU             Power                25.0       25.0
Total                                                    934.4
of which has been repaid                               174.5
Total now outstanding                                    759.9
Amount sold                           18.3
r              of which has been repaid            18.3
Total now held by Bank                                   759.9
Total undisbursed                                                    360.9
1/ Since September the Bank has approved two further loans: (i) US$26.0 million
to COFIDE for a Small Scale Enterprise Project. This loan was presented to
the Board on December 8, 1981; and (ii) US$93 million to the Republic of Peru
for an Eighth Highway Project. This operation was approved on February 16,
1982. Signing of both loans is expected shortly.



-26-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B.    STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at September 30, 1981) 1/
Type of
Year                Obligor                      Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1960        Industrias Reunidas, S.A.         Home Appliances   0.3        -      0.3
1960        Luren S.A. and
Ladrillos Calcareos, S.A.      Bricks             0.3       -      0.3
1960        Durisol del Peru, S.A.            Building
Materials          0.3      -       0.3
1960; 1962  Fertilizantes Sinteticos, S.A.  Fertilizers          4.1       -      4.1
1962; 1968  Cemeato Andino, S.A.              Cement             2.3      0.2     2.5
1964; 1967  Cia. de Cemento Pacasmayci        Cement             1.4     0.2      1.6
1975        Southern Reru Copper Corp.        Mining            15.0       -     15.0
1978        Cia. de Minas Buenaventura        Mining             2.0      0.5     2.5
1980        Cia. Minera San Ignacio
de Morococha, S.A.             Mining             2.7      0.5     3.2
1981        Consorcio Energetico de           Power
Huancavelica                   Transmission       8.5       -      8.5
Total gross commitments                             36.9     1.4    38.3
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                           18.2      0.2    18.4
Total net commitments less
participants' portion                             4.0       -      4.0
Total held by IFC                                   14.7     1.2    15.9
Total undisbursed incl.
participants' portion                             9.2       -      9.2
1/ Since September IFC's board has approved one further investment of US$3.0
million in SOGEWIESE S.A. for a Leasing Project.



-27-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
(As of September 30, 1981)
Loan 949-PE:      Education Project; US$24.0 million Loan of December 5, 1973;
*~      Effective Date:  March 5, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project has experienced serious difficulties and is now about 40
months behind schedule owing to start-up problems including weaknesses in the
project unit and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures. In order to resolve these
problems, the project has been modified to reduce its scope, increase the Bank
disbursement percentage, create a revolving fund and improve administrative
procedures (see President's Memorandum R79-59 of March 27, 1979). As a result,
the pace of project execution has improved substantially over the past year, and
disbursements now stand at about US$21.3 million.
Loan 1196-PE:    Lima-Amazon Transport Corridor Project; US$76.5 million Loan of
May_27, 1976; Effective Date: August 18, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Construction of the project's river ports component is almost
completed, although with some cost increases because of start-up difficulties.
There were serious delays in contracting for civil works under the road component
because of slow procedures and limited Government implementation capacity. These
problems have been largely overcome and construction is now underway on all
project components. The project has been modified so as to reallocate funds for
the purchase of road maintenance equipment and eliminate improvement of those road
sections which cannot be completed within a reasonable time (see President's
Memorandum R79-88 of April 27, 1979).
Loan 1215-PE:    Fifth Power Project; US$36.0 million Loan of September 20, 1976;
Effective Date:  November 18, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
The slowdown of demand in ELECTROLIMA's market in the wake of economic
difficulties as well as procurement problems, have delayed the project's power
distribution component and completion is expected about a year behind schedule.
Serious delays were also experienced in getting the technical assistance program
of the loan underway; however, all consultants have now been retained, and with
strong support from the current staff in the Ministry of Energy and Mines the
program is now well advanced. Because of the delays, the Closing Date has been
extended to end-1982.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular-to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



-28-
ANNEX II
P-ge S o  6
Loan 1281-BE:    CENTROMIN Mining Projectz US$40.0 million Loan of December 6,
1976; Effective Date: May 24, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Initiation of the copper inining component was delayed by about two
years because of the lack of local counterpart funds owing to the recession of the
late 1970s. CENTROMIN is now proceedling with the project with support from
additional Government counterpart: funds, as well as a supplementary IDB loan and
commercial bank borrowing to cover inflationary cost increases. Engineering,
procurement and mine development activities on this part of the project are
well-advanced.  The mine-water treatment plant has now been completed.
Loan 1283-PE:    Urban Sites and Services Development Project; US$21.6 million
Loan of October 12, 1976; Effective Date: January 10, 1977;
Closing Date: Deceriber 31, 1982.
Administrative difficulties, particularly the need to reconcile
Peruvian procedures with Bank guidelines for procurement, delayed the project by
about one year. All components are now moving ahead well and disbursements stand
at US$10.4 million0 Because of past delays, however, the Closing Date has been
extended to end-1982
Loan 1358-PE:    Industrial Credit Project; US$35.0 million Loan of January 28,
1977; Effective Date:  March 30, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30,
1983.
Peru's economic recession led to a contraction of investment and to
lower than anticipated demand for the loan in the late 1970s. In view of this,
the Borrower - the National Development Bank (COFIDE) -  agreed to finance
projects identified by commercial banks and other financial institutions, which
would also guarantee these loans and provide some loan servicing. With this
action and improving economic conditions over the past two years, demand for the
credit line has increased, and it is now almost fully committed.
Loan 1403-PE:    Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$25.0 million Loan of May
20, 1977; Effective Date: August 2, 1977; Closing Date: June
30, 1983.
Because of the weaknesis of the project unit, there was a long delay in
completing the designs for civil wiorks in the six valleys where irrigation systems
are to be improved.  The unit has been substantially strengthened over the past
few years, the design phase is nowi comnplete and construction has started. The
project, however, is now several years behind schedule.
Loan S-1l:        Water Supply and Power Engineering Project; US$8.8 million Loan
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date:  June 27, 1979; Closing
Date:  December 31, 1L982.
The main components of this project consisted of the feasibility study
for the Mantaro water transfer scheme and a master plan for Lima's water system.
The Mantaro study has been completed, and engineering for the Lima water system is
now underway in preparation for a project to be considered for Bank financing.



-29-
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Loan 1771-PE:    Lower Piura Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$56 million Loan
of February 4, 1980; Effective Date: May 28, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Project execution is gaining momentum. The implementation of most of
the Bank-financed components of the project has begun or is in the process of
being started.
Loan 1806-PE:    Petroleum Rehabilitation Project; US$32.5 million Loan of April
28, 1980; Effective Date: September 30, 1980; Closing Date:
January 31, 1983.
The project got underway more slowly than expected because of the weak
implementation capacity of PETROPERU. All project components, however, have now
begun and execution should improve in the coming months.
Loan 1812-PE:    Puno Rural Development; US$15 million Loan of April 28, 1980;
Effective Date: July 9, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Although there was a delay in making this loan effective, project
activities are now underway. Consultants for the extension program have been
hired and irrigation system designs are being prepared.
Loan 1888-PE:    Bayovar Engineering and Technical Assistance Project; US$7.5
million Loan of August 21, 1980; Effective Date: December 22,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Consultants have been contracted and the final feasibility report for
the phosphate fertilizer project is being reviewed.
Loan S-19:        SIDERPERU Technical Assistance Project; US$5.0 million Loan of
December 15, 1980; Effective Date: April 16, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
A consultant's report evaluating SIDERPERU's expansion plans is now
being reviewed.
Loan 1963-PE:    Aviation Development Project; US$58.0 million Loan of August 19,
1981; Effective Date:  January 21, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.
Procurement activities for equipment have begun.
Loan 1968-PE:    Second Industrial Credit Project; US$60.0 million Loan of August
19, 1981; Effective Date: February 25, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.



-30-
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan 2018-PE:    Power Engineering Project; US$25 million Loan of August 19, 1981;
Effective Date: February 25, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The Yuncan hydroelectric project, whose final design is being financed
retroactively by this loan, is now underway.



-31-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
PERU
PETROLEUM REFINERIES ENGINEERING PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country
to prepare project:             Three,months
(b) Project prepared by:               PETROPERU with Bank assistance
(c) First presentation to the Bank:  May 1981
(d) Preappraisal of project:           June 1981
(e) Departure of appraisal mission:  September 1981
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:   June 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(i)  PETROPERU to carry out a review of industrial plant and regional level
management and organization with a special emphasis on introducing
improved budgetary systems and cost and inventory control. The company
would also furnish to the Bank the findings and conclusions of said
studies no later than December 31, 1984 (para. 45).
(ii)  PETROPERU to add seven professionals to its Technical Department by July
1, 1982 (para. 65).



--32-
ANNEX IV
Page I of 2
PERU
PETROLEUM REFINERIES ENGINEERING PROJECT
PETROPERU INCOME STATEMENTS
(in billions of soles)
1980        1981         1981
(Audited)   (Budget)   (Estimate) 1/
Net Sales                                 342.75       645.28       538.93
Operating and General Expenses            338.12       553.33       529.60
Income from Operations                      4.63        91.95         9.33
Financial Charges                          22.80        21.35        27.27
Extraordinary Gains 2/                     25.39         2.16         7.04
Profit before Taxes                         7.22        72.76       (10.90)
Taxes                                       0.37        39.91
Met Profit                                  6.85        32.85       (10.90)
1/   Estimated by PETROPERU on December 17, 1981.
2/   From exchange rate changes, etc.



INNEX IV
-33-                           Page 2 of 2
PERU: PETROLEUM REFINERIES ENGINEERING PROJECT
PETROPERU BALANCE SHEETS
(in billions of soles)
1980         1981        1981 est.
ASSETS                                        (Audited)    (Budget)  (up to June 30)
Current Assets
Cash and Bank Deposits                      19.71         5.82          14.24
Accounts Receivables                        70.32        98.81          94.16
Inventories                                 60.48        57.35         110.91
Pre-paid Expenses                            3.82         3.16           1.81
Sub-total                          154.33       165.14        221.12
Fixed Assets
L/T Receivables 1/                           76.14       44.62          68.45
Land, Plant & Equipment
(net of depreciation)                    318.44       485.24         323.09
Other                                       16.94         9.70          34.36
Sub-total                          334.38       539.56        357.45
Total Assets                                   565.85      704.10         647.02
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
Bank Payables                               17.53        39.07          25.40
Current Portion of L/T Debt                 55.55        66.71          60.50
Other Payables                              88.42        86.27         133.50
Sub-total                          16-1.50      192.05        219.40
L/T Liabilities
L/T Debt                                   277.67       300.26         238.22
Other 2/                                    10.34        22.43          11.49
Sub-total                          288.01       322.69        294.71
Equity
Paid-up Capital                            109.14       157.08         138.16
Reserves                                      0.35        0.03           0.35
Retained Earnings 3/                         6.85        32.85          (5.60)
- Sub-total                        116.34       189.96         132.91
Total Liabilities                              565.85      704.70         647.02
Ratios
Current Ratio                              0.96:1       0.86:1         1.01:1
Quick Ratio                                0.58:1       0.56:1         0.50:1
Debt/Equity Ratio                           72/29        63/37          69/31
1/ From the Government.
2/ Including provisions for indemnities, pension, etc.
3/ After remittances to the Government.



~~34~~~ ANNEX V
Page 1 of 4
PERU: PETROLEUM REFINERIES ENGINEERING PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CONSULTANCY SERVICES
OBJECTIVES
PETROPERU wishes to contract the services of specialized consultants or consultini
firms to carry out studies or devielop programs with the participation of
PETROPERU and taking into account technical and economic feasibility, whose main
objectives are to:
(i)  improve PETROPERU's plarnt operations by streamlining its maintenance
system, expanding the training system, debottlenecking existing plants,
adopting better operating practices, optimizing current operations,
improving yields of higher value petroleum products; and
(ii)  reduce operating costs by energy conservation through retrofitting;
increase power generation by using waste heat from gas turbines and
boilers and by co-generation of power and steam; recover hydrogen from
purge gases from the ammonia plant at Talara.
SCOPE OF WORK
I.   Energy Saving, Pollution and Corrosion Control, and Process Optimization
A.   Undertake an energy audit to review energy balance in all industrial
facilities of PETROPERU, particularly the refineries at La Pampilla and
Talara as well as the fertilizer, carbon black and solvents plant
facilities at Talara; prepare a comprehensive energy conservation and
retrofitting program takiLng into account any proposed additional process
and utility plants; and carry out basic engineering for the program's
implementation. The program should pay special attention, but not be
limited to, the following;
(i)  Co-generation of power and steam to reduce the amount of
electricity purchased from outside;
(ii) utilization of waste heat from heat exchangers and boilers of
refineries and power plants at La Pampilla and Talara and the
Talara fertilizer plant;
(iii) use of waste heat within the process units with necessary
modification in process patterns to improve energy conservation and
efficiency;
(iv) recovery of hydrogen gases from the Talara Ammonia Plant;
(v) feasibility of installing pre-flash towers at the La Pampilla and
Talara Refineries;



-35-
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 4
(vii)  modernization of instrumentation and installation of new
instrumentation to detect and help overcome energy and material
losses; and
(viii)  the present problem of sea water cooling at Talara Refinery and
its solution.
B.    Corrosion Control and Prevention
(i)   Review corrosion problems at La Pampilla and Talara facilities
and recommend remedial measures to solve those problems.
C.    Process Optimization
(i)   Compare the existing units with more recent units elsewhere and
identify differences in capacity utilization, product quality and
yield;
(ii)  analyze potential equipment and operating changes necessary to
improve capacity utilization, product quality and yields;
(iii)  identify process modifications needed and discuss any problem
area, whether operational, mechanical or environmental, that
would result from those modifications; and
(iv)  review the existing facilities for laboratory testing, sampling
and quality control of PETROPERU's products, feedstock, residues
and emission gases and make recommendations for improving these
facilities including identification of additional equipment
needed.
D.    Provide advice to PETROPERU for the following:
(i)   Examine PETROPERU's design, engineering, construction and
fabrication standards and procedures and propose modifications
necessary in the light of modern practices.
II. Maintenance Program
(i)  Examine in detail maintenance problems at La Pampilla and Talara
Refineries, as well as fertilizer, carbon black and solvents plant
facilities at Talara and develop a comprehensive program for maintenance
including preventive maintenance, and the planning and scheduling of
normal maintenance work; and
(ii)  examine organization of maintenance operations at industrial production
sites and recommend improvements in the maintenance organization with
special attention to coupling operations and maintenance and also to
plant inspection, routine and preventive maintenance, workshop
facilities, spare parts, personnel training, etc.



-36-
ANNEX V
Page 3 of 4
III. Training
Provide advice to PETROPERU for the following:
(i) Prepare and implement a comprehensive training program for
PETROPERU's industrial production activities at the central, regional
and plant levels with special reference to the following:
(a) Operation and mainLtenance practices;
(b) Corrosion control and material selection;
(c) Refinery process technology;
(d) Budgeting and cost control;
(e) Design and engineering of equipment;
(f) Management science;
(g) Administrative practices.
The training program should be carried out at three levels, i.e., operators
and technicians, supervisors and managers and division chiefs. The program
should also review the adequacy of the existing training facilities at
PETROPERU and in the country, examine the need for establishing new training
centers.
The program should include training through the following means:
(a)  Visit by selected persornel to foreign refineries and
industrial plants similELr to those of PETROPERU;
(b) Organization of semi-annual and annual courses in specialized
areas with the participation of foreign experts;
(c) Procurement of specialized equipment and training aides for local
training.
IV.  Other Studies
A.   Techno-Economic Review
(i) Examine the techno-economic aspects of the operation of carbon
black, solvents and fertilizer plants to establish their economic
viability and competitiveness.
(ii)  improve the existing Refinery Linear Program Mathematical Model
used by PETROPERU; and
(iii) improve the capability of the Technical Department of PETROPERU to
conduct feasibility studies and carry out industrial planning and
implementation more effectively.



- 37-
ANNEX V
Page 4 of 4
B.   Production of Grease and Lubricants
(i) Examine the problems in the production of grease and lubricants,
and review the adequacy of the product quality and specifications;
and
(ii)  provide technical assistance to improve the quality and specifica-
tions of grease and lubricants manufactured.






2=r>rz \                  $                 ~      ~     ~    ~         ~~76 &  IquotoSX   7    s,    /                    et.E4
P    E    R  U                                                                      f &Ij
Petroleum   efineries Engineering Froect
' '- 'Al                 \      /@Saz
a   Etldelyo   ~ ~                        Mo y -boob
T.1- ~~~~                                               ~~                              ~(
=BV =0=08 U 2   olam=rN  -AB                                                                R      A       Z      I     L
ftc. o.oyr ~ ~ ~     ~     ~      d.P.
?~ ~~~~~Dpomn bou do so                                                                                                    00l0  2-t=' ccv \16'\,./
'$~~        ~~                              300                                                    BOled          Moq ===       -o,er  d  qso-   ,  o,
tOesos of o,0= . OOO.4O.(olc ~ rcnonrnouos ,soo                                                                           Tocc Mece  U, )
s12         b      ,                                               uc nco W  B               .u                                                   \
u16o5=s,>o,=on =08 gOJ5O Of =c * a c tfucrchonssno!srr, / 
crcoy,oso0f8=oOO~sccd~                                                                                                        CHILE' ==,  ==Xt1--   -,;,.   'if   /  ;-
f  /  0  -    PeioFeun rsnenes  = 5: =; 0 X    \v;(0/                  t       S                      ( 
; ; - Asphatt ro~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cgd :; 0S*;\)~~X--  --ASs-J
f; 2; ;----------- A,ohett orztxs ndt r ontt;ecien S ng: ;+ 
1:0 i Alt wetzther-roads ,i $ = ; if 0 ;0; , t > ducnccne(. ~~~~~~~~~~bl
t~~~~~~8, -f -1-4                                   ;   V0i:5!0                                    /                                  J 
0b-d       E-E;fV   =   t         e        4         b.0          -If               =  C0;; V                4      -vc>cZsSgqe
X;;: KlLwf ;f 0  ; ~10    '    I  ' 3   ~i i 0 0:   *3 ;: 0    0:;;       V :t    0; lo4ten_4egU, CHILE                  6 < 



