Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 24118-ME
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 52 MILLION
TO THE
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
IN SUPPORT OF A
TAX ADMINISTRATION INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 24h, 2002
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Colombia, Mexico, Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



FISCAL YEAR
January - December 31
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of April 9'h,2002)
Currency Unit = Peso
9.04 Pesos = US$1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Systems
ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS AND GLOSSARY
BANOBRAS                 National Bank of Public Services (Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos)
CAS                      Country Assistance Strategy
CIAT                    Interamerican Center for Tax Administration
Centro Interamericano de Administracion Tributaria
CIDE                    Center of Economics, Research and Education
(Centro de Investigacidn y Docencia Econ6mica)
COMPRANET               Government Electronic Procurement System
(Sistema Electronico de Contrataciones Gubernamentales)
CPAR                    Country Procurement Assessment Report
CQ                      Selection Based on Consultant Qualifications
DBR                     Development Business Review
FMA                     Financial Management Assessment
FMR                     Financial Monitoring Report
G.A.                    General Administration
GDP                     Gross Domestic Product
GOM                     Government of Mexico
IBRD                    Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                     International Competitive Bidding
ICT                     Information and Communications Technology
IMF                     International Monetary Fund
INTERNET                Inter-networking protocol for transmission of data through packets.
INTRANET                An Internet service restricted to a private group.
LCS                     Least Cost Selection
MIS                     Management Information System
NAFIN                   National Financing Agent (Nacional Financiera)
NBF                     Not Bank Financed
NCB                     National Competitive Bidding
PAD                     Project Appraisal Document
PCD                     Project Concept Document
PIU                     Project Implementation Unit
QCBS                    Quality and Cost Based Selection
SAT                     Tax Administration Service (Servicio de Administraci6n Tributaria)
SBD                     Standard Bidding Document
SECODEM                 Ministry of Comptrollership and Administrative (Secretarfa de Contraloria y Desarrollo Administrativo)
SFB                     Selection Based on Fixed Budget
SHCP                    Finance and Public Credit Secretariat (Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico)
SOE                     Statement of Expenses
ssi                     Revenue Undersecretariat (Subsecretaria de Ingresos)
TRAL                    Tax Reform Adjustment Loan
WBG                     World Bank Group
Vice President:             David de Ferranti
Chief Economist             Guillermo Perry
Country Director            Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Director             Emesto May
Task Team Leader            Steven Webb



-i-
Tax Administration Institutional Development Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective .......................................................     2
1. Project development objective ..................... .................................. 2
2. Key performance indica.tors ................   ....................................... 2
B. Strategic Context ....................................................... 2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project ............................................... 2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .....................................................  3
3. Sector issues to be addre,ssed by the project and strategic choices ........... ................. 6
C. Project Description Summary .......................................................      6
1. Project components .......................................................        6
2. Policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ................. .....................  9
3. Benefits and target population ...................... .................................  9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements .................................................  9
D. Project Rationale ........................                                               10
1. Project alternatives consi(dered and reasons for rejection ....................................  10
2. Major related projects .........................................                 10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in.the project design .........................................  10
4. Indicators of Borrower commitment/ownership .........................................  10
5. Value added of Bank support in this project .................. ....................... 10
E. Summary Project Analyses ................................................                11
1. Economic ..................1 ,
2. Financial .................. 11
3. Technical ..................                                                     11
4. Institutional .................. 12
4.1 Executing agencies ..................                                        12
4.2 Project management .................. 12
4.3 Procurement .................. 12
4.4 Financial management ....................                                    12
5. Environmental .................... 13
6. Social ....................                                                      13
7. Safeguard Policies....... ..........                                             14
F. Sustainability and Risks             .................... 14
1. Sustainability ....................                                              14
2. Critical Risks ....................                                              15
3. Possible controversial aspects ............................ 15
G. Main Loan Conditions                      ...                         ......................... 16
1. Effectiveness Conditions
H. Readiness for Implementation ............................ 16
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                                  16



Annexes
Annex 1.     Key Project Performance Indicators ........................................17
Annex 2.     Project Description ....................................................25
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs .................................................40
Annex 4.     Lessons learned .......................................................50
Annex 5.     Financial Summary....................................................51
Annex 6 A.   Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements...............................52
Annex 6 B    Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements.......................56
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule ...................................59
Annex 8.     Documents in the Project File............................................60
Annex 9.     Statement of Loans and Credits ..........................................61
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance....................................................64
Annex 11.   ILetter of Development Policy ...........................................67
The project was prepared under the general guidance of Marcelo Giugale (Lead Economist and Sector
Leader) and Ronald Myers (Sector Manager). The project preparation team comprised Kathefine Bain, Lea
Braslavsky, Enrique Fanta, Pilar Gonzalez, Francisco Leiva, Luis Jose Mejia (co-task manager), Herman
Nissenbaum, Victor Ordofiez, Judith Davidson Palmer, Reynaldo Pastor, Mariangeles Sabella, Harjit
Singh, and Steven Webb (task manager). Patricia Chacon Holt and Elizabeth Toxtle supported the team.
Peer reviewers were Michael Engelschalk and Jit Gill.



Mexico
Tax Administration Institutional Development Project
Projlect Appraisal Doc ument
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Country Management Unit
Date:              May 24, 2002               Task Team Leader: Steven Benjamin Webb
Country Director: Olivier Lafourcade          Sector Manager: Ernesto May
Project ID: P077602                           Sector: BF - Public Financial Management
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan  Theme: Public Sector
Program of Targeted Intervention: No
7PrTiiisrarminraf3c__ _ WK_ 
[XI Loan    [] Credit    } Grrant    [I Guarantee      [] Other
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Loan Currency: United States Dollar
Amount (US$m): 52 million.
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-spread Loan (FSL)
Grace Period (years): 5                    Years to Maturity: 15
Commitment Fee: 0.85% per amnum from the 60 days after the loan agreement and 0.75% after the 4th
anniversary of this date.                  Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
Initial Choice of Interest-rate basis: LIBOR plus Fixed spread
Type of Repayment Schedule:
Fixed at Commitment, with the following repayment method (choose one): Level repayments
of principal of 5% per semester over 10 years.
Forre in  Local    To t  l
- - _ - | ~~~~~~~~~~1D0                        29DO  .. _
20.71     61 3]    S2J.0
Borrower: United Mexican States
Responsible agency: Servicio de Administraci6n Tributaria (SAT)
Ardes: Hidalgo 77 Module I, ler piso, Col Guerrero 06300 Mexico D.F.
Contact Person: Lic. Adriana Cuevas Argumedo. Tel: 52.55.5229-4406 Email: acuevasashcp.ssi.gob.mx
Annmual                               SJ02   2!;35 - 7pl    63      A0
Cunulae                               5 .02  26371  4421   5063601  12no 
Program implementation period: July 2002 - December 2006
Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/2002  Expected closing date: 12/30/2006



-2 -
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project Development Objective (see Annex 1)
The project objective is to improve tax compliance and reduce evasion of internal national taxes to
increase government revenues by increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of the Mexican
Government's Tax Administration Service (SAT).
The ultimate object of strengthening the tax system is to assure macroeconomic stability and that
public resources are available to meet the country's growing needs for human resource
development, both of which have proven essential in Mexico for the continued reduction of poverty.
2. Key performance indicators (see Annex 1)
Effectiveness:
Increase in revenues due to tax administration improvement
Increase in taxpayer coverage
Increase in taxpayer perception of evasion risk
Increase in taxpayer perception of SAT effectiveness
Internal Efficiency:
Decrease in the cost to the Service per peso collected.
Decrease in SAT's average collection time per peso
External Efficiency:
Decrease in the taxpayer's cost of compliance
Decrease in taxpayer's time for compliance
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex
1). Document number: 19289 Date of latest CAS discussion: May 1999, May 2002 (CAS Update
May 2001).
This project supports a goal of the 1999 CAS, subsequently reiterated in the 2000 CAS Update and
the 2002 CAS, to provide continuing assistance for the Government's fiscal reform program in the
interests of assuring macroeconomic stability.
The Bank has carried out economic analyses and discussions with the Government on fiscal policy,
in close collaboration with the IMF. As a result, a number of tax reforms have been carried out, the
latest being the package of legislative change proposals sent to the Congress late last year. A Tax
Reform Adjustment Loan (TRAL) is being presented at the same time. This loan targets reforms
affecting several taxes and goals related to fiscal balances and sustaining key programs for
investment and poverty reduction.
The Government has begun several worthwhile initiatives to improve Federal tax administration,
and has requested technical assistance to accelerate planned improvements. This would support
Mexico's efforts to reduce poverty and enhance social sustainability by increasing the public sector
resources, particularly for expansion of social sector services and infrastructure investment. Recent
ESW reports linked that requirement to traditionally low level domestic revenue collection, which is
the prime target of this project.



-3 -
2. Main sector issues and IG,overnment strategy
Mexico needs to invest more in human resource development and public economic infrastructure to
modernize its economy, reduce poverty, and facilitate overall growth. This requirement for
increasing revenues entails mobilizing resources in a manner which is sustainable in the long term.
Despite efforts in the early 1990s which temporarily pushed up Federal revenues as a share of GDP,
the overall share of tax revenues in Mexico has changed little over the last two decades. By
international and middle-incorne Latin American standards, tax collections in Mexico are
comparatively low. Federal tax revenues (excluding social security and oil sector revenues) are only
about 11.4 percent of GDP, putting Mexico at the bottom of the OECD ranking of tax revenues to
GDP at that time. Moreover, the gap between Mexico's tax to GDP ratio and those of most Latin
American countries with similar per capita GDPs is growing.
Revenue by Type of Tax
Government Revenuei,
% of GOP
ow nod f rr                                       E,ds e tines
6.12%
tJ   __  GenernlTaxes  VAT          .   1Ine.Trx
13 04%             20~~~3%  I'50%
Others
3.56%
These deficiencies exist even though Mexico had
frequent (and some quite major) tax policy changes in 1978-80, 1983, 1985-86, 1988, 1990-91,
1993-95, and 1997-98. The most recent, which took effect in 2002 (discussed in the Tax Reform
Adjustment Loan documentation), were not as extensive as the Government had originally hoped
but nonetheless made important progress. The Government intends to complete other parts of its
comprehensive fiscal reformn agenda in the next few years.
Meanwhile, the tax system continues to rely heavily on the petroleum sector, which accounts for 15
to 25 percent of total revenues. This makes budget revenues very sensitive to changes in
international oil prices. In addition, the gross revenue from oil seems likely to stay roughly constant
in real terms, which means that the growth in GDP and public services will necessitate an increase
of non-oil revenues as a share of GDP.
The value-added tax (VAT) of ¶15 percent, currently the second largest revenue source after income
taxes, holds the greatest potential for increasing revenues, as it now suffers from a high level of
evasion, which a 1996 study estimated at about 60 percent. Revenues from personal income tax
actually declined as a share of GDP over the past two decades (this should change with the recently
enacted reforms).
SAT recognizes that deficiencies in its operations contribute to the low levels of compliance and
revenue. Taxpayer coverage is insufficient. A national survey carried out toward the end of 2001
reported that global coverage ieached 83 percent, of which 81 percent are individuals and 95.2



-4 -
percent are firms. Nevertheless, the Taxpayer Registry today does not contain all potential
taxpayers.
Based on the Twelfth General Population and Housing Census, the work force is calculated at 32.1
million people. Of these, 17.5 million are employees, 4.4 million are exempt agricultural workers,
and 1.5 million are domestic employees, of which the latter would be difficult to register. Therefore,
it can be reasonably calculated that in addition to the 7,148,800 taxpayers registered in December
2001, there are approximately 1.9 million unregistered potential taxpayers.
Of the registered taxpayers, 5.8 million must present tax returns, and of these only 3.95 million
present them on time, thus producing a second gap.
The taxpayer auditing process needs to be improved, as a relatively low percentage of the unpaid
amounts identified through audits are actually collected. Of the court cases filed against taxpayers
who fail to fulfill their obligations, many of those submitted for administrative adjudication fail
because of procedural errors, faulty notifications, and inadequate case preparation; there is a similar
pattern for judicial cases.
SAT has recently introduced strategic planning concepts at the senior management level and
defined initial organizational performance indicators. It is now refining SAT's planning to orient it
to outcomes rather than activities. It also needs to fturther refine its performance indicators, take
them farther down the management structure, calculate baseline values, and define individual
performance indicators.
SAT requires careful management and coordination to create synergies among the various units and
allow the timely sharing of information and multidisciplinary teamwork.
With respect to the sharing of information, SAT is has the basic technology it requires, although it is
somewhat old and requires upgrading and expansion to better support administrative work. The
system development and maintenance services lack adequate prioritization and coordination, which
has led to dissatisfaction with the services provided and the creation of independent informatics
units in the organization. Application systems are redundant and uncoordinated and do not
communicate efficiently with each other. SAT needs to improve its information systems and
technology strategy, and to introduce internal service policies and strategies to better assign these
resources.
In the past year, SAT has made significant efforts to improve its staffing and personnel
management. The number of staff has been reduced to 37,000, although staff improvement and not
reduction is a goal of SAT. Many of the incumbents, particularly in administrative positions, lack
proper qualifications and/or do not perform adequately, according to recent personnel evaluations.
Of the 37,000 staff, about 16,000 work full time, while the service provided by the remainder ends
at 3 p.m.
The present staff mix is not appropriate for SAT's goals to provide consistent, effective public
service, nor the essential internal institutional functions, and from this point of view, SAT may
actually be understaffed. SAT has begun to survey skill levels and determine staff requirements,
has improved management selection and salaries, which are competitive with the market. SAT



-5 -
recognizes however the need for further improvement in its human resource management
policies and procedures fox selecting, training, evaluating, disciplining, etc. its employees.
SAT has also begun, with Bank help (see below), to introduce mechanisms to prevent, detect, arrest,
or punish corrupt practices in key positions. It has rotated or fired about 2000 staff (especially in
Customs) in an effort to reduce corruption.
Government Strategy
As alluded to above, Government has already taken steps to improve tax administration. The most
important of these were the creation of SAT as an autonomous entity with potentially considerable
internal flexibility and competitive salaries; absorption of the National Training Institute;
introduction of strategic planning; initial rationalization and training of staff; introduction of more
transparent personnel selection methods; initiation of programs for improving taxpayer services and
physical infrastructure; simplified tax return and payment processes; and mechanisms to identify
non-filing registered taxpayers. Furthermore, Government is embarking on a government-wide anti-
corruption campaign.
The issues addressed are critical and have created a momentum for reform within SAT. This
momentum needs to be encouraged and assisted, to transform SAT into an institution operationally
more aligned with its strategic ol'bjectives and capable of continuous and sustainable improvement.
Some important changes in Mexico make it more likely that tax administration reform will have
deeper and longer lasting effects now, compared with those in the past. During much of the last two
decades the Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit (SHCP) has followed the implicit practice that
any increase in revenues would be "spent" in the form of rate reductions or tax expenditures
(special exemptions), rather than on the expenditure side of the budget.
Keeping tax effort constant largely resulted from negotiating tax burdens with representatives of the
private sector. The political economy of taxation in Mexico has involved periodic discussions and
agreements between a group of compliant large taxpayers (sometimes including the state petroleum
monopoly, PEMEX) and the government authorities agreeing to an overall level of tax effort.
Improvements in the level of enforcement or effort by the tax administration tended to come
through concentrated tax enforcement crusades (only) when government revenues were
dramatically down due to economic crises and business cycle downturns. The efforts suffered from
the lack of commitment at the top political levels for administrative reform per se, rather than just
for the sake of raising more revenue. Also, the time frame of the reforms was too short, and the
reforms were piecemeal, not part of an integrated plan.
In contrast to the past, the current reforms to tax administration and policy are priorities of the
President and of the Secretary of Finance. The Secretary's public reputation came primarily from
the strong tax administration improvement efforts that he led as Subsecretary of Revenue in the
early 1 990s. As the current effort starts with the beginning of a new administration, it should, unlike
his previous efforts, allow sufficient time to institutionalize the reforms.



-6 -
3. Sector Issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
Sector Issues
The project will address the tax administration issues mentioned above through a comprehensive
reform of the Tax Administration Service. This reform would encompass organizational and
management strengthening in conjunction with operational capacity building. It would introduce the
concept of taxpayer life cycle process, to integrate all phases of SAT's relationship with the
taxpayer in a service-oriented manner. It would expand the taxpayer base and the control of fiscal
obligations, and improve taxpayer access to improved SAT services.
The project aims to achieve its objectives by strengthening accountability within SAT, mostly
through the introduction of measurable organizational and individual performance indicators,
relative to newly determined baselines. It would strengthen its external service vision, introduce an
internal service approach, change its focus from the functional approach to a business processes
vision, and upgrade management to provide better integration and synergies among the functional
units.
Strategic Choices
The Government and the Bank agreed on three strategic choices for the project. The first choice was
to limit the scope of the project to domestic taxation. Therefore, the coordination of information
with Customs is included in the project, but substantial changes to Customs administration are not,
because Customs had recent reforms in the context of NAFTA. Nevertheless, a diagnostic and plan
for future strengthening of Customs could be included in this project.
The second strategic choice was to exclude anti-corruption issues, which are being integrally
addressed at a government-wide level in a separate project. Activities such as the creation of the
post of Technology Security Officer, the modification of key systems to include provisions for audit
trails and redundant processes for checks and balances, the inclusion of specific modules in the
various management and control systems to provide information for anti-corruption analyses, as
well as investigation, technical assistance from already identified friendly tax administrations, and
training, will be considered for inclusion in the government-wide project (in preparation with Bank
assistance).
The third choice was to focus the project on what could be reasonably achieved during the current
administration, through the end of 2006. For this reason, the project is a TA loan, rather than an
Adaptable Program Loan.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component 1- eSAT and Taxpayer Services
This component aims at strengthening SAT's on-going efforts to provide better taxpayer service and
increase the transparency of SAT. The project will further simplify taxpayers' filing of returns by
employing more advanced electronic means. It will upgrade the surveys of taxpayers and other
stakeholders, and will create permanent focus groups. In addition, studies will be carried out on all
of SAT's contact points with taxpayers, for more focused examination of the need for improvement



-7 -
in its procedures, information services, public access, etc. Service standards will be
established, particularly to increase SAT's transparency, and the National Service Center's
present limited information capabilities will be strengthened. This component includes all web-
based activities under SAT's e-business strategy (eSAT).
!: eSAT/Tazayer Senrices          Inst. Dev.  538   6.6%    3.71   7.1%
12: Human, Finacial andPhysical MNanaement Inst. Dev.  1812  22.9%  1133  21.8%
3: Infrmation Hub                  Inst. Dev.  1056  12.9%  791   15.2%
14: Technology Senrices            Inst. Dev.  17.12  2099%  1212  24.7%
i5: Compliance Process             Inst.Dev.  17.16  209%    559  10A%
6: Control & nE:nement Process     Inst. Dev.  895  109%    7.51  14A%
7: Pl    and Qlality Conl         hist. Dev.  3.51  43%    2.60   5.0%
Front End Fee                                 052   0.6%    052    1.0%
ITotal Project Costs                ____     82100 1000%,   5210I 10001%
Component 2 - Management: ]Human, Financial and Physical
This component will help SAT establish a better framework for planning and managing its
manpower, financial and physicad resources. Assistance will be provided for assessing SAT's staff,
documenting the results in a ]Human Resource Management System, upgrading training, and
introducing performance management policies and systems. Better human resource policies and
monitoring will be sought, emphasizing greater performance-based and incentive-oriented
management. Similar efforts will be undertaken to improve SAT's budgeting and accounting
operations, and the whole will be brought together to form SAT's Integrated Resource Management
System.
Component 3 - Information Hub
This component aims to improve the communication, sharing and management of information
within SAT. Initially, SAT would appoint a Chief Information Officer in charge of policy,
coordination, quality assurance and security of information, and will implement a series of
databases that will be optimized for access and security and will automatically receive data from the
operational databases in the various areas.
Seven major groups of information are essential to the business processes of the organization, and
they must be accessible for use in a timely manner by those processes: (i) Taxpayer basic
information; (ii) Information on taxpayer's tax compliance and transaction registry; (iii) External
commerce information; (iv) Resource Management information; (v) General information database
for the provision of information and services to the taxpayer and other organizations; (vi)
Information for decision-making. The information hub therefore consists of a collection of
databases used for information access ("read only"), configured for multiple queries and retrievals
of information, with sophisticated security measures and firewalls, thus leaving the operational
databases isolated and optimized for updating rather than access.



-8 -
Component 4 - Technology services
The component would finance consulting assistance to develop an ICT strategy aligned with
SAT's business strategy and goals, technical assistance for the development and implementation of
an Internal Service Policy for ICT services, develop strategies for information security and integrity,
a plan for hardware consolidation and upgrading, functional requirements and test bed for system
integration testing, centralization of systems and data migration, development and implementation
of a Disaster Recovery Plan (including actions for the resumption of service after a disaster,
alternative sites, etc.) and a Contingency Plan (for minor faults which affect the business processes).
In addition, equipment will be upgraded to improve performance; more efficient automated
administrative systems would be introduced in offices nation-wide; and archived documents would
be scanned to permit sharing them electronically throughout SAT's offices.
Component 5 - Compliance Process
The component would focus on the complete Compliance Process, financing activities to improve
SAT's collections, Large Taxpayers, and elements of its Legal and Customs functions. These would
be collectively treated within the redesign of the organization's application systems, the
development of new databases and control systems. In addition, a management information system
would be defined and developed, performance indicators defined and baseline measured, and the
Standard Notification System defined (with performance indicators and a control system). In
particular, this component would finance the increase in Taxpayer Registry coverage and the
creation of the single taxpayer account.
Component 6 - Compliance control and enforcement
The project would finance activities to integrate elements of SAT's enforcement, auditing, legal and
other functions directed at problems of evasion, non-payment etc. into a "Compliance Control and
Enforcement" process. These activities would include, among others: (i) design of methods to
identify evasion and the development of evasion review guidelines and control system; (ii)
developrment of a case selection system based on agreed priorities and policies, which limits
discretionary selection; (iii) continuous and systematic evasion studies, in particular on VAT,
oriented towards evasion by economic sector and type of taxpayer; (iv) development of a
management & control system; (v) establishment of units or appointment of individuals specialized
by economic sector or type of taxpayer, theoretical and on-the-job training; (vi) the establishment of
a quality and integrity assurance unit and its corresponding systems; (vii) review of the notification
system and its legal context; (viii) analyses of notification information provided by the enforcement
MIS to provide feedback to the various processes and guidelines; (ix) analysis of compulsory
collection measures and their legal context, recommendations for improvement, and integration
with the MIS; (x) redesign of the administrative dispute process within SAT; (xi) development of an
integrated system for jurisprudence and internal regulations and update of the jurisprudence and
internal regulations system with information from SAT's cases in the Fiscal Administrative
Tribunal and with information from SAT's cases in the Judicial Tribunals; (xii) development of a
system for the assigning cases to lawyers; and (xiii) analysis of portfolio to develop criteria for the
prioritization and planning of arrears collection.
Although institutional change is a long-term activity, some activities will provide short-term
successes essential to enhancing the credibility of the reform and providing political support to the
head of SAT, who is the Champion of the project. Two activities have been identified with the
requisite characteristics: Audit of VAT refimds; and case selection for Large Taxpayers. Eventually,
these efforts will be subsumed in the main thrust of the project.



-9 -
Component 7: Planning an,l Quality Control
SAT senior management last year carried out their first Strategic Planning Exercise (for 2001).
As is usual in such activities, an iterative, incremental effort is required to improve the plans yearly.
The present Strategic Plan combines elements of strategy and operations. The next iteration should
result in separate strategic and operational plans. The operational plan would define all the activities
necessary to accomplish the Strategic Plan objectives (detailing their duration, sequence and
resources). The activities in turn should have clearly defined results and performance indicators for
gauging accomplishment, efficiency and effectiveness, together with proposed goals. Training,
seminars and technical assistance on planning and performance indicators would be provided to
senior and middle managers.
The existing advisory group to SAT's President will assume the function of Results Management,
charged with assisting the various areas with strategic and operational planning, change
management, conflict management, the definition and measurement techniques for performance
indicators, and the monitoring of all project activities. One task would be to contract out a diagnosis
of the relationship between Customs and Tax Administration, to be the basis for designing an action
plan to strengthen the relationship.
Performance indicators would be gathered into a Management Information System, which, as
business processes are revised, would be fed with information automatically generated. In addition,
quality control will be introduced organization-wide, through policies, procedures, evaluation
methodologies and training.
2. Key Policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
By contributing to more sustainable revenue flows, the project would help the Government meet its
needs for fiscal stability and poverty reduction. The project is part of the Government's overall
effort for fiscal reform, public sector rationalization and improved transparency. Key results would
be improved accountability by mamagement and staff, management coordination, a business-process
approach, and a stronger internal and external service-oriented culture.
3. Benefits and target population
Taxpayers should benefit in several ways. Better targeted taxpayer auditing would improve popular
perceptions of the tax system's fairness and equity--and thus enhance tax compliance. So too should
better appeals and complaints procedures. More efficient SAT operational methods, resulting in
faster turnaround of tax returns anid refunds and a faster registration process, would ease the burden
of compliance. Improved information to taxpayers could decrease compliance costs. Indirectly and
ultimately, the project shoAld benefit all citizens by increasing government revenues, generating
greater assistance to the economy and to key development sectors.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
The proposed project will be implemented by the Sistema de Administracion Tributaria - SAT. The
project implementation unit will be located within the SAT, which will be in charge of the overall
administration of the project funds and will be responsible for financial management and
compliance with Bank requirements. The core SAT project team has been chosen based on
project/Bank requirements and will receive support including training from Nacional Financiera, the
Undersecretariat of Public Credit., and the Bank.



-10 -
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
A hardware technology-driven project design was discarded because it was deemed more critical to
focus on basic institutional issues and postpone any major improvements of the physical
information technology infrastructure until the information itself and its organization were first
improved.
2. Major related projects
No project in implementation relates to the proposed project, although it is closely linked with the
Tax Reform AL and is complemented by the Anti-Corruption project and the State of Mexico
Technical Assistance project, both in preparation. In addition, the Bank is coordinating closely with
the IMF on issues pertaining to tax administration as well as policy.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
The project incorporates lessons learned from Bank Tax Administration Projects considered to be
examples of their kind', as well as related projects; OED's Lessons and Practices - Technical
Assistance, Report Number 7 (May 1996); and "Reforming Tax Systems: The World Bank Record
in the 1990s", a report prepared by Tax Policy and Administration Thematic Group. The issues
raised are summarized in Annex 4.
4. Indicators of borrower commitment/ownership
The strength of the Government's commitment to improved tax policies and administration is
shown by its hard fight in 2001 to pass the fiscal reform package, of which Congress accepted
important income tax reforms but deferred VAT policy changes to a more politically favorable
circumstance. On the administrative side, the Government merged customs and tax administration
and is pursuing an aggressive prosecution of problems of corruption within Customs. President
Fox's administration has also demonstrated support for a Government-wide anti-corruption
campaign, and for the federal decentralization strategy. The Government has also moved on other
areas of public sector modernization. Tax administration improvement has been repeatedly
discussed with the Bank and the IMF by the highest government officials, and there is a consensus
for immediate reform.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
Bank support would help Mexico set a more comprehensive course to tax administration reform
based on worldwide experience in the field and key modern concepts and practices. The Bank
would help ensure SAT's sustained progress on its major institutional effort by providing systematic
technical as well as financial assistance during the implementation of the Service's reform
measures. The Bank's dialogue and close supervision of these activities should help SAT see that
they are well coordinated and internally consistent.
The Bank's coordination with the IMF on tax policy and administration should provide a solid
foundation of support and cooperation, bolstering the Government's ability to implement their
advice.
' Latvia State Revenue Modernization Project; (October 1998); Guatemala Tax Administration Technical Assistance
Loan (August 1997); Turkey Public Financial Management Project (August 1995); in addition, lessons stated in the
Russian Federation Second Tax Modernization Project (in preparation, January 2002) have been used.



E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic Assessment:
Since this is a technical assistance project focused on institutional improvements, it is not amenable
to the calculation of an econoinic rate of return. However, the modernization of tax and customs
administration would produce economic benefits. These include increases in the effectiveness of
revenue administration, as manifested in improved cost effectiveness of revenue collection, as well
as increases in its efficiency by lowering administrative expenses; widening the tax base and
reducing taxpayer compliance costs. Other, less quantifiable benefits associated with the project
include: (a) more equitable distribution of the tax burden; (b) tax revenues from the "underground"
economy; and (c) increases in economic growth.
The revenue effects from improved administration are harder to predict than the effects of policy
changes, holding enforcement constant. Historical and international comparisons provide some
basis for estimation. The revenues from stronger enforcement of the VAT in 1992-94 with a 10
percent rate, compared with revenues with a 15 percent rate in 1998-99, suggest that improved
enforcement could raise VAT revenues by 25 percent. This is conservative compared with the
CIDE estimate of 60 percent evasion (reducing evasion to 40 percent would raise revenues by 50
percent) and with the international comparison of revenue shares. For the income taxes, revenues in
the early 1990s peaked at aboul: 20 percent higher than in recent years, and CIDE estimates of the
potential for increasing income tax revenues suggest about a 25 percent increase due to better
enforcement. An estimate of 15 percent increase in revenues due to better income tax administration
could be made. Since the 2001 tax revenues were about US$23 billion from the VAT and about
US$30 billion from the income tax, it would only take about 0.16 percent increase of revenue from
these taxes in a single year to pay for the entire cost of the project.
2. Financial
uAtkual                                1.45;  12.11   9.33    4.72   2.401
1.451  13.56  22.891  27.60  30.00
The project requires yearly counterpart funding of at most, less than 1 percent of SAT's annual
budget. In addition, successful iraplementation of the project should have a favorable fiscal impact,
without negatively affecting the level and quality of the provision of necessary public goods and
services.
The budget for 2002 was defined and enacted into law earlier this year, and it is therefore too late to
insert the project the budget for this calendar year. However, SAT can use its own funds by
postponing some non-project expenditures until the next calendar year, and be reimbursed with
project funds after it is included in next year's budget. SHCP and SAT are confident that the project
will be inserted into the budget for calendar 2003 (still in the Bank's FY03) and subsequent years.
3. Technical:
There are no critical technical issues.



-12 -
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies
SAT has a highly qualified and experienced senior staff, and its salary structure enables it to attract
qualified experts for its management and technical positions. Project management assistance would
be provided for implementation - the introduction of a project management culture is one of the
features of this project.
4.2 Project management
The project will be managed and implemented by SAT's own management and staff. A project
management committee, composed of the participating General Administrators, will be presided by
the Undersecretary for Revenues and President of SAT. He would be assisted by a strengthened
Results Management Group in charge of project planning, monitoring, evaluation and reporting, and
by the Committee's Secretary, in charge of overall coordination. A Technical Group, composed of
representatives of each area, would be responsible for carrying out the decisions of the Committee.
The Committee will prepare and implement Annual Action Plans that will be agreed with the Bank
every year and revised every six months during supervision missions. Semi-annual progress reports
will measure project performance compared with the baselines to be defined before initiation of
each key activity.
4.3 Procurement issues
SAT's procurement department operates under the Acquisition Law of January 4th, 2000, and its
Regulations of August 20th, 2001. This law and regulation provide for measures very similar to the
Bank procurement guidelines for consultant selection. They provide for short-lists and an evaluation
committee composed of members of the user, legal, budget and procurement areas of SAT, plus a
representative from the Comptroller General's Office (SECODAM). The preparation of terms of
reference and evaluation criteria will be the responsibility of the user areas, assisted and monitored
by the Results Management Unit; the coordinator would be responsible for their clearance and the
Bank's review. Standard contracts will be agreed with the procurement department before
effectiveness.
Government uses its official gazette, the Diario Oficial de la Federaci6n, for invitations to bid and
for expressions of interest. In addition, SAT was authorized in June 2001 by SECODAM to
participate in COMPRANET, the Federal Government's e-procurement system. All Bank-financed
procurement will utilize COMPRANET, which permits open access through the Internet to the
bidding documents, minutes of bidders' meeting and awards.
Personnel from SAT's procurement department will attend training in the Bank's procurement
procedures as appropriate. By negotiations, the first project year's procurement plan and timetable
was agreed and will be published in the Development Business Review by effectiveness; after this,
semi-annual procurement announcements in the DBR will alert potential foreign consulting firms to
opportunities under this project.
4.4 Financial management issues
The proposed project will be implemented by the Sistema de Administraci6n Tributaria - SAT,
assisted by a financial agency, NAFIN, which will be in charge of the overall administration of the



-13 -
project funds and will be responsible for financial management and compliance with Bank
requirements. NAFIN has many years of experience in working with Bank projects.
Financial Management. In order to comply with Bank requirements of OP/BP 10.02, a certified
Financial Management Specialist (FMS) carried out a Financial Management Assessment of SAT's
institutional capacity. The assessment was based on applicable Bank guidelines and covered project
arrangements on budgeting, accounting, internal control, flow of funds, auditing, reporting and
staffing. Based on his review and on the information of the ISO certification, the FMS concluded
that Sistema de Administraci6n Tributaria -(SAT), the implementing unit, is prepared to implement
the project; it is currently ful]ly staffed and operational, and has in operation a sound financial
management system that meets minimum Bank financial management requirements. The existing
financial management systems in SAT are acceptable but not yet fully satisfactory to the Bank, as
they must be adjusted for project management, Bank reporting and project disbursing. One of the
activities of the project aims to strengthen further these systems.
Overall Risk AssessmentL Moderate.
The project will be audited on annual basis by auditors acceptable to the Bank and in line with Bank
requirements on the subject. Annex 6 provides additional information on financial management.
As a condition of negotiations, SAT and the Bank agreed on the format for Financial Monitoring
Reports and the use of an accounting system, satisfactory to the Bank, to record funds expended
under the retroactive financing condition. As a condition of effectiveness, a project operations
manual satisfactory to the Bank would be prepared, specifying procedures for project management,
accounting, intemal controls, planning, budgeting, auditing and disbursing.
5. Environment assessment:           Environment Category    []A   [ ] B  [XI C
The proposed project is expected to have no environmental impact.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Mexico's income distribution is highly inequitable. The TA Project would help lessen that by
advancing changes designed to obtain greater tax revenues from higher income taxpayers, as well as
broadening the tax base. These would help reduce the relative tax burden on the poor, and by
providing funding for highly progressive social programs, would bring about greater progressivity
in the overall fiscal system.
The Project would thus support poverty reduction aims mainly from the expenditure side. The
successful implementation of the tax policy reforms and the changes within SAT under the Project
to better administer the systern will raise more resources for human resource and economic
infrastructure programs and in this way enhance the fiscal sustainability of key social services for
all Mexican residents.
6.2 Participatory Approach
During project preparation, consultations were carried out with NGOs and accounting firms in
Mexico City, as well as selected large taxpayers, on their experiences with SAT services. The
Taxpayer Assistance Administration, charged with out-reach responsibilities, through the project



-14 -
will introduce and support arrangements for providing greater public access to information
about the tax system, as well as educational campaigns regarding citizens' rights and
obligations.  Surveys of taxpayers will be carried out periodically throughout the project., An
Advisory Committee of interested stakeholders (Chamber of Commerce, professional associations
and others) provides on-going feedback on SAT's services and plans.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
It is expected that the greater transparency and information access provided by the project will
stimulate NGOs and civil society organizations to monitor and participate in providing feedback to
govermment on SAT and its performance.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Not applicable.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Not applicable
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                       o Yes * No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                               o Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                o Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                  o Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                              o Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                               o Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                      o Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                          o Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)               o Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                    o Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard
policies.
Not applicable.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of the benefits of the project will depend on the degree to which the Government:



-15 -
1. Ensures that SAT's strategic objectives are aligned with the Government's.
2. Provides SAT with the authority and autonomy necessary to comply with these objectives
3. Requires periodic effectiveness and efficiency evaluations of SAT's performance and
accountability.
And SAT:
1. Ensures that its functions, processes, projects, organization, personnel and incentive
system are aligned with its strategic objectives and its values
2. Maintains a corps of professional staff and management working in coordination to
achieve these objectives
3. Strives for measurable continuous improvement in effectiveness and efficiency.
As noted, there are indications of favorable Government commitment to the objectives of the
Project. Moreover, there are reasonable prospects that the Government and SAT will provide and
maintain the aforementioned six essential elements for sustainability. In the final analysis though,
the successful perpetuation of the Project's outcomes will depend on continuing high level political
support for SAT's institutional improvements, which has not been sufficiently steady in past
decades.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                     Risk           Risk Mitigation Measure
Rating
Annex 1, "From Outputs to Objective
New borrower with a record of mixed success in  H  Continued high-level political
past modernization attempts may not be able to    commitment; project management
carry out the project successfully                expertise made available.
Annex 1, "from Components to Outputs"
SAT does not have access to infornnation on  M    High-level political support
taxpayers from other public agencies
Resistance to performance measurement        M    Change   management training; internal
communication plan; staff participation
Delays due to day-to-day work pressure       M    Management training (time-management,
leadership, planning & delegation)
Unions may resist the change                 M    Timely communications and negotiation
Internal data is not fully obtainable        H    Reconstruction of data may be necessary
Probability of lost or damaged documents     H    Reconstruction of data may be necessary
Single taxpayer account information not      M    Encryption
accessible because of security constraints
Overall Risk Rating                          S
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
Strengthening SAT's fiscal presence (taxpayer's perception of SAT's ubiquity, enhanced amongst others
by increased number of audits) might generate allegations or perceptions of administrative excesses or
abuses. Steps will be taken to mitigate these through the introduction of more transparent appeals
and complaints process and by keeping the public informed through the Internet. Individual's access
to their account may generate fears of public disclosure-a concern that improved information
management procedures will seelc to address.



-16-
1. Effectiveness Conditions
(i)   Agreement on an operations manual which specifies, inter alia, procedures and
requirements on project accounting system and intemal controls; planning, budgeting,
management and financial reporting, including format and contents of the accounting
reports to be submitted on quarterly basis; auditing and disbursing; .the first year's
detailed work program
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ I The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation. [X] Not applicable.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
[ ] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ] The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval: (see procurement
annex 4). The project complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
Olivier        e                              esto May
Country Director                          Sector Dlrector
Steven B. Webb
Task Team Leader



-17 -
Annex 1
Key Project Performance Indicators
Hierarchy of         Key Performance Indicators          Data Collection       Critical
Objectives                                                   Strategy         Assumptions
CAS Objective        Contribute to improved fiscal                             Political stability
capacity
Promote macro-       Improved transparency and                                 Continued public
economic stability and  integrity of the system                                pressure for improved
social sustainability  More equitable distribution of tax                      public sector
burden                                                    performance
Project Development Objective
To improve tax       Effectiveness:
compliance and       Increase in revenues due to tax  Annual report prepared by  Continued political
reduce evasion of    administration improvement      the Analysis and Studies  commitment to the
intemal national taxes                               Unit (baseline: 01.03)   reforml
to increase
govenmment revenues  Increase in taxpayer coverage:  Annual report prepared by  New borrower with a
by increasing the    (umber of active taxpayers)    the Results Management     record of mixed success
efficiency and                                       Unit (baseline: 01.03)   in past modernization
effectiveness of the                                                           attempts will be able to
Mexican              Increase in taxpayer perception of  Annual reports prepared by  carry out the project
Government's Tax     evasion risk.                   the Results Management    successfully
Administration                                       Unit based on external
Service (SAT)        Increase in -axpayer perception of  perception surveys    Project management of
SAT efficiency                  (baseline: 01.03)        the required caliber
needed for effective
Internal Eiriciency:                                      change management to
Decrease in the cost to the Agency  Information prepared by the  build ownership for the
per monetary unit collected     General Administration of  reforms and minimize
Innovation and Quality    resistance from
(baseline: 01.03)         managers, staff,
taxpayers and other
Decrease in SAT's average       Annual report prepared by  stakeholders
collection time per monetary unit  the Results Management
Unit (baseline: 01.03)    SAT may fail to obtain
access to information on
External Efficiency:                                     taxpayers from other
Decrease in the taxpayer's cost of  Annual reports prepared by  public agencies
compliance                     the Results Management
Group based on studies of  Government
Decrease in taxpayer's time for  taxpayer costs by type of  commitment to
compliance                      taxpayer and by           introduce a
taxpayer representative   performance-based
compliance by type of     incentive system
taxpayer activities (baseline:
01.04)                    Ability of management
to overcome to day-to-
day work pressure



-18 -
Annex 1
Key Project Performance Indicators
Hierarchy of         Key Performance Indicators          Data Collection       Critical
Objectives                                                   Strategy        JAssumptions
Project Outputs
eSAT/Taxpayer Services
Simplified processes  Reduction in the cost and time of  External surveys, data
for easier compliance  compliance                    gathering and studies
Improvement in the quality of tax  MIS on service quality
return presentations: # tax returns
with errors/total received
# Internet tax returns/total tax
returns
Assistance to taxpayer  Improved client satisfaction  External surveys, data
gathering and studies
Office services:                MIS; Annual reports
# people who go to the office this
year/# people last year.
Telephone and Internet services:  MIS; Annual reports
# unsuccessful calls &
attempts/total number of calls &
attempts
Decrease in the number of disputes  MIS; Annual reports
and increase in the number of
complaints resolved
Perception of taxpayers and other  External surveys, data
stakeholders regarding the level of  gathering and studies
professionalism, service and
integrity of revenue administration
staff
All business processes  Annual decrease in paper processes;  Annual Reports for each
have a web-based     annual increase in the number of  business process compared
window to the public  operations the taxpayer carries out  to the Organization's e-
electronically                  strategy
Management: Human, Financial, Physical and Organizational
HR requirements in   Job positions, staff profiles &
the new organization  workload mapped
are flexibly and     50% profiles by 07.2003
rapidly addressed    100% by 12.2003
HR Policy prepared by 6.03      Procedure Guidelines
produced
Training provided as a  Training Policy by 06.03     Procedure Guidelines
service in response to                               produced
new organizational
requirements



-19 -
Annex 1
Key Project Performance Indicators
| Hierarchy of        Key Performance Indicators          Data Collection       Critical
Objectives                                                   Strategy          Assumptions
Transition Training Plan by 06.03
Transition training plan
implemented by 12.05
Permanent Training Plan by 12.05
Permanent Training Plan in
implementation by 06.06
Perception of managers and staff  Internal surveys, data
regarding the level of professional  gathering and studies
skills in different areas
Incentive system     Policy defined by 12.03
aligned with
performance for all  Individual performance indicators  Yearly staff surveys show
staff and managemelit  defned by 65.03; improved yearly  improved perception of
transparency
System in fill operation by 12.2005
Staff informed on    CommunicEtions policies and plan  Yearly staff surveys show
organization values,  prepared by 6.2003             improved motivation
progress and plans   Implemented yearly
Planning and         All staff in ]-RMIS by 12.2004  Annual HR Management
management of                                        Reports
human resources
carried out based on
full staff information
Service culture      Internal Service Policy established  Procedural Guidelines
introduced           by July 2001
Service Standards defined by 12.03  Internal staff survey
Performance against standards   MIS; Annual reports
measured by 06.04
Procurement carried out in a timely  Supervision Missions
manner and in accordance to Bank
Guidelines
Project financial management
carried out in accordance with Bank
Guidelines
Annual project audit conducted in a
timely manner by independent
auditors
Cost accounting and  New Policy on Budgeting and     Procedure Guidelines



-20 -
Annex 1
Key Project Performance Indicators
Hierarchy of        I Key Performance Indicators         Data Collection       Critical
ObjIctives                                          j        Strategy          Assumptions
budgeting as a       Accounting defined by 06.03.
planning tool for the
organization
All budgeting & accounting      Annual Financial
activities done through the FRMIS  Management Reports
by 12.2005
Automated inventory  New Policy on materials         Procedure Guidelines
and management of    management defined by 06.03.
procurement of goods
Goods managed by PRMIS by       Annual Physical
12.2006                         Management Reports
1. Information Hub
Information is       CIO appointed by 01.03
managed as a resource
Information Policy 6.03         Procedure Guidelines
Information Coordination Policy  Procedure Guidelines
6.04
Information Quality Policy 6.04  Procedure Guidelines
Information Security Policy 6.03  Procedure Guidelines
Taxpayer Registry    Use and Security Policy 07.03
Information is       Database management system
available for        acquired and in operation 12.03
consultation         # of Registry records available =
90% of Operational Registry
records (yearly)
Taxpayer Information  Use and Security Policy 07.03
is available for     # of records available = 90% of
consultation         Operational Single Taxpayer
Account Database records (yearly)
External Commerce    Use and Security Policy 07.03
Information is       # of records available = 90% of
available for        Operational External Commerce
consultation         databases records (yearly)
Information on       Use and Security Policy for HRMIS
human, financial and  07.03
physical resources   For FRMIS 07.04
available for        For PRMIS 07.05
consultation
# of records available = 90% of
Operational databases records



-21 -
Annex 1
Key Project Performance Indicators
[Hierarchy of        Key Performrance Indicators        Data Collection       Critical
Objectives                                                  Strategy          Assumptions
(yearly)
Information necessary  Use and Secwity Policy 12.03  Annual evaluation of system
for staff available  Jurisprudence, regulations,    performance
centrally through the  procedures, guidelines available by
Intranet             12.06
Information necessary  Public access through Internet to  Annual evaluation of system
for taxpayers       information on taxpayer rights and  performance
available centrally  responsibilities, procedures,
through the Internet  individual's fiscal status, by 12.06
Information for      Use and Secuwity Policy 12.03
Decision-making      Information produced automatically
available for        available for consultation
consultation         Integral High- level MIS operational
by 12.07
2. Technology Services
IT offered as an    IT Strategy aligned with SAT    Annual IT Performance
internal service     business processes by 6.03     Report
IT Plan in operation by 12.03
Core systems and     All data is migrated to central
databases are        systems by li'.05
centralized
Risk of business     Disaster & Contingency Plans
discontinuity due to  defined by 06.03
disaster or accident
averted
Critical documents   Document prioritized scanning plan  Implementation Plan  Probability of lost or
and all new          prepared by 6.03                                         damaged documents
documents are
available centrally on-  All new documents scanned by  Quality assessment report
line                 12.04
Priority docunents scanned by   Quality assessment report
12.07
3. Compliance Process
All potential        7m active taxpayers by 6.03    Quality assessment report  Cross-check data from
taxpayers are in the  15m active taxpayers by 6.04  Quality assessment report  external sources is not
Registry             25m active taxpayers by 6.06   Quality assessment report  forthcoming
Tax obligation and   7m active taxpayers by 12.03   Quality assessment report  Internal data is not fully
payment information  15m active taxpayers by 12.04  Quality assessment report  obtainable
-for all taxpayers   25m active taxpayers by 12.06   Quality assessment report
accessible in central



-22 -
Annex 1
Key Project Performance Indicators
Hierarchy of        | Key Performance Indicators    |    Data Collection       Critical
Objectives                                                  Strategy          Assumptions
Single Taxpayer      7m active taxpayers by 6.03     Quality assessment report  Internal data is not fully
Account database     15m active taxpayers by 6.04    Quality assessment report  obtainable
25m active taxpayers by 6.06    Quality assessment report
Information on the   Baseline by 01.03               Annual Reports
effectiveness and   Indicators tied in to General MIS by
efficiency of the    01.05
process              Indicators tied to individual
performance by 01.06
Increase effectiveness  Increase in the number of tax  Annual Reports
of the process       returns filed/number of registered
active taxpayers
Increase in the number of tax
returns received on time/expected
number of tax returns
Increase in the tax revenues paid on
time/total tax revenues assessed
Reduction of time to process a
refund request
Reduction in process time & cost to
SAT in absolute terms and
compared to other OECD countries
Ratio SAT stafflnumber of
taxpayers compared with other
OECD countries
Reduction in process time & cost to
the taxpayer in absolute termns and
compared to other OECD countries
Increase in the number of taxpayers
filing electronically
Decrease in the time and cost of
identifying and notifying a taxpayer
who fails to file tax returns or pay
taxes
Increase in the number of
notifications with positive revenue
results
Decrease in registration time for
individuals and firms
Decrease in the number of disputes
Improvement in       System in operation 12.04
notifications        Baseline values 07.03
Increase in correct notifications
Surveys offered as a  Policy and procedures 07.03
service              All surveys carried out under this
unit's responsibility 12.05
Confirmation of user satisfaction
(yearly)
I                                                                           1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



-23 -
Annex 1
Key Project Performance Indicators
Hierarchy of          Key Perfiormance Indicators          Data Collection       Critical
Obiectives                                                  Strategy          Assumptions
4. Compliance Control and Enforcement Process
Information on the    Baseline by January 2003        Annual Reports for the
effectiveness and     Indicators tied in to General MIS by  business process
efficiency of the     January 2005
processes             Indicators tied to individual
performance by January 2006
Areas of evasion      Two major economic sectors every  Reports prepared by area.
identified and        year startinp 06.03
tendencies            One major taxpayer type every year
starting 06.06
Prioritized audits    Annual audit plan               Annual Reports for the
according to          Procedure (iuidelines by 06.03  business process
transparent criteria
Percentage of planned audits
implemented
Increased            Increase in percentage variation of
effectiveness of the  revenues from audit
process
Total value of audits for an office/#
audit
# audits of individuals/total
# audits of firms/total by type of
finms
Additional tlx assessed in audits/#
audits
Decrease in the average weighted
cost of each audit
Increase in the number of
individuals correctly identified as
evaders/# individuals in registry
Increase in the number of firms
correctly identified as evaders/# in
registry
Increase in thle number of
successful penalty cases/number of
audits realized
Decrease in Ihe debt ageing
Amount of arrears recovered during
the period /amount at the beginning
of the period
Reduction in process time & cost
for both SAI and the taxpayer
Increased "fiscal    Estimated share of the gray      Studies
presence" of SAT     economy in the total economy
Improved Large       Increase in the number of firms  Annual Reports
Taxpayer audits      correctly identified as evaders/# in
registry
Increase in the number of
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



-24 -
Annex 1
Key Project Performance Indicators
Hierarchy of          Key Performance Indicators             Data Collection       Critical
Objectives           J                                          Strategy          I Assumptions
successful penalty cases/number of
audits realized
Improved VAT refund   Increase in the number of firms   Annual Reports
audits                correctly identified as evaders/# in
registry
Increase in the number of
successful penalty cases/number of
audits realized
5. Planning and Quality Control
Quality focus on      Quality assurance and change
processes             management methodologies
implemented by 01.03
Strategic &           Measurable outcome and output     Strategic and operational  There won't be
Operational Plans     indicators at all levels of the   documents                  excessive resistance to
organization (baseline values in                             the measurement of
10.02, produced every January from                           organizational
2003).                                                       performance
Results Management    Organizational performance        Annual SAT Results Report
Group in operation    indicators defined by 12.02 and
improved annually
Baseline values and indicators
calculated by 12.02 and refined
yearly
Project Components
1 aSATrTaxpayerSvices                    5 38 (total cost)
2: Human, Financial and Physcal         18.82 (total cost)
Management                                              Project Reports:
3:InformationHub                        1056 (total cost)
4: Technology Services                  17.12 (total cost  Semi-annual project reports
5: Compliance Process                   17.16 (total cost)
6: Control& EnforcementProcess           895 (total cost)  Supervision missions
7:PlarningandQuealyControl               351 (totalcost)
Base Costs                              81.48 (total cost  Project audit reports
Front-EndFee                             0-52 (total cost)
TOTAL                                   82X0 (total cost)  Annual SAT reports



- 25 -
Annex 2
Project Description
The Tax Administration Service (SAT) was created in 19952, along with giving the Undersecretariat
of Revenues more managerial, budgetary3 and technical autonomy. It is still, however, embedded in
the organizational structure of the Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Puiblico and is therefore
constrained by public administration rules.
Current Situation
Various IMF and WB missions have noted improvements in tax administration since the creation of
the SAT. The collection systemn is better, Large Taxpayer Units have been created, the use of
information technology has improved, and there is a better tax statistics system. In spite of these
though, revenues are lower than they ought to be. This is due to a numnber of factors:
*VAT is not given sufficient emphasis, and a large number of sector exemptions
complicates its adiministration.
*Taxpayer auditing is not very effective - only about 30% 'of audits result in
observations, comipared to about 75% in other countries. Field visits are carried out
for 0.2% of taxpayers, in spite of this technique being the most effective in their tool
arsenal.
*  Penalties are wealdy applied, the full extent of the law not being applied.
*  Complexity in user requirements
*  Insufficient assistince to taxpayers
* Emphasis on foririal controls to the detriment of effectiveness
*  Lack of appropriate personnel policies
2 Tax Administration Service Law, of EDecember 15, 1995.
3Saing on January 1998



- 26 -
* Lack of budgetary flexibility
* Perceived widespread corruption
* Excessive complexity of the legal framework.
* Insufficient flow of information for management and operations
To address these and other issues, the project will finance assistance to support activities under
these components:
-  v           ~            ~    .-,~-n',r.-.4---  ~       7: Planning nd
,~~~. .~~~,  ~ ~   i~uaty coflr      1: eSATrraxpay.r
C                           ont .+ 0iFs fr4ittJS; l Qunlb~~6 ControlA 8erv
1: eSAT/Tapayer Services                  538      Enfo nt
Management  1852    11%                      uranjnanla
2: Human, Financial and Physical a nwnt  18.Pro8es
3: Infrmation Hb                     ;   10.56                               Management
4: Technology Services                   17.12        Co lien
:5: Compliance Process                   17.16       ProIe=
6: Control & Enircerment Process          895
!7:PLa    s anid Qualiy Control           351                                  -aln nb
saw comtv -  SIAS                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~13%
Front-Edid Fee  052                 4 T*Ohnogy
TOTAL      82D0                   21%
Divided into:'
World Bank                 52.00
Gbownment of Axico             30.00
Component 1 - eSAT/Taxpayer Services
The taxpayer as a customer is an organization-wide vision of SAT, which initially has taken form
with the creation of a Taxpayer Services General Administration early in 2001. This Administration
has an overarching objective to improve the perception of the taxpayer towards the organization in
terrns of its efficiency, transparency, quality and equity in service. To this effect, they have
identified a number of general activities which they are addressing:
* Enhance and improve SAT's presence and services using the Internet
* Improve assistance to the taxpayer
* Improve taxpayer feedback mechanisms
* Improve the process for client complaints.
* Improve the client service orientation
With respect to the first area, SAT has implemented a tax return e-filing system, which 10,000
(mostly large) taxpayers are using already4. In May 2002, 2.8 million cards will be delivered to all
taxpayers whose tax base exceeds 1 m$ (approximately $100,000); henceforth, these taxpayers will
present tax returns and pay electronically in banks or through the Internet. The card is a plastic
credit-card type with the taxpayer's name and taxpayer number, which will eliminate a large source
of error. This system is available but not compulsory for the rest of taxpayers. SAT has also
implemented a Fast Registry scheme for firms, where SAT delegates to public notaries the
authorization for registration of firms.
'By law, all taxpayers who use electronic accounting must file electronically also.



- 27 -
The General Administration of Taxpayer Assistance provides assistance to the taxpayer to reduce
the cost of compliance, through the telephone, internet and electronic mail. At present, there is one
group in the capital, the National Telephone Assistance Center. Their efficiency, however, is not
very high because of several factors. The most important one, is that they lack the information
needed to provide good custoniized service. This should to a large extent be remedied by the
Information Hub component, which would give access (with due regard for security) to taxpayer
account and transaction information, to the legal database and to the electronic filing system, to
mention only three important sources of information. They need to evaluate client demand to better
organize themselves to respond, and in addition, their efficiency could improve if they introduced a
telephone menu system to better direct calls and provide FAQ ("frequently asked questions")
automatic service, which requires specialized telephonic equipment. FAQ can also be put on the
web.
Taxpayer Assistance intends to replicate the National Service Center to up to 66 local offices, which
the project would help in. Finally, they need to carry out a feasibility study of altemnatives of the
provision of services to taxpayers with access difficulties. Another study to be carried out is the
evaluation of service queues, diagnostic of problems, identification of information requirements,
training and performance measurement.
Taxpayer Assistance is also responsible of the provision of information through radio, newspaper
and television media, through presentations to professional organizations and through the web.
They need to obtain and present more information, including eventually portions of SAT's annual
action plans, goals, achievements of the last year, and effectiveness and efficiency indicators. The
project would assist with technical assistance on the design of communication, including improved
web design, and the design of periodic surveys to obtain feedback on the effectiveness of the
various communication efforts.
There are many areas of SAT wbich directly or indirectly impact the client. A mapping exercise will
be carried out to identify the points of contact between SAT and the client, using participatory
diagnosis, to obtain taxpayer feedback on their perceptions of SAT's strengths and weaknesses in
areas such as (i) procedures, (ii) information provided, (iii) access to SAT, (iv) treatment by SAT
personnel (v) use of revenues ccillected,(vi) transparency and corruption and (vii) equity issues. In
addition, a system to measure the cost of taxpayer compliance in money and time would be
developed.
The improvement of the service culture requires the definition of service standards and the
definition of quality standards, based on benchmarking against other tax administrations. It would
also require the development of a client service management system to measure the quality of
services and provide feedback to the redesign of the services offered, and the design of an incentive
system directed at taxpayer services. Feedback mechanisms could include score cards, or similar
method, to be used across SAT to gauge annual, user feedback on different aspects of service
provision, to be published and create incentive between departments to offer better quality service,
Client surveys are already being carried out, as well as other efforts such as focus groups in order to
obtain client feedback; improvement in survey design techniques is required, as well as more
flexible mechanisms to obtain feedback from the permanent focus group of important stakeholders
(various non-governmental associations including the Chamber of Commerce, Industry, etc.)



- 28 -
Finally, a formal monitoring system for complaints would be introduced. Similarly, SAT's
administrative appeals procedures would be reviewed and upgraded.
Component 2: Management: Human, Financial, Physical and Organizational
Human Resource Management
SAT has elements of a good Human Resource Policy. With respect to the Staff Life Cycle, they
have a merit-based selection process for management, which should be expanded to all staff, and an
induction process which needs to be formalized and expanded. The evaluation and incentive
systems need improvement, particularly in reference to individual and collective performance
indicators, and their link to salaries. Training is quite comprehensive, and needs to be better linked
to SAT's strategic objectives and the incentive system. Out-placement is difficult because of the
legal environmental conditions.
A new Human Resource Policy needs to be developed, with the following characteristics:
*  it should be fair and transparent,
* assured by comprehensive internal communications;
* encourage a good organizational climate;
* be flexible, to permit the recruitment of new skills and deployment of staff where needed,
* have a pervasive client orientation (evaluation and promotion systems must be responsive to
the needs of the clients and not just internally driven);
* be results oriented (a reward system that recognizes and values "results on the ground");
* encourage collaborative decision-making, consensus, teamwork and the sharing of
information and knowledge).
The salary and incentive structures should be reviewed annually to encourage continuity, motivation
and the retention of critical staff. Incentive programs should be designed to encourage and reward
achievements tied to the organization's business plans and budgets, a specific reward programs
designed, to reward special achievements and contributions of staff beyond normal ongoing job
responsibilities or other achievements which are important for the organization as a whole
(innovation, cost reduction, quality improvements).
With respect to the evaluation system, performance management should be business driven, and
managers themselves evaluated for their leadership performance, including their own performance
management practices. SAT's strategic agenda should drive the selection, development and
assessment of existing and future managers.
A strong recruitment, out-placement, comprehensive program of professional development and a
coherent strategy for leadership selection and development would be required to counteract the
depletion of technical and managerial skills over the years and reach the professional levels of skills
and competence required by SAT. As mentioned above, a new, differentiated compensation scheme
tied to performance is required.
With respect to the tools needed for HR Management, a initial survey of staff profiles has been
carried out and needs expansion; a survey of existing capabilities is needed, as well as a mapping of
skills requirements with the needs of the organization - this would go together with the proposed
reorganization. A human resource management system is required to implement these policies, and



- 29 -
the audit capability of the Human Resource area needs to be strengthened to enable it to carry
periodic progress reviews.
SAT is embarked in a process of skills improvement. In 2001, SAT reported 37,011 staff compared
with 38,446 staff in 2000. 1,337 of these positions were vacated through voluntary retirement
leaving 696 for other reasons. The largest increase in positions (N=1912) was in the area Assistance
to Taxpayers. The largest areas of decrease were Fiscal Audit and Collections. It is noted that
Audit and Collections are the two largest components of the organization. Staffing strength
requirements are reviewed annually. There is an overall goal to reduce the budget by 30% in five
years. Further, there is an expressed intention to remove incumbents in administrative positions who
do not meet more professional qualifications or who were not perforning adequately. Many of
these are identified as union members, which will delay the process. The purpose of this staffing
adjustment is not associated with the overall proposed reduction in budget but rather with the
objective of replacing these personnel with more qualified incumbents. There is, however, no
detailed plan on how the 30% budget reduction is to be achieved, and which areas might experience
growth. Clarification of humart resources needs in very specific qualitative and quantitative terms
(as related to functional areas anid specific requirements) is essential.
There is a stated concern witht respect to the competencies and qualifications of relatively large
numbers of SAT staff in regard to the requirements of the positions that they hold. While some
individual employee information is retained in individual files, there is no overall assessment and
profile of the competencies of staff relative to the needs of the organization. It is important (as noted
above) that both the needs of the organization in regard to staff complement and competencies, or
lack thereof, of existing staff be identified. The acknowledged deficiency in cdmpetencies of staff
also raises the question of the approach of the organization in dealing with this fact. In what balance
does the organization train or buy the needed competencies? The issue of training will be dealt with
in more detail later.
With respect to complement ancl competencies, therefore:
(i)   the defined HR needs of the organization (as per strategic and business plans) must
be articulated in (letail and reflected in the number and competencies of staff;
(ii)  the areas of grow,th and planned reduction in staff need to be clearly articulated and
action plans formulated to achieve same; and,
(iii)  the necessary information must be available to permit appropriate HR planning and
action
SAT has its own human resource information system which provides information for payroll
purposes. Individual employee information is also retained in separate files. The system as
indicated above can generate overall stock employee data as well as similar data by functional area.
In addition, information is retained and can be generated on numbers of hires and promotions.
Detailed analyses for HR purposes are more difficult and in some cases, impossible, to obtain; e.g.,
profiles of length of service overall and by functional area, profiles of competencies by area and
training requirements. In addition to providing corporate and functional rationalization for positions,
the HR information system should generate regular reports (e.g. ongoing staffing strength relative to
positions/budget, hires relative to separations) and provide access to managers to non-confidential
fields for their planning, decision-making and management purposes. All systems as noted in the
SAT Strategic Plan should be integrated.



- 30 -
A comprehensive, efficient, integrated HRIS is essential for good HR planning, development and
rnanagement. A significant enhancement in this area is necessary to the efficient, effective, and
equitable functioning of SAT.
Training is one of SAT's Strategic Objectives - with particular emphasis on the new culture, service
orientation and quality. In light of concerns with respect to:
(i)   Competencies of staff;
(ii)  Employee culture and performnance (including corruption),
(iii)  Issues related to planning, and
(iv)  Culture change,
training assumes an important role in the re-vitalization and renewal of SAT. Other stated objectives
also rely heavily on training e.g. developing organizational pride, providing improved customer
service, managing the change and evolution of the organization. A specific, targeted Transition
Training Plan would assist managers in moving the organization forward in the desired directions.
The initial focus of the Transition Training Plan would be on what are in essence baseline areas
such as: internal organizational culture change and change management, more effective strategic
and business planning (establishing appropriate indicators and timeframes and integrating these
with HR requirements), providing leadership and direction (in terms of realizing mission and vision
through targeted activities), performance management (process implementation and management),
and interviewing and reference checks (especially in light of current problems with respect to
competency and corruption). A new approach to reference checks was put in place on March Is - it
is important that this be consistently applied, job-related, and monitored in terms of its
effectiveness.
Another significant area is training in the development and management of effective union
negotiation and interaction strategies. While SAT is in significant respects governed by federal
government negotiations, it also has some latitude in negotiating working conditions. These can
have bottom-line impacts on expenditures and employee relations specifically motivation and
satisfaction.
It is also apparent that skill training will continue to be required to deal with areas such as new
computer applications, investigations, anti-corruption activities, customer service, and implications
of the new law.
The Transition Training Plan of the organization is something that will require ongoing assessment
with respect to business needs, recognizing that the SAT organization will continue to evolve and
change. It should be an important element in all three phases. The development and maintenance of
high quality management and staff will be achieved over time. In order to not over-burden SAT
staff and to ensure the latest in training approaches, the training itself should be out-sourced.
An integral and complimentary program to the Transition Training Plan is the Performance
Management System. Such a system would allow managers to identify not only deficits in
individual employee performance which may be addressed by training interventions or other
actions, but also gaps in organizational competencies and corporate training needs. Performance
management needs to be supported with appropriate incentives and disincentives. Policies and



- 31 -
practices related to the system must be developed with fill awareness of legal requirements, union
agreements, and corporate culture.
An important tool in achieving the above is an internal and external Communication Plan. This
plan will have among its internal objectives the desired cultural change, enhancement of motivation
and performance, increase in pride and reduction in corruption. Externally, the plan will focus on
raising public awareness of the principles and positive image of the organization.
The structure of the Human Resources function is centralized in terms of policies and decentralized
as far as day to day service delivery such as staffing. Directors of HR are found in functional areas
along with staffing personnel etc:. The latter are also present in large field offices. This places an
important emphasis on both the development of sufficiently detailed corporate policies and
monitoring of their implementation. It is not known to what degree practices deviate from policies
or to what extent there are any gaps in the current policy framework. Policies with respect to
staffing, promotion, classification and compensation, performance management, training access and
funding, discipline and working conditions need to be developed and managed in light of corporate
objectives, clearly articulated anel consistently and fairly applied.
It is important that SAT review and revise as necessary its HR policies and practices in light of its
organizational enhancement objectives and ensure that it has in place a process for monitoring their
application. Such a monitoring process should be ongoing and should flag ancd address any
deviations or deficiencies.
It is also important that the monitoring process includes the capacity to track the actions of the
executing authority at various slages so that levels of efficiency can be monitored. E.g. Staffing
actions from advertisement, to interview, to reference check, to offer, to incumbent in place. This
will permit SAT to enhance its systems precisely at the point where adjustmnent is required thereby
improving the efficiency, cost effectiveness and outcome of the process. It will also provide
information with which to compare the human resource functioning of different parts of the
organization on specific organizational performance criteria which will have to be established.
A Human Resource Planning and Development Framework should be developed first. This would
consist of a definition of SAT's human and financial resources needs in line with its strategic and
business plans, supplemented by the qualifications and sources of required personnel. To this effect,
a determination of existing resources would be carried out and a modem Hurnan Resource
Information Database created. The Database will permit HR analyses and information for
managerial decision-making and the rationalization of positions.
In addition, an initial survey of existing competencies and strengths as well as unit workloads will
be carried out, leading to the development of a Transition Training Plan (including management
training, customer service, planning, interviewing, performance management, etc.). One important
aspect of the Transition Training Plan would be culture change and change management. The
Framework would be revised every year according to the previous year's performance and next
year's organizational requiremenits as proposed in the updated Strategy and as affected by the
reengineering processes. One important aspect of the Transition Training Plan is aimed at assisting
senior and middle management with issues of leadership and direction, including issues of union
negotiation strategies. The Transition Plan would later be transformed into an on-going Training
Plan, aligned with the organization's corporate objectives, and aimed at maintaining the skill level



- 32 -
of staff and management in the long-term. Consideration would be given to out-sourcing the
training.
This component would also include provisions for enhancing SAT's HR Policies and Monitoring
Structures, as well as introducing a performance management system (including software)
complemented by motivational incentives and improvement of the work environment. There would
in addition be a review of policies and practices related to incentives, selection, hiring, discipline
and separation processes. A number of laws would be reviewed and proposals drafted for their
modification directed at ensuring their transparency, consistency and internalization by the staff.
Along with the introduction of a performance-based incentive system, assistance would be provide
to help SAT achieve a culture change within its staff through a Communication Plan. This would be
aimed at ensuring that the new principles and image of the organization are well known and
understood.
Financial Management
SAT uses a budget-oriented accounting system which aggregates costs by line item, although a
project-oriented budget and accounting system was designed but not applied during the 1990s. It is
SAT's intention to re-introduce and enhance the latter system to permit the use of budgeting as a
planning tool, with cost accounting by activity, project, and process. This will permit better
alignment of operations with the Strategic Plan, efficiency performance measurement and improved
managerial decision-making.
Physical Resources Management
SAT needs to be able to manage their own physical resources as well as third-party physical
resources temporarily under SAT's responsibility, as a result of SAT's control and enforcement
activities. It would therefore require an automated system, to be eventually integrated with the
Human and Financial Resource Systems, as well as initial inventories, nationwide.
SAT's reform will be based on a business process and service orientation. In particular, SAT's
service orientation would require the definition of an Internal Service Policy. This need is
particularly clear for such services as information technology, surveys carried out under Taxpayer
Assistance direction in which other areas participate, and training. This activity would also consider
prospects of installing a system of internal chargebacks, as well as outsourcing services to the
private sector.
Component 3 - Information Hub
There is a lack of information necessary for SAT's business process; in addition, there is
insufficient sharing of existing information. Seven major groups of information are essential to the
business processes of the organization, and they must be accessible for use in a timely manner by
those processes: taxpayer basic information, information on taxpayer's tax compliance and
transaction registry, external commerce information, Resource Management information,
documentation, a general information database for the provision of information and services to the
taxpayer and other organizations, information for decision-making.
The information hub consists of a collection of databases used for information access ("read only").
The operational databases can thus be better protected form unauthorized access, and optimized for
update through the appropriate software, whereas the information databases can be configured for
multiple queries and retrievals of information, with sophisticated security measures.



-33 -
The project would provide the technical and consulting assistance to permit SAT to:
a) Designate a high level staff as Chief Information Officer in charge of policy,
coordination, qualily assurance and security of information. This is necessary for the
institutionalization of data sharing and control.
b) Acquire a database management system
c) Define access and security policies
d) Define data to be extracted from operational databases and develop the extraction
processes and systems.
e) Develop quality control and management information systems.
Component 4 - Technology services
SAT's use of technology suffers from a lack of prioritization and coordination of efforts, which has
led to the creation of independent system development units, redundancy of efforts and a loss of a
coherent approach to information and application systems throughout the organization. In addition,
it is lacking a number of fundamental policies and strategies, such as security, back-up and
information integrity.
Note that as an operational concept, all information processed through SAT's computer and
telecommunications equipmeni belongs to the organization as a whole under the responsibility of
the appropriate user areas. This concept is reflected in the separation of components 3 and 4 and the
creation of the function of Chief Information Officer described in Component 3. The second
operational concept to be introduced is that the Information Technology G.A. is a provider of
infrastructure services.
The project would finance consulting assistance to develop an IT strategy aligned with SAT's
business strategy and goals, technical assistance for the development of business intelligence for IT,
the development and implementation of an Internal Service Policy for IT services, the development
of SAT's e-business strategy (eSAT), develop strategies for information security and integrity, a
plan for hardware consolidation and upgrade, and develop and implement a Disaster Recovery Plan
(including actions for the resumption of service after a disaster, alternative sites, etc.) and a
Contingency Plan (for minor faults which affect the business processes).
At present, SAT's system testing facilities are too small for full integration testing of new systems;
the project would finance equipment upgrade as well as technical assistance to include testing for
data integrity and anti-corruption measures.
The present client-server approach used by SAT is obsolete in view of today's technologies and the
need for increased security and integrity of data. SAT is therefore centralizing databases and
systems, and migrating data from the old systems, which the project would support with technical
assistance, upgrade of equipment and the acquisition of appropriate package software.



- 34 -
The project will support SAT's efforts to increase administrative efficiency by financing studies of
office workflows, introduction of automated processes and equipment.
SAT has millions of documents stored around the country. Some of these files are essential for legal
processes and for taxpayer auditing, but their geographic dispersion makes them at best difficult to
retrieve and use; at worst, storage difficulties has resulted in deteriorated or missing files. Access to
the information contained therein is necessary for accountability. Electronic document management
consists of the digitalization of paper files, storage and management, and permits users to operate on
exact images of the original, which may even be stored in their own local computers. This enables
multiple and simultaneous uses from a single original. The technology creates great opportunities
for collaboration and for editing, but also for controlling corruption. It also creates great challenges
for records management and for archiving.
A feasibility study to determine viable document management options is being carried out. This is
in keeping with the growing international tendency to consider electronic documentation to be legal
(under certain conditions of quality control and security), and SAT's own move towards electronic
taxpayer return and payment processing.
Component 5 - Compliance Process
The main operational areas (Collections, Large Tax Payers, Taxpayer Auditing, Legal, Customs)
each address a different aspect of the tax compliance, with insufficient information transfer and
formal coordination among them. This impacts the cost of taxpayer compliance and makes more
difficult a complete view of the taxpayer, both to the institution and to the taxpayer, and results in a
diversity of application systems which do not effectively communicate with each other (in an
extreme case, Customs uses a different main transaction identifier than the rest of the organization).
This is aggravated by the complexity of regulations and relationships with other institutions which
participate in the taxpayer identification process, the information technology structure in use (client-
server) and the geographic dispersion of the taxpayer.
The Compliance process is composed of several essential steps, beginning with the incorporation
and registration of all potential taxpayers, the reception of tax returns (either by the employee or
self-prepared) and payments, the verification by SAT of its consistency (arithmetic, procedural,
documentary), request for further payment (or refund) by SAT, possible dispute resolution via
administrative means, or collection through the judicial process. The last step in the cycle is transfer
of the taxpayer records to permanent inactive status. A similar compliance cycle can be described
for legal entities. The project would finance a study of the Compliance Process to identify needs for
shared information and responsibilities, with a global focus crossing all areas to facilitate the de-
compartmentalization of SAT's existing functions.
The project would finance activities to improve the quality of the taxpayer registry by (a) cleaning
up the existing information; (b) acquiring software; and (b) developing a permanent updating
system, using, among other methods, the information provided by the taxpayer in his/her tax return;
conducting a number of field exercises to determine the quality of the date, crosschecking with
social security and other databases. It would also extend the Registry from the present 7 million to
an amount to be calculated through an early study. In addition, a management information system
would be defined and developed, performance indicators defined and baseline values measured.



- 35 -
If the Tax Registry represents the first step in the Compliance Process, the single taxpayer account
is the essence of the process. It should contain taxpayer's fiscal compliance information, payment
and refund information, and a record of all tax return and payment transactions with the taxpayer.
This database contains the information necessary for enforcement of taxpayer compliance. The
design of this database and the control of its integrity should take into account the bill on electronic
document and signature being discussed in Congress. This database is required to carry out evasion
studies, and to properly prepare cases, among others. At present, the account is being designed; no
feasibility study has yet been done, but it is known that the task of creating the Single Taxpayer
Account will entail the prioritized review and verification of millions of paper files and hundreds of
databases. The project would finance technical assistance and equipment upgrade to create the
single taxpayer account database, with information on taxpayers' tax profiles and payment history
beginning with the highest revenue producing taxes/taxpayers by (a) gathering and verifying
information from existing databases and files; (b) acquiring software; (c) consolidating the existing
database (over 260) into one. The population of this database would parallel the Registry's. In
addition, a management infornation system would be defined and developed, performance
indicators defined and baseline values measured.
One of the most important causeis of errors and loss of revenue is the present Notification System
whereby SAT legally' transacts business with taxpayers on the results of audits, requests for
payments and fines, and arrears. An analysis of the existing system would be carried out, and a new
process and system, including a control system, developed.
Finally, for historic reasons, the General Administration for Collections has the most experienced
survey design and management staff in SAT. The project would finance technical assistance to
create an internal survey service, including policies, procedures and training, to offer survey design
and monitoring services to other areas which require information gathered through such means. The
policy on this service would consider internal contract, chargeback and quality control issues. The
project would also finance pilot surveys to internalize the service approach to surveys.
Component 6 -Control and Eniforcement Process
Compliance control is recognized as a key function in SAT's Strategic Plan, and its present
weakness represents a large loss of revenues for Government. Only in VAT, currently the second
largest revenue source after income taxes, a 1996 study estimated evasion to be about 60 percent.
Other studies put it at 45%, still comparatively high with respect to other countries in the region.
The two areas which address direct taxpayer auditing (General Administration for Federeal Fiscal
Auditing and the G.A. for Large Taxpayers) have annual auditing plans with some, but not
complete, performance indicators. One difficulty is that these indicators are oriented to the
efficiency and effectiveness of the auditing activities carried out by the two areas, whereas evasion
control is a an auditing process which involves many other areas of SAT, and whose indicator of
performance should be actual collections due to all auditing activities.
Also, the selection of taxpayers to be audited is not a systematic process, being a collegial effort on
the part of auditors in both Large and Other taxpayer areas. Evasion studies are limited, and further
work is necessary to know the parameters of evasion by sector and economic activity, by taxpayer
size and geographic location. Similarly, an effort must be made to evaluate evasion methods by type
of taxpayer and tax, to develop appropriately targeted auditing strategies and to modify them
dynamically according to results obtained. To do this, a better performance indicator and auditing



- 36 -
methods must be designed, accompanied by training. Based on this, a "Risk Administration"
strategy can be devised, to select cases and determine the auditing effort for each based on objective
parameters.
SAT is also increasing its fiscal presence through site visits, which has resulted in a strong increase
in business suspensions and closures, especially in the restaurant sector. This is very important to
maintain, even if its immediate effects are difficult to measure, as international experience indicates
that this type of activity has an important effect on compliance.
The weakness in control and enforcement is basically due to the same causes mentioned above, in
particular, the lack of coordination, organizational performance indicators, and inadequate
information, and the fact that control and enforcement are not being addressed as a process, and
each area concentrates on its own bailiwick.
Control is the process which begins with the identification of possible evasion (through automated
systems, guidelines based on evasion studies, desk checking, site visits, and informers); selection of
eases to investigate based on agreed priorities; investigation; preparation of the action file.
A number of activities to improve control would be supported by the proposed project:
1. Redesign of the control process, through a review of the workflows, organization,
information systems and management of the Federal Fiscal Auditing G.A. and auditing
within the Large Taxpayer G.A.
2. Design of methods for the identification of evasion tendencies, which includes the
development of evasion trends detection algorithms, systems and guidelines (based on
evasion studies included in component 1); guidelines for desk checking, site visits and
informers; identification and development of risk indicators for types of taxpayers and
progressively for individual taxpayers.
3. Evasion review guidelines and control system, to record auditors' preliminary analysis of
cases.
4. Based on the above, development of a case selection system based on agreed priorities and
policies, which limits discretionary selection, to assist in the planning control activities for
Large and Other taxpayers. The system would initially consist of cross-checking available
information sources, eventually growing into intelligent and dynamic risk analysis systems
for the different types of taxpayers.
5. Continuous and systematic evasion studies, in particular on VAT, oriented towards evasion
by economic sector and type of taxpayer, to provide feedback for the update of the selection
system, which improves as the institution learns and also to take into account the evader
learning process (see component 1 - Analysis and Studies Unit)
6. Management & control system for the control process, which permits measuring the
effectiveness of individual audits as well as control plans, and permits their modification
through feedback.
7. Establishment of units or appointment of individuals specialized by economic sector or type
of taxpayer, to systematically study each sector to discover evasion methods.
8. Theoretical and on-the-job training, to be carried out in coordination with component 2.



- 37 -
9. Quality and integrity assurance unit and systems, to control corruption, increase
effectiveness and provide feedback to the process systems and guidelines.
The enforcement process begins with an identified evader, and based on the case prepared by the
control process (action file), assessing the appropriate amounts and fines; notifying the evader;
carrying out compulsory collection measures; possible administrative dispute process; and possibly
then judicial disputes (to obtain assessed amounts or in some cases to prove felony).
A number of activities to improve enforcement would be supported by the proposed project:
1. Redesign of the enforcement process, through a review of the workflows, organization,
information systems and management of the Federal Fiscal Auditing G.A. and auditing
within the Large Taxpayer G.A., Legal A.G., and Collections A.G.
2. Design of methods and guidelines for the non-discretionary assessment of owed amounts
and fines.
3. Assessment control system, to record assessment activities.
4. Review of the notification system and its legal context, with a view to improving its
efficiency and effectiveness, including outsourcing alternatives.
5. Development of a management and control system enforcement to measure the effectiveness
of enforcement activities and to identify areas of process failure (e.g., non-located
individual, erroneous notifications, lost cases, etc.). This system would include both
"normal" collections and arrears.
6. Analyses of notification information provided by the enforcement MIS to provide feedback
to the various processes and guidelines.
7. Analysis of compulsory collection measures and their legal context, recommendations for
improvement, integration with the enforcement MIS.
8. Redesign the administrative dispute process within SAT; develop an integrated system for
jurisprudence and internal regulations; develop guidelines and in coordination with
component 2, provide training, integration with the MIS.
9. Update of the jurisprucdence and internal regulations system with information from SAT's
cases in the Fiscal Administrative Tribunal; analyses of successes and failures.
10. Update of the jurisprudlence and internal regulations system with information from SAT's
cases in the Judicial Tribunals; analyses of successes and failures.
11. Development of a system for the assigning cases to lawyers and integration with the
Enforcement MIS.
12. Analysis of portfolio to develop criteria for the prioritization and planning of arrears
collection;
13. Integration with the Enforcement MIS.
Two activities have been identified with the requisite characteristics: Audit of export VAT refund;
and case selection for Large Taxpayers. The first activity would consist of the design of a
specialized audit method, analysis of methods of tax returns and payments, collection of internal
information, cross-checking the information with major partners customs, analysis and assessment
of amounts owed and penalties. The second activities would consist of an analysis of existing



- 38 -
procedures, the collection of internal and external information, and a proposal for selection
methods.
Component 7 - Planning and Quality Control
SAT senior management last year carried out their first Strategic Planning Exercise (for 2001). As
is usual in such activities, an iterative, incremental effort is required to improve the plans yearly.
The present Strategic Plan combines elements of strategy and operations. The next iteration should
result in separate strategic and operational plans. The operational plan would define all the activities
necessary to accomplish the Strategic Plan objectives (detailing their duration, sequence and
resources). The activities in turn should have clearly defined results and performance indicators for
gauging accomplishment, efficiency and effectiveness, together with proposed goals.
SAT's administrative units have been working relatively independently, with non-formalized means
of coordination. For an organization with processes cutting across different functions and
geographic areas, this has produced a lack of synergy and caused duplication of activities and
efforts. This is harmful in an institution with very considerable inter-dependence. SAT's lack of
adequate performance monitoring precludes result-oriented management and weakens
accountability and transparency. The lack of coordination induces "stove-piping" of information
which handicaps units which depend on derived data. This affects SAT's attempts to transform the
existing culture into one of service-orientation.
The present SAT organizational structure combines vertical functional areas with horizontal support
elements. This functional approach splits essential business processes into discrete areas, which
creates breaks in the workflow and loss of information. These breaks, as well as the lack of
systematic managerial coordination, has impeded the horizontal support areas from fully assuming
their organization-wide support role, which in cases has resulted in duplication of functions.
Training, seminars and technical assistance on planning and performance indicators would be
provided to senior and middle managers, with a view to achieving a Strategic Plan which:
a. Integrates and reflects the organization as a whole rather than a bottom-up consolidation of
individual efforts. A greater "top-down" approach would facilitate the alignment of each
unit's objectives with the mission and values of SAT.
b. Is multi-annual, to be revised every year based on the accomplishments of the previous year
and the political, economic and technological environment and context of the coming year.
c. Has objectives, from the very top down, that are oriented towards clearly defined and
measurable results, with agreed annual goals. As some initial SAT baseline figures are
lacking, the project would finance the identification of performance indicators, baseline
measurement and forecasting studies.
As a step towards transparency and accountability, the Strategic Plan would be eventually published
in SAT's website, together with other important pertinent information such as each year's projected
achievements measured against the organization's indicators, achievements for the last year,
financial and other resource uses.



- 39 -
The existing advisory group to SAT's President will assume the function of Results Management,
charged with assisting the various areas with strategic and operational planning, change
management, conflict management, the definition and measurement techniques for performance
indicators, and the monitoring of all project activities. One task would be to contract out a diagnosis
the relationship between Customs and Tax Administration to prepare the basis for design of an
action plan to strengthen the relationship.
Performance indicators would be gathered into a Management Information System, which, as
management processes are revised, would be fed with information automatically generated.
In addition, quality control will be introduced organization-wide, through policies, procedures,
evaluation methodologies and training.



-40 -
Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
Total Baselin Cost                       5694     1925    76.19
Pbysical Contienes                        0.00    0.00     0.00
Price Cordnencies                         4.38    091      5 59
Frunt end Fee                             0.00    0.52     052
|                       Total Project Costs  6133  20.67   82OO
Total Finaunig Required  32.29  19.71   5280
Works                          ~~~~~~~~~~0.70  ODlO  0.70
|Goods                                    32<8    6.62     9.90
Consllty Services                        52A7     1338    65Bg
Tr?ig Exenitrs                            I DlO   0.16     1.16
lcounterpart Staff                        3B7     ODO0     3fB7
Front end fee                             0.00O 052        052;
Total Proec Cos1s  61.33  201i7    82.0
Total Fbtaucing ReqWred  32.29  19.71   52DO



-41 -
Componente 1: ESAT/SERVICIOS AL CONTRIBUYENTE
1. 1      Obligaciones Fiscales Electronicas (Internet)
1.1. 1  Desarrollo de le estrategia e-SAT                            80,000
1.1. 2  Declaraciones, :formacion de terceros, dictamenes y pagos   220,000
electronicos con sus respectivas consuttas, lo que incluye el
rediseofo de procesos y sistemas: fase I
1.1. 3  Declaraciones, :formacion de terceros, dictamenes y pagos   600,000
electronicos con sus respectivas consuttas, lo que incluye el
rediseflo de procesos y sistemas: fase 2
1. 1. 4  Preparacion y acceso de borradores de declaraciones para casos  120,000
1.1. 5  Diseofa de acceso a Intemnet para contsibuyentes sin acceso propio  80,000
1.1. 6  Apoyo y capacitacion para el diseola y servicios de paginas web  90,000
1.1. 7  Sistema de consultas en web (FAtQ) y chat                    160,000
1.1. 8  Perfeccionamieinto de la pagina web de metas y planes SAT    100,000
1.1. 9  Notificacionesp?ormedio electronico                          60,000
1.1. 10  Estudio sobre aspectos de seguridad y certificacion de la  10O,000
modificacion remota de informacion personal por telefono e internet
1.1. 11  Estudio de impacto de nuevas leyes yreglamentos sobre       60,000
Propiedad. Acceso v Proteccion de la Informacion del ciudadano.
1. 2 Asistencia por medics presenciales y no presenciales
1.2. 1  Diagnostico yinedidas de inicio, definicion de indicadores   80,000
1.2. 2  Comunicacion externa: preparacion e implementacion del plan  800,000
1.2. 3  Diseofo y desarrollo del sistema de control de gestion y de calidad  100,000
1.2. 4  Sistema autometizado de respuestas a consultas telefonicas   80,000
1.2. 5  Estudio de factibilidad sobre metodos altemativos de provision de  15O,000
servicios a contribuyentes con dificultades de acceso
12. 6   Estrategia de caeacion de puntos de asistencia directa       150,000
1.2. 7  Evaluacion de inecanismos de atencion personal, costo para el SAT  400,000
y el contribuyente, y propuesta de rediseoei de procesos, donde
sea apropiado, hacia la asistencia por medios no presenciales
1. 3 PerftccionamdentD doe la Retro-alimentacion
13. 1   Anaiisis de los mecanismos existentes de retro-alimentacion y  100,000
recomendaciones para su mejora (sondeos, encuestas, otros)
13. 2   Capacitacion en desarrolo, monitoreo ymedida de calidad de   100,000
encuestas; preparacion de temiinos de referencia y contrataciones
13. 3   Desarrolo de un sistema automatizado de seguirniento de reclamos 5  100,000
13. 4   Perfeccionamie-nto del sistema de opiniones a traves de sindicos  100,000
13. 5   Desarrallo de mietodologias para medir el costo y tiempo de  70,000
cumpliniento por parte del contribuyente por tipo de obligacion y
contribuyente
13. 6   Desarrolto del sistema de monitoreo permanente de costos y   70,000
tiempos de cuntplinuiento por pate del contuibuyente por tipo de
obligacion y contribuyente



-42 -
1. 4 MNedios de Defensa Admilstnaivs
1A. 1  Pesfeccionamiento de los medios de defensa                 100,000
1A. 2  Desarrollo del control de gestion                          100,000
1. 5 Perfeccionamiexto de la Cultura de Servicio al Ciuudadno
1.5. 1  Levantamiento de todos los puntos de contacto SAT-ciudadano  70,000
15. 2   Obtencion de informacion sobre la percepcion de la calidad de  400,000
servicio al ciudadano
15. 3   Definicion de estandares de servicio al ciudadano y sistema de  70,000
incentivos
15. 4   Desatrollo del sistema de control de gestion, desarrollo de  55,000
indicadores
15. 5   Extension a nivel nacional de la mentalidad de servicio    255,000
15. 6   Gastos de capacitation                                     56,000
Costns de Base six contingencias                                 4,065,000



-43 -
Componente 2: PROFESIONAAIZACION DEL SAT
2.1    Desricion de cuaps y cuagas doe trbajo
2.1.1   Marco de planificacionymejoramieinto de recursos humanos   160,000
2.1. 2  Continuacicin del levantamiento de petfies, incluyendo    770,000
requernmentos y cargas de trabajo presentes y futuras; inventauio
del personal
2.1. 3  Disefio y des anollo de la base de datos de perfiles      270,000
2.1. 4  Reasignacion de personal                                  7301000
2.1. 5  Marco de direccionypoliticas de getenciamiento, delegaciony  200p00
de centralizacion
2. 2   Marco Legal de RRHH
2.2. 1  Revision de leyes, politicas yreglamentos ypropuestas de mejora  30,000
2.2. 2  ApoyojuticSco enmaterialaboral                            430,000
2.3    Capacitaclon
23. 1   Identificacicin de necesidades, preparacion del Plan de Transicion  800,000
de Capacitacion y ejecucion
23. 2   Profesoradc,                                              220,000
23. 3   Gastos do cipacitation                                    200,0Q0
23. 4   Desarollo del sistema do control de gestion de capacitacion,  270,00O
incluyendo indicadores y evaluazion del aumento de capacidades
23. 5   Identificacicn de necesidades, preparacion del Plan Permanente de  850,000
Capacitaciony ejecucion
23. 6   Gastos de capacitation                                     135,000
23. 7   Serminanios y capacitacion en planificacion estrategica    180,000
23. 8   Gastos de cipacitation                                     120,000
23. 9   Capacitacio:a en abilidados de direccionQiderazgo, control del  80,000
tiempo, trabajo en equipo, etc)
23. 10 Gastos de cspacitation                                      130,000
23. 10 Desarollo de la carrera de directivo pubhico, incluyendo    175,000
identificacic-n do candidatos, perfeccionamiento medianto
capacitacion y practica
2. 4   Sistma de incentivos
2A. I   Anahsis do las pohticas etstentesy propuesta de            250,000
perftccionmiento del sistema de incentivos (monetarios y no
monetarios) atado al cumplimiento
2A. 2   Definicion del sistema de evaluacion de desempeho individual  2W,000
2A. 3   Definicion dtl sistoma de evaluacion de dosempe,fo gerencial  S10100
2A. 4   Analisis deas politicas eistentes ypropuestado             150,000
perfeccionoiniento del sistema de seleccion, contrataciony despido
de funcionaios
2A. 5   Gastos de calpacitation                                    60,000
2A. 6   Analisis del sistema de reclamos y quejas intemas ypropuesta part  170,000
su peleccionamiento
2.5    Coimulcaclones :blaeDs
25. 1   Preparacion del Plan do Comunicaciones Intemas y ejecucion  600m0O
25. 2   Desarollo del sistema de control de gestion de comaunicaciones  100,000
25. 3   Definicion de la encuesta intrne; piloto                   50,000
25.4    Encuestainlerna                                            750,000
25.5    Plany desarrollo del sisatent de induccion                 20,1000
25. 6   Politicasyprocedimientos de serviciointerno do comunicaciones  90,000
2. 6   Sisuema de Gesodn
2.6. 1  Definicion de requerinmientos y adquisicion del software integrado  2,700,000
con modulo; RRHH, Financieros y Matenales
2.6. 2  Gastos de capacitation                                     300JDQO
2f6. 3  Definicion de informacion para usoas reservados            100,000
2f6.4   Alimentacion, adaptacionypuesta enmarcha del sistema       750,00
incluyendo el subsi6tema de control de gestion



-44 -
2.7    Optimdzacion del gasto del SAT
2.7. 1  Analisis de los sistemas existentes de contabilidadypresupuesto,  100,000
y definicion de requirimientos pare utilizacion de contabilidad de
costos y presupuesto como util de planificacion y control de gasto
2.7. 2  Alimentacion, adaptacion y puesta en marcha del sistema    700,000
incluyendo el sub sistema de control de gestion
2.8    Sistema de Gestion de Recursos Materiales
2.. 1   Analisis de los procesos de gestion de recursos materiales y  100,000
definicion de requerinmientos
21. 2   Adaptacion y puesta en marcha del sistema incluyendo el    700,000
subsistema de control de gestion
21. 3   Ejecucion de inventario                                    800,000
21. 4   Desarrollo del modulo de control de mercancias embargadas y  250,009
remate s
21.     Ejocucion delinventario de mercancias...                  1,000,000
21. 6   Implementacion del sistema                                 600,000
2. 9 Organizacion de Los Servicies Internos del SAT
29. 1   Definicion de politicas y procedimientos, incluyendo el concepto  150,000
de precios y pagos de srevicios
29. 2   Preparacion de la estrategia de implantacion, incluyendo inventario  150,000
de servicios y priorizacion de areas
29. 3   Definicion de medidas de calidad do servicios y metodologias de  150,000
"contratacion" y monitoreo; capacitacion
29. 4   Ejocucion de la estrategia                                 200,000
Costos de Base sin ctln&ecwias                                    17,400,000



-45 -
Componente 3: NUCLEO DE INFORMACION
3. 1   Gestion dea hdblrmacion
31. 1   Establecitniento de la tncion de CIO                       510,000
3.1. 2  Apoyo                                                       60,000
3.1. 3  DBMS optimizado pxat el acceso y la seguridad              800,000
3.1. 4  Politicas de acceso y seguridad; procedimientos            240,000
3.1. 5  Sistemas de seguridacl perimetral (ntemos y externos)     4,200,000
31. 6   Gastos de capacitacion                                     35,000
3.1. 7  Medicion de colidad d.e la informacion e indicadores       240,000
3. 2   Registre Unico de Contribuyestes (Base de consulta)
3.2. 1  Definicion de politica ymecanismos de transferencia         30,000
32. 2   Desarrollo del mecatnit:mo de transferencia                140,000
3. 3   Cuexta Unica Integral del Conlribuyente (Base de consults)
33. 1   Definicion de informacion a set transferida a la base y sus fuentes  30,000
33. 2   Estrategia de integraci.on (secuencia y prioridades)        60,000
33. 3   Definicion de politica ymecanismos de transferencia         30,000
33. 4   Desarrollo de los mectmirsmos de transferencia             240,000
3. 4   hdtrmacion de Comercio Exterinr (Base de consulta)
3A. 1   Definicion de infonnacion a set transferida                 30,000
3A. 2   Estrategia de intograci.on (secuencia y prioidades)         60,000
3A. 3   Definicion de politica :y meocanismos de transferencia      30,000
3A. 4   Desarrollo de los mecanismos de transferencia              240,000
3. 5   Inbrinacion de recursos ILumanos, fnancieros y fisicos (base de consul
3.S. I  Defoincion de politica :y mecanismos de transferencia       30,000
35. 2   Desarrollo delmecanismo de tansferencia                    350,000
3. 6   Warehouse de Documentos Digitalizados (base de consult)
3.6. 1  Definicion de politica :mecanismos de transferencia         30,000
3.6. 2  Desarrollo del mecanii:mo de transferencia                 150,000
3. 7   Infrmacion de apoyo pan la olperacion interna (base de consulta)
3.7. 1  Analisis de requerinientos                                  S0,000
3.7. 2  Estrategia de integracion (secuencia y prioridades)         60,000
3.7. 3  Definicion de politica-;mecanismos de transferencia         50,000
3.7. 4  Desarrollo de los mectnismos de transferencia              200,000
3.7. 5  Obtencion de la inforniacion                               300,000
3. 8   Ibnradcionpan la torna.e decisiones (base do consulh)
3.. 1   Definicion de politicay mecanismos de transferencia         30,000
3.8. 2  Desorrollo del mecanizmo de transferencia                  250p00
3. 9   Sistemade dInSrues especralizados
3.9. 1  Desawrolo de sistemas' e informes                          250,000
3.10   Inhhntacionprwenielet de hents exsernas (base de consul1t)
310. 1   Analisis de requeuiniieitos                                200,000
310. 2   Estrategia de integracion (secuencia y priouidades)         180,000
3.10. 3  Definicion de politicayrmecanismos de transferencia        200,000
310. 4   Desarrollo de los mecmnismos de transferencia              400,000
3.10. 5  Medidades de seguridad                                      SO OO
3.10. 6  Segregacion de inforruacionpara grupos especiolizados       100,000
Costos do Base sin contingenciLs                                   9,855,000



-46 -
Componente 4: SERVICIOS DE TECNOLOGIA
4. 1    Estudies yEstrategias
41. 1  Desarnollo de planinformatico de apoyo alPlanEstrategico:  70,000
servicios y tecnologia
41. 2  Desarrollo de lapolitica de servicios intemos de tecnologia,  70,000
procedinmientos y guias; comtite de prionzacion, trabajo en equipo
4.1. 3  Desarrollar estrategia. politicas y procedimientos para aseguar la  80,000
calidad e integridad de los datos
41. 4  Desarrollo e implementacion de un Plan de Respaldos        70,000
4.1. 5  Actualizacion de equipo de respaldo                       220,000
4.1. 6  Actualizacion de equipo de respaldo (2)                   320,000
4.1. 7  Desarrollo e implementacion de un Plan de Contingencias   250,000
4.1. 8  Desarrollo e implementacion de un Plan de Recuperacion de  550,000
Desastres
4. 2    Anqliacien del Laboratuino de Pruebas de Sistemna
4.2. 1  Desarrollo de requeritientos                               95,000
4.2. 2  Adquisicion de equipos                                    583,000
4.2. 3  Asistencia tecnica y capacitacion para mejorar el grado do anti-  200,000
corruptibilidad de los sistemas
4. 3    Centralizacion de sistemas distribuidos
4.3. 1  Desarrollo de estrategia de centralizacion                 80,000
43.2   Modificacionypruebade sistemas                             570,000
4. 4    Migracion de dates a nuevos sistemas
4A. 1  Analisis, evaluacion, priorizacion y plan de migracion      44,000
4A. 2  Defiticion de aphicativos de ingracion y adquisicion       150,000
4A. 3  Migracion                                                  670,000
4A. 4  Definicion de metodologia de control de calidady aplicacion  168,000
4. 5    Renplaze a actualizacion de equipos
45. 1  Analisis, evaluacion, priorizacion y plan de remplazo o actualizacion  50,000
4.5. 2  Preparacion de especificaciones                            50,000
4.5. 3  Adquisicion de equipos                                    1,000,000
45.4   Adquisicion de equipos (2                                  1,000,000
4.5. 5  Adquisicion de equipos (                                  4,400,000
4.5. 6  Rehabilitacion de oficinas part la instalacion de equipos  475,000
465. 7  Rehabilitacion de oficinas para la instalacion de equipos 2  198,000
4. 6    Sistemas de apoyo pan precesos adminisatitos
4.6. 1  Inventario y evaluacion de tecnologia de oficina          250,000
4.6. 2  Analisis de flujos de trabajo administrativo              250,000
4.6. 3  Introduccion de nuevos procesos administrativos automatizados y  700,000
capacitacion
4.6. 4  Adquisicion de equipos                                    1,200,000
4.7     Digitaflzacion de dicumentos
4.7. 1  Estudio de factibilidad de digitalizacion y identificacion de  50,000
requenimientos
4.7. 2  Desarrollo de estrategia y plan de digitalizacion, incluyendo  70,000
priorizacion de documentos por tip o y us o de documento
4.7. 3  fiemas                                                     70,000
4.7. 4  Adquisicion de software aplicativo                        450,000
4.7. 5  Escaneo de documentos                                     1,800,000
4.7. 6  Definicion de metodologia de control de calidad y aplicacion  40,000
Costes de Base sin condngencias                                    16,243,000



-47 -
Componente 5: RECAUDACICON
5. 1   AyHablan y deudcion del Rfgifst  Federal de Contrhbuyentes
51. 1   AmpliEacion del estudio de estimcion del umiverso de         70?p00
contdibuyentes fuere delpadron
51. 2   Continuacion del desarroilo de li estrategia de depwacion,   70pO0
metodologias y plan para el aseguramiento de la cahdad, vaEdacion
5.1. 3  Continuacion del descnoto de li estrategia de amphtcio.      100,000
metodologias y plan para el aseguramiento de la caldad, vaEhdacion
de las metodologias
51. 4   Disefio de la base de datos, actualiztcion de sigtemas apEcativos y  300,000
de control (incluyendo pists do tauditona y otros)
51. 5   Definicion de especificaciones de equipo y ephcativos de bese  50,000
51. 6   Adquisicion de aplictivos de base                            300,000
51. 7    Actualizadon de equipos                                     300,000
51. 8    E4ecucion de la depuracion                                  750,000
51. 9    Ejecucion de la ampEacion (barndos, chuces, etc.)          7p,00,O
51. 10   Diroccion de la ampiacion, contraparte                      340,000
5.1. 11  Sistema de control de gestiony aseguramiento de caidad      11OpOO
5. 2   Cuewta Unica del Contrihwente @asica)
5.2. 1  Definicion del ciclo de vida del ctlrplimiento del contribuyente y  80,000
detenminacion de responsebiEdades; propuesta de
perfeccionamiento
52. 2   Desesrollo de la estrate_ia de depuracion, metodologies y plan part  70OO0
el aseurmaniento de la cadad. viEdacion de las metodoloeias
52. 3    Desarrollo de laetstrategia de amohacion,metodologiasyplanpart  1OOpOO
el aseguramiento de la caldad, vasdacion de las metodolo,ias
52. 4    Diseiio delabase de datos, actuaktcionde sistemas aphcativosy  50,000
de control (incluyendo pistas de auditonia y otros)
5.2. 5  Definicion de especificaciones dt equipo y apEcativos de base  50,000
52. 6   Adquisicion de aphcativos de besa                            300,000
52. 7    Actualiacion de equipos                                     362,000
52. 8    Ejecucion de la depuracion                                  590,000
52. 9   Ejecucion de la ampliEcion                                  1,270,(00
52. 10  Sistema de control de gestiony eseguremiento de calidad      130IS,O
5. 3   DurIa de rocaudacion
53.1     Base do datoa de declaraciones y pagos                      SO OO
53. 2   Base de datos de contabllidad                                50,000
53. 3    Base de datos de retenedores                                50,000
53. 4    Otras bases datos                                           SO5O0
53. 5    Doserrollo de sistemas                                      100,000
S. 4   Sistema Geo-refirencado
SA. I   Marco Geo-fiscal                                             50,000
5A. 2   Sistema de informacion geografico-fiscel                     SW0,0A0
SA. 3    Chupo especial de localizacion de contribuyentes            400,000
SA. 4    Sisteme de control de gestiony aseguramiento de caddad      100,000
S. 5   Stlsta de Notificaciones del SAT
55. 1   Anhisis del sistema actu y evuluacion de dlteniativas de     ISO1,O0
tkrcefizciot
55. 2   PoEticas yprocedimientos de ser,icio intemo de notificaciones  SOpOO
55. 3   Desarrollo de sistemas de enlace de informacion de notificacion al  ISO1O0
area oustantiva
55. 3   Sistoma de control de gestiony asegurac±iento de codtad      110,000
S. 6   Servicio de eneuestas
5.6. 1  Anahsis del sistema actualy evaluacion de altemativas de     230,00
terceizacion.
5.62    Sistema de control de gestion y ;eguratmiento de caddatd     11000
5. 3    Capacitacion en el diseho, validaion, contretacionymonitoreo de  130pO0
encuestes
5.6. 4  Encuestas especificas enapoyo a diferentes areas            1,220,0
C   dstos de Base si centencias                                     15,92pO0



-48 -
Componente 6: PROCESO DE CONTROL Y FISCALIZACION
6. 1   Seleclon de cas par sesslon en Grades Contlbuyeutes (soedn do cnrts phi.)
6 1 1  Analises de procedimienrtos actuales                        100l00
6.1 2  Recaolccionde infornacionintemay extema                     100000
61 3   Propuesta de metodos de selecciaon                           8000
61 4   Ejecucion                                                   2m2,
6. 2   Audisorla do Devolhrbion  do IYA (accion do corst plno)
62 1   Disefio de metodos de suditouia especiales                   80 00
6.2 2  Anslisis de metodos de devolucionypago                       60pO
62 3   Recolec cion de informacionintema y eterma                   800
624    Crucesdeo formacionyanaeisis especielizadosportipode        120,000
devolucion
6.2 5  Calculo de ontos a devolver/pagar y multas                  150IO
6. 3   Pnrceso Integral de Contml y Seguiteno
63 1   Definicion del ciclo de ectividades de controly seguimiento,  100000
doteeminacion de responesbiidades; retro-alimentacion ertre las
areas; identifLcacion de informacion requesrida po: las divereas
63 2   Sistema de coftrol de gestion ntegral y aseguremierdo de calidad  16000
63 3   Evaluacion de la percepcion de ziesgo por parte de los      53000
contribuyentes yplmn de mejora
6 3 4  Implementacion del plan y useguranieroto de calidad         750 O
6. 4   Deteccion de tendencas de evanon y clusint
6.4 1  Preparacon de algouitmos de deteccion de tendencies de evasion  SW00A0
en bas a estudios de evasion e informacionintemr o esterna
6 4 2  Creacion de una base de dato: de apoyo alaplatificacion de la  160090
fiscelizacion
643    Estudios de motodos de evesion y eluion                      160 000
6. 5   Doteccion de tndeocuas do e wson (Grandes CotdbVnyotes)
6.5 1  Preparacion de elgoritmos de deteccion de tendencies de evasion  SWnM
en base a estudios de evasion e infornacion mterna o externa
65 2   Creacion de unabase de dato: de apoyo a laplanficacion de la fisce  160pO0
65 3   Estudios de metodos de evasion y elusion                    320,000
6. 5   Control y Flscsllzcion
6.5. 1  Eveluacion delproceso de auditorie del contribuyente ypropuesta  100000
de pelfeccionamento
65. 2   Disefio de metodos de identificacion de fuentes de evasion  240,000
65. 3   C3uias sectouiales prarel control de evasion                240000
65 4    Desarrollo de un sistemia automatizado de seleccion de casos y  150IO
sistems de control
65. 5   Sistema de control de gestiony ooeguremiento de calidad     120,00
65 6    Especiahzacion de profesiondlesxnidades para sectores       200A00
econonicos relevantes
6.5. 7  Capacitacion eAcademica y de terreno
635 8   Coordinadon con Autoridades Fiscdes del extrarnero          100000
6.6    Seg.iXtm ,,pre-juditdalyjuincln
Evalueaiondelproceso de seguimieanoypropuestade              70000
6.6. 1  perfeccionwmento
6.6 2   Diseofo de estrategias legales pmar detemmar monto: a       120000
devolverlpageo multas y sanciones penales
6.6. 3  Sistems de control de gestiony aseguramiento de calidad     100 000
6.6. 4  Analisis de lainformnacionrelacionadus conlos contLibuyentes con  100 000
orientacion hacia los aespecto: penales
6.6. 5  Analisis de medidas comtpulsivas de recaudaciony cobro      100000
6.6. 6  Evxadcion delproceso de dispute adminiistrotivey propuesta de  100000
perfeccionainierdo
66. 7   Sistemaintegrado dejuispcudenciaynornatividad               400009
6.6. 8  Macnuales deprocedimientosycapadtacion                      210000
6 6. 9  Andlisis de informacion de cos oen el Tribunal Adminisstativo  ISOOOO
6.6. 10 Analisis de nfonmacion de cuos en elTrbunal Judiciales      ISO150
66. 11  Sistema de asignacion de cuos a abogado: y seguimiento      14SIO0
6.6. 12 Analisis de la cater de morosos, preparacion de estratega y  210A00
polticas de psiomacion y plan operacional de cobro
6.6. 13  Analisis de conductas post-cobrana y percepcion de riesgo  210J00
6.6. 14 Capacitacionacademicsydeterreno enlnvestigacion             300,00
Costs do Base ds sonthgrnwds                                        4,465,80



-49 -
Componente 7: PLANIFICACION Y CONTROL DE CALIDAD
7. 1   P1a,dficnron
7.1. 1  Definicion de indicadores estrategicos y de gestion                 180,000
7.1. 2  Catculo de valores iniciales de indicadores                         520,000
7.1. 3  Diagnostico y planificacion del fortalecimiento de la relacion entre Aduanas y  300,000
la admiinistracion tsibutaria
7.1. 4  Disen±o y desarrollo del Sistema de Control de Gestion de la Alta Direccion  187,000
7.1. 5  Asistencia Tecnice - intercambio de experiencias y apoyo            750,000
7.1. 6  Fortaleciniento del. Ofupo de PlanificacionyGestion de Resultados   180,000
7.1. 7  Gastos de capacitacion                                              20,000
7.1. 8  Perfeccionamiento de la gestion matricial y de proyecto en el SAT   130,000
7.1. 9  Coordinacion del proyecto                                           390,000
7.1. 10 Fortalecimiento del Grupo de Seguitiiento del Proyecto              240,000
7. 2 Control de Calidaul
7.2. 1  Definicion del marco de calidad del SAT, introduccion del concepto de calidad  100,000
72. 2  Definicion de politicas yprocedinientos do evaluacion                 50,000
7.2. 3  Desarrollo de metodos de evaluacionyformacion                       210,000
CostDs de Base sin contiuencias                                             3,257,000



-50 -
Annex 4
Lessons Learned
Need for a Leader: The Undersecretary of Revenues, who is in charge of both tax policy and administration,
is strongly committed to the reform of the tax administration. He is supported by the President and by the
Secretary of Finance and Public Credit, and at this early stage of a new administration, has the opportunity to
make his reform mandate effective.
Inadequate change/closure of nonperforming components: Performance indicators will assist in
identifying slow performing components; a decision on their continuation will be formally made during
supervision missions.
Inadequate monitoring and evaluation, and accountability: The improvement of accountability and
performance monitoring throughout the institution is explicitly addressed by the project. Baselines will be
calculated during the first year of project execution.
Institutional modernization as an iterative process: The project action plan will be revised semi-annually
during supervision missions, to provide flexibility to introduce changes, gather knowledge, credibility and
consensus for reforrn.
Need for immediate gains to gain project credibility: Although institutional change is a long-term activity,
short-term successes are essential to enhance the credibility of the reform and facilitate political support.
Short-term results from activities will be made known; one component specifically addresses short-term
activities not in line with the principles of the reform.
Address institutional constraints and not only systems and technology: A correct approach to
strengthening an organization would be to address its strategy and corporate objectives first, complemented
by a comprehensive review of its management, organization and personnel needs. Processes are then
adjusted or created to support the corporate objectives, and finally technology brought in where appropriate.
This is the approach explicitly taken in the project.
Result-orientation is sought: Objectives and performance indicators for staff, management and processes
are required for management decision-making throughout the organization. This project would assist the
organization in implementing them, through baseline calculations, measuring, and modification of systems to
provide indicators and training.
Decentralization sought: Given existing technology and communications, centralization of data is the
correct approach sought for a tax administration. However, this must be accompanied by a decentralization
of authority and tasks for improved efficiency. The project contemplates horizontal management
coordination combined with a substantial broadening of regional and local office management within an
integrated management framework.
Change management is needed: The extensive organizational redesign and culture change sought requires
careful attention to change and conflict management to lessen resistance to change. The first component of
the project aims to assure that these critical aspects of change are addressed.



-51 -
Annex 5
Financial Summary
4P.MV1=wJM.I.V              : OFft"l'$3 
Total Financing Required
Pmject Costs                                     6.48    33.46     27.23    11.04      3.80
Investment Costs                               6.48    33.46     27.23    11.04      3.80
Recurrent Costs                                0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
Total Prject Costs                                 6.48    33.46     2723     11.04      3.80
Total Financing                                    5.02    21.35     17.91     632       1.40
Financing
IBRDJIDA                                        5.02     21.35    17.91      6.32     1.40
Government                                      1.45     12.11     9.33      4.72     2.40
Centrl                                        0 .00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0 .00
Provincial                                    0.00      0.00     0.10      0 .00    0 .00
Co-financiers                                   0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0 .00
User-feesibeneficiaries                            0.00     0.00      0 .00    0 .00     0 .00
Other                                              0.00     0.00      00.0     0.00      0.00
0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00
0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00
0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00
0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00
Total Pmject Finning                               6.48    33.46     27.23     1104     380
IN WN Y
1: eSATJTaxpayer Services                          1.01     2.12      139      0.73      0.12      5.38
2: Hma, Finacial and Physical M  agement           131      5.94      7.35     3.34      0.87     18.82
3: Information Hub                                 0.11     2.67      635      0.85      058      10.56
4: TecbnlorSennces                                 0.54    10.77      4.12      1.64     °0 °      1ii
5: Complince Pmcess                                0.64     7.90      4.62     2.45      155      17.16
6: Control & Enforvement Pmcess                    1.83     3.28      2.49      1.18     018       895
7: Planning and Quahty Control                     0.51     0.77      091      0.84      0.47      3.51
Base Costs     5.96     33.46     27.23    11.04      3.80    81.48
Front-End Fee     0.52
TO TAL        d648     33.46     27.23    11.04      3.80    82.00
TDhided into:
World Bank                       5.02     21.35     17391     6.32      1.40    52.00
Government of Mexico                  1.45    12.11 pi.33         4.72      2.40    30.00



-52 -
Annex 6(A) : Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement of Goods
Procurement of goods financed by the World Bank under the project would be carried out in
accordance with World Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
(January 1995, revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999) and the
following provisions of Section I of this Annex. The executing agency for the project will be the
Sistema de Administraci6n Tributaria (SAT).
Grouping of contracts. To the extend practicable contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid
packages estimated to cost US$500,000 equivalent or more each.
Notification and advertising.  The General Procurement Notice to be published in the
Development Business, shall be updated annually for outstanding procurement. All invitation to bid
shall be published in the "Diario Oficial de la Federaci6n" and in COMPRANET. In addition,
invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost US$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be
advertised in the Development Business in accordance with the procedures applicable to large
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines. To obtain expressions of interest for large
consultant assignments (contracts expected to cost more than US$200,000 equivalent) a specific
procurement notice shall be also published in Development Business.
Section I-Procurement Methods
The methods to be used for the procurement describe below, and the estimated amounts for each
method, are summarized in Table A. The threshold contract values for the use of each method are
fixed in Table B.
Procurement of Works
Minor works to prepare offices for the installation of equipment, cabling, etc., up to an aggregate of
US$700,000 may be procured using National shopping procedures based on a request for quotations
acceptable to the Bank.
Procurement of Goods
Goods procured under this project will include information technology equipment totaling US$9.90
million equivalent. Major contracts for these goods will be procured following International
Competitive Bidding procedures (ICB), using Bank Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs).
Contracts estimated to cost less than US$500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregated
amount of US$3.00 million equivalent, may be procured using National Competitive Bidding
procedures (NCB) and agreed Standard Bidding Documents. Contracts for goods that cannot be
grouped into large bidding packages and estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregated amount of US$1.00 million equivalent, may be procured using
shopping (National or International) procedures based on a request for quotations acceptable to the
Bank.



-53 -
Section II-Employment of Consultants
Consultant services shall be procured in accordance with Guidelines for the use of Consultants by
the World Bank Borrowers and the Bank as Executing Agency (January 1997, revised in September
1997, January 1999 and May 2002) and the following provisions of Section II of this Annex.
Consultant services will be contracted under this project in the following areas of expertise training
and institutional development. These services are estimated to cost US$67.74 million equivalent
and would be procured using World Bank Standard Request of Proposals.
Firms. All contracts for firns would be procured using QCBS procedures except for small
contracts for assignments of standard or routing nature and estimated to cost less than US$100,000
equivalent that would be procured using LCS, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.5 million
equivalent. Single-Source Selection only will be acceptable, previous Bank No-objection, to
assignments when only one firm is qualified or has experience of exceptional worth. Training
expenditures will be procured using national shopping for rental of equipment and locales.
Individuals. Specialized advisory services would be provided by individuals consultants selected
by comparison of qualifications of at least three candidates and hired in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 5.1 to 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregated amount of
US$5.0 million equivalent.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants' services to be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraphs. The short list of consultants,
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Prior review: The prior review arrangements are presented in Table B.
Procurement plan. By Negotiations, the Borrower presented to the Bank for comments a
procurement plan for project implementation which provided the basis of the aggregate amounts for
the procurement methods. Each year, the Borrower would update the procurement schedule for the
following year, including the ICB procedures, the smaller procurement and the consultancy and
training services to be financed under the proposed loan following the model procurement plan.
Section rn-Procurement Responsibilities and Capacity
A procurement capacity assessment for the project was carried out by Ms. Lea Braslavsky, Country
Procurement Specialist, LCOPR, and approved by RPA on May 1, 2002. The National
Development Bank (Nacional Financiera-NAFIN), one of the three financial intermediary
institutions of the Mexican Government will be responsible through its Special Financing Unit for:
(i) reviewing all procurement procedures and bid evaluation reports submitted by SAT, (ii) give the
no-objection for the award of contracts below the agreed threshold for Bank prior review; and (iii)
maintaining all the corresponding records. NAFIN's performance under previous Bank financing
projects was satisfactory. The IBank's Implementation Unit in Mexico will provide procurement
advice to SAT and NAFIN as required and carried out the Bank's fiduciary functions delegated to
it.
To ensure SAT's staff knowledge of World Bank procurement Guidelines and procedures, a special
procurement seminar was given by the Mexico Resident Mission to SAT's staff.



-54 -
During project preparation, NAFIN and SAT have confirmed their will for ethical behavior and
have expressed their commitment to adhere to competitive selection and transparency in all
activities. The Operational Manual will include a chapter call "Code of Ethic" Based on the above
procurement risk for the project is rated as "average".
Section IV: Procurement Monitoring
SAT will prepare annually a Procurement Plan satisfactory to the World Bank and establish
procedures for monitoring project execution and impact, procurement implementation, including
monitoring of contracts. SAT as well as Nafin will maintain detailed records of procurement
activities.
Review by the Bank. The proposed thresholds for prior review by the World Bank are based on
the procurement assessment of the project executing agency and are summarized in Table B. In
addition to this review of individual procurement actions, the annual procurement plan will be
reviewed and approved by the Bank, as well as procurement audits to be carried out during the life
of the project.
Frequency of Procurement Supervision. Based on the overall risk assessment (average) the post-
review mission for the project shall be completed every 12 months and shall cover not less than 1 in
20 contracts signed.
TABLE A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
_ _  _ _ _ _  _ __I_    _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ __w                          w o~;U
0.70     -      0.70
1. Worh                                                  (050)     -     (050)
2.                                        5.26    3.48    1.16     -      990
(452)   (3 00)  (1.00)   -      (8.52)
!U3. Cousulting Services at                -              65.85    -      65.85
3. Co  ____su_   ___g Se_   _____s_a-              -     (41.46)   -     (41.46)
4. Tn   bf .                                          1.16    -       1.16
_          _      _       _      _         - l            (1.00)         (1.00)
S. CouzteLpart Staff                                              3.87    3.87
6. Front end Fee                           -0.52
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   -   -   -  _ _ _ _ _ (0 .5 2 )
Total   5.26    3.49    6939    3.87    82.00
___________________________________________  (452)  (3.00)  (44.48)  -   (52.00)
Figures in parenthesis are amount to be financed by the Loan
ICB= International Competitive Bidding
NCB=National Competitive Bidding
Others=Local and International Shopping; hiring consultant services according Bank Guidelines; and
training using LCS.



-55 -
TABLE Al:
Consultant Selection Arrangements
*__._         (in US$ million equivalent)
.4  W_~ ~ ~    ~   ~  ~   ~   I      -..   _   __   ' 77-           c6st
E              ~~~~~~~~Ct~i..                                         ;Vg~ ~  (nicl.,..S,
QCBS    OBS     SFB    LCS     CQ     Other
A. Firns                              43.65   0.00   0.00    16.72  0.00    0.00   60.37
(29.U0)  -       -     (6.38) _         -    (36.18)
B. Iiduals                            0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    5.48   5.48
(5.28)  (5.28)
43.65   0.00   0.00    16.72   U00    5.48   65.85
(29.80)   -            (6.38)         (5.28)  (41.46)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are amount to be financed by the Loan
QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
LCS    = Least Cost Selection
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Service
Delivery, etc.
TABLE B
Thresholdls for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
(US$ 1,000 equivalent)
- .~ 4'.~7         't      vaubarrocurvithenta   I.ntacSbbu jeci
Goods
>500,000         ICB             All
<500,000         NCB             First two contracts
<100,000          Shopping at    None
least 3
suppliers
Services
Consulting Services:
Firms              >200,000         QCBS-Short      All
List
International
>1(0,000          QCBS           All
<1(0,000          QCBS           TORs
Individual         >50,000           Consultant     All
Qualifications
< 50,000          Consultant     TORs
Qualifications
Training services                      National        First two contracts
____________   Shopping
ICB = International Competitive Bidding
NCB=    National Competitive Bidding
QCBS= Quality and Cost Based Selection
LCS=    Least Cost Selection



-56 -
ANNEX 6(B): Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
Financial Management
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment (FMA)
Financial Management Assessment. A financial management assessment was carried out based
on applicable Bank guidelines and procedures. It concluded that Sistema de Administraci6n
Tributaria - SAT, the implementing unit, is currently prepared to implement the project. Based on
the FMA review and on the information of the ISO certification, it was concluded that SAT is
currently fully staffed and operational, and that it is operating a sound financial management system
which meets minimum Bank financial management requirements. The FMA recognizes that that
one of the activities of the project aims at the further strengthening of the systems concerned, which
will enable them to meet all Bank requirements.
Overall Risk Assessment. Moderate, based on that inherent risk (country, entity and project) and
control risk (entity, flow of funds, staffing, accounting policies and procedures, internal audit,
external audit, reporting & monitoring and MIS) are overall moderate.
Frequency of financial management supervision missions proposed. As required but at least
once a year.
Financial Agency. SAT will be responsible for all project activities with the support of the
designated financial agency, Nacional Financiera.
Staffing. There is a good financial management team, skilled and well trained. The project manual
will reflect all related information for this project i.e. organizational chart, job descriptions, specific
responsibilities for this project.
FMR Reporting. The project will produce FMR on semi-annual basis starting after project
effectiveness. The format and contents of the FMR were agreed before negotiations.
Management Information System. Existing SAT's systems are acceptable to the Bank as they
satisfy minimum Bank requirements on financial management, however, those systems will be
adjusted to be fully satisfactory to the Bank based on project needs.
Budgeting. Financing for the proposed project would be included under standard SAT budget and,
therefore, it would be fully pre-financed by the federal government. Flow of funds will be
separately identified in all records, reports and files i.e. authorized budget, modified, committed,
reserved, spent and reimbursed. Project budget will be in line with PAD projections, which will be
up-dated as needed.
2. Audit Arrangements
Accounting and auditing. SAT will maintain separate project records which will reflect, in
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures of all



-57 -
project activities. Independent annual audits will be carried out in line with standards compatible
with the International Standards on Auditing (ISA), applicable Bank guidelines, legal documents
and the technical memorandum of understanding on auditing dated June 2001. These audits will be
carried out by auditors acceptable to the Bank and corresponding reports will be submitted to the
Bank within the six months after the end of each fiscal year.
The audit review will include all project operations and its Special Account.
3. Disbursement Arrangemenits
Traditional documentation requirements apply for direct payments, special commitments and
statements of expenditures. Full documentation is required for contracts that are above the prior
review limit. If project is converted to FMR-based disbursement methodology, all procedures
should be satisfactory to the Bank. For prompt disbursements, the SAT will prepare necessary
documentation.
Retroactive Financing. The project is considering retroactive financing from preparation activities
prior to loan signing. Retroactive financing of up to US$ 5.0 million would be permitted for eligible
expenditures made after February 10, 2002 (beginning of Project Identification).
Project Manual. The manual will include a financial management section satisfactory to the Bank;
this will be a project effectiveness condition.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursemnents will be made against Statements of Expenditures. Detailed supporting documents
showing evidence of payments to contractors and suppliers will be kept in SAT files and will be
made available to Bank supervision missions and the annual audits
Based on thresholds recommencded, full supporting documentation will be required for all contracts
for goods higher than US$ 500,000.00, consultant firm contracts above US$ 100,000.00, individual
consultant contracts above US$ 50,000.00. All expenditures for training, except those which relates
to contracts with firms and training institutions will be disbursed by SOE.
Special account:
A Special Account in US dollars will be established at the Banco de Mexico, Nacional Financiera
(NAFIN), or in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank The
authorized allocation is US$ 4 million and the initial deposit is $2 million.
The SAT might opt to request up to US$2 million out of the pre-authorized revolving fund above
mentioned . When the aggregate disbursements under the loan have reached US$ 8 million, this
allocation may be increased up to the total allocation.
Replenishment applications should be submitted on a monthly basis or when one-third of the
amount deposited has been utilized. The replenishment application would be supported by the
necessary documentation, the Special Account bank statement, and a reconciliation of this bank
statement.



-58 -
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds (US$ million equivalent)
:Workes                             1,I
Goods                           i   8.s2l                   i  %  jloca  ,
10i0% reign
{Cansu1tmServices                  4.45                      83.I0  Ibr Ieal sitants
*      Il      1loEt03% frfonignconsultaaX
Fwnt End Fee                        0.52                          |
l  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __T    A        I      i                   I      :I
TOTAL   -2 



-59 -
Annex 7
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$00()                Planned             Actual
(At final PCD stage)
85,000              144,000
B. Project Schedule                       Planned             Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project           2
(months)
First Bank mission (identification)      02/10/2002          02/10/2002
Appraisal mission departure             03/012/2002          03/12/2002
Negotiations                            05/08/2002           05/16/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness            7/1/2002
Prepared by: SAT
Preparation assistance:
Bank team who worked on the project included:
Name                              Specialty
Steven Webb                       Task Team Leader
Luis-Jose Mejia                   Public Sector and Project Management (cons)
Enrique Fanta                      Tax Administration (consultant)
Herman Nissenbaum                 Editor; Loan processing (consultant)
Harjit Singh                      Information Technology (consultant)
Judith Davidson-Palmer            Human Resources (consultant)
Katherine Bain                    Civil Society & Participation
Francisco Leiva                   Project Administration (consultant)
Patricia Holt                     Administrative Assistant
Victor Ord6fiez Conde             Financial Management Specialist
Joseph P. Formoso                 Disbursement Officer
Mariangeles Sabella                Lawyer
Pilar GonzAlez                    Lawyer
Reynaldo Pastor                   Lawyer
Elizabeth Toxtle                   Task Assistant
Lea Braslavsky                    Procurement Specialist



-60 -
Annex 8
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
Preliminary Plan - see Annex 2.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Country Assistance Strategy of June 8, 1999.
Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report, May 21, 2001
BTO of December 2001 Identification Mission. Identification Mission, Steve Webb
Reformnin Tax Systems: The World Bank Record in the 1990s, by Luca Barbone, Arindam
Das-Gupta, Luc de Wulf and Anna Hansson. Tax Policy and Administration Thematic
Group.
Country Economic Memorandum: Challenges and Prospects for Tax Reform" 2001
Mexico: Tax Reform Adjustment Loan
C. Other
Mexico: Fortalecimiento de la Administraci6n Tributaria Federal. Casanegra, dos Santos,
Escolano & Castro, IMF Report, February 1997.
Performance Indicators for Tax Structure and Administration, a Preliminary Proposal, by
Arindam Das-Gupta, PRMPS, The World Bank, May 1999.
*Including electronic files.



- 61 -
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MEXICCI: Tax Admin Institutional Development
02-May-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Orilgnn Amount In USS Millions                              disbursements
Projeot ID    FY    Purpose                                      IBRD         IDA                 GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
P057531        2002 MX Basic Ed Dev Phase II                        300.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00    30000       0 00       0 00
P060577        2002 MX Someast Ri Deveopnment Ut                      5.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00       5 00      0.08       0 00
P065988        2002 GEF MX-Consolldatian of Proed Ja                  0.00      0.00                16.10       0 00      0 01      000        0 00
P064887        2001 DISASTER MANAGEMENT (ERL)                       404.05      0.00                 0.00       0.00    395.74     58 36       0 00
P063463        2001 METHANE CAPTURE & USE AT A LANDFIUL               0.00      0.00                 6.27       0 00      6 35       1 94      0.29
P060908        2001 GEF MX-MESO AMERICAN CORRIDOR                     0.00      0.00                14.84       0.00     13 85      3 07       0 00
P065779        2001 FEDERAL HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT             218.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00    20393      -1407       000
P068321        2001 MX: III BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJIECT              350.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00    350 00       000       000
P066674        2001 GEF MX-Indigenous&Conwiomnity Bo3ersaty           0.00      0.00                 7.50       0.00      6 84       2 22      0 Go
P071323        2001 Bank Reasructurlng Facllty                      505.06      0.00                 0.00       0.00    350 01       0 01      0 00
P057530        2000 RURAL DEV.MARG.ARII CARl                         55.00      0.00                 0.00       0 00     38.92       3 25      0 00
P060718        2000 ALTERNATIVEENERGY                                 0.00      0.00                 8.S0       000       698        692       000
P066938        2000 MX GENDER (UL)                                    3.07      0.00                 0.00       0.00      3 07       163       0 00
P048505        1999 AGRICULTURAL PRODUCT                            444.45      0.00                 0.00       0 00    139 94      50 19    -27 05
P007610        1999 FOVI RESTRUCTURING                              505.50      0.00                 0.00       0.00    312.00     31200       000
P007711        1998 MXRURALDEV.MARG.AREA(APLI                        47.00      000                  0.00       000      2907       2275       000
POmo720        1998 MX HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM - 'AL                   700.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00    15000      15000      5000
P044531        1998 KNOWLEDGE,INNOV                                 300.00      0.00                 000        000     19537       7871       000
P0550 1       1998 MX: HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM TA                      25.00      0.00                 0.00       000       1 31       1.31      0 00
P049895        1998 MX HIGHER ED. FINANCING                         180.20      0.00                 0.00       000     140.19      75.92      000
P007700        1997 COMMUNITY FORESTRY                               15.00      0.00                 0.00       0 00      6 07       5 59      0 00
P007713        1996 WATER RESOURCES MANA                            186.50      000                  0.00       0.00    11729      101 96     44 17
P007689        1996 MX: BASIC HEALTH II                             310.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     23 83      2383      23 83
P034490        1995 MX TECHNICAL EDUC/TRAINING                      265.00      0.00                 0.00      69.69     4807      11775      8772
P007710        1994 N. BORDER I ENVIRONM                            368.00      0.00                 000      313.36     2203      335.40     6200
P007648        1993 MX MEDIUM CITIES TRANSP                         200.00      000                  0.00      65.50     40 93     106 43     83 43
Total:    5386.83        0.00             53.61       448 55    2906 81    1445 28    324 39



- 62 -
MEXICO
STATEMENT OF IFCs
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                      Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic  Loan   Equity  Quasi   Partic
1988/91/92/93/95   Apasco                      10.80    0.00    0.00   43.20  10.80    0.00    0.00   43.20
1998               Ayvi                         8.57    0.00    0.00   0.00    8.57    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990/92/96         BANAMEX                     75.71    0.00    0.00   5.49   75.71    0.00    0.00    5.49
0                  BBVA-Bancomer               86.47    0.00    0.00    0.00   86.47   0.00    0.00    0.00
1995/99            Baring MexFnd                0.00    2.73    0.00    0.00   0.00    1.90    0.00    0.00
1998               CIMA Mexico                  0.00    4.80    0.00    0.00   0.00    4.80    0.00    0.00
1998               CIMA Puebla                  7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   3.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               CTAPV                        2.88    0.00    1.69    0.00   2.88    0.00     1.69   0.00
0                  Chiapas-Propalma             0.00    0.82    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.82    0.00    0.00
1997               Comercializadora             2.41    0.00    1.72    4.38   2.41    0.00    1.72    4.38
2001               Compartamos                  1.00    0.66    0.00    0.00    1.00   0.66    0.00    0.00
1999               Corsa                       11.14    3.00    0.00    0.00   11.14   3.00    0.00    0.00
2001               Ecomex                       5.00    0.00    1.50    0.00    3.00   0.00     1.50   0.00
2000               Educacion                    6.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.90   0.00     0.00   0.00
1997               Fondo Chiapas                0.00    4.18    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.54    0.00    0.00
1998               Forja Monterrey             12.07    3.00    0.00   12.07   12.07   3.00    0.00   12.07
1991/96            GIBSA                       18.93    0.00   10.00   63.67   18.93   0.00    10.00  63.67
1993               GIDESA                       2.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.50   0.00     0.00   0.00
1996/00            GIRSA                       45.00    0.00    0.00   60.00   45.00   0.00     0.00  60.00
1993               GOTM                         0.49    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.49   0.00     0.00   0.00
1997/98            Gen. Hipotecaria             0.00    1.20    0.00    0.00    0.00   1.20     0.00   0.00
0                  Grupo BBVA                   0.00    2.67    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.67    0.00    0.00
1998               Grupo Calidra               10.00    6.00    0.00    7.50   10.00   6.00     0.00   7.50
Grupo FEMSA                  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989               Grupo Minsa                 12.00   10.00    0.00   18.00   12.00  10.00     0.00   18.00
1997               Grupo Posadas               25.00    0.00   10.00    0.00   25.00   0.00    10.00   0.00
1992/93/95/96/99   Grupo Sanfandila             8.09    0.00    0.00    3.61    6.76   0.00     0.00   2.95
1998               Heller Financial             0.00    0.32    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.32     0.00   0.00
1994/96/98/00      Hospital ABC                30.00    0.00    0.00   14.00    1.76   0.00     0.00    1.24
2000               ITR                         14.00    0.00    0.00    4.00   14.00   0.00     0.00   4.00
2000               Innopack                     0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00
2000               Interceramic                 5.00    0.00    4.00    0.00    5.00   0.00     4.00    0.00
1994               InverCap                     0.00    0.07    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.06     0.00   0.00
2000/01            Merida HI                   29.59    0.00    0.00   72.15   29.59   0.00     0.00   72.15
1998               Mexplus Puertos              0.00    1.41    0.00    0.00    0.00   1.41     0.00   0.00
1995/99            NEMAK                        0.00    0.00    1.51    0.00    0.00   0.00     1.51   0.00
1996/99/00/01      Pan American                 0.00    9.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   9.00     0.00   0.00
2000               Rio Bravo                   50.00    0.00    0.00   59.50   50.00   0.00     0.00   59.50
2000               Saltillo S.A.               35.00    0.00    0.00   43.00   35.00    0.00    0.00   43.00
2000               Servicios                   10.50    1.90    0.00   10.00   10.50    1.90    0.00   10.00
2000               Su Casita                    0.00   10.62    0.00    0.00    0.00  10.62     0.00    0.00
2001               Sudarnerica                  0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00
1999               TMA                          2.58    0.00    2.60    8.95    2.58   0.00     2.60   8.95
1997               Toluca Toll Road             4.83    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.83   0.00     0.00   0.00
1992
Total Portfolio:      533.06  117.68   33.02  429.52   496.39  102.67  33.02  416.10



- 63 -
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                         Loan     Equity    Quasi     Partic
1999               BANAMEX LRF I                   50.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2001               BBVA-Bancomer CL               100.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
1998               CimaHermosillo                   7.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2002               Coppel                          30.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2001               Ecomex                           3.50      0.00     0.00      0.00
2000               Educacion                        3.20      0.00     0.00      0.00
2001               GFNorte-CL                      50.00     0.00      0.00    100.00
2001               Greenmanor                       7.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2001               La Colorada                      4.30      6.00     0.00     18.30
2001               PanAme-La Colora                 0.00      0.00     1.20      0.00
2002               Puertas Finas                   13.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2001               Su Casita                        0.00      2.40     0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:      268.00      8.40      1.20   118.30



- 64 -
Annex 10: Country at a Glance
MEXICO: Tax Admin Institutional Development
Latin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        America    middle-
Mexico   & Carib.  Income      Development dlamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (millilons)                    98.0      516       647                 Life expectancy
GNI Per capita (Atlas method. USS)                 5.070     3.680     4,620
GNI (Atlas method. USS billions)                   497.0     1,895    2,986
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (9%)                                      1.5       1.6       1.3    GNI
Labor force ()                                       2.5       2.3       2.0     GNI                            Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                           per i                       enprimary
Poverty (9 of population below national povertv line)
Urban population (X of total population)             74        75        76
Life expectancv at birth (years)                     72        70        69
Infant mortalltv (per 1,000 live births)             29        30        28
Child malnutrition (X of children under 5)            8         9         ..         Access to improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (X ofpopulation)   86       85        87
Illiteracy (9 of population age 15+)                  9         12       10
Gross primary enrollment ( ofschool-aoe vopulatlon)  114       113      107           Moxico
Male                                               116         .      106              Upper-middle-income group
Female                                             113        ..      105
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
19B0     1990      1999     2000
Economic ratios'
GOP (US$ billions)                        223.5    262.7     479.4     574.5
Gross domestic Investment/GDP              27.2     23.1      23.5      23.3                    Trd
Exvorts of aoods and services/GDP          10.7     18.6      30.9      31.4                    rade
Gross domesatc savings/GDP                 24.9     22.0      21.9      21.5
Gross national savinas/GDP                 22.4     20.3      20.5      20.1 
Current account balancelGDP                -4.7     -2.8      -3.0      13.1     D                           I
Interest pavmentalGOP                       2.0      2.2       2 1       2.0     Domaticnngstsn
Total debtUGDP                             25.7     39.8      35.0      26.9     avinga
Total debt servicelexports                 45.4     20.9      25.1      32.7
Present value of debt/GDP                     ..      ..      33.9      26.1
PresentvalueofdebtUexports                   ..       ..     102.6      77.8
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00    1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 1.1     3.1      3.8       6.9       4.3              Mexico
GDP percapita                      -1.0     1.4      2.3       5.4       2.3               Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       7.0    14.6     12.4      16.0       8.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999     2000      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(9 of GDP)
Agriculture                                 9.0      7.8       4.7       4.4
Industrv                                   33.6     28.4      28.8      28 4     20
ManufacturinA                             22.3    20.8      21.1      20.7      t
Services                                   57.4     63.7      66.5      67.3    -20          96    97   98    so   00
Private consumpUon                         65.1     69.6      67.1      67.5    -40
General govemment consumption              10.0      8.4      10.9      11.0 0GDI                      - a   GDP
Imports of goods and services              13.0     19.7      32.4      33.2
(average annual growth)                 1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                 0.8      1.8       2.0       2.1    4s
Industry                                    1.1      3.8       4.2       6.6    30
Manufacturing                              1.5     44        4.2       7.1    158
Services                                    1.4      2.9       3.7       7.4     o-{'     f   ' III
Private consumption                         1.4      2.4       4.3       9.5    -       t    96   97    88    88   oo
General government consumption              2.4      1.8       3.9       3.5   ..30 
Gross domestic Investment                   -3.3     4.6       4.1       8.8            -Exports       --e-Imports
Imports of ooods and services               1.0     12.3      13 8      21.4
Note: 2000 data are preliminary esUmates.
The diamonds show tour kev Indicators In the countrv (in bold) comDared with its Income-group averaoe. If data are missing. the diamond will
be incomplete.



- 65 -
Mexico
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                            1980    1990      1999     2000      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                     40 
Consumer prices                              ..     26.7      16.6      9.5    30 
Implicit GDP deflator                      33.4    28.1       14.9     10.9    20.
Government flnance                                                             10
(X of GDP, incdudes current grants)                                            0o 
Current revenue                            27.4     25.3      20.9     21.8            95    s6    97   S8    99
Current budget balance                      4.1      0.9       1.5      2.0            -     GDP deflator  - -CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                    -3.6     -2.6      -1.1     -1.1
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                     1990      1999     2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                      16,284   40.711   136,391  166,455    200,000
Oil                                     10,441  10,104     9,928   16,383
Agriculture                              1,528   2,162     3,926    4,217     150,000
Manufactures                             3,802  27,828   1226085  145, 334                                   _
Total imports (cif)                      19,342   41.593   141,975  174458 13
Consumerpgoods                           2,448   5,099    12175    16,691            _         _   _    _   _    _
Intermediate goods                      11,720  299705   109.270  133637 
Capital goods                            5,174   6,790    20.530   24,130         o_
Export price index (1995=100)               134      99        98      106             94  95   86  97   9a   a9   00
Import price index (1995=100)                67      90        99      102                 aExports     *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                   201     110        99       103
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(US$ milions)  and2                                                             Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services            22,600   48,732   148,083  180,167    0o
Imports of goods and services            27,430   51,535   155,465  190,494
Resource balance                         -4,830   -2,803    -7,382  -10,326    -2  *
Net income                                -6,438  -8,626   -13.306  -14,747
Net current transfers                       833    3,978     6,313    6,994    4-
Current account balance                 -10,434   -7,451   -14,375  -18.079      -
Financing items (net)                    11,453   10,999    14,969   20,901
Changes in net reserves                  -1,019   -3,548      -594   -2,822   -4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)    3,052    9,909    31,829   33,595
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUSS)        2.OOE-2      2.8       9.6      9.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                  Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed     57,378  104,442   167,626  154,687
IBRD                                    2,063   11,030    11,027   11,444                       A: 11.444
IDA                                        0        0         0        0             G. 22,744          D: 4,803
Total debt service                       10,958   11,311    39,760   63,038                                  E: 4,494
IBRD                                     255     1,552     2,155    2,220
IDA                                         0       0         0        0
Composition of net resource flows
Offidal grants                             14      54         ..       ..              ,,.,y *       -
Official creditors                        795    4,168    -1,708    -525                  .,.
Pnvate creditors                        -524     -582     13,181   -5,059                 . '
Foreign direct investment               2,156    2,549    11,915   13,286
Portfolio eiuity                           0      563      3,901     478                       F:111,142
Wodd Bank program
Commitments                              625     2,562     1,671    1,130     A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                            422     3,326      844     1,647      -IDA    D- Other multilateral  F -Private
Principal repaYments                      89      801      1,323    1,330     C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                 333    2,525     -479      318
Interest payments                         166     751       832      890
Net transfers                             167    1,774    -1,311    -573
Development Economics                                                                                         9/10/2001



- 66 -
*&1DOS                    SUBSECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
102-B- 131
SECrETAiAI
DE
HAcIOA Y cRW4TO PIU%o
Mexico, D. F., 14 de mayo de 2002.
SR. JAMES D. WOLFENSOHN
Presidente
Banco Mundial
Washington DC, 20433
USA
Estimado Sr. Wolfensohn:
Por medio de la presente, me dirijo a usted para hacer de su conocimiento la intenci6n de
la presente Administracion de avanzar en el programa de fortalecimiento del sistema
tributario nacional. En tal virtud, el Gobiemo de Mexico solicita apoyo del Banco Mundial a
traves de los prestamos Tax Reforrm Adjustment Loan y Tax Administration Institutional
Development Project, con el objeto de poder solventar los programas puestos en marcha
recientemente en nuestro pais.
Para resaltar la importancia que representa para Mexico continuar con la agenda en
materia tributaria, a continuaci6n se presenta un breve resumen de lo mas destacado de la
evoluci6n de la economia mexicana; lo mas relevante de las reformas tributarias aprobadas
recientemente por el H. Congreso de la Uni6n, y los temas principales en materia tributaria
en los que el Gobiemo de Mexico planea enfocar sus esfuerzos en el mediano plazo.
I.   Evoluci6n macroecon6mica
En los Oltimos anios, la economia mexicana se ha recuperado favorablemente de la crisis
enfrentada a mediados de la decada pasada, y avanza con paso firme hacia la integraci6n
con sus principales socios comerciales y la economia mundial. Mexico ha recuperado la
estabilidad de precios gracias a ia disciplina fiscal adoptada por las autoridades y al prudente
manejo de la politica monetaria por parte del Banco Central. A pesar de los vaivenes del ciclo
econ6mico, las cuentas intemas y extemas se han mantenido en orden en todo momento,
fortaleciendo asi la confianza de los agentes econ6micos dentro y fuera del pais. Esto ha
permitido crear un entomo de estabilidad que ha favorecido la inversi6n, tanto nacional como
extranjera.



- 67 -
t,;IDOS                   SUBSECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
102-B- 131
SECRETARIA
DE
HACIENDA Y CREDITO PU3LICO
-2-
La evoluci6n de las variables macroecon6micas refleja el fortalecimiento de las bases de
la economia nacional. En el periodo 1996-2000, el PIB registr6 una tasa de crecimiento real
anual promedio de 5.6 por ciento, proceso que se interrumpi6 temporalmente en 2001 en
sintonia con la desacelerac;i6n de la economia mundial.
La prudencia en el mariejo de la politica monetaria y la disciplina fiscal han coadyuvado a
disminuir considerablemente la inflaci6n. Durante 2001, por ejemplo, el indice Nacional de
Precios al Consumidor (INPC) alcanz6 la menor tasa de crecimiento desde su creaci6n en
1968, registrando un aumento de 4.4 por ciento anual, menor incluso que la meta oficial de
6.5 por ciento. Las tasas de interes nacionales tambien han registrado una clara tendencia a
la baja, alcanzando niveles minimos hist6ricos en abril de 2002. Ademas, el tipo de cambio
muestra fortaleza y estabilidad.
Las cuentas con el exterior han evolucionado de manera ordenada. El deficit de la cuenta
corriente de la balanza de pagos se ha mantenido en niveles congruentes con la
disponibilidad de ahorro externo de largo plazo.
Lo anterior ha sido posible gracias a la disciplina en el manejo de la politica fiscal. Las
autoridades han reaccionado oportunamente ante los vaivenes del ciclo econ6mico y los
cambios abruptos en el precio intemacional del petr6leo, manejo que ha permitido alcanzar
las metas fiscales anunciadas en los ultimos affos. En este proceso, el deficit poblico ha
disminuido de 1.3 por ciento del PIB en 1998 a 0.7 por ciento en 2001.
En materia de deuda publica el gobiemo ha instrumentado una politica proactiva que le
ha permitido aprovechar distintas oportunidades para prepagar algunas emisiones, hecho
que se ha traducido en ahcrros a futuro y mejoras en el perfil de vencimientos.
Los retos que la econcmia mexicana tendra que enfrentar en el corto y mediano plazos
son mantener la disciplina en el manejo de la politica econ6mica para garantizar una
recuperaci6n ordenada y sostenible, asi como avanzar en la agenda de reformas
estructurales que permitan modemizar el marco regulatoro y mejorar la productividad y
competitividad del aparato productivo.



- 68 -
SUBSECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
102-B- 131
SECRETAR
CE
HPOE?DAY CREDITO PUJCO
-3-
I.   Reforma Fiscal
Desde su inicio en diciembre de 2000, la actual Administraci6n ha considerado la refomma
fiscal como una alta prioridad. La creciente necesidad de recursos para cubrir
satisfactoriamente las responsabilidades del Estado, requiere de un aumento en las fuentes
permanentes de ingresos publicos, por lo que ha sido necesario implementar acciones en las
siguientes tres areas:
* Politica Tributaria.- Reducir distorsiones y aumentar las fuentes permanentes de
recaudaci6n, avanzar en un esquema tributario mas equitativo, simplificar y mejorar el
cumplimiento fiscal, hacer el esquema fiscal mas competitivo y cerrar los espacios
para la evasi6n y elusi6n fiscales.
* Administraci6n Tributaria.- Disenar e implementar programas para aumentar la
eficiencia en la recaudaci6n y el cumplimiento fiscal, disminuir la corrupci6n y facilitar
el cumplimiento de las obligaciones con el fisco, ampliar los mecanismos y la
cobertura de la asistencia fiscal al contribuyente y fortalecer las facultades de la
administraci6n tributana para combatir la evasi6n fiscal.
* Federalismo Fiscal.- Aumentar las potestades tributarias de los gobiemos estatales y
municipales en forma congruente con la Federaci6n.
Gracias al esfuerzo conjunto del Ejecutivo y del H. Congreso por trabajar
constructivamente y buscar consensos entre sus representantes, el 31 de diciembre de 2001
se aprobaron importantes cambios en materia de legislaci6n tibutaria. A continuaci6n se
presentan algunos de los avances logrados.
Politica Tributaria. Uno de los objetivos de la reforma es aumentar la recaudaci6n sin
introducir distorsiones. En este sentido, la reforma busca incrementar la captaci6n trbutada,
expandiendo la base gravable a traves de la eliminaci6n de exenciones y regimenes
especiales.
La reforma fiscal aprobada contiene avances significativos, especialmente en materia del
impuesto sobre la renta. Esta reforma elimina el regimen especial a los sectores agricola, de
autotransporte y editorial; unifica la tasa de gravamen para las utilidades de las empresas,
independientemente de si se reparten o no; reduce gradualmente las tasas de gravamen,
tanto para las empresas como para personas fisicas, durante los siguientes 3 afios; reduce el
numero de rangos de tasas para personas fisicas; propone la acumulaci6n total de ingresos
gravables para personas fisicas, incluyendo los intereses de bonos gubemamentales o



- 69 -
uiDOs 44                  SUBSECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
102-B- 131
SECRETARIA
DE
HAONDA Y CREO4TO PU8UCO
-4-
corporativos, dividendos y utilidadias bursatiles; elimina el costo del credito al salario hasta en
3% de la n6mina de las empresas; y simplifica el calculo del ajuste inflacionaro y el
cumplimiento fiscal de pequehlas y medianas empresas. Asimismo, la reforma incluye
cambios a las tasas de los impuestos especiales al tabaco y a las bebidas alcoh6licas, e
introduce nuevos gravamenes a los refrescos endulzados con fructuosa y a las
telecomunicaciones. El impacto de estas reformas en los ingresos publicos comenz6 desde
su entrada en vigor en enero de 2002, y se espera que crezca en el mediano plazo conforme
los contribuyentes asimilen por completo las mejoras regulatorias.
En relaci6n con la agenda de politica tributaria, en el mediano plazo se pretende
continuar con el impulso de dar mas peso a los impuestos indirectos sobre los directos, a
efecto de seguir expandiendo lai base gravable, minimizar las distorsiones y reducir la
evasion y elusi6n fiscales, asi como seguir fortaleciendo las finanzas de los gobiernos
estatales y municipales.
Administracion Tributaria. La mejora de la administraci6n tributaria tambien forma parte
de los objetivos de la reforma fiscal. En este sentido, se han instrumentado una serie de
medidas para mejorar la eficacia y eficiencia de la administraci6n tributaria, que a la fecha,
han arrojado resultados favorables. Entre otras medidas, destacan las siguientes: mejorar la
coordinaci6n entre las unidades administrativas del Servicio de Administraci6n Tributaria
(SAT); mejorar los proceso de auditoria; reducir la corrupci6n; mejorar la captura, calidad y
seguridad de la informaci6n dentro de la organizaci6n; intensificar la capacitaci6n del
personal; mejorar la atenci6n y el servicio al contrbuyente, y modemizar los programas y el
equipo informatico. El Gobiemo de Mexico planea continuar con esas tendencias de mejoras
en el mediano plazo. El antes mencionado Tax Administration Institutional bevelopment
Project sera una contribuci6n importante en ese esfuerzo.
Federalismo Fiscal. En materia de federalismo, la reforma aprobada reconoce la
necesidad de incrementar las potestades tributarias de los estados y municipios, toda vez
que son 6stos quienes, en buena medida, ejercen el gasto publico. En este sentido, la
reforma otorga a los estados nuevas potestades, para que previa autorizaci6n de sus
respectivos Congresos Estatales, fortalezcan sus ingresos propios. En particular, la Ley de
Ingresos 2002 faculta a los estados para establecer una tasa adicional maxima a las ventas
finales de bienes y servicios y para gravar en base neta a las personas fisicas con
actividades empresarales y profesionales con ingresos de hasta 4 mdp, con una tasa de
hasta 5%, y de 2% sobre base bruta cuando los ingresos por actividades empresariales no
rebasen los 1.5 mdp. Se debe mencionar que los ingresos adicionales que recauden los



- 70 -
SUBSECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
102-B- 131
SECRETARIA
DE
WaaENDA Y CRED(TO PUuJCO
-5 -
estados por estos conceptos no se comparten con el Gobierno Federal. En adelante, el
Gobiemo Federal continuara con el esfuerzo para mejorar la coordinacion fiscal entre los
gobiemos locales y la Federaci6n (SAT) y mantendra el apoyo para que los gobiernos locales
fortalezcan sus fuentes de ingresos propias, y asi consoliden la estabilidad en sus finanzas
locales.
Ill.  Otras Medidas
Una de las priordades de la presente Administraci6n es fortalecer las finanzas
publicas. En este sentido, el gobiemo ha instrumentado una sene de medidas, adicionales a
la reforma tributaria aprobada recientemente por el H. Congreso, orientadas a garantizar la
sostenibilidad de la postura fiscal. Entre otras, destacan las siguientes:
^ Disciplina y Transparencia Fiscal.- Con el objeto de preservar la estabilidad y
certidumbre en el entomo macroecon6mico, el gobiemo ha mantenido la disciplina
fiscal. En este sentido, y para garantizar el cumplimiento de las metas fiscales
aprobadas por el H. Congreso, se han incluido en el Presupuesto de Egresos de la
Federaci6n una serie de ajustadores automaticos. En particular, el Presupuesto de
Egresos para 2002 dispone que en caso de que los ingresos sean menores de lo
estimado es necesano ajustar el gasto presupuestario. Por el contrario, si los ingresos
obtenidos son mayores de lo previsto, los recursos adicionales deben destinarse, en
iguales proporciones, al Fondo de Estabilizaci6n de los Ingresos Petroleros (FEIP), a
mejorar el balance del sector publico y al impulso de programas de infraestructura.
Asimismo, el gobiemo contin(ua con el esfuerzo de mejorar la transparencia fiscal,
publicando peri6dicamente los principales resultados fiscales y de deuda publica, asi
como indicadores fiscales ampliados que revelan fehacientemente las necesidades de
financiamiento del sector publico (RFSP). Gracias al cumplimiento de metas fiscales y
a la transparencia fiscal, entre otros logros, es que Mexico ha obtenido recientemente
el grado de inversi6n por las principales corredurias intemacionales.



- 71 -
SUBSECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
102-B- 131
SECRErAtA
DE
HACENDA Y CREDITO PUSUCO
-6 -
* Reforma Presupuestaria.- Como parte de la iniciativa de reforma para la Nueva
Hacienda Publica enviada al H. Congreso en 2001, el Ejecutivo envi6 una propuesta
de reforma presupuesl:aria, que tiene por objeto reducir la incertidumbre de los
procesos de discusi6n y aprobaci6n del presupuesto, asi como facilitar la ejecuci6n de
proyectos de inversi6n rnultianuales.
* Politica de Gasto Publico.- Es un compromiso del Gobierno de Mexico continuar con
el esfuerzo por atender las necesidades de salud, educaci6n, seguridad social e
infraestructura basica de todos los grupos de la poblaci6n, y en especial, de los mas
necesitados. Para ello, se han instrumentado una serie de programas sociales
incluyendo Contigo y Oportunidades que tienen por objeto combatir la pobreza,
especialmente en zonas urbanas. Sin embargo, debido a las crecientes necesidades
en materia social, es imperativo continuar impulsando medidas que permitan fortalecer
los ingresos permanentes del Estado y asi poder asignar mayores recursos al
combate a la pobreza.
* Politica de Precios Energeticos.- Reconociendo la importancia del sector energetico
en las finanzas publicas, y con el objeto de promover la conservaci6n, en febrero de
2002 el gobiemo anunci6 la reducci6n del subsidio a las tarifas electricas
residenciales. Esta politica se tradujo en un incremento en las tarifas para aquellos
hogares con consumos; mayores al minimo, a efecto de proteger el ingreso de las
familias con menores recursos.
IV. Apoyo del Banco Mundial
Si bien la reforma fiscal aiprobada representa avances importantes en todas las areas
tributarias, se reconoce que auin queda mucho por hacer, especialmente en materia de
administraci6n tributaria. Pama ello, el Gobiemo de Mexico solicita al Banco Mundial de su
apoyo a traves del Tax Reformr Adjustment Loan. De la misma manera, se pretende continuar
con las mejoras en materia de administraci6n tributaria, proceso para el cual Mexico solicita
apoyo tecnico y financiero del Banco Mundial a traves del Tax Administration Institutional
Development Project.



- 72 -
IStUDOS                   SUBSECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
102-B- 131
SECFErARI
DE
4A*E0DCA Y CREDTO PUBMCO
-7 -
Consciente de la importancia de mantener una postura fiscal sana y sostenible, el Banco
Mundial ha mostrado un especial interes en el tema de Reforma Fiscal. En virtud de lo
anterior, el Gobiemo de Mexico solicita al Banco Mundial de su apoyo tecnico y financiero
para la consolidaci6n de los programas antes mencionados, considerados por las
autoridades nacionales de suma importancia para continuar con el Programa de Reforma
Fiscal durante los pr6ximos cuatro aiios.
A t e n t a m e n t e.
SUFRAGIO EFECTIVO, NO REELECCION.
El Subsecretaro,
DR. AGUSTIN GILLERMO            NS CARSTENS
C.c.p. Direcci6n General de Cr6dito Publico. Presente.



- 73 -
SECRETARIAT OF FINAN4CE AND PUBLIC CREDIT
Mexico City
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
World Bank
Washington DC, 20433
USA
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
I would like to bring to your attention the intention of the present administration
to move ahead with the program of strengthening the national system of taxation. For the
sake of this, the Government of Mexico requests the support of the World Bank by means
of the Tax Reform Adjustment Loan and the Tax Administration Institutional
Development Loan, with the objective to facilitate the programs recently put in motion in
our country.
To emphasize the importance for Mexico of continuing with the agenda of
taxation matters, a brief summary is presented of the highlights in the evolution of the
Mexican economy, the most relevant aspects of the tax reforms recently approved by the
Federal Congress, and the main themes in the tax area on which the Government of
Mexico plans to focus its energies in the medium term.
I. Macroeconomic SituatiDon
In recent years, the Mexican economy has recovered favorably from the crisis
faced in the middle of the previous decade and is advancing with firm steps toward
integration with its main commercial and economic partners in the world. Mexico has
recovered price stability, thanks to the fiscal discipline adopted by the authorities and to
the prudent management of monetary policy on the part of the Central Bank. Despite the
fluctuations of the econojmic cycle, the internal and external accounts have been
maintained in order at all limes, thus strengthening the confidence of economic agents
within and outside the country. This has made it possible to create a framework of
stability that has favored investment by domestic and foreign firms.
The evolution of macroeconomic variables reflects the strengthening of the
national economy. In the period 1996-2000, the gross domestic product recorded an
average annual growth rate of 5.6 percent, a process that was interrupted temporarily in
2001 along with the deceleration of the world economy.
The prudent management of monetary policy and fiscal discipline have been
helping to reduce inflation considerably. During 2001, for example, the national index of
consumer prices reached is lowest rate of increase since the time it was created in 1968,
registering an increase of 4.4 percent annually, lower than the official target of 6.5



- 74 -
percent for the year. The domestic interest rates also registered a clear downward trend,
reaching historic lows in April 2002. Furthermore, the exchange rate is showing strength
and stability.
The external accounts have evolved in an orderly manner. The deficit of the
current account of the balance of payments has been maintained at levels congruent with
the availability of long-term foreign savings.
The above has been possible thanks to the discipline in the management of fiscal
policy. The authorities have reacted opportunely in the face of the fluctuations of the
economic cycle and the abrupt changes in the international price of petroleum-
management that made it possible to achieve the fiscal goals announced in recent years.
In this process, the public budget deficit has declined from 1.3 percent of GDP in 1998 to
0.7 percent in 2001.
In matters of public debt the government has used a proactive policy that has
permitted it to utilize certain opportunities to repay some debt, which translated into
future savings and improvements in the maturity profile.
The challenges that the Mexican economy will face in the short and medium term
are to maintain discipline in economic policy management in order to guarantee an
orderly and sustainable recovery, as well as to advance with the agenda of structural
reforms that will modernize the regulatory framework and improve the productivity and
competitiveness of the production system.
II. Fiscal Reform.
From its beginning in December 2000, the present administration in Mexico has
accorded high priority to fiscal reform. The growing necessity for resources to cover
satisfactorily the responsibilities of the State require an expansion of the permanent
sources of public revenues, for which it has been necessary to implement actions in the
three following areas:
* Tax Policy- To reduce distortions and increase the permanent sources of tax
revenue, to advance a more equitable tax scheme, to simplify and improve the tax
compliance, to make the tax system more competitive, and to close the gaps for
tax evasion and avoidance.
* Tax Administration- To design and implement programs to increase the
efficiency in tax collection and compliance, to reduce corruption and facilitate the
compliance of obligations to the Treasury, to expand the mechanisms and the
coverage of the assistance to taxpayers, and to strengthen the powers of the tax
administration to combat tax evasion.
* Subnational Finances- To increase the tax bases of the state and municipal
governments in a form that is consistent with the Federal System.



- 75 -
Thanks to the combined effort of the Executive and the Congress to work
constructively and seek consensus among their representatives, important changes were
approved on December 31, 2001, in the tax legislation. The following are some of the
advances that were achieved.
Tax Policy. One of the: objectives of the reforn is to increase collections without
introducing distortions. In this sense, the reform seeks to increase the tax receipts,
expanding the taxable base through the elimination of exemptions and special regimes.
The tax reforms that were approved contain significant advances, especially in the
area of income taxes. This reform eliminates the special regimes for the agriculture,
trucking, and publishing sectors; unifies the tax rate for corporate earnings, independently
from whether they are distributed or not; reduces gradually the tax rate for corporations
and individuals over the next 3 years; reduces the number of personal income tax
brackets; sets forth the combination of all personal income into one taxable sum,
including government and commercial bond interest, stock profits, and dividends;
eliminates the cost to the government of salary subsidies up to 3 percent of the payroll of
firms; and simplifies the calculation of the inflation adjustment and the tax compliance of
small and medium enterprises. Also, the reform includes changes in the rates of excise
taxes on tobacco and alcoholic beverages and introduces new taxes on beverages
sweetened with fructose and on telecommunications. The impact of these changes on
public revenue started when they came into effect in January 2002, and it is expected that
it will grow in the medium term as the taxpayers assimilate completely the regulatory
improvements.
With relation to the agenda of tax policy reform, in the medium term, the drive will
be continued to put more emphasis on indirect taxes relative to direct taxes, with the
object to continue expanding the taxable base, to minimize the distortions and to reduce
tax evasion and avoidance, as well as to continue strengthening the finances of the state
and municipal governments.
Tax Administration. The improvement of tax administration is also part of the
objectives of the fiscal reform. In this sense, a series of measures have been orchestrated
to improve the efficacy and efficiency of tax administration, which to date have indicated
favorable results. Among other measures, the following stand out: to improve the
coordination between the administrative units of the Tax Administration Service (SAT);
to improve the process of auditing; to reduce corruption; to improve the capture, quality,
and security of information within the organization; to intensify the training of personnel;
improve the attention and ,ervice to the taxpayers; and to modernize the informatics
programs and equipment. The Government of Mexico plans to continue with these
improvements in the medium term. The previously mentioned Tax Administration
Institutional Development Project will make an important contribution to that effort.
Fiscal Federalism. Concerning federalism, the reform that was approved recognizes
the necessity to increase the tax bases of the states and municipalities, since they are the
ones that to a great extent carry out the spending of the public sector. In this sense, the



- 76 -
reform grants to the states new tax baseL, .n order to strengthen their own revenues, for
which their respective state congresses would provide the authorization. In particular, the
2002 Revenue Law empowered the states to establish an additional tax, up to a certain
maximum, on the final sales of goods and services. And it empowered states to tax the
income of individuals with entrepreneurial activity, at a rate up to 5 percent on the net
income of those with annual revenue up to 4 million pesos and at a rate up to 2 percent on
the gross income of those with annual revenue not exceeding 1.5 million pesos. It should
be mentioned that the additional revenues that the states collect with these measures are
not shared with the Federal Government. In the future, the Federal Government will
continue the efforts to improve the coordination of tax enforcement between the local
governments and the Federation (SAT) and will maintain the assistance for local
governments to strengthen their sources of own income, and thus to consolidate the
stability of their local finances.
III. Other Measures
One of the priorities of the present administration is to strengthen public finances. In
this sense, the government has orchestrated a series of measures, in addition to the tax
reform recently approved by Congress, oriented to guarantee the sustainability of the
fiscal stance. Among others, the following stand out:
Fiscal Discipline and Transparency. With the objective to preserve the stability and
certainty in the macroeconomic framework, the government has maintained fiscal
discipline. In this sense, and in order to guarantee the compliance with the fiscal targets
approved by Congress, a series of automatic adjustment procedures have been included in
the Expenditure Budget. In particular, the 2002 Expenditure Budget provides that it is
necessary to adjust the budgeted expenditure in the event that revenues are less than
estimated. On the other hand, if the revenues are greater than forecast, then the additional
revenues need to be destined, in equal proportions, to the Stabilization Fund for
Petroleum Revenues, to improve the public sector balance, and to support infrastructure
investment programs. Likewise, the government is continuing with the effort to improve
fiscal transparency, publishing at regular periods the principal fiscal outcomes and the
public debt, and also expanded fiscal indicators that reveal reliably the public sector
borrowing requirement (PSBR). Thanks to the achievement of its fiscal targets and to the
fiscal transparency, among other things, Mexico has recently obtained investment-grade
credit ratings from the principal international rating agencies.
Budget Reform. As part of the reform initiative for the New Public Finances,
submitted to Congress in 2001, the executive sent a proposal for budgeting reform, that
has as its objective to reduce the uncertainty in the process of discussing and approving
the budget, as well as to facilitate the execution of multi-year investment projects.
Public Spending Policy. It is a commitment of the Government of Mexico to continue
the effort to attend to the needs of health, education, social security and basic
infrastructure of all groups of the population, and especially those most in need. For that,
a series of social programs has been instrumented, including Contigo and Oportunidades,



- 77 -
that have the objective to combat poverty, especially in urban areas. Nonetheless, due to
the growing social needs, it is imperative to continue promoting measures that strengthen
the permanent revenues o1 the State, to be able to assign more resources to combat
poverty.
Energy Pricing Policy. Recognizing the importance of the energy sector for public
finances, and with the objective to promote conservation, the government announced in
February 2002 the reduction in the subsidy for residential electricity tariffs. This policy
translated into an increase in tariffs for the households with more than minimum power
consumption, for the purpose of protecting the income of families with less resources.
IV.    World Bank Suppart
Even though the fiscal reform that was approved represents important advances in
all the taxation areas, it is recognized that there is much remaining to be done, especially
in the area of tax administration. For that, the Government of Mexico is asking the
World Bank for its help through the Tax Reform Adjustment Loan. In the same way, it is
the intention to continue with improvements in the area of tax administration, a process
for which Mexico is asking technical assistance and financing from the World Bank
through the Tax Administration Institutional Development Project.
Conscious of the importance of maintaining a healthy and sustainable fiscal
stance, the World Bank has shown special interest in the theme of fiscal reform. By
virtue of the above, the Government of Mexico is asking the technical and financial
support of the World Bank for the consolidation of the programs mentioned above, and
considered by the country authorities as being of highest importance, in order to continue
the Program of Fiscal Reform during the next four years.
Sincerely.
Effective suffrage, no reeleccion.
The Undersecretary,
Dr. Agustin Guillermo Carstens Carstens
Cc: General Directorate of Public Credit






n~~~~~~&tV~~~~~~~~~~~7.  to    t00                                       90 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IBRD 235,47
C0 ~ . S):1
~~~~~~~'~      cSr O
DAJA  4.         Nogs      -   .     J eM                                                          E   X   I   C   O
I                                                                                                30~~~~~~
fW'Sw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nt- -pit'.1
AS4~~~~~~Gt'L' '-Sit                                                                                         k
DAJA                                                                                           0  - ~~~.d.  b,  0AH   iAPrincipal Citi.s or town
Co,remN.zz 1   >   A O A H  U   l A tw  C  ._                                                 Dioidod ldgKrwoys
CALIf  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                         iSelected snair r-ds
Ri-et
-It  ati l bo-ndr-ies
< <st < ................. ij'C<        ......4.                     Gu//    of   M e:xico
FPA4CI/FI/C   O CE/A N                                                                                             Med         - _I 
KIICS TER  XO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mrnl IWXC t:                        Job 8W 0_ ..,poh               r4   QU:   , A
D.-  CAS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CMEH
htO,, mop~~ hosw  bnpropornd byrhe WnrId Ce,,n.,wee,tohecls y oor Jtho I\n'
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ u                                  s    Ie     I h t '   N 0
;    ,  ,     ,, fnrh,rre ,, - h,oeotT1heW\ n                                                             *\d
en                g                                    ~~~~~~~   ~    ~    ~~~~~~~~~Tapachcla  - HONDURAS
o                               ;   loo   .                               \          s,o-  I.-L >   FEERUfRY 1991. 
trw. -









IMAGING
Report No.:         24118  ME
Type:     PAD



