Report No. 23922
Report No: I077602 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 04/01/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: MEXICO Project ID: P077602
Project: MX TAX ADMIN INST DEV Task Team Leader: Steven Benjamin Webb
Authorized to Appraise Date: April 29, 2002        IBRD Amount ($m): 0.05
Bank Approval: June 18, 2002      IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: LCSPE     Sector: BF - Public Financial Management
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The project objective is to improve tax compliance and reduce evasion of
internal national taxes in order to increase Government revenues by
increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of the Mexican Government's
Tax Administration Service (SAT).
I.A.3. Project Description:
The project would mainly finance consulting services over five years for
the following components:
I: Planning, Management & Organization
II: Human, Financial and Physical Resource Management
III: Information Hub
IV: Technology Services
V: Taxpayer Compliance Cycle
VI: Compliance Control and Enforcement
VII: Taxpayer Services
VIII: State tax administration
IX: Special Projects
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
Mexico
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments:
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)          No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No



Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
NA
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
NA
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
NA
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
NA
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
NA
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
NA
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
[XI S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
- 2-



F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)       Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Steven Benjamin Webb    4/01/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Juan D. Quintero         4/01/02
Sector Manager/Director:         Ronald E. Myers 04/01/02
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 3 -



