Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7127-ME 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Tax Administration Institutional Development Project) 
 
between 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 30, 2002 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7127-ME 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 30, 2002, between UNITED MEXICAN 
STATES (the Borrower), represented by its signatory on page 11 of this Agreement, and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower is a signatory of the 
Articles of Agreement of the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
 (the international treaty by 
which the Bank was created), which 
Articles of Agreement
 contain, 
inter alia
,
general 
provisions relating to loans extended by the Bank; 
(B) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“FMR” means each financial monitoring report referred to in Section 
4.02 of this Agreement; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
“NAFIN” means 
Nacional Financiera S.N.C.
,
a
Mexican development 
bank serving as the Borrower’s financial agent for purposes of the Loan;  
(c) 
“NAFIN Contract” means the contract referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of 
this Agreement; 
 
(d) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.03 (a) 
of this Agreement, as such manual may be amended from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank; 
 (e) 
“SAT” 
means 
Servicio de Administración Tributaria
,
the Borrower’s 
Tax Administration Service created pursuant to the SAT Law, or any successor thereto 
acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(f) 
“SAT Law” means the Borrower’s tax administration law (
Ley del 
Servicio de Administración Tributaria
)
published on December 15, 1995 in the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette (
Diario Oficial de la Federación
), and entered into effect on 
July 1, 1997, and said term includes the regulations to said law, as said law and 
regulations have been amended to the date of this Agreement; and 
 (g) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to fifty-two million 
Dollars ($52,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar 
payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions. 
Page  4
-
3
-
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, cause NAFIN to open 
and maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit account on the Borrower’s behalf 
either: (i) in 
Banco de México 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; or (ii) in 
NAFIN on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment; or (iii) in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2007 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee.  
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
Page  5
-
4
-
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 2.10.  The 
Director de Financiamientos Internacionales
 of NAFIN and 
any person or persons whom he or she shall designate in writing is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted 
to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the 
General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through SAT (with the assistance of 
NAFIN pursuant to the NAFIN Contract), all with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and fiscal practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 3.02. 
(a) The Borrower, through SAT, shall enter into a contract 
(
Contrato de Mandato
)
with NAFIN, satisfactory to the Bank, whereby: 
(i) 
NAFIN agrees to act as financial agent of the Borrower with 
regard to the Loan, meaning that, 
inter alia
,
NAFIN agrees to 
represent the Borrower vis-
à-vis the Bank for purposes of 
submitting Loan withdrawal applications to the Bank in form 
and substance sufficient to justify disbursement by the Bank to 
the Borrower of Loan proceeds, agrees to maintain and operate 
the Special Account in compliance with the terms of this 
Agreement, agrees to ensure that the obligations set forth in 
Article IV of this Agreement are complied with as pertain to the 
Special Account and agrees to participate in the review referred 
to in Section 3.05 (d) of this Agreement; and 
(ii) 
the Borrower agrees that, through SAT, the Borrower shall 
cooperate fully with NAFIN to ensure that NAFIN is able to 
comply with all of NAFIN’s obligations referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under 
the NAFIN Contract in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not amend or fail to enforce any provision of the NAFIN Contract.  In 
case of any conflict between the terms of the NAFIN Contract and those of this 
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 3.03. (a) Without prejudice to Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the 
Borrower, through SAT, shall carry out the Project in accordance with an operational 
manual satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, the Project indicators, 
procedures and requirements on Project accounting, internal controls, planning, 
budgeting, financial reporting (including format and contents of FMR), auditing and 
disbursements. 
 
(b) 
In case of discrepancy between the provisions of the Operational Manual 
and those of this Agreement, the provisions set forth in this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 3.04.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 3.05. The Borrower, through SAT, shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the 
Operational Manual, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, each February 15 and August 15 during Project implementation, starting with 
the report due not later than February 15, 2003, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the calendar semester 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; 
(c)  
not later than February 15 of each year during Project implementation, 
starting with the procurement plan due not later than February 15, 2003, prepare and 
furnish to the Bank, a procurement plan, acceptable to the Bank, which plan shall include, 
inter alia
,
the Project activities to be carried out by the Borrower during the twelve 
calendar months following the presentation of said plan, a timetable for the 
implementation of said Project activities and the appropriate procurement methods as 
provided in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
(d) 
review with the Bank and NAFIN, starting on March 31, 2003, or such 
later date as the Bank shall request, the pertinent reports referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section, and, thereafter, take or cause to be taken all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based 
on the conclusions and recommendations of the said repor
ts and the Bank’s views on the 
matter. 
Section 3.06. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through SAT, shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01.  (a)  The Borrower shall maintain - through SAT - and cause 
NAFIN to maintain, a financial management system, including records and accounts, and 
prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, through SAT, and shall cause NAFIN to: 
(i) 
cause the records, accounts and financial statements referred to 
in paragraph (a) of this Section, and the records and accounts for 
the Special Account, for each fiscal year to be audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank 
consistently applied, by independent and qualified auditors; 
(ii) 
furnish (or cause to be furnished) to the Bank as soon as 
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end 
of such year: (A) certified copies of the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such financial statements, records 
and accounts and a report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested (including, as part of the information to be provided in 
the first such report, a management letter concerning SAT’s and 
NAFIN’s internal controls); and 
(iii) 
furnish (or cause to be furnished) to the Bank such other 
information concerning said records and accounts and the audit 
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall, 
through SAT, and shall cause NAFIN to: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
Page  9
-
8
-
(ii) 
retain or cause to be retained until at least one year after the 
Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.05 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, through SAT 
and with assistance of NAFIN, prepare and furnish  to the Bank a financial monitoring 
report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover such calendar semester.  
Page  10
-
9
-
ARTICLE V
 
Remedies of the Bank
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the Borrower’s institutional or legal 
framework (or any provision thereof) enabling or supporting this Project, as determined 
by the Bank, as of the date of this Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as to affect materially 
and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower to carry out the 
Project. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the events specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Operational Manual has been issued by the Borrower in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(b)  
the NAFIN Contract has been entered into by the Borrower and NAFIN. 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Borrower (in its legal opinion) and 
NAFIN (in a separate legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, issued by NAFIN counsel 
acceptable to the Bank), indicate that the NAFIN Contract has been duly authorized or 
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and NAFIN and is 
legally binding upon the Borrower and NAFIN in accordance with the NAFIN Contract’s 
terms. 
Section 6.03. The date December 30, 2002 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this Agreement, the 
Director 
General de Crédito Público
 of the Borrower’s Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Secretaria de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
 
Dirección General de Crédito Público 
 
Palacio Nacional 
 
Patio Central 
 
3er piso, oficina 3010 
 
Colonia Centro 
 
06000 Mexico, D.F. 
 
Cable address:   
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
1777313-SHOCME  
 
011-52-5-228-1156 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
By /s/ Francisco Gil Díaz 
 
Authorized Representative 
Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ James D. Wolfensohn 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  13
-
12 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) Works 
500,000 
70% 
 
(2) 
Goods 
8,520,000 
100% of foreign  
 
expenditures and 86%  
 
of
local expenditures  
 
(3) 
Consultants' 
41,460,000 
100% of foreign  
 services 
 
 
expenditures 
and 
83% 
 
of
local expenditures 
 
(4) Training 
1,000,000 
83% 
 
(5) 
Front-end fee 
520,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(6) 
Premia for Interest 
0 
Amount due under 
 
Rate Caps and 
 
Section 2.09 (c) of 
 
Interest Rate Collars 
 
this Agreement 
 
________ 
 TOTAL 
52,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
Page  14
-
13 - 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Training” means expenditures for the reasonable cost of the 
carrying out of workshops, seminars and studies (including equipment and facility rental, 
printed material, travel and 
per diems 
and excluding trainer fees). 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding an amount equal to 
$5,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after February 10, 2002 (but in no case made more than twelve 
months before the date of this Agreement).  
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for works, with 
the exception of the contracts that are subject to prior review by the Bank as set forth in 
Part D.2 of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (b) contracts for goods costing less 
than $500,000 equivalent each, with the exception of the first two contracts; (c) contracts 
for the employment of consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (d) 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower; and (e) contracts for training activities. 
Page  15
-
14 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to strengthen SAT’s institutional and operational 
capacity for purposes of improving tax compliance and reducing evasion of federal taxes. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Taxpayer Services
Strengthening of SAT’s taxpayer services through, 
inter alia
:
(a) the design and 
implementation of a SAT e-strategy, including the redesign and simplification of 
processes concerning taxpayers’ filing of tax revenues and other related documentation, 
as well as tax payment obligations and other tax obligations; (b) the improvement of the 
services to taxpayers; (c) the redesign of  stakeholders’ surveys and other mechanisms for 
assessing taxpayers’ feedback; (d) the design and establishment of a monitoring system 
for taxpayers’ complaints; (e) the improvement of the client service culture within SAT, 
including the design and adoption of taxpayers’ service standards; and (f) the design and 
implementation of a program to disseminate information to the public with respect to 
SAT’s activities.  
Part B
:
Management, Human, Financial and Physical Resources
1. 
Strengthening of SAT’s human resources management function, through, 
inter 
alia
:
(a) the preparation of new policies and procedures for selecting, hiring, managing, 
evaluating, training, sanctioning and laying-off its personnel; (b) the design and 
establishment of a human resource database; (c) the carrying out of a survey of  its staff’s 
competence, strengths and daily workload; (d) the identification of staff skill 
requirements; (e) the design and implementation of a training program for its staff; (f) the 
design and establishment of a performance management system for its staff (which 
system shall include a performance-based incentives sub-system); and (g) the 
development of a staff communication program. 
2. 
Strengthening of SAT’s financial resources management function, through, 
inter 
alia
:
(a) the carrying out of a review of its budget and accounting system; and (b) the 
creation of a database and the establishment of a system that will facilitate the use of 
budgeting as a planning tool.
 
Page  16
-
15 - 
 
3. 
Strengthening of SAT’s physical resources management function, through, 
inter 
alia
:
(a) the acquisition and implementation of a physical resources management system, 
which system shall include an initial inventories and control sub-system; and (b) the 
establishment of a confiscated/held merchandise inventory and a system for monitoring 
the disposal of said merchandise.
 
4.
 
Strengthening of SAT’s services (such as through design and implementation of 
surveys, and design and development of application systems) to units and/or staff within 
SAT, through, 
inter alia
:
(a) the definition of policies for the provision of said services; 
(b) the establishment of an inventory of potential service providers; and (c) the design of 
criteria for the selection and hiring/contracting of said service providers.
 
Part C
:
Information Hub
Strengthening of SAT’s capacity to disseminate and manage information within 
and outside of SAT, through, 
inter alia
:
(a) the designation of a chief information officer; 
(b) the definition of policies governing access to, and security of, said information; (c) the 
development of processes and systems to enable SAT’s staff to access and share 
information from current operational databases; (d) the development of databases which 
can be accessed by SAT’ staff or the general public for purposes of obtaining information 
on SAT’s activities and services; and (e) the development of systems for assuring the 
maintenance of proper quality control and management of SAT’s information systems. 
 
Part D
:
Technology Services
Strengthening of SAT’s information technology capacity, through, 
inter alia
:
(a) 
the development of an information technology and communications strategy consistent 
with SAT’s business plans and objectives; (b) the development of strategies for 
information security and integrity, including the implementation of firewalls; (c) the 
development and implementation of a plan for the resumption of information technology 
services in the event of damage caused by a disaster or other disruptive event; (d) the 
development of a contingency plan for minor technical faults of equipment, including the 
acquisition and utilization of backup equipment; (e) the development of a plan for 
hardware consolidation and upgrading, and the acquisition and utilization of the hardware 
and software for purposes of testing the integration of SAT’s systems; (f) the 
centralization of databases and information systems; (g) the upgrade of existing 
equipment; (h) the carrying out of studies of office workflows and viable document 
management options and the scanning of archived documents; (i) the development and 
introduction of automated administrative systems; and (j) carrying out minor works to 
prepare offices for equipment installation and cabling. 
Page  17
-
16 - 
 
Part E
:
Compliance Process
Implementation of the SAT’s taxpayer compliance function through, 
inter alia
:
(a) the upgrade of the taxpayer registry; (b) the creation of the single taxpayer account; 
(c) the development of databases encompassing taxpayer information obtained from 
internal and external sources, and the establishment of control systems for said databases; 
(d) the improvement of the taxpayer notification system; and (e) the creation of an 
internal SAT survey service.  
 
Part F
:
Control and Enforcement
Strengthening of SAT’s compliance control functions through, 
inter alia
:
(a) the 
development of criteria for selecting cases to be audited; (b) the review of the entire 
process of tax compliance enforcement and development of systems that will govern and 
evaluate SAT’s auditor performance; (c) the design of methods for tax evasion tendency 
identification; (d) the development of tax evasion audit review guidelines and methods; 
(e) the carrying out of studies on tax evasion; and (f) the development of systems for 
monitoring the status of cases involved in dispute resolution and judicial adjudication.
 
Part G
:
Planning and Quality Control
Strengthening of SAT’s planning, management, and quality control functions, 
through, 
inter alia: 
(a) the development of: (i) multi-year strategic plans and annual 
operation plans; (ii) management policies, guidelines and procedures; and (iii) policies 
and procedures for quality control of SAT’s operations; and (b) the strengthening of the 
functions and responsibilities of the advisory group to SAT’s president to enable said 
group to assume the results management function and to assist SAT’s units in aspects of 
planning, management and quality control.  
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2006. 
Page  18
-
17 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
Beginning March 15, 2008 
5 % 
 
through September 15, 2017 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Page  19
-
18 - 
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  20
-
19 - 
 
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more each and contracts for works shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more. 
 
(b) 
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
(c) Notification 
and 
Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract shall be advertised in the Borrower’s public 
electronic advertising and bidding system (
COMPRANET
)
and in the Borrower’s Official 
Gazette (
Diario Oficial de la Federación
). 
 
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or 
more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts 
under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines. 
Page  21
-
20 - 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,480,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
(b) 
Procurement of goods under this Part shall be carried out using standard 
bidding documents acceptable to the Bank. 
2. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,160,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. 
Procurement of small works 
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount of $700,000 equivalent required to rehabilitate office space under Part 
D
(j) of the Project shall be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Bank, which procedures may include, inter alia, procurement under lump-sum, fixed-
price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion 
date, a basic form agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where 
applicable. The contract shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price 
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete 
the contract successfully. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
Page  22
-
21 - 
 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract for goods to be awarded under Part B and the first 
two contracts to be awarded under Part C.1 of this Section, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
1. Consul
tants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
2. 
A specific procurement notice shall be published in 
United Nations Development 
Business 
to obtain expressions of interest for contracts for consulting services estimated 
to cost more than $200,000 equivalent.
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The 
short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
Page  23
-
22 - 
 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Consultants’ services for assignments which involve intensive manpower activity 
(such as for the carrying out of surveys, inventories and document scanning) estimated to 
cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract and up to an aggregate amount of 
$1,500,000 equivalent, as approved by the Bank, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Consultants’ services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 
5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines and up to an aggregate amount of $5,480,000 equivalent 
shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Services to support training activities
Services to support training activities (including equipment rental and facilities 
rental) estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount of $1,160,000 equivalent shall be procured in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank, which procedures may include, inter alia, procurement under 
lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least 
three qualified domestic service providers - as it may correspond - in response to a 
written invitation. The contract shall be made to the bidder who offers the lowest price 
quotation for the required service, and who has the experience and resources to complete 
the contract successfully. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
Page  24
-
23 - 
 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more, the qualifications, experience, 
terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said 
approval shall have been given. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply, provided, however, that the terms of reference for the respective assignments shall 
be subject to the Bank’s prior review and approval. 
Page  25
-
24 - 
 
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1),  (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $4,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $2,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of $8,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
Page  26
-
25 - 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Page  27
-
26 - 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
