                                                 Document of
                                             The World Bank




                                                                                     Report No: ICR0000900

      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                              IBRD 71270

                                                   ON A

                                                   LOAN

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 52 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                 UNITED MEXICAN STATES

                                         IN SUPPORT OF A

                                    TAX ADMINISTRATION
                     INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                                              June 25, 2008




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Department
Colombia and Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                            FISCAL YEAR
                                        January - December 31

                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                                         (As of June 25,2008)
                                         Currency Unit = Peso
                                          10.28 Pesos = US$1

                                  WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                                             Metric Systems

                  ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS AND GLOSSARY

CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CPS         Country Partnership Strategy
FY          Fiscal Year
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GOM         Government of Mexico
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR         Implementation Completion and Results report
ICT         Information and Communications Technology
IDB         Inter-American Development Bank
IMF         International Monetary Fund
INTERNET    Inter-networking protocol for transmission of data through packets.
INTRANET    An Internet service restricted to a private group.
ISR         Implementation Status and Results Report
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS         Management Information System
NAFIN       National Financing Agent (Nacional Financiera)
NPV         Net present value
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PAU         Project Administration Unit
PCN         Project Concept Note
PDO         Project Development Objective
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
QAG         Quality Assurance Group
QSA6        Quality Supervision Assessment (6 point scale)
SAT         Tax Administration Service (Servicio de Administración Tributaria)
SHCP        Finance and Public Credit Secretariat (Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público)
TAL         Technical Assistance Loan
WBG         World Bank Group




                   Vice President:                      Pamela Cox
                   Country Director                     Axel van Trotsenburg
                   Sector Manager                       Nick Manning
                   Project Team Leader                  Alberto Leyton
                   ICR Team Leader                      Alberto Leyton

                                                 MEXICO
                  Tax Administration Institutional Development Project


                                     Table of contents 

1.    Project Context, Development Objectives and Design................................................................1
2.    Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes...............................................................4
3.    Assessment of Outcomes................................................................................................................7
4.    Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ...........................................................................11
5.    Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance......................................................................12
6.    Lessons Learned ...........................................................................................................................13
7.    Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners.........................14
\Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing ...................................................................................................15
Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing ....................................................................................................15
Annex 2: Outputs by Component ............................................................................................................16
Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis............................................................................................27
Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Process.......................................28
Annex 5: Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) .........................................................................................29
Annex 6: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ...........................................................................30
Annex 7: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR...........................................31
Annex 8: Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .............................................36
Annex 9: List of Supporting Documents .................................................................................................37
Annex 10: List of People Interviewed......................................................................................................39




                                                      i

A. Basic Information

                                                                     MX Tax Admin
Country:                Mexico                 Project Name:         Institutional
                                                                     Development
Project ID:             P077602                L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-71270
ICR Date:               06/26/2008             ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                     UNITED MEXICAN
Lending Instrument:     TAL                    Borrower:
                                                                     STATES
Original Total
                        USD 52.0M              Disbursed Amount:     USD 52.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Servicio de Administracion Tributaria
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        03/12/2002     Effectiveness:       03/28/2003         03/28/2003
Appraisal:             05/07/2002     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/18/2002     Mid-term Review:     09/18/2006
                                      Closing:             06/30/2007         12/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory           Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Highly Satisfactory    Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:      Highly Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory           Performance:          Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators           (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry
                                                                   None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          No                                       Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                             100               100


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Administrative and civil service reform                      Secondary         Secondary
Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                             Secondary         Secondary
procurement
Tax policy and administration                                 Primary          Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:           Pamela Cox                       David de Ferranti
Country Director:         Axel van Trotsenburg             Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:           Nicholas Paul Manning            Ronald E. Myers
Project Team Leader:      Alberto Leyton                   Steven Benjamin Webb
ICR Team Leader:          Alberto Leyton
ICR Primary Author:       Alberto Leyton



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project's objective is to increase government tax collection by facilitating voluntary
compliance and reducing tax evasion thereby improving the efficiency and effectiveness
of the Mexican Government's Tax Administration Service (SAT).

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




                                             ii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally    Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from        Revised    Achieved at
                                               approval          Target    Completion or
                                              documents)         Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Reduction in tax evasion
Value
quantitative or 39%                       Not yet estimated
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2001                  06/29/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally    Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from                   Achieved at
                                               approval          Revised   Completion or
                                              documents)      Target Values Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Expansion of tax payers base
Value
(quantitative   7,558,000 payers          Not yet estimated
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2002                  06/29/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Reduction in transactions costs for tax compliance
Value
(quantitative   Not yet estimated         Not yet estimated
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/01/2003                  06/29/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Reduction in tax collection costs
Value
(quantitative   MX 1.43 cents per peso    Not yet estimated
or Qualitative) collected

Date achieved 12/31/2002                  06/29/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                               iii

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                            Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived            DO                 IP         Disbursements
                                                         (USD millions)
  1   12/20/2002        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             0.00
  2   06/17/2003        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             0.52
  3   12/17/2003        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             0.55
  4   06/09/2004        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             0.98
  5   12/10/2004        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             6.79
  6   04/22/2005        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           11.83
  7   11/11/2005        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           21.80
  8   07/18/2006        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           45.45
  9   12/27/2006        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           48.82
  10  06/13/2007        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           51.46
  11  12/20/2007        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           51.83



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                      iv

1.        Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1       Context at Appraisal

In the early 2000s, the Mexican political system was undergoing a profound transformation. Vicente Fox'
electoral victory in July 2000 ended 71 years of one-party domination, and more fundamentally, threw open
the country's structure of political incentives, power equilibrium, and decision-making mechanisms (Country
Assistance Strategy Progress Report of May 21st, 2001).

Because of the role played by growth in poverty reduction in Mexico, government invested in broad-based
social expenditures (social security, health care, education) as well as targeted programs to fight poverty,
expand the income and employment opportunities of the poor, and improve physical infrastructure. The
scope of the programs increased continuously, and to continue to grow, funding had to increase.

However, despite efforts in the early 1990s which temporarily pushed up federal revenues as a share of GDP,
the overall share of tax revenues in Mexico in 2002 had changed little over the last two decades. By
international and middle-income Latin American standards, tax collections in Mexico were comparatively
low. Tax revenues administered by the federal tax administration (Servicio de Administración Tributaria,
SAT) (excluding oil sector revenues) in 2002 were only about 9.58 percent of GDP1, putting Mexico towards
the bottom of the Latin American ranking of tax revenues to GDP at that time. Moreover, the gap between
Mexico's tax to GDP ratio and those of most Latin American countries with similar per capita GDPs was
growing.

These deficiencies existed even though Mexico had frequent (and some quite major) tax policy changes in
1978-80, 1983, 1985-86, 1988, 1990-91, 1993-95, 1997-98, and 2002. None of them were as successful as
the Government had originally hoped. Tax evasion was high (approximately 39% at the end of 2001), and
revenues from personal income tax were declining as a share of GDP.

The stage was set for substantial reform to increase non-oil tax revenues. Deficiencies in the operations of
tax administration (SAT, created in 1997) contributed to the low levels of compliance and revenue. Taxpayer
coverage was insufficient at 7.15 million registered taxpayers, with potentially 12.5 million unregistered
taxpayers (this does not include the 17.5 million employees, 4.4 million exempt agricultural workers, and 1.5
million domestic employees, at the time under no obligation to register). Of the registered taxpayers, 5.8
million were obliged to present tax returns, but only 3.95 million presented them on time.

In 2002, SAT was organized vertically by function, a type of structure which was beginning to be obsolete
and which favored "turfs" and power plays based on "ownership" of information, as well as independent
decision-making and action. Information was not shared easily or in a timely fashion internally, which made
information-based processes such as taxpayer audit selection very difficult. It was also not easily shared
externally (an old and typical tax administration failing), which facilitated lack of accountability and
transparency as well as limiting customer service.

1.2       Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The objective of the Project was to strengthen SAT's institutional and operational capacity for purposes of
improving tax compliance and reducing evasion of federal taxes.

Key performance indicators:
         Effectiveness:
                  Increase in revenues due to tax administration improvement


1This percentage of the GDP was not calculated with the new series of the GDF that were released by the National
Institute of Geography and Informatics on April, 2008.

                 Increase in taxpayer coverage
                 Increase in taxpayer perception of evasion risk
                 Increase in taxpayer perception of SAT effectiveness

         Internal Efficiency:
                 Decrease in the cost to the Service per peso collected.
                 Decrease in SAT's average collection time per peso

         External Efficiency:
                 Decrease in the taxpayer's cost of compliance
                 Decrease in taxpayer's time for compliance

1.3      Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
         PDO was not modified.

1.4      Main Beneficiaries
A more efficient tax administration and a broader tax base increase the equity of the tax system and help
reduce the relative tax burden on the poor; increases in revenue provide funding for social programs and
poverty reduction. To this extent, the beneficiaries are all Mexican citizens. The reduction in the cost of
compliance could be considered to benefit all taxpayers.


1.5      Original Components (as approved)
Component 1- eSAT and Taxpayer Services (6.6% of the total project cost ­ US$5.38 million, of which
US$3.71 million was Bank financing)
Strengthening of SAT's taxpayer services through, inter alia: (a) the design and implementation of a SAT e-
strategy, including the redesign and simplification of processes concerning taxpayers' filing of tax revenues
and other related documentation, as well as tax payment obligations and other tax obligations; (b) the
improvement of services to taxpayers; (c) the redesign of stakeholder surveys and other mechanisms for
assessing taxpayers' feedback; (d) the design and establishment of a monitoring system for taxpayer
complaints; (e) the improvement of the client service culture within SAT, including the design and adoption
of taxpayers' service standards; and (f) the design and implementation of a program to disseminate
information to the public with respect to SAT's activities.

Component 2 ­ Management: Human, Financial and Physical (22.9% of the total project cost ­
US$18.82 million, of which US$11.33 million was Bank financing).
1. Strengthening of SAT's human resources management function, through, inter alia: (a) the preparation of
new policies and procedures for selecting, hiring, managing, evaluating, training, sanctioning and laying-off
its personnel; (b) the design and establishment of a human resource database; (c) the carrying out of a survey
of its staff's competence, strengths and daily workload; (d) the identification of staff skill requirements; (e)
the design and implementation of a training program for its staff; (f) the design and establishment of a
performance management system for its staff (which will include a performance-based incentives sub-
system); and (g) the development of a staff communication program.

2. Strengthening of SAT's financial resources management function, through, inter alia: (a) the carrying out
of a review of its budget and accounting system; and (b) the creation of a database and the establishment of a
system that will facilitate the use of budgeting as a planning tool.

3. Strengthening of SAT's physical resources management function, through, inter alia: (a) the acquisition
and implementation of a physical resources management system, which will include an initial inventories and




                                                      2

control sub-system; and (b) the establishment of a confiscated/held merchandise inventory and a system for
monitoring the disposal of the merchandise.

4. Strengthening of SAT's services (such as through design and implementation of surveys, and design and
development of application systems) to units and/or staff within SAT, through, inter alia: (a) the definition of
policies for the provision of the services; (b) the establishment of an inventory of potential service providers;
and (c) the design of criteria for the selection and hiring/contracting of the service providers.

Component 3 ­ Information Hub (12.9% of the total project cost ­ US$10.56 million, of which US$7.91
million was Bank financing).
Strengthening of SAT's capacity to disseminate and manage information within and outside of SAT,
through, inter alia: (a) the designation of a chief information officer; (b) the definition of policies governing
access to, and security of, the information; (c) the development of processes and systems to enable SAT's
staff to access and share information from current operational databases; (d) the development of databases
which can be accessed by SAT' staff or the general public for purposes of obtaining information on SAT's
activities and services; and (e) the development of systems for assuring the maintenance of proper quality
control and management of SAT's information systems.

Component 4 ­ Technology services (20.9% of the total project cost ­ US$17.12 million, of which
US$12.82 million was Bank financing).
Strengthening of SAT's information technology capacity, through, inter alia: (a) the development of an
information technology and communications strategy consistent with SAT's business plans and objectives;
(b) the development of strategies for information security and integrity, including the implementation of
firewalls; (c) the development and implementation of a plan for the resumption of information technology
services in the event of damage caused by a disaster or other disruptive event; (d) the development of a
contingency plan for minor technical faults of equipment, including the acquisition and utilization of backup
equipment; (e) the development of a plan for hardware consolidation and upgrading, and the acquisition and
utilization of the hardware and software for purposes of testing the integration of SAT's systems; (f) the
centralization of databases and information systems; (g) the upgrade of existing equipment; (h) the carrying
out of studies of office workflows and viable document management options and the scanning of archived
documents; (i) the development and introduction of automated administrative systems; and (j) carrying out
minor works to prepare offices for equipment installation and cabling.

Component 5 ­ Compliance Process (20.9% of the total project cost ­ US$17.16 million, of which US$5.59
million was Bank financing).
Implementation of the SAT's taxpayer compliance function through, inter alia: (a) the upgrade of the
taxpayer registry; (b) the creation of the single taxpayer account; (c) the development of databases
encompassing taxpayer information obtained from internal and external sources, and the establishment of
control systems for the databases; (d) the improvement of the taxpayer notification system; and (e) the
creation of an internal SAT survey service.

Component 6 ­ Compliance control and enforcement (10.9% of the total project cost ­ US$8.95 million,
of which US$7.51 million was Bank financing).
Strengthening of SAT's compliance control functions through, inter alia: (a) the development of criteria for
selecting cases to be audited; (b) the review of the entire process of tax compliance enforcement and
development of systems that will govern and evaluate SAT's auditor performance; (c) the design of methods
for tax evasion tendency identification; (d) the development of tax evasion audit review guidelines and
methods; (e) the carrying out of studies on tax evasion; and (f) the development of systems for monitoring
the status of cases involved in dispute resolution and judicial adjudication.

Component 7: Planning and Quality Control (4.3% of the total project cost ­ US$3.51 million, of which
US$2.60 million was Bank financing)


                                                       3

Strengthening of SAT's planning, management, and quality control functions, through, inter alia: (a) the
development of: (i) multi-year strategic plans and annual operation plans; (ii) management policies,
guidelines and procedures; and (iii) policies and procedures for quality control of SAT's operations; and (b)
the strengthening of the functions and responsibilities of the advisory group to SAT's president to enable the
group to assume the results management function and to assist SAT's units in aspects of planning,
management and quality control.

1.6      Revised Components

In December 16, 2004 activities were regrouped as a result of the new integrated SAT approach as well as
SAT's decision to outsource the use of equipment, and carry out all works with its own budget. Accordingly,
the loan's categories were changed with the full amount (except the front end fee) transferred to the
Consultant Services category. However, the activities themselves were not changed, nor the development
objectives modified.

1.7      Other significant changes

The project's original closing date of 6/30/2007 was extended for six months to 12/31/2007 as a result of the
unforeseen complexity of the integration of functions and the escalating and performance problems arising in
the solution on the production environment, which had unexpected ripple effects in other areas. This resulted
in some applications having to be rewritten, which the contractor agreed to do at its own expense.

2.       Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1      Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The ICR finds the quality at entry to be Satisfactory. The loan objectives were consistent with those of the
Bank as articulated in the 1999 CAS, subsequently reiterated in the 2000 CAS Update and the 2002 CAS, to
provide continuing assistance for the Government's fiscal reform program in the interests of assuring
macroeconomic stability, poverty reduction, and enhanced social sustainability. Bank ESW reports
underscored the need to increase Mexico's traditionally low domestic revenue collection. This was the
primary target of the project. The project also reflected the Government's own priorities, which called for the
modernization of the public sector.

The 2004 Quality Supervision Assessment (6 point scale) considered the quality at entry to be sound, but
affected by an unforeseen subsequent decision by the Secretary of Finance and Public Credit to launch a
"change management" initiative throughout the whole Ministry.

The soundness of the analysis is satisfactory, demonstrated by the fact that present efforts at modernization
of the SAT amounting in the past four years to about ten times the amount of the Bank loan, have expanded
on the initial activities defined at entry. The rationale for Bank involvement centered around the Bank's
provision of systematic technical as well as financial assistance, with Bank dialogue and close supervision
helping coordination and internal consistency. This rationale has been amply demonstrated: anecdotally, the
ICR team received repeated mentions of the importance of the Bank's technical assistance, and whereas the
government is no longer as dependent on Bank financing (see the Country Partnership for FY 2008-2013), it
is discussing a follow-on loan with the express purpose of securing the Bank's technical assistance.
Moreover, as discussed below, the Bank's provided continuity and more particularly oversight greatly
facilitated negotiations between SAT, Congress, and Government Oversight Entities for increased support
for modernization.

The project design was correct in its particulars. The appraisal team correctly identified a set of core actions
that needed to be taken and included them in this operation. Accordingly, project components focused on


                                                      4

well-defined areas of intervention, addressing the immediate issues of improving tax collection procedures,
strengthening enforcement mechanisms, and communicating/educating the public and Congress as to the
importance of a sound tax administration.

In an ideal world, more extensive process-driven diagnoses leading to a re-engineering of the institution and
resulting in aggregated activities for ease of implementation would have been appropriate; the diagnoses and
restructuring were in the event carried out two years into the project. However, the third strategic choice
mentioned in the PAD clearly states that government and the Bank decided to focus the project on what
could be reasonably achieved during the current administration. In view of the analysis of the organization,
which at the time was divided into responsibility silos and characterized by a lack of inter-institutional
cooperation and a dearth of shared information, it is difficult to see how the project design could have been
otherwise. This leads the ICR team to declare this aspect satisfactory.

Government commitment was demonstrated from the beginning with the creation of over thirty teams of
management and staff to study and develop project activities ­ over 150 feasibility studies were developed
during project preparation, from which over 100 sub-projects were prepared (these were later aggregated for
ease of implementation). On-going government commitment to the reform is demonstrated by the expansion
of the scope of the reform from the Borrower/Bank initial's US$82 million to US$550 million (own funds)
to-date.

2.2      Implementation
Several factors contributed to project success. The first factor was government commitment at the highest
levels, as attested by the large increases in funding for modernization, over and above World Bank funding
and much beyond what could be considered counterpart funding. The second factor was the continuity of
leadership - between SAT's creation in 1997 and 2003, SAT had six Chiefs; since 2003, the same individual
has filled that post. Last but not least, by the engagement and enthusiasm of the institution for reform.

The second major factor was the private sector management approach introduced by the new Chief of SAT to
the institution. This approach broke with many old paradigms which have hobbled tax administrations
worldwide ­ from "confidentiality of information precludes going outside the service for anything" through
"we are different from anyone else and thus we are the only ones who understand our issues". The extensive
use of management methodologies, including but by no means limited to Balance Scorecard for planning,
goal determination and management, an evaluation scheme aimed at encouraging team work (including
internal dissemination campaigns on the New Work Approach and the New SAT Culture), Project
Management Institute Methodologies for project management, a much improved Strategic Planning exercise,
the vastly increased participatory nature of decision-making as well as the transparency of both decision-
making and implementation, were very instrumental to the successes achieved by SAT.

The third major factor was the strong effort to realign the organization from its mission down to its activities,
with structure, incentives, culture pulling together in the same direction, assured by a strong change
management effort. The re-structuring of services, information and workflow around the taxpayer rather than
the organization was particularly effective. The realignment is particularly important in providing a strong
measure of assurance that the institution will continue to improve in effectiveness and efficiency after the
champions of change have left.

The fourth factor was the extensive change management effort combined with strong training activities in the
context of the project, in particular to senior and middle management, project administrators (see below) and
project leaders, but eventually to 95% of staff over three years, which among others proved to be a very
strong change management agent and substantially reduced resistance to change.

The fifth factor was the recognition, after initial difficulties, of the need for a strong projects administration
unit, which was created and staffed in 2004 and is now institutionalized in the General Administration for


                                                       5

Planning, which now closely evaluates and monitors all SAT projects, including those financed by the World
Bank, in addition to Strategic Planning, organizational and performance indicators, internal communications,
and risk management and models.

The sixth was the close working relationship achieved between the Bank and the Borrower, the technical
assistance provided by the Bank and in particular the oversight and continuity provided. To quote from the
presentation made by the Chief of SAT to the Engineering Academy of Mexico in April 2008, "the World
Bank's participation was extraordinarily useful in giving the project an integrated and institutional vision".
The ICR team was repeatedly assured that the Bank provided a level of transparency and confidence which
greatly increased the level of confidence by Congress and National Oversight Agencies that the
modernization was on the right track and the monies appropriately spent. This facilitating effect of the Bank
must be underscored as it is often underemphasized.

2.3      Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Six of the key indicators identified at appraisal have been adequately measured and they form part of the
SAT's Annual Report, which is published in paper form and is likewise available in the SAT Portal. The area
responsible for overseeing compliance with performance indicators was strengthened and placed within the
General Administration for Planning. There is therefore every indication that indicators will continue to be
measured and used.

Three indicators were not measured. The Cost and Time of Compliance to the Taxpayer indicators proved to
be overly complex to measure. Although a typology was created (12 types) and a consulting firm hired, the
firm was unable to carry the job to fruition. The failure was partly due to a lack of adequate expertise and a
miscalculation of the length of time required (in addition to the analysis, a specialist has to sit with each
client for a full cycle). However, SAT considers that the learning process was very fruitful, and the firm
provided information and a methodology which is now being used by SAT on a pilot basis with one firm.
One might assume that the cost and time of compliance have indeed been reduced, based on the increase of
the "Perception of SAT" indicator.

The indicator Decrease in SAT's Average Collection Time was not measured as it added no value in
measuring efficiency and identifying areas of improvement in the present highly electronic environment
where payment and return are presented via the internet.

2.4      Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Project Implementation was led by a Project Coordinator and SAT senior managers and supported in its
administration, accounting, procurement, Bank liaison and archiving by a Project Administration Unit with
no technical implementation responsibilities. The Project Administration Unit had adequate financial
management systems, software, and trained staff. No systemic problems were identified during
implementation. Although one contract was eventually cancelled after partial production, this was the result
of over-estimation by the contractor of its abilities and capacities vis-à-vis the complexity of the activities
required, and not the quality of the project's procurement administration. The project's five external audits
uniformly found reasonable the accounting system used and its internal controls, all financial statements
verified against accounting records, auxiliary records and supporting documentation, the exercise of the
budget for all approved activities and eligibility of the same, all documentation supporting SOEs, that the use
of funds from the loan were used solely for project purposes, the use of the appropriate exchange rates, and
in the last audit, confirmed the loan balance at the end of the loan.




                                                       6

2.5       Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

All activities defined within the framework of the project's design have been institutionalized, including
project administration. Several new units were created (e.g., centralizing surveys and data analysis, and the
project administration unit) and others were absorbed into existing or restructured units. The great majority
of the activities first proposed by the project have spawned larger and more complex follow-ups, which are
being carried out with government funding. Continuity of modernization is complete and seamless, and other
than the actions described below, continuous improvement is highly likely to be the norm in this institution.
Results from the first quarter of 2008 show:

                  17.8% increase in collections over the same period in 2007.
                  44,000 taxpayers registered
                  116.2% increase in collections from judicial cases with respect to the same period in 2007
                  The cost of collection decreased from 2007's 0.0075 pesos for each peso collected to 0.0069
                  27,631 staff hours of training compared to 31,128 for the whole of 2007

The next steps in modernization of the SAT would focus on improving the capacities of management and
personnel ("Human Capital Improvement") and the modernization of customs. The modernization efforts
carried out within the context of the project concentrated on the institution as collector of internal taxes;
however, part of SAT's mission is also to control the entry and exit of merchandise into the national territory.
Modernization of Customs will in part entail the extension of systems, back-office procedures and personnel
to Customs, e.g., in the strengthening of the collection of customs duties; it will also require strengthening of
totally new (in terms of efforts already carried out) activities dealing with border control, safety (e.g., guns
and drugs). Government is considering requesting Bank assistance in this matter.

3.        Assessment of Outcomes

3.1       Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objectives of the project were and continue to be relevant. In spite of progress made, Mexico collects
only 10.4% of GDP2, which is the lowest of all OECD countries and below the average of Latin American
countries. Mexico still faces serious problems of poverty and it needs an efficient and effective tax
administration to provide the engine for future growth, as described in President Calderon's National
Development Plan 2007-2012 and supported by the Bank via its 2008-2013 Country Partnership Strategy,
which was approved on March 4th 2008. In all fairness, there is every indication that SAT will continue to
make extensive and, if experience is a guide, in all probability successful efforts to improve its efficiency and
enlarge the tax base.




2This percentage of the GDP was not calculated with the new series of the GDF that were released by the National
Institute of Geography and Informatics on April, 2008.


                                                       7

3.2      Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The operation has achieved its development objectives on all significant indicators of success.
In spite of a reduction in the maximum income tax rate to 28% (VAT rate is still the same at 15%),
revenues have increased.




However, SAT must increase it overall effectiveness and efficiency, particularly in view of its relatively low
standing vis-à-vis other OECD countries as well as most other countries in Latin America.

The taxpayer base has been enlarged, although it is still far from containing all potential taxpayers (at present
estimated at 46.2 million3). From the "Informe Tributario 2007", published on May 2008:




The cost of collection has decreased. In cost for each peso collected:




3Instituto Nacional de Estadística, Geografía e Informática


                                                         8

And in general taxpayer perception of SAT has climbed:




In addition, the increase in efficiency in the management, control and operation of SAT, together with the
large amount of transparency introduced have had an effect on the perception by taxpayers of corruption
within the institution:




SAT is to be commended likewise for the high degree of transparency it has achieved, both within through its
internal dissemination methods and the information available through the SAT Intranet, which contains
among others directives to staff and the personnel roster, and without via the SAT Portal available through
the Internet, which contains, among others, a description of services, organization, instructions to taxpayers,
various application systems designed to assist in preparing and submitting tax returns, payments, and other
transactions including consulting the taxpayer's own transaction record, and the publishing of all multi-year
strategic plans, and annual reports including accomplishment and performance indicators.



                                                   9

3.3      Efficiency

Under any measure this project has been very effective, although again it must be underlined that the
modernization of SAT required substantial financing over that provided by the Bank, amounting to several
hundreds of millions of dollars. Still, the modernization has been cost effective, in increasing revenues by
over USD 10 billion for 2003-2007, and with yearly increases in collection, as follows:

                                                                          Year on year
                                                      Collections in       increases in
                                                     constant pesos         collection
                                          Year       (million pesos)   (million pesos)
                                          2003              170,265                  0
                                          2004              171,673             1,408
                                          2005              182,491            12,226
                                          2006              206,971            36,706
                                          2007              223,744            53,479



3.4      Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

It is extremely tempting to gauge the overall outcome as Highly Satisfactory in view of the excellent results
obtained by SAT either directly or indirectly due to the project and to Bank supervision and technical
assistance. In this the Bank fully acted according to its development mission, as well as its fiduciary
responsibilities. Nevertheless, the fact remains that the project itself only contributed and was not a
determinant of SAT achievements. Accordingly, a well-merited Satisfactory rating seems more appropriate,
considering that most of the ideas proposed in the original project were carried out with own funds.

3.5      Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
         N/A.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Strictly speaking, institutional strengthening achieved through the project itself proved Moderate. Although
it did promote the creation of several departments, the restructuring of SAT and the reassignment of
personnel and functions were carried out independently of the project, and most of the human resources
activities which would have led to institutional strengthening were postponed to be addressed in a follow-on
project.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts
         N/A

3.6      Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

In so far as the beneficiaries could be said to be the taxpayers, surveys show (see below) an increasing
confidence in SAT.




                                                       10

From: Informe Tributario 2007, SAT. May 2008

4.      Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Low to Negligible

President Calderon, in his National Development Plan 2007-2012, has as his first strategy (Estrategia 1.1) the
improvement of the tax administration. Recognizing that Mexico's collections are low relative to GDP, the
strategy explicitly aims to expand taxpayer coverage and reduce the times and cost of compliance to
taxpayers, among others, by continuing improvements to the tax administration, including infrastructure,
processes and personnel, and reviewing the legal framework to simplify it. Government ownership and
commitment seem assured, and there would seem to be no reason to doubt that the present achievements of
the SAT will be maintained and deepened. In light of the above, the overall Risk to Development Outcome is
considered Negligible.

Similarly, on the technical front, the risk of obsolescence is Negligible due to the outsourcing by SAT of
information technology services with explicit anti-obsolescence equipment clauses. The outsourcing takes
two forms: outsourcing of equipment services, and outsourcing of software development. For the first, SAT
bids out every year requests for the provision of equipment, specifying a certain level of performance,
together with maintenance and operation services (which include uninterruptible power supplies, air
conditioning, etc.). In this way the not uncommon government practice of using the same equipment, slowly
obsolescing equipment for many years is avoided. Similarly, SAT bids out a request for software
development personnel of various characteristics and experience. This "software factory" manpower hiring



                                                    11

concept permits SAT to closely control and manage system development without hiring permanent staff or
incurring in expensive and long training to bring staff up to date with the rapidly changing requirements of
the information technology industry.

Institutionally, SAT modernization is being carried out by qualified and motivated management and staff.
Project management is institutionalized and able, with adequate oversight and direction. Other factors such
as natural disaster exposure and environmental concerns are not applicable.

5.      Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: satisfactory

The Bank provided world class expertise in working with the Borrower in diagnosing the situation and
determining a set of activities to resolve them. The project had relevance to the country, and was supported
by the 2002 Country Assistance Strategy. Implementation arrangements by the Counterpart were more than
adequate ­ almost 300 management and staff participated in the initial definition of activities. However,
monitoring and evaluation arrangements were initially inadequate, and indicator baselines were not provided
to the supervision missions until well into the project.

In hindsight, the project should have been prepared over a much longer period, preceded by a re-engineering
study and a restructuring of the institution. This was at the time proposed to SAT and discarded after a very
strong negative response from the Agency, on the grounds that it had been restructured not too long before
and feared increased resistance to change. The Agency was not well integrated, information was not shared
(integrated information is vital to a tax administration), and the large change involved in reengineering seen
as too onerous and probably a critical factor in impeding a successful implementation. The project was
therefore deliberately defined to serve as a seed project with small, independent activities.

In the event, after two years, a new Chief of SAT did carry out a longer diagnostic followed by a re-
engineering process which integrated SAT functions and did away with the existing functional silos and the
reluctance to share information (component C: Information Hub, initially aimed at wresting information from
a reluctantly sharing Information Technology Department, was subsumed into an "Integral Solution",
process-driven based on common databases).

All activities defined initially continued to have validity, although not necessarily in the original component
structure. A good number were absorbed by the Technology Services Component, but all were implemented
by SAT (except for the Human Resources activities, which were deemed by SAT to be best considered after
the other activities had been carried out ­ they form part of a follow-on project being discussed between SAT
and the Bank).

In conclusion, project design provided to a large extent the direction and inspiration of the present
modernization of SAT. Compared with actual achievements, it was under-dimensioned, but the vigor and
vision of the current leadership of SAT's senior management could not have been foreseen.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Highly satisfactory

An early QAS6 on August 3rd, 2004, rated supervision as satisfactory ("2"). Since then, the Bank had an
exemplary role in helping the Implementing Agency to adjust to changes in the overall context as well as


                                                      12

providing excellent technical advice and assistance throughout the project. This technical assistance was
recognized by Implementing Agency and Borrower alike, and was instrumental in changing the dynamic of
the Bank's relationship with Mexico, with its emphasis on technical assistance and somewhat less on
financing (CSP May 4th, 2008).

In addition, consistent positive reports were received on the facilitating role of the Bank's supervision of the
project, in that the transparency and reassurance provided by the Bank's presence made it much easier to
proceed with obtaining funds for the project and the larger modernization effort. In this, Bank procurement
rules played a part, and present discussions to improve national procurement regulations are to an extent
influenced by experiences with this project.

Borrower Performance
a) Government performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Oversight by the Secretariat of Finance and by the National Financing Agency (NAFIN) proved satisfactory.
Political support for the modernization has been strong, and continues to be strong after the change of
administration.

b) Implementing Agency performance
Rating: Highly satisfactory

After a slow start, agency performance has been exemplary. Its commitment to the development objectives
has been clear throughout the project, its implementation arrangements more than adequate, and the quality
of management and staff involved superior. Issues have been addressed consistently and successfully, and
monitoring has been constant and thorough. Continuity of development objectives is stated in the 2007
Annual Report and the 2007-2012 Strategic Plan; project achievement continuity is assured in the
institutionalization of continuing implementation. The 2004 QSA6 indicated that the "contract for IT services
may be a model worth reviewing as an example of good practice for use by other PSM projects involving
modernization of information systems".

6.       Lessons Learned

Several lessons can be drawn from this operation. First, the paramount importance of automated processes in
a tax administration. All tax administrations are information-based; information is their input and their
output, and the organization needs to be structured around integrated, automation-based processes.

Second, the superlative importance of good leadership and good management. The extremely complex
process of modernizing any tax administration requires strong, committed leadership, convinced fully of the
need to modernize, enthusiastically championing the reform process; it also requires managerially
knowledgeable senior staff, experienced in management in both public and private sector institutions, very
familiar with the intricacies of complex project management. Traditional public sector is not well versed in
any of these skills.

Third, the importance of technical assistance, in the form of expertise from consulting firms and from tax
administrations world-wide. In contrast with many tax administration reform projects, the emphasis on this
operation was on technical assistance. Equipment was leased, not bought, with counterpart funds, as were the
infrastructure and office rehabilitation efforts required.

Fourth, the importance of supporting tax administration reform. From a financial point of view, it is an
extremely good investment. From an economic point of view, without an efficient and effective tax
administration, enforcing fully equitable tax laws, government is severely constrained in its efforts to


                                                       13

encourage growth and fight poverty. Tax administration reform should be a "no brainer" in the Bank's
arsenal of assistance.

Fifth, this operation demonstrates the importance of having several phases to the reform. It would have been
possible to address the human resource aspects of the reform, as well as, in this case, Customs. Leaving both
to a later phase shows a keen awareness of the implementation capacity of the institution as well as its
absorptive capacity, and this strategy has proven successful in permitting management to concentrate on the
possible.

Sixth, the importance of change management and training to reduce resistance and prepare the administration
for change. SAT not only prepared a careful change management campaign, which included lectures
nationwide by senior management, the continual dissemination of "Change Files" detailing how the
institution would look and feel after the proposed modernization, and e-magazines; SAT also prepared an
extensive training program, beginning with the so-called "Re-induction into SAT" which presented, both
through lectures, demos and e-learning, the new concepts of process-based procedures, risk management,
Citizen Language (i. e., how to interact with citizens and how to communicate clearly), the Ethics of the
Public Employee. SAT also offered specific training for management, taxpayer auditors and analysts, and
created special mass-training rooms, for the simultaneous training of up to 300 staff on individual,
interconnected computers. Over 90% of staff received training every year in one or another training program,
in some cases all programs.

7.       Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
The ICR was discussed with the Implementing Agency, and no issues were raised.




                                                   14

Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component


                                                     Appraisal
Total Costs             Components                 Estimate (USD      Actual Estimate   Percentage of
                                                     millions)         (USD millions)     Appraisal
1: eSAT/Taxpayer Services                                     5.38                1.80             34%
2: Human, Financial and Physical Management                  18.82                0.17              1%
3: Information Hub                                           10.56                0.00              0%
4: Technology Services                                       17.12               69.26            405%
5: Compliance Process                                        17.16                1.10              6%
6: Control & Enforcement Process                              8.95                3.82             43%
7: Planning and Quality Control                               3.51                0.03              1%
Front End Fee                                                 0.52                0.52            100%
                                         Total               82.00               76.70             94%

(b) Financing


                               Appraisal Estimate (USD      Latest Estimate (USD       Percentage of
       Source of Funds                millions)                   millions)             Appraisal
Borrower                                             30                      24.70                  82%
IBRD                                                 52                        52                 100%
Total                                                82                      76.70                  94%




                                                 15

Annex 2: Outputs by Component

A great number of the activities defined in the PAD were eventually financed by counterpart funds.
However, the fact that the initial project inspired and contributed to the larger reform activities while not
being fully responsible for the results obtained, that the same project governance structure and the same
administration unit were used, and that the Bank's supervisory technical assistance provided much needed
transparency and expert assistance leads the ICR Team to take a somewhat broader view on the activities of
the project. In this context, the activities below, which reflect exactly the loan agreement, are reviewed
regardless of whether fully or partly financed under the project.

Component 1- eSAT and Taxpayer Services.
Loan Agreement                 Reform Activities                          Results
Design                  and Part of the "Integral Solution" set of 94% of returns and payments are
implementation of a SAT activities, which changed the core tax electronically submitted (99% for
e-strategy, including the functions from function-driven to firms).
redesign                and process-driven and integrated them in
simplification            of a combined manual and automated set.         86.4% of refunds are electronically
processes      concerning                                                 carried out, directly into taxpayers'
taxpayers' filing of tax Filing,          payments,       and     other bank accounts.
returns and other related transactions have been simplified and
documentation, as well made accessible through the Internet.              67.4% of all operations (almost 50
as payment obligations                                                    million a year) are done through the
and other tax obligations; Development           of    an    Electronic Internet; 30% at Local Offices; and
                               Signature. The precise identification of 2.6% are paper-based.
                               taxpayers, the most critical element for
                               a tax administration, is done using ten 2      million   taxpayers    have   an
                               fingerprints by an out-sourced service electronic signature.
                               (US$500,000 per month) which also
                               issues the electronic signature.
Comment: highly satisfactory result with a positive trend for the future. Note that the electronic signature
activity clearly illustrates the cost involved in ensuring the efficiency of a tax administration.
Improvement of the             Workflow designed from a taxpayer Call center (outsourced) increased
services to taxpayers          perspective and procedures redone personnel from 120 in 2003 to 500
                               accordingly       for      66      local today.
                               administrations.                           Quality of telephone service has
                               Certification of local administrations increased (see graph below).
                               (ISO9000-2007).                            Quality and quantity of chat service
                               Interactive Voice Recognition system has increased (see graph below)
                               in operation.                              Perception of quality of service has
                               "Virtual     Office"     Program     for increased from 62% to 94% in 2007.
                               taxpayers introduced                       The number of taxpayers whose
                               Web-based query system in operation, perception of SAT is "good"
                               with FAQ and chat; upgraded highly increased from 53% in Oct. 2003 to
                               elaborate Portal with information and 86% in Dec. 2007.
                               instructions to taxpayers. Certified Visits to the Portal increased from 27
                               Internet Cafés permit filing of returns. million in 2003 to 207 million in
                               Taxpayers can consult their own files 2007.
                               to check on transactions from any
                               Internet point.




                                                        16

Component 1- eSAT and Taxpayer Services.
Loan Agreement                          Reform Activities                                                     Results

   5,000,000                                                                                                                                                   35%

   4,500,000
                                                                                                                                                               30%
   4,000,000

   3,500,000                                                                                                                                                   25%

   3,000,000                                                                                                                                                   20%
   2,500,000

   2,000,000                                                                                                                                                   15%

   1,500,000                                                                                                                                                   10%
   1,000,000
                                                                                                                                                               5%
     500,000

             0                                                                                                                                                 0%

                             01               02                  03               04                     05               06                    07
                               20               20                  20               20                     20               20                    20
                      L lamadas  R ecibidas               L lamadas  Atendidas              L lamadas  Abandonadas                  %  de Abandono



  120,000                                                                                                                                                     80%

                                                                                                                                                              70%
  100,000
                                                                                                                                                              60%
   80,000
                                                                                                                                                              50%

   60,000                                                                                                                                                     40%

                                                                                                                                                              30%
   40,000
                                                                                                                                                              20%
   20,000
                                                                                                                                                              10%

          0                                                                                                                                                   0%
                 e        b         r     r          y        n        l     o         p        t      v         c     e         b         r
                  En       Fe        Ma    Ab         Ma       Ju       Ju
                                                                              Ag        Se       Oc     No        Di    En        Fe        Ma        ***rbA
                    S es iones  R ecibidas              S es iones  Atendidas             S es iones  Abandonadas               %  de Abandono



Q uality of Taxpayer Services

(Scale 0-10)

                                                   2003 2004 2005 2006                               2007                        2008         Percentage
                                                                                                                                          Change
Aspects
                                                   Oct    Dic     Dic     Mar Jun      Sep     D ic  M ar Jun       Sep   D ic      Mar   Oct-03 - Mar-
                                                                                                                                          08


Quality of locales                                 8.04   8.57 8.69 8.70 8.79 8.96 8.77 8.60 8.91 8.82 8.84 8.61                              +7.08


Transparence of pro cedures                        7.24   8.55 8.62 8.65 8.56 8.87 8.76 8.45 8.80 8.69 8.85 8.53                              +17.81


Quality in personal service                        7.24   7.94 8.15 8.20 8.15 8.42 8.30 8.22 8.57 8.39 8.60 8.26                              +14.08


Availability of internet in the service
locales                                            -      8.39 8.68 8.46 8.47 8.62 8.34 7.93 8.41 8.33 8.42 8.13                              +0.24


Time for procedures                                5.96   7.11 7.59 7.77 7.69 8.21 7.69 7.55 8.04 8.06 8.43 8.07                              +35.40


Query resolution and inform ación
received                                           7.01   7.73 7.92 8.02 7.86 8.16 8.14 8.04 8.34 8.21 8.43 8.02                              + 14.40


Sim plification of procedures                      -      7.52 7.96 7.89 7.99 8.23 7.96 7.57 8.25 8.04 8.28 7.76                              + 3.74




Source: Information collected by the Administration of Quality Control, SAT. March 2008
Comment: highly satisfactory result with a positive trend for the future. Note: On October 27, 2007, the
Mexican Internet Association awarded to SAT the prize "Government e-Services" for the variety and


                                                                             17

Component 1- eSAT and Taxpayer Services.
Loan Agreement               Reform Activities                       Results
quality of applications offered through its Portal.
Redesign of                  Between 2003 and 2005, 10 surveys Surveys and Demographic Analysis
stakeholders' surveys        and 17 focus groups were financed by Administration created. In 2006 this
and other mechanisms         the Bank. This led to the creation of a area coordinated 4 large surveys and
for assessing taxpayers'     permanent area to coordinate these 12 focus groups, increasing the
feedback;                    activities for all areas of SAT, using coverage and types of the samples.
                             newer probabilistic and statistical This area today uses multivariate
                             inference       models.      Sampling analysis    to    identify   areas  of
                             methodologies and other are ISO9000 opportunity to improve services.
                             certified.                              Future activities include increasing
                                                                     considerably the size of the surveys,
                                                                     carrying out a new survey on aspects
                                                                     of  fiscal   civic  perception   and
                                                                     knowledge, and assistance to other
                                                                     SAT areas in the use of surveys to
                                                                     obtain   feedback     and    confirm
                                                                     hypotheses.
Comment: A highly satisfactory outcome, both in terms of execution and continuity.
Design and                                                           From          October          2006,
establishment of a                                                   recommendations,     recognition  of
monitoring system for                                                service,   and     complaints    are
taxpayers' complaints;                                               monitored    through    the  Integral
                                                                     Solution using internet.

                             Complaints, Thanks and Suggestions by Taxpayers




Source: Information collected by the Administration of Quality Control, SAT. March 2008
Comment: Satisfactory. System not mature yet.
Improvement of the           An evaluation of taxpayer personal Quality of service surveys indicate
client service culture       service methods was carried out by a an increase in taxpayer perception of
within SAT, including        consulting firm and revised procedures SAT quality from 62% in 2003 to
the design and adoption      implemented. Service standards have 94% in 2007.
of taxpayers' service        been     implemented,    and    service
standards;                   procedures ISO9000-2007 certified.
                             Client orientation and service is
                             rewarded by non-monetary incentives
                             after 360° review.



                                                     18

Component 1- eSAT and Taxpayer Services.
Loan Agreement             Reform Activities                          Results
Comment: highly satisfactory outcome.
Design and                 Annual      high     specific    publicity 1,297,234 out of 14,548,194 children
implementation of a        campaigns.      The      Portal     offers use SAT-inspired material in 5th and
program to disseminate     considerable information such as the 6th grade; 98,787 out of 3,301,555
information to the public  Strategic Plan and the Annual Report, pre-University students and 143,657
with respect to SAT's      instructions for returns and payments, out of 2,150,562 University students.
activities                 etc., and SAT (often in association Publications: the "Integral Solution",
                           with other entities) offers a wide the Strategic Plan, Annual Reports,
                           variety of publications. In addition, the Catalogue of Services and
                           Fiscal Civism campaign has produced Transactions, miscellaneous
                           educational material for children in the pamphlets and instructions.
                           5th and 6th grades, high school and
                           university.                                Radio SAT and TVSAT with various
                                                                      dissemination programs.
Comment: satisfactory. There are yet no measures on the impact of this information transmission.

Component 2 ­ Management: Human, Financial and Physical
Loan Agreement               Reform Activities                        Results
Preparation of new           This activity was deemed premature
policies and procedures for  ­ it will be carried out in the follow-
selecting, hiring,           on project with the Bank being
managing, evaluating,        considered.
training, sanctioning and
laying-off its personnel;
Design and establishment     The     Peoplesoft     ERP/GRP       in HR database created with full
of a human resource          introduced initially in December personnel data including biometrics
database;                    2004 and fully implemented by and electronic signatures.
                             November 2005.
Comment: highly satisfactory
Carrying out of a survey of  The profile for each staff was           34,638 staff evaluated.
its staff's competence,      defined.                                 Management Model applied to 6300
strengths and daily          Psychometric      evaluation    for  all middle managers
workload; Identification of  employees of SAT                         Management     training   for   4305
staff skill requirements;    A pilot ("Selection of distinctive participants.
Design and establishment     talent group") was carried out, a A classification of SAT staff was
of a performance             Management Model elaborated..            made and is the basis for a new
management system for its    Management training defined and incentive scheme and career path
staff (which system shall    implemented.                             which was introduced as a pilot in
include a performance-                                                one Administration earlier this year.
based incentives sub-
system);
Comment: Satisfactory.
Design and                 Training program includes induction, 71 hours average training per staff
implementation of a        specialized training, training spots for 31,128 staff in 2007.
training program for its   (e.g., one hour video presentations),
staff;                     etc.
Development of a staff     Staff is now informed through the Information Synthesis (daily), SAT
communication program.     Portal and through several internal and Community Magazine (monthly),
                           external publications                      SAT Notes (direct communiqués



                                                    19

                                                                     from the Chief of SAT (ad hoc),
                                                                     Radio SAT (internal and external
                                                                     information), TVSAT
Comment: highly satisfactory.
Strengthening of SAT's financial resources management function, through, inter alia:
Carrying out of a review    Done in the context of the Peoplesoft
of its budget and           ERP/GRP as previously explained.
accounting system;
Creation of a database                                               At present defining Activity-Based
and the establishment of                                             Costing.
a system that will
facilitate the use of
budgeting as a planning
tool.
Comment: moderately unsatisfactory. The budget is not yet used as a planning tool.
Strengthening of SAT's physical resources management function, through, inter alia:
Acquisition and             Part of the GRP.                         696 buildings in the database,
implementation of a                                                  information will be 100% complete
physical resources                                                   late 2008.
management system,
which system shall
include an initial
inventories and control
sub-system; and
Comment: moderately satisfactory but progressing.
Establishment of a          Part of the Integral Solution. Not yet in
confiscated/held            operation
merchandise inventory
and a system for
monitoring the disposal
of said merchandise.
Comment: moderately unsatisfactory.
Strengthening of SAT's services (such as through design and implementation of surveys, and design and
development of application systems) to units and/or staff within SAT, through, inter alia:
Definition of policies for  Not yet implemented
the provision of said
services;
Comment: Moderately Unsatisfactory. Without the activity-based accounting and budgeting planned for
2009-2010, internal contracts are very complicated to implement. However, the high degree of outsourcing
make internal contracts less crucial at this point.
Establishment of an         A large number of SAT's non-tax          In      2006      SAT   outsourcing
inventory of potential      specific activities are being out-       represented 18% of the market for IT
service providers           sourced, the largest being Information   in Mexico (US$845 million); in 2007
                            Technology Services.                     it reached 24% of the market
                                                                     (US$1,143 million).
Comment: Highly satisfactory. This increases the internal efficiency of the institution.
Design of criteria for the  N/A.      Procedures       follow    the
selection and               Procurement, Leasing, and Services
hiring/contracting of said  Law and its Regulations.
service providers.
Comment: satisfactory.



                                                     20

Component 3 ­ Information Hub: Strengthening of SAT's capacity to disseminate and manage
information within and outside of SAT
Loan Agreement             Reform Activities                        Results
Designation of a chief                                              This office was created in 2006 and
information officer;                                                institutionalized in Dec. 2007.
Comment: moderately satisfactory. The function is still under the Chief of ICT and not a business oriented
position independent of ICT services.
Definition of policies     The office of CIO has not yet issued
governing access to, and   formal policies for information quality,
security of, said          confidentiality, and security; however,
information;               SAT is operating adequately with pre-
                           CIO policies.
Comment: moderately satisfactory. New policies are not critical yet.
Development of             An information warehouse was created Created 2004.
processes and systems to   containing      shared       information
enable SAT's staff to      accessible to all areas. In addition, the
access and share           most important external databases are
information from current   collected annually and made available
operational databases;     to taxpayer auditing for analysis.
Comment: satisfactory.
Development of             The Portal was upgraded in August
databases which can be     2007 to provide this information. It is
accessed by SAT' staff     a highly complex and informative on-
or the general public for  line   information    base    containing
purposes of obtaining      information on activities, strategies,
information on SAT's       service quality indicators, etc.
activities and services
Comment: highly satisfactory
Development of systems     Several specific area have been created
for assuring the           to ensure quality control, security, and
maintenance of proper      testing. Development, and Central
quality control and        Administration of Security.
management of SAT's
information systems.
Comment: highly satisfactory




                                                    21

Component 4 ­ Technology services: Strengthening of SAT's information technology capacity


Loan Agreement            Reform Activities                       Results
Development of an          The Strategy includes the out-sourcing The Integral Solution comprises an
information technology     of equipment. It complies with a important outcome of the strategy
and communications         modern process-driven approach to
strategy consistent with   tax administration and is part of the
SAT's business plans       (published) Strategic Plan 2007-2012
and objectives
Comment: Highly Satisfactory
Development of             The Security Architecture and the
strategies for information Security Laboratory areas are charged
security and integrity,    with ensuring security and integrity.
including the
implementation of
firewalls
Comment: highly satisfactory
Development and            Disaster Recovery plans have been Adequate           plans  have      been
implementation of a plan   developed to provide partial solutions. developed.
for the resumption of      There are legal complications about
information technology     obtaining full coverage in case of
services in the event of   disaster (a separate technology center
damage caused by a         would be prohibitively expensive and
disaster or other          SAT already has one of the largest
disruptive event;          centers in Mexico). Existing plans are
                           reasonable.
Comment: satisfactory
Development of a                                                   84% of all equipment is third-party
contingency plan for                                               owned and run, contract includes
minor technical faults of                                          appropriate backup plans and up-
equipment, including the                                           time indicators.
acquisition and
utilization of backup
equipment;
Comment: highly satisfactory.
Development of a plan      A    System    Laboratory   has   been
for hardware               created, charged with pre-testing and
consolidation and          setting the stage for extensive user
upgrading, and the         testing (e.g., creation of massive test
acquisition and            databases).
utilization of the
hardware and software
for purposes of testing
the integration of SAT's
systems
Comment: highly satisfactory
Centralization of          This is the main thrust of the Integral
databases and              Solution
information systems;
Comment: highly satisfactory


                                                   22

Upgrade of existing       New third-party contracts assure the
equipment;                replacement of equipment before it
                          becomes obsolete.
Comment: highly satisfactory
Carrying out of studies                                         85% of all core transactions are now
of office workflows and                                         electronic  and    saved    in    the
viable document                                                 corresponding shared databases. The
management options and                                          remaining 15% is scanned. Back-
the scanning of archived                                        office documentation (accounting,
documents;                                                      personnel,   budget)     are    95%
                                                                electronic.
Comment: satisfactory
Development and           Peoplesoft ERP was introduced in
introduction of           Dec. 2005
automated administrative
systems
Comment: satisfactory
Carrying out minor        Major works have been carried out About 15% of total space, starting
works to prepare offices  under the "Our Space" program. with all taxpayer service modules
for equipment             Almost   60,000    sqm    have    been
installation and cabling. completely redone, offices lightened
                          up, new furniture acquired, and almost
                          35,000 personal computer installed.
Comment: highly satisfactory




                                                 23

Component 5 ­ Compliance Process: Implementation of the SAT's taxpayer compliance function
Loan Agreement             Reform Activities                         Results
Upgrade of the taxpayer    The Update and Registration Program From           7.2   million   individual
registry                   (PAR) has been working with state taxpayers and 531,000 firms, the
                           and local governments to upgrade the registry has grown to 22 million
                           registry.                                 individual taxpayers and 740,000
                                                                     firms.
Comment: Highly satisfactory. Continuing efforts with this program aim to achieving 35 million
registered taxpayers by 2010.
Creation of the single     Part of the Integral Solution             Testing is on-going.
taxpayer account
Comment: satisfactory
Development of             Part of the Integral Solution             In progress
databases encompassing
taxpayer information
obtained from internal
and external sources, and
the establishment of
control systems for said
databases;
Comment: satisfactory. Not all third party databases have been input.
Improvement of the         Part of the system is carried out Outsource bidding in progress
taxpayer notification      internally and part is going to be
system                     outsourced (notifications with least
                           risk)
Comment: moderately satisfactory.
Creation of an internal    Four level of surveys: Quality of Various            Annual,  bi-annual  and
SAT survey service.        service; Organizational Climate and monthly surveys on opinion and
                           Culture; Services provided by the feedback.
                           General Administration of Resources
                           and Services; Communication Means
                           and Content
Comment: satisfactory




                                                   24

Component 6 ­ Compliance control and enforcement: Strengthening of SAT's compliance control
functions
Loan Agreement            Reform Activities                       Results
Development of criteria   Experts from 7 tax administrations Global Risk Index of Individuals;
for selecting cases to be worldwide were invited to participate risk maps by region and type of tax.
audited; design of        in a forum on this subject; criteria Between 2004 and 2007, collection
methods for tax evasion   have been developed and are in use. from audits increased by about
tendency identification;  An area within the AG Planning in US$373 million.
development of tax        charge of risk management and
evasion audit review      modeling.
guidelines and methods
Comment: satisfactory
Review of the entire      Cases are distributed automatically to 90% of cases are relevant, and
process of tax            each    regional  branch,    where   a secondary collections are up. For
compliance enforcement    management committee assigns it to a every peso invested in auditing, 23.7
and development of        team leader, who in turn assigns the pesos were recovered in 2007; in the
systems that will govern  case according to complexity to an first quarter of 2008, this number
and evaluate SAT's        auditor. Only at this point will the went up to 47.8 pesos.
auditor performance       auditor know the name of the
                          entity/person to be audited. There is a
                          careful automated monitoring system
                          to   ensure   that  ISO9000-certified
                          auditing procedures are followed.
Comment: highly satisfactory.
Carrying out of studies   Studies in 1999 and 2001 were
on tax evasion            followed by the "Medición de la
                          Evasión Fiscal en México", Instituto
                          Tecnológico Autónomo de México,
                          2007, which reviewed evasión in
                          2004.
Comment: moderately satisfactory. Evasion studies should be carried out periodically more often.
Development of systems    Little systematic work done here, but In 2005 42.2% of cases were
for monitoring the status better management has improved decided in SAT's favor; in 2007,
of cases involved in      results                                 65.8%;     in   superior  court, the
dispute resolution and                                            numbers have not changed.
judicial adjudication
Comment: moderately satisfactory




                                                 25

Component 7: Planning and Quality Control: Strengthening of SAT's planning, management, and
quality control functions.
Loan Agreement             Reform Activities                       Results
Development of: (i)                                                The Portal contains the Strategic
multi-year strategic plans                                         Plan for 2007-2012, the Annual
and annual operation                                               Report (with indicators) for the last
plans; (ii) management                                             years.
policies, guidelines and
procedures; and (iii)                                              Management training programs have
policies and procedures                                            been implemented for about 6300
for quality control of                                             middle management.
SAT's operations
                                                                   ISO9000 certification for taxpayer
                                                                   service modules, and of 38 internal
                                                                   SAT      services, 28   have    been
                                                                   certified.
Comment: satisfactory. More work needs to be done on certifying internal services and measuring quality.
Strengthening of the                                               Managing group has reached a level
functions and                                                      of high cohesion and expertise.
responsibilities of the
advisory group to SAT's                                            Planning and quality control groups
president to enable said                                           have been created and
group to assume the                                                institutionalized.
results management
function and to assist
SAT's units in aspects of
planning, management
and quality control.

Comment: satisfactory.




                                                26

Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis

The project supported the modernization of México's tax administration systems, procedures and operations
to improve transparency, effectiveness and efficiency in tax collection and to meet the target of further
increases in state revenues needed to finance development needs. A modern integrated ICT system raised
productivity and facilitated information exchange across the tax administration. Through strengthened staff
capacity, integrity standards, and a more service-oriented approach the project enabled better taxpayer
services that reduced compliance costs for the private sector. In addition the project promoted voluntary
compliance and broadened tax bases through improved data integrity and effective risk management systems.

The project generated financial benefits for the Government through increased resulting from expanding tax
bases, both in terms of inclusion of additional tax payers and more transactions coming into the tax system
(enhanced tax payer registration, voluntary tax compliance and better risk management systems).

Economic benefits were generated through 1) increased operational efficiency and reduced administrative
costs of the tax administration and 2) reduced compliance costs for the tax payer through simplified tax
administration procedures and improved tax payer services.

In addition, the project can be considered to have produced non-measurable economy-wide benefits in terms
of enhanced fiscal management, reduced distortions, enhanced competition, more consistent enforcement of
and compliance with the tax legislation.

Under any measure this project has been very effective, although again it must be underlined that the
modernization of SAT required substantial financing over that provided by the Bank, amounting to several
hundreds of millions of dollars and that is it impossible to separate the effect of project financing from the
increased counterpart financing. Still, the modernization has been cost effective by any measure, increasing
revenues by over USD 10 billion for 2003-2007, and with yearly increases in collection, as follows:

                                                                        Year on year
                                                      Collections in     increases in
                                         Year    constant pesos (M)    collection (M)
                                         2003              170,265                 0
                                         2004              171,673              1,408
                                         2005              182,491             12,226
                                         2006              206,971             36,706
                                         2007              223,744             53,479




                                                     27

Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Process

(a) Task Team Members

           Names                          Title               Unit        Responsibility/
                                                                             Specialty

Lending

Bain, Katherine         Sr. Country Officer                  AFCW1  Civil Society &
                                                                    Participation
Braslavsky, Lea         Procurement Specialist               LCSPT Procurement
Fanta, Enrique          Consultant                                  Tax Administration
Formoso, Joseph         Disbursement Officer                 LOAEL
González, Pilar         Legal Counsel                        LEGLA
Holt, Patricia          Administrative Assistant             LCSPS
Leiva, Francisco        Consultant                                  Project Administration
Mejía, Luis José        Consultant                                  Tax Administration
Nissenbaum, Herman      Consultant                                  Project Editor
Ordóñez, Victor         Financial Management Specialist      LCSFM Financial Management
Davidson Palmer, Judith Consultant                                  Human Resources
Pastor, Reynaldo        Legal Counsel                        LEGLA
Sabella, María Angeles  Legal Counsel                        LEGLA
Singh, Harjit           Consultant                                  Information Technology
Talero, Eduardo         Consultant                           OPCPR Information Technology
Toscano, Ma. Guadalupe  Consultant                                  Operations
Toxtle, Elizabeth       Consultant                           LCC1C Task Assistant
Webb, Steven B.         Sr. Economist                        LCSCR Task Team Leader


Supervision/ICR
Beabes, LeeAnne         Sr. Program Assistant                LCSPT
Boyce, Daniel J.        Sr. Financial Management Specialist   OPC   Financial Management
Braslavsky, Lea         Procurement Specialist               LCSPT Procurement
Burdescu, Ruxandra      Consultant                                  Operations
Carrasco, Gabriela
Davidson Palmer, Judith Consultant                                  Human Resources
Del Villar, Azul        Consultant                                  Operations
Fanta, Enrique          Sr. Public Sector Specialist         LCSPS Tax Administration
Forero Ramírez, Henry   Sr. Information Officer              LCSPS Information Technology
González, Alejandra     Language Team Assistant              LCC1C
Gourfinkel, Dmitri      Consultant                                  Financial Management
Ibarra, Jania           Consultant                                  Operations
Jaso, Carlos            Consultant                                  Procurement
Jiménez, Efraim         Procurement Specialist               LCSPT Procurement
Leyton, Alberto         Sr. Public Sector Specialist         LCSPS Task Manager
Mejía, Luis José        Consultant                                  ICR
Merino, Beatriz         Tax Administration Specialist        LCSPS Tax Administration
Moran-Porche, Silvia    Procurement Assistant                LCSPT Procurement



                                               28

Núñes, Frederick Edwin    Consultant
Ordóñez, Victor           Financial Management Specialist            LCSFM Financial Management
Peñalosa, Gabriel         Procurement Analyst                        LCSPT Procurement
Prieto Arbelaez, Félix    Sr. Procurement Specialist                 LCSPT Procurement
Rojas, Fernando           Lead Public Sector Management Spec.        LCSPS
Ruiz, Keta                Operations Officer                         LCC1C
Senderowitsch, Roberto    Sr. Institutional Development Spec.        LCSPS Change Management
Serrano-Machorro, Juan    Consultant                                         Finacial Management
Talero, Eduardo           Consultant                                         Information Technology
Toscano, Ma. Guadalupe    Consultant                                         Operations Officer
Valencia de Estrada, Rosa Procurement Analyst                        LCSPT Procurement
Webb, Steven B.           Sr. Economist
Zepeda, Guillermo         Consultant
Karla Lopez Flores        Program Assistant                          LCSPS


(b) Staff Time and Cost                MT
Stage of Project Cycle                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)


                                                              USD Thousands
                                                              (including travel and
                                 No. of staff weeks           consultant costs)

   Lending

   FY02                                                 6.8                   150,057.97

    FY03                                                                        1,780.01

                        Total:                          6.8                   151,837.98

   Supervision/ICR

    FY03                                              11.57                   107,220.37

    FY04                                               19.2                   104,263.53

    FY05                                              15.18                    76,969.50

    FY06                                              16.75                    64,993.19

    FY07                                              19.34                    80,325.34

    FY08                                               11.2                    69,529.37

                        Total:                        93.24                   503,301.30

Annex 5: Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

As mentioned above, taxpayer satisfaction with SAT's services has grown from 55% in 2003 to 86% in
2007.




                                                 29

Annex 6: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

N/A




                                           30

Annex 7: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

a) Borrower's ICR

Executive Summary

The Borrower's ICR introduces the project underlining that it should be regarded from several points of
view. First, it was designed to carry out the modernization of an organization at the time structured by
function in which functional vertical silos constituted an obstacle to the improvement of institutional
performance and to produce and exchange all the information required by the institution. Second, when
Government determined to carry out a much larger and more integrated modernization, it was able to
restructure the institution and orient it towards the taxpayer, which would not have been possible under the
earlier, more limited approach. Thus, the project became a part of the full modernization effort. Finally, the
Borrower's ICR states that the great value of the project with the World Bank was not the financing, but
rather the technical assistance provided by the Bank and the increased perception of transparency which
Bank supervision gave to the process.

During the life of the project, 581 deliverables were produced:




This amount corresponds to a $76.7 million dollars, of which $52 were Bank financing, as follows:




To date, US$3,842,422 remain, as a deliverable guarantee; acceptance testing has taken place and this last
payment is being processed.




                                                       31

The External Financing Committee, in which SAT participates as the implementor of the project, noted that
the project was satisfactorily closed, and that there is interest in another project to continue the modernization
of SAT, in particular for Customs and Human Capital.


                           Informe sobre el Proyecto de Desarrollo Institucional
                    para la Administración Tributaria (PDIAT) con el Banco Mundial

El proyecto con el Banco Mundial debe estudiarse bajo varios puntos de vista. Primero, fue diseñado para
llevar a cabo el inicio de la modernización de una institución organizada por función en la que los silos
verticales eran un obstáculo para mejorar el desempeño institucional y atender las necesidades de
información que tenía la organización. Segundo, al salvar el paso inicial y emprender el Gobierno Mexicano
una modernización de envergadura mucho mas integral, quedó inserto el proyecto con el Banco Mundial en
un proyecto de modernización que incluyó acciones críticas que no se pudieron contemplar en el contexto
inicial, tales como reestructurar la organización por proceso y enfocada sobre el contribuyente. Tercero, el
gran valor del proyecto con el Banco no fue la financiación, sino la asistencia técnica provista por el Banco y
la transparencia que la supervisión de éste le dio al proceso.

En este contexto, presentamos un resumen del informe final de avance del proyecto con el Banco Mundial
("Sublibro Blanco No. 8.9", con sus respectivos anexos y documentación de apoyo).

I.       AVANCE FÍSICO EN LA EJECUCIÓN DEL PDIAT AL CIERRE DEL PROYECTO.


a) Servicios de Consultoría Concluidos


2003

     1. Diagnóstico de áreas de oportunidad.
     2. Encuestas y Sondeos al Contribuyente.


2004

     3. Desarrollo de la Metodología para la Conformación de Grupos de Talento Distintivo.
     4. Servicios Profesionales para la Verificación en Campo y Actualización de Datos de Personas
         Morales (Integración del grupo especial de verificación).
     5. Asesoría para la Certificación ISO 9001-2000 e implementación de las mejores prácticas de
         Administración de Infraestructura de Tecnología de la Información.

2005
     6. Conformación de un modelo de operación óptimo de los procesos sustantivos de la AGGC, que
         incluya experiencias exitosas de otros países.
     7. Desarrollo de campaña de publicidad externa mediante un estudio integral de mercado y definición
         e implementación de estrategias de comunicación.
     8. Certificación de Módulos de Asistencia.
     9. Análisis de mecanismos y asesoría técnica en niveles de satisfacción del contribuyente.
     10. Servicio de Encuestas en Ventanilla.
     11. Mentalidad en el Servicio.
2007
     12. Modelo de riesgos tributarios por segmento del SAT.


                                                      32

b) Consultorías en Desarrollo


D.8.1 "Modernización e Integración de los Sistemas Informáticos del SAT".


Los avances alcanzados en este subproyecto, permitieron que durante el mes de diciembre de 2007, del
programa de actividades que se contempla en el contrato, se concluyeran las siguientes etapas:

Etapa I. Planeación y Análisis.

Etapa II. Análisis y Diseño
Etapa III. 1. Arquitectura de negocio.
            2. Construcción.
            3. Entrega.


Adicionalmente, ese mismo mes, se recibieron los entregables (sin costo) definidos para en el convenio de
remediación del sistema.


        · Componente: Identificación del Contribuyente (IdC)
        · Componente: Declaraciones y Pagos (DyP) y Cuenta Tributaria (CT)
        · Entregas Únicas


  La cuarta fase denominada Post Producción (pruebas), al día de hoy se esta llevando a cabo, en la cual
  se debe contar con los diferentes componentes de la Solución en el ambiente productiva. Cabe mencionar
  que dichos componentes y nuevos servicios no pueden ser puestos en operación debido a las reformas
  fiscales que se están probando, por lo que se previó concluirla en Marzo 2008.

c) Servicio de Consultoría Rescindido


A.2.6 "Estudio de costo beneficio de los servicios que se proporcionan al contribuyente".

De conformidad con el plan de trabajo estipulado contractualmente, este subproyecto debería haber
concluido en noviembre de 2006, sin embargo, se amplió la funcionalidad para el alcance establecido y
existieron retrasos por parte del proveedor que impidieron su conclusión, firmando dos convenios
modificatorios.

Ante los incumplimientos presentados por la empresa Ultimus, Inc., así como de las múltiples gestiones
realizadas por el SAT, para que el consultor cumpliera satisfactoriamente con los servicios, al no obtener una
respuesta favorable, el 31 de octubre de 2007, se le notificó la rescisión administrativa del contrato.


d) Servicio de Consultoría Cancelado


G.5.1 "Gestión del Cambio en el SAT"

Debido a que los resultados de esta consultoría se encuentran vinculados con los demás subproyectos que
integran la cartera del PDIAT, así como a la reestructuración del SAT por el nuevo RISAT, se consideró


                                                     33

conveniente posponer su contratación para 2008.

II.- RECEPCIÓN DE ENTREGABLES POR AÑO

Durante el ejercicio fiscal 2007, se recibieran 54 entregables, que sumados a los recibidos en ejercicios
anteriores, se alcanza un total de 581 entregables aceptados a satisfacción de los líderes de subproyectos.

   CATEGORÍA DE INVERSIÓN                        EJERCICIO                         ENTREGABLES
       Servicios de Consultoría                      2003                                  10
       Servicios de Consultoría                      2004                                  103
       Servicios de Consultoría                      2005                                  323
       Servicios de Consultoría                      2006                                  91
       Servicios de Consultoría                      2007                                  54
                                                     Total                                 581

III.     FLUJO FINANCIERO DEL MONTO TOTAL DEL PROYECTO

El PDIAT registra al cierre de 2007 una erogación acumulada de 76.7 millones de dólares, con respecto a los
82 millones de dólares asignados para su ejecución, lo que representa un avance del 93.54%, cubriendo con
ello los compromisos contractuales de los subproyectos que actualmente integran su cartera.



                       RITMO DE GASTO 2003-2007

                                        Cifras en dólares
                                             32,723,023

                                                           23,244,822


                             13,426,599

                                                                            6,590,301

                  716,552



                                                 2005      2006       2007
                            2003       2004
                                                                   total acuml. 76,701,296




Al día de hoy, de los 82 millones de dólares asignados, se tiene pendiente de ejercer la cantidad de
3'842,422.86 dólares, la cual se erogará una vez se concluya la fase de post-producción del proyecto
plataforma.

FLUJO FINANCIERO DE LA LÍNEA DE CRÉDITO

Se registra un avance en la línea de crédito del 99.68%, equivalente a un total de 51'831,987.53 dólares
acreditados. En el mes de diciembre 2007 se ejercieron los 168,012.47 dólares, monto remanente de la línea
de crédito, el cual se erogó en diciembre, por lo que para poder realizar el trámite de desembolso, fue
necesario solicitar la prórroga administrativa del contrato. El 3 de marzo se recibió la acreditación de los
168,012.47 dólares con fecha valor 31 enero de 2008 (número de solicitud 38).




                                                     34

IV. FIN DEL CREDITO Y ACCIONES DE CONTINUIDAD


El Comité de Crédito Externo, en el que el SAT participó en su carácter de ejecutor, aprobó y asentó las
Minutas con los siguientes acuerdos


   · Se toma nota del avance del Proyecto y su cierre en diciembre 2007
   · El Ejecutor iniciará gestiones para la ampliación de los plazos en la ejecución y desembolsos del
        proyecto, así como la posibilidad de firmar un contrato suplementario.
   · Se toma nota de que el cierre del Proyecto es satisfactorio y que existe el interés en un nuevo crédito
        a fin de modernizar el proceso de aduanas

Perspectivas futuras del PDIAT


Se está estudiando la posibilidad de llevar a cabo una nueva operación de financiamiento con Banco Mundial
para apoyar las acciones que el SAT esta realizando en los siguientes rubros:

                      o Modernización de las Aduanas
                      o Capital Humano
                      o Solución Integral


b) Comments on Draft ICR




                                                    35

Annex 8: Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
N/A




                                            36

Annex 9: List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan in the Amount of US$52 million to the United Mexican
States in Support of a Tax Administration Institutional Development Project, World Bank, May 24th 2002.

Loan Agreement for the Tax Administration Institutional Development Project, Ln 7127-ME, September 30th,
2002.

Re-categorization Letter of December 16, 2004

Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report No. 22147-ME , May 21, 2001

Country Assistance Strategy Report No. 23849-ME , April 23, 2002

Country Partnership Strategy Report No. 28141-ME , March 18, 2004

Country Partnership Strategy Progress Report for the United Mexican States for the Period FY05-08, World
Bank, January 8, 2007

Country Partnership Strategy Progress Report for the United Mexican States for the Period FY 2008 - 2013,
World Bank, March 4th, 2008

National Development Plan 2007-2012, Presidency of the Republic, 2007

Ten Aides Memoire from July 2002 to April 2007

Eleven Implementation Supervision Reports from 20th December 2002 to 27th December 2007. However, the
first five were imperfectly saved in IRIS and are only available in part.

Fourteen Status Reports from the Project Administration Unit to the Chief of SAT(Confidential)

Final Report from the Project Administration Unit ("Sublibro Blanco No. 8.9") and all its annexes and
supporting documentation (Confidential)

Ten Financial Management Reports from the SAT Project Administration Unit to the World Bank.

Ten Progress Reports from the SAT Project Administration Unit to the World Bank

Audit Reports for the Project, carried out by Prieto, Ruiz de Velasco y Cia., S.C., for 2003, 2004
Audit Reports for the Project, carried out by Vincourt y Compañía, S.C., for 2005, 2006, 2007

Plan Estrátegico 2007-2012, Servicio de Administración Tributaria, Mexico City, Mexico. Nov 2007 (also
available in the SAT Portal)

Reporte Anual 2006 y Líneas Estratégicas 2007, Servicio de Administración Tributaria, Mexico City,
Mexico (also available in the SAT Portal)

Reporte Anual 2007 y Líneas Estratégicas 2008, Servicio de Administración Tributaria, Mexico City,
Mexico. May 2008 (also available in the SAT Portal)

Informe Tributario 2006, Servicio de Administración Tributaria, Mexico City, Mexico. Marzo 2007 (also
available in the SAT Portal)


                                                    37

Informe Tributario 2007, Servicio de Administración Tributaria, Mexico City, Mexico. May 2008 (also
available in the SAT Portal)

La Tecnología como Habilitador del Cambio en las Instituciones: Caso SAT. Presentation by Ing. José María
Zubiría Maqueo, Chief of SAT, to the Engineering Academy of Mexico. April 2008.

Solución Integral para la Administración Tributaria, Instituto Mexicano de Contadores Públicos, August
2007.




                                                  38

Annex 10: List of People Interviewed

Management and Staff of SAT

Chief of SAT
       Ing. José María Zubiría Maqueo.

General Administrators

       Lic. Jorge Luis Ibarra López, Administrador General de Comunicaciones y Tecnologías de la
       Información.

       Ing. Luis Roberto Patrón Arreguí, Administrador General de Recursos y Servicios. Coordinador
       General del Proyecto.

       C. Rosa María Vega Peón, Administradora General de Recaudación.

Central Administrators

       Lic. Abril Anzaldúa Medina. Administrador Central de Servicios de Información de la AG
       Comunicaciones y Tecnologías de la Información.

       C.P. Carlos Enrique Borja Duarte, Administrador Central de Fiscalización Estratégica de la AG de
       Auditoría Fiscal Federal

       Ing. Virginia Edith Calleja Gjumlich. Administrador Central de Capacitación Fiscal de la AG de
       Recursos y Servicios.

       Lic. José Carlos López Alvear. Administrador Central de Programación Informática de la AG
       Comunicaciones y Tecnologías de la Información.

       Lic. Fernando Martínez Coss. Administrador Central de Operación, Desarrollo y Servicios, AG
       Servicios al Contribuyente

       Lic. René Medina Castañeda, Administrador Central de Operación de Jurídica en la AG Jurídica

       Lic. Diana M. Montero Kubli, Administradora Central de Capital Humano.

       Ing. Baltazar Rodríguez Tellez. Administrador Central de Transformación de la AG de
       Comunicaciones y Tecnologías de la Información.

Administrators

       Act. Juan Carlos Gómez Martínez, Administrador de Encuestas y Análisis Demográfico.

       Lic. Manuel González Franco. Administrador General de Planeación y Proyectos de la AGRS.

       Lic. Alejandro Juárez Espíndola. Administrador de Capital Humano "1", AG Recursos y Servicios

       Lic. Mauricio Martínez Tello, Administrador de Recursos Financieros "3", AG Recursos y Servicios

       Lic. José Ignacio Pérez García, Administrador de Laboratorio, AGCTI


                                                 39

       Lic. Carlos Popoca Lagunas, Administrador de Comunicación Institucional, AG Planeación

       Lic. Octavio Rosas Juárez. Administrador de Aprendizaje Organizacional, AG Recursos y Servicios

       Lic. Erick L. Scharrf Sánchez. Administrador de Planeación y Programación "2" de la AG de
       Auditoría Fiscal Federal

       Lic. Jaime Valádez Aldana, Administrador de Gestión de Calidad, AG de Servicios al Contribuyente


Sub-Administrators

       Lic. Marcela Patricia Cendejas Jáuregui, Subadministradora, AG de Servicios al Contribuyente

       Lic. Jaime Herrera Rojas, Subadministrador de Modelos de Riesgo, AGGC

       Lic. Verónica Silvia Jaime Ruiz. Subadministradora de Control y Seguimiento Financiero, AG de
       Recursos y Servicios

       Lic. Hortensia Marín Rosales, Subadministradora de Organización, AG Servicios al Contribuyente

Other participants in the Project

       Lic. Adriana Cuevas Argumedo, ex ­ Coordinadora General del Proyecto, ahora Directora General
       de Comunicación Social, Secretaría de Comunicaciones y Transporte

       Lic. Victor Valencia Zavala, ex ­ Coordinador de Proyectos Financiados por Organismos
       Internacionales, ahora Director General de Recursos Materiales y Servicios Generales, Presidencia

Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit

       Lic. Carlos Raúl Delgado Arana, Subdirector de Proyectos Financieros y de Gobierno
       Subnacionales, Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales




                                                  40

