                              Rwanda InstitutionalReformCredit
                                         -
                         Release ofthe Third Tranche- FullCompliance
                                           (NO.3721-RW)


                                          I.Background

1.       The IRC was designed to support the Government o f Rwanda's reform effort in the
implementation o f its PRSP. The main objectives o f the reform program are in line with the
PRSP, to help focus the development agenda on poverty reduction, sustain economic growth in
the range o f 6-7 percent and reduce the incidence o fpoverty from 60 percent in2000 to about 52
percent in 2004.      The medium-term actions aim to (i)      revitalize agriculture and the rural
economy, (ii)strengthen the private sector; (iii)       build human resources and (iv) improve
governance and the effectiveness, efficiency and poverty impact o f public sector actions. These
areas cover the six thematic priorities identified inthe PRSP.

2.       The IRC builds on the progress made inreforms under the preceding Economic Recovery
Credit (ERC) and consolidates the benefits from those reforms.            The IRC focuses on: (i)
improving public expenditure management building on an ongoing public expenditure
management review, and a financial accountability review and action plan (FARAP); (ii)      private
sector development including privatization and the reform o fthe financial sector, buildingon the
work done under the ERC to prepare enterprises for privatization, and working closely with the
Competitiveness and Enterprise Development Project (CEDP) that i s providing technical
assistance for the implementation o f reforms; and (iii)    addressing gender and budget related
institutional issues in the area o f human development.          Reforms in agriculture and rural
development and other institutional reforms in the social sectors were closely monitored under
the IRC.


                                 11. RecentEconomicDevelopments

3.       Following the release o f the second (fixed) tranche o f the IRC, government continued its
commitment to reform, with greater attention to measures to generate economic growth. GDP
growth continues to be maintained at just under 3% per annum. This slow down has resulted
from lower than expected agricultural output, and the current electricity shortage.             The
agriculture sector i s highly vulnerable to weather variations.     Inaddition, the manufacturing
sector has also been subject to the vagaries o f the weather, as a result o f the fall in electricity
generation power that arose from low water levels following the recent drought. The associated
electricity shortages have contributed to this development, and has impacted on the performance
o f the textiles, cement, chemicals and beverages industries. Inflation has increased significantly
since the final quarter o f 2002. Inflation excluding food prices has increased from 3.6 percent in
March 2003 to 7.3 percent inMay 2004. Inthe case o f food price inflation, this has exceeded 13
percent since 2003 and i s now estimated at 17percent. Overall, total inflationwas at 7.7 percent
at end o f 2003, and reached a high o f 12.4 percent by the end o f May 2004 before dropping to
12.3 percent at the endJune.

                                                 - L -


4.       To address the issue of growth, government has outlined an agriculture development
strategy, with emphasis on production for the market which the Bank will support through the
Rural Support Credit. Inaddition, policy and institutional measures to support the soundness o f
the financial sector (with an emphasis on micro-finance and financial intermediation), as well as
improvements in the overall business environment are being supported under the upcoming
Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit.      Furthermore, an upcoming transport project, and urban
infrastructure project, and an emergency project to address the shortages inthe energy sector will
helpto reduce the hightransaction costs to doing business.

5.       Public Finances and Expenditures. The government has made significant progress in
improving the revenue base which i s now at 13.5 percent o f GDP (compared to the levels o f
12.2% o f GDP in 2002 and 11.4% o f GDP in 2001). Given that there has already been an
increase inthe VAT to 18 percent (from 15 percent), and an improvement intax administration
during 2002-03, any further significant improvements intax revenue will have to come from an
increase in the tax base through a shift in economic activity from the informal to formal
economy. To achieve this the government has begun the articulation o f an agriculture strategy to
promote increased production for the market. In addition, the government continues to work
toward passing the land law policy which will provide an additional source o f revenue, at the
local level.

6.       To achieve poverty reduction goals, government expenditure i s likely to increase in2005
relative to 2004. Government is considering increasing allocations to health, education, energy,
water, roads, as well as transfers to local governments. New programs to establish an export
promotion zone and plans to post-pone budget outlays for demobilizationto 2005 will all require
increased expenditures. This implies that the government's domestic fiscal deficit which i s
currently at 7.8 percent o f GDP (relative to a level o f 4.2 percent) in 2005 will remain 7.8
percent, at the minimum, and i s likelyto increase.

7.      Given the above context, the government plans to base extemal financing on a
combination o f extemal grant and loan resources, to avoid inflationary financing. Furthermore,
to avoid the inflationary experience o f 2002-03 and ensure that spending remains in line with
assured fimding, the government has identified contingent expenditures to be reduced in the
event that additional grants are not mobilized.        To ensure consistency with sustainable
government finances and extemal debt, the government i s committed to remaining prudent in
taking on new commitments. Government may also need to re-phase expenditures to the second
halfo f the year (as it didin2004), ifuncertainties ingrant financing continue to be an issue.

8.      Monetary and exchange rate policy. The growth rate for broadmoney slowed from 15
percent at end-December 2003 to 6.9 percent in May 2004. This slow down was a result o f a
decline inprivate sector demand for credit. While net foreign exchange inflows were higher than
expected, they were offset by movements in other items in bank balance sheets. Given these
events, coupled with a stronger than expected earnings on coffee and tin exports and the slow
down o f import demand for industrial inputs and consumer goods, the Rwandan franc/US $
exchangerate stabilized during2004.

9.       Banking and Financial Sector. The problem of non-performing loans persists.
However, the recent completion o f sale for the Commercial Bank o f Rwanda (BCR) and the
 Continental Bank o f Rwanda (BACAR), at the beginning o f August 2004 should provide
 significant improvements inthe level o f soundness o f the sector-   the two banks together have
heldthe highest share o fnon-performing loans. The plannedrecapitalization o fthe Development
Bank of Rwanda (BRD) should helpto hrther strengthenfinancial intermediation. An adequate
regulatory and supervisory framework derived from a credible and focused strategy should form
part o f the approach to improving the soundness o f the sector. In this regard, the upcoming
Financial Sector Assessment will aid in the development o f a strategy and identification o f
specific andmonitorable actions.

 10.     Bankingregulationand supervision was strengthenedwith anew set ofregulations at end
o f 2003. Three new regulations raised the solvency ratio from 8 to 10 percent and improved the
definition o f credit concentration and asset quality. Furthermore, there hasbeengreater prudence
in the assessment of loan guarantees as an effort to improve loan recovery. However, loan
recovery remains a lengthy process and continued reform i s needed, notably with respect to the
judicial system. Steps have also been taken to improve regulation o f micro-finance and
cooperative institutions.

11.     Despite the improvements inregulation and supervision, there continues to be a problem
with compliance with banking regulation. In order to improve compliance by banks on risk
concentration limits, most banks have elaborated action plans to address the problem. However,
the bank holding the second largest deposits, appears to be confronting exceptional problems and
has consistently failed to comply with a large number o f bankingregulations. An actionplan for
returning to regulatory compliance on its solvency ratio, risk concentration and limits, liquidity
ratios and net foreign exchange positions has been recently agreed between BNR and BCR
management and i s beingimplemented.As a result, the situationi s improving.

12.     Balance of Payments and ExternalDebt. There appears to be a modest improvement
in2004 to 19.6percent (compared to the earlier estimated level of 19.8 percent, in2004). Coffee
export volumes appeared to have increased substantially, while international market prices have
recovered from last year's lows, as a result o f poor harvest inBrazil. There was also an increase
in the world market for tin which doubled the projected level o f exports. However, export
performance inthe tea andnon-traditional export sectors remainweak.

13.     External debt steadied in 2003. But, preliminary estimates indicate that the net present
value (NPV) o f debt-to-exports rose to 315 percent as o f end-2003, after the enhanced HIPC
Initiative relief. This deterioration in the NPV i s mainly due to the impact o f a change in the
discount and exchange rates-more         so than the weaker-than-expected export performance.
However, the ratio i s projectedto increase to 340 percent in2004 givenprojectednew borrowing
(US$ 45 million), and a year-on-year growth rate o f goods and services exports that exceeds 20
percent.

14.     StructuralReforms. The government continues to adhere to its reforms program. The

                                                - 4 -

Organic Budget Law was approved by the Cabinet in June 2004 and submitted to parliament in
late-July 2004. The government has also initiated implementation o f financial instructions to
support the new budget law; and has also begun the process to submit new tax and customs
legislation, along with a revisedinvestmentcode, to parliamentfor consideration.

15.     Inaddition, the Auditor General's 2002 report was submitted to parliament inFebruary
2004, and the 2003 report will be submitted in October 2004. There i s also the anticipated
approval o f the Auditor General's Act which will add to this achievement. Looking forward, the
proposed increased funding to local governments, and to the overall decentralization process will
require improvement in financial administration, including establishment o f monthly reporting
mechanisms. Furthermore, the government will soon introduce the SIBET 2 (end-2004)-an
updated version o f the SIBET (the government's project finance and expenditure management
software) which will incorporate all key departments in the Ministry o f Finance along with the
sector ministries. Steps will also be taken to follow-up on the closing o f dormant government
accounts, and publication o f monthly reconciliation accounts for government financial
statements.

16.     The privatization agenda has taken a major step forward with the privatization o f BCR
and BACAR and the sale o f the Pfunda tea factory. Government had also reached the point of
sale (see footnote 1, below) with Mulinditea factory. However, government could not reach an
agreement on terms that it felt would benefit the sector and industry. As a result, the contract
negotiations were terminated. A new schedule for the sale o f the factory has been established,
and government i s moving ahead with the scheduled privatization o f the next set o f 4 tea
factories. Actions to complete privatization o f the tea sector, and inparticular another tea factory
prior to the HIPC decision point document should proceed promptly. Inaddition, government
shares inRwandatel, Rwandex, and PrimeHoldings are scheduled to beprivatized quickly.

17.     The authorities are also committed to civil service reform and are receiving technical
assistance from DFID inthis regard. The Bank i s providing support to capacity buildingthrough
the Public Sector Capacity Building Project. As the reform could have a substantial impact on
the government's ability to implement its operations, a prudent course, in consultation with
partnerswill needto bepursued.



                        111. ProgressAgainst TrancheReleaseCriteria

A. GeneralRequirementsfor TrancheRelease

18.      The macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is satisfactory to the
Association, as measured on the basis of indicators agreed between the Borrower and the
Association.

   0   The Borrower has met this condition. Despite external shocks as noted above to the

                                                - 5 -

        macro economy, the macro program continues to be on track.

    0   To contain future increases in expenditures, the recently agreed 2004 PRGF program
        includes a substantial reduction in net credit to government from the banking system,
        slower reserve money growth, and a fiscal program that incorporates contingent cuts to
        assure the domestic fiscal balance remains consistent with macro-economic objectives.
        By January-April 2004, payment orders had been issued to eliminate the stock of
        domestic arrears that had accumulated at the end o f 2003. As o f April 30, 2004, net
        central bank credit to government was below projected requirements, reserve money
        growth was lower and net foreign assets o f the NBR were higher than targeted.     As a
       result o f this progress, the IMF Board concluded the second and third reviews o f the
       PRGF, and approved the disbursement of additional interim assistance under the HPC
       Initiative, on June 9, 2004. Subject to continued satisfactory progress inthe program, the
       next review is scheduled for November-December 2004. Prior to this, the FundBoard
       will consider a 2004 Article N consultation in September 2004. It is expected that with
       continued satisfactory macro-economic performance, following the fourth review under
       the PRGF arrangement, Rwanda should reach the HPC Completion Point by December
       2004.

19.      TheBorrower has achievedprogresssatisfactory to theAssociation in the carrying out
of the Program.

    0  The Borrower has met this condition. The Government has been implementingpolicies to
       achieve medium-term economic growth and poverty reduction goals and to make
       progress on institutionalreforms to improve govemance, effectiveness o fthe government,
       enhance human resource development and promote private sector development.
       Implementation o f the PRSP started in mid-2002. InJune 2003, a PRS progress report
       was produced. Budget allocations have been increased in the 2002, 2003 and 2004
       budgets for priority sectors identified in the PRSP. A more detailed assessment of
       progress i s outlined inthe Annex.

B. Specific Conditionsfor Releaseof the Third Tranche

20.      The Borrower achieved progress satisfactory to the Association in implementing the
Memorandum of Understanding, as described inparagraph 54 of the LDP.

       The Borrower has met this condition. Many steps have been taken by the BNR to
       improve the health o f the financial sector. Supervisors o f the BNR conducted audits o f
       three banks in the second half o f 2002. As a result o f these audits, the BNR placed
       restrictions on the operations o f two commercial banks. Inaddition, BNR's supervision
       has been extended to micro-finance operations.

   0   Loan recovery performance has also improved. Procedures that accelerate loan recovery
       (voie paree) were reinstated in December 2001, and many administrative constraints

                                                  - 6 -

        have beenresolved. The City o f Kigalihas dramatically improved the process o f property
        registration by creating a special unit dedicated to that job. Banks contributed to the
         initial funding for this exercise, inorder to improve the availability o f collateral for loans.
         These measures substantially improved recovery performance in 2002. (See also
         condition 3 below).

     0   In December 2003, the National Bank of Rwanda published its loans accounting and
        underwriting standards. Banks were mandated to comply with these conditions as o f
        January 2004.       In addition, measures to strengthen the Arbitration Center were
        undertaken. Computer equipment, vehicle and'sofhvare were provided. The Center has
        identifiedandpublisheda list o f experts on arbitration available for the public. It has also
        organized seminars to promote public awareness about arbitration and the role o f the
         Center. A training program for arbitrators and the administrative personnel i s also
        planned.

     0  Finally, commercial chambers were established, along with the necessary infrastructure
        and recruitment of new bailiffs and notaries. Promulgation of the judicial reform law
        occurred on April 25, 2004 (Law No. 07/2004). The law determines the organization,
        functioning and jurisdiction o f courts in Rwanda, and covers the jurisdiction o f
        Commercial, Financial and Tax Courts. Three commercial chambers have been created
        based on guidelines o f the law, andjudges are being trained to beginhearing cases under
        the new commercial chambers system.

     0  A financial sector assessment is planned for the last quarter of 2004, (to be done jointly
        between the IMF and the Bank) which will help the government identifj further measures
        to deepenongoing reforms.

21.     The Borrowerfor thepurpose of restructuring and divestiture of BCR, made adequate
provision in its budgetfor FY 2003, to the satisfaction of the Association, in accordance with
paragraph 55 of the LDP.

     0  The Borrower has met this condition . Following the vote by the Board o f Directors of
        BCR to increase capital to the bank by FRw 5 Billion, the Govemment allocated FRw 5
        billion, during the 2003 budget exercise toward the restructuring of BCR. FRwl.3
        billion was issued in cash; the remaining amount to be paid will be revised soon, given
        the highprofits realized during the last two years which resulted inthe reduction o f the
        negative networth of BCR from FRw 7 billion in2002 to about FRw 1billion duringthe
        second quarter o f 2004. Severance obligations to staffwere met in2002.

22.     The Borrower has caused BNR to: (i) direct all commercial banks that the monthly
listing report made to BNR shall reflect separately non-performing borrowers; (ii) make
available to the commercial banks, the listing report within 30 days offiling; (iii) maintain the
listing report in a centralized database and make it accessible to credit information or rating
companies and commercial banks; (iv) prohibit commercial banks from making loans or

                                                             - 7 -

 advancing any monies to non-performing borrowers, exceptfor the purpose of repayment of
 loans in default on other banks, all to the satisfaction of the Association and in accordance
 withparagraph 56 of the LDP.

          The Borrower has met this condition. BNR has continued to improve bank supervision
          and it now produces detailed statistical data, both inpaper and in electronic form, on all
          commercial banks. Since 2002 the Banker's Association has shared the list of all
          defaulting borrowers, which i s available to all commercial banks.                          Furthermore, in
          December 2003, to formalize the practice, BNR issued an instruction directing banks to
          provide a monthly listing report that accounts separately for non-performing borrowers;
          the listing report i s maintainedina central database and i s made available to commercial
          bankswithin 30 days o f filing. The same instructionprevents banks from lendingto these
          defaulters. As planned, BNR has established a supervision department for the micro-
          finance sector, which currently has four inspectors.

23.       The Borrower brought to the point of sale at least 80percent of its shares in BCR to
qualified buyers or effected divestiture of BCR through the implementation of a back-upplan,
satisfactory to theAssociation, in accordancewithparagraph 55 of the LDP'.

     0    The Borrower has met this condition. BCR management took actions to reduce operating
          costs (as stipulated in the Memorandum o f Understanding with BNR), and improve
          collections o f non-performing loans which led to small profits beginning end 2002.
          However, some technicalities led to a delay inthe privatizationprocess, after the decision
          by the strategic shareholder Banque Bruxelles Lambert (BBL) to terminate operations in
          Africa. A subsequent arrangement by BBL to sell its shares to a private company was
          vetoed by the regulator, Banque National du Rwanda (BNR). The privatization process
          was therefore delayed untilthese issues were settled.

     0    In March 2004, the Government issued invitations to potential investors, to begin due
          diligence procedures. Four banks expressed interest, with at least one o f the potential
         bidders seeking to achieve a minimum 30% market share and a minimum level o f
          profitability, which cannot be achieved through the purchase o f BCR alone.                                 To
          accommodate bidders who sought to maximize their market share and profits, the
          government encouraged potential bidders to explore the possibility o f purchasing another
         bank that was to be privatized (BACAR), in addition to BCR. Negotiations for the sale
          o f BCR were completed in July 2004, along with the sale o f BACAR. Government has


  Note that for the purposes of subparagraph (d) o fparagraph 55, inthe Development Credit Agreement hereto, the
term "brought to the point o f sale" means: (i) an evaluation o fthe stocks o f BCR, on the basis, inter alia, o f
                                                 carried
an evaluation o f its assets and liabilities; (ii)
                                                prepared a prospectus for distribution to prospective buyers; (iii)
solicited offers for the purchase o f share capital; (iv) evaluated any such offers and selected successful bidders; and
(v) invitedthe successful bidders to enter into good faith negotiations.

                                                  - 8 -

       already held a press conference to announce the transaction which RwandaNews Agency
       reportedon August 5,2004.



                                            IV. Conclusion

24.    Inview of the overall performance andprogress with the implementationof theprogram
supported by the Credit, and incompliance with the specific conditions of release as described in
Parts A and C o f Schedule 2 to the Credit Agreement, the Associationhas informed the Borrower
ofthe availability o f the third (floating) tranche inthe equivalent of $20 million.

                                                 - 9 -



                                             ANNEX

        Progressin Achieving Measures Specifiedinthe Letter of DevelopmentPolicy

 1.     Overall, progress in targets and policy measures contained inthe Letter o f Development
Policy has been satisfactory. Progress has been made in various areas-trade           and exchange
regime, financial sector, agricultural policies, privatization, budget reform, and public
administration reform. There have also been activities in the areas o f the legal environment for
enhanced good governance, privatization o f public enterprises, budget and public administration
reform, and financial restructuring andreform. A Comprehensive Action Planfor the Elimination
o f all Discrimination Against Women (Legal Action Plan) has been prepared and approved by
the Cabinet o f Ministers. This complements the anti-discrimination law passed inOctober 2001
by Rwanda's Transitional Assembly, which punishes "any act, utterance or writing aimed at
depriving a person or group o f persons, their rights, by reason o f sex, ethnicity, age, race, color,
opinion, religionnationalityor origin."

2.      A summary ofprogress according to the main broad areas of the Letter of Development
Policy are outlined below: i)Public Expenditure Management; ii)Public Service Reform; iii)
Agriculture and Rural Development; iv) HumanResource Development/Social Sector Reform;
and v) Private Sector Development and Employment Creation.

                              1. PublicExpenditureManagement

3.      The policy o f protecting social sector budget allocations from cuts during the course o f
the fiscal year, adopted in 1999,has continuedto be followed. Inaddition, military expenditures
have progressively been reduced to release resources for priority development programs. As
mentioned above an important change that has occurred pertains to budget presentation. Since
the 2002 budget cycle, all expenditures have been classified according to programs and sub-
programs, expected outputs, activities and inputs, inall ministries.

4.      The sensitization o f stakeholders and the emphasis on training o f staff in core and line
ministries has facilitated the introduction o f the MTEF. Districts are now receiving training in
budget preparation using the MTEF approach. However, more work i s required in defining and
linking spending ceilings to district development plans, to ensure appropriate costing, given the
available resources.

5.      Ingeneral, achievements inpublic expendituremanagement includeimprovements to the
cash management system, computerizationo f the budget andbudgetreporting, the preparation o f
an organic budget law, further strengtheningo f the Auditor General's Office, and the issuance o f
guidelines for opening, closing, and monitoring government bank accounts. In 2002, the office
o f Auditor General conducted audit missions o f 10 ministries, including defense, and 13 projects.
Professional audit standards were set in place, and a new Auditor General Act was drafted. In
addition, a new Division o f Public Accounts was set up in the Ministry o f Economic Planning

                                                 - 10-

and Finance to develop accounting structures and systems in line with the medium term
expenditureframework (MTEF) andthe budget.
6.       The next stage o f reforms (to be covered under the PRSC), will continue the
implementation o f the FARAP, and the strengthening o f reporting and auditing mechanisms at
district levels, with a focus on integrationo f the development budget and the recurrent budget.


                              2. Agriculture andRuralDevelopment

7.       In general, the sector has experienced declining factor productivity as a result of
inadequate investment and research into appropriate technology.        The effects o f inadequate
investment has been particularly apparent in the export crop sector. In addition, for the main
export crops o f coffee and tea, declining international prices has provided an incentive for
farmers to move into more high value, horticultural crops such as passion fruit. Coupled with
these events, during the 2003 growing season, drought affected the level o f production, leadingto
higher food prices and inflation. These events, coupled with high oil prices have also led to
higherproductioncosts andtherefore lower returns to farmers.

8.       Giventhe above factors, the government recognizes theneedto redouble effort inthis key
area o f the PRSP to ensure improved productivity, and increased returns to farmers. To this end,
the govemment's strategy is focused on: (i)intensification, through increased utilization of
agricultural inputs and cultural practices, and improved research; (ii)diversification toward high
value crops and non-traditional export crops, and measures to enhance competitiveness and
quality o f Rwandan tea and coffee; (iii)improved natural resource management, which has
increased in importance particularly following the genocide, and has led to complex sequences
o f landoccupation and competing claims on land.

9.      Proper resolution o f tenure disputes i s key to promoting long-term productive
investments in agriculture. The draft landpolicy has already been debated by cabinet andwill be
submitted to Parliament in 2004. In addition, the government will need to elaborate a master
plan for land utilization and management with a focus on appropriate technologies and practices
for naturalresources protectionand management. An environmentalagency has been established
to elaborate policies for protecting the environment, limiting the effect o f weather shocks and
improving sustainability.      Finally, to improve opportunities for rural non-fann income
generation, the government will need to provide the enabling environment for identification and
diffusion o f existing potential in rural areas and empower communities with the resources and
capacity building support, including cooperatives to diversify their income sources. The Bank i s
supporting the government inthis effort through the Rural Support Credit, and the PRSC.

10.     In the case of export led growth, the government is emphasizing improved exports for
coffee and tea. An inter-ministerial Export Promotion Commission has been established, to be
chaired by the Ministry o f Commerce.        The action plan i s to take an integrated approach
recognizing the importance o f addressing constraints all along the production, and marketing

                                                - 11-

chain. The government will produce a technical assessment for the Integrated Framework for
Trade; and the Bankwill support the government inthis process.

 11.     The nationalplans for coffee and tea foresee a four to five fold growthinexport revenues
from these two sub-sectors by 2010. These are ambitious targets and much depends on world
market conditions for coffee, how well the privatization o f the tea sub-sector proceeds, and how
effectively government can implement the institutional and policy reforms necessary to increase
production. However, even more modest growth inthese two industrieswill make a substantial
improvement in aggregate and per hectare income to farmers and processing plant workers.
There i s a similar degree o f optimism about potential income and employment increases from
pyrethruminthe Ruhengeriarea.

 12.     Inaddition to the above measures, the recently launched HIM0 public works program
will help address the pressingproblemof infrastructure development andrehabilitation, and non-
farm rural employment and income generation. This intervention i s aimed at both building
infrastructure inaddition to providing temporary employment, and non-farm income for the rural
population. In the water and energy sectors, there i s a need to define key priority activities to
improve access to services while also feeding into improved income generation.        Inparticular,
issues o f water supply for rural production, sanitation and water for health, and rural
electrification, development o f alternative energy sources should be among the key components
o f a comprehensive infrastructure strategy, and will form part o f the policy dialogue under the
PRSC.

13.      Other upcomingreforms will focus on institutionalizing an export promotion strategy and
action plan, and establishing the corresponding institutional and regulatory framework. Specific
reforms for each commodity will continue. In particular, reforms will continue with the
privatization o f remaining tea factories, building on the lessons learned from privatization o f
Mulindi and Pfunda tea factories.       In addition, the role of OCIR-thC as regulator will be
reassessedand tailored to the new policy environment.

                    3. HumanResourcesDevelopment/SocialSector Reform

14.      The GoR has made great strides inthe educationsector interms o f improvedenrollment
rates which are now estimated at 82%. Government has also decided on the following new policy
measures: i)free primary education for first 9 years o f basic education; ii)trilingual language
policy; iii)subsidy o f private schools to promote girls' education. There i s also the additional
challenge to improve quality . Educationaccounts for 25% o f government's total current budget
(net o f debt payment). Yet, there i s still a funding gap. The focus under the PRSC will be
prioritize the areas for reform (with attention to increased quality), and the corresponding policy
trade-offs, within the sector.

15.     The healthsector is dynamic becauseo f the system o fwell developed NGOs anchored in
grassroots activities, focused on co-financing with strong community involvement. There i s also

                                                 - 12-

 a micro-insurance program that serves 500,000 beneficiaries.          Progress has been made in
 reducing the incidence o f communicable diseases such as malaria and childhood diseases, and
 the percentage of births attended by qualified health personnel has increased by 3 percentage
points. In the case o f HIV/AIDS, a multi-sectoral approach has been adopted. The main
 challenge remaining i s to address the issue o f why malaria i s still the number one cause o f
morbidity and mortality. Even though community involvement and co-financing i s strong, there
 i s a need for increased resources to the health sector. The PRSC will also cover key reforms in
the healthsector.

 16.     In the case of gender and budget related institutional issues, in the area of human
development, a Gender Action Plan (2001-2005) was adopted by Cabinet in 2000, and i s
currently under implementation. Inaddition, a Comprehensive Gender Action Plan to eliminate
gender disparities in the law was also prepared, and adopted in 2003.              Capacity building
involving the Government and NGOs i s underway for the implementation o f the Legal Action
Plan. Recent implementation activity has involved the assurance o f gender sensitive reforms o f
the Constitution, the Landlaw and the anti-discrimination law adopted by the National Assembly
inOctober 2001outlawingdiscriminationagainst anybody, "whether basedon ethnicity, color of
the skin, physical features, origin, sex, opinions, religions"(Law No 47/200 1).

                    4. Private Sector Development and Employment Creation

 17.     Considerable progress has beenmade inprivate sector development (PSD) inthe form
o f privatization and support to medium and small enterprises.          Out o f 77 companies to be
privatized 50 have already been sold. In addition, a center to cater to the development o f small
and medium enterprises was restructured into a non-profit and i s now fully operational in 2003.
There are also ongoing reforms and privatization in the tea sector. The current PSIA o f these
reforms indicate the potential for high benefits to the sector provided key structural issues
pertaining to farmers' access to credit and inputs (fertilizer, seeds, pesticides) are improved. The
PSIA also suggests that the quality o f tea has declined as a result o f the change in OCIR-th6's
role fiom one o f subsidizing input markes and marketing functions, to one o f regulator. To
ensure the growth foreseen does occur, government will need to move quickly to redefine the
role o f OCIR-th6 inits new capacity as regulator.

18.      With the support o f the Bank, the Government prepared and adopted policies and
strategies for the privatization of Rwandatel (the telephone monopoly), and the nine publicly
owned tea factories. The legislation for the regulation o f the telecommunication sector was
passed in 2001. A Multi-sector regulatory agency became operational in October 2002 and the
call for bids for privatization o f Rwandatel has been launched. A planto restructure Electrogaz,
the energy/water utility, has been adopted, and the private operator for Electrogaz was selected
and has been inplace since October 2003.

19.      Inthe financial and bankingsector, as of end September 2003, total loans outstanding
had increased by 8.5% since year-end 2002, with non-performing loans (NPLs) at 29.9% o f the

                                                - 13 -

total loan portfolio, down somewhat from earlier years. An inter-bank commission had
previously looked into the NPLproblem duringthe second half of 2002, andhadmade a number
o f concrete recommendations to deal with the existing problems to mitigate future portfolio
problems. Although progress on these measures have been slow, a number o f measures were
taken by the banks or Banque Nationale du Rwanda (BNR), which resulted in significant
improvement inrecoveries. Inthe case of the Union Banque Populaire (a cooperative o f micro-
finance institutions), non-performing loans have steadily decreased and stand now at 20%
overall, with 13% at the group bank level and 66% at the Unionlevel. While these figures remain
high, they represent a significant improvement over past levels. An additional step, recently
undertaken by government was to initiate the development of a database on micro-finance
borrowers, and the registrationof micro-finance institutions with the central bank.

20.     The government has also made a commitment to privatize the commercialbank, Banque
Commerciale Rwandaise (BCR), whose portfolio o f NPLs accounts for 25% o f all NPLs in the
sector. GoR i s committed to a successful sale to a strong buyer that will not only improve
operation of the bank, but also contribute toward strengthening the whole sector.      Interested
bidders have begun their due diligence, and the privatization o f BCR to be completed by end-
June 2004.

                         5. ImprovingGovernance and Transparency

21.     There has been significant progress inthe area o f political and economic governance.
The constitution was capped by a referendum in May 2003. Parliamentary and presidential
elections took place betweenAugust and October 2003, There i s an ongoing review o f all laws,
and the crime rate has declined by 20% as a result o f community sensitization. Although
somewhat behind schedule, good progress has been made in the area o f demobilization and re-
integration into civilian life, o f forces from DRC.       The unity and national reconciliation
commission continues to progress with its work, while the human rights commission has already
publishedits annual report, and has opened offices in all the major provinces. The next step,
following adoption o f the new constitution i s to develop indicators for humanrights monitoring.
Inline with this, new organigrams of civil servants in central government line ministries are
being implemented.      Roughly 509 members were redeployed to decentralized units o f
government.

22.        Existing institutions for donor harmonization and support will need to be
strengthened for improved implementation o f the PRSP. Currently, the cluster thematic groups,
whose objectives have been to facilitate the development and implementation o f sector strategies
have played a major role in harmonization. These clusters are arranged around the main themes
contained in the PRSP and meet on a regular basis, with the aim to harmonize donor support
around government priorities. The rate o f progress has varied across clusters and sector themes.
There has been significant progress in the education and HIV/AIDS cluster. In the case o f
education, the existence o f a SWAP has played a major role in promoting participation and
coordination among donors, in addition to providing a coherent vision o f the sector. A SWAP i s

                                                - 14-

also plannedfor the health sector. Progress has been slower than plannedin other sectors due to
limitedcapacity insome ministries

23.      In terms of budget support, a Partnership Framework agreement was recently reached
between key budget support donors and GoR. This agreement on budget support harmonization
focuses on the key areas o f public financial management, macro economic policy and PRSP
monitoring. This framework will form the basis for harmonizationo f budget support, ingeneral
and in the context o f the upcoming PRSC. The main goals of the Framework are to ensure
flexibility, reliability and timeliness o f budget support, and to streamline donor requirements
while aligning support to the PRSP review andbudgetcycle.

