Document of
The World Bank
[Report No. 24892-RW
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
PROGRAM DOCUMENT
FORA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 64.5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
FOR AN
INSTITUTIONAL REFORM CREDIT
October 23, 2002
PREM 3 (AFTP3)
Africa Region



The Republic of Rwanda
INSTITUTIONAL REFORM CREDIT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                         =          RF (Rwanda Franc)
1990: US$1.00                         =         RF83
2000: US$1.00                         =          RF390
2001: US$1.00                                    RF443
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: Metric system
FISCAL YEAR: January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB        African Development Bank             MIGA           Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
BCR         Banque Commerciale du Rwanda         MINECOFIN     ,Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
BK          Banque du Kigali                     MOU            Memorandum of Understanding
BNR         Banque Nationale du Rwanda           MTEF           Medium Term Expenditure Framework
BPP         Budget Priority Program              NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy          NPL           Non-Performing Loan
CEDP        Competitiveness and Enterprise       NTB           National Tender Board
Development Project
CEPEX       Central Projects Bureau              OAG            Office of the Auditor General
CRDP        Comnunity Reintegration and          OCIR-Cafe      Office des Cultures Industrielles Rwandais-
Development Project                                Cafe (coffee parastatal)
DDR         Disarmament Demobilization and       OCIR-The       Office des Cultures Industrielles Rwandais-
Reintegration Program                              The (tea parastatal)
DRC         Democratic Republic of Congo         PEMR          Public Expenditure Management Review
ERC         Economic Recovery Credit             PRGF          Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
EU          European Union                       PR$           Poverty Reduction Strategy
ex-FAR      ex soldiers of Forces Armees du      PRSC          Poverty Reduction Support Credit
Rwanda (pre-genocide army)
GDP         Gross Domestic Product               PRSP          Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
GoR         Government of Rwanda                 RPF           Rwanda Patriotic front
HIV/AIDS    Human Immunodeficiency Virus/        SER           'Sector Expenditure Review
Acquired Immnunodeficiency
Syndrome
HIPC        Heavily Indebted Poor Countries      SOE            State Owned Enterprise
IDA         International Development            SWAP           Septor-Wide Approach
Association
IFC         International Finance Corporation    UK-DFID       United Kingdom-Departmnent for
International Development
IMF         International Monetary Fund          UNDP          United Nations Development Program
IPRSP       Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy   URC           National Unity and Reconciliation
Paper                                              Commission
IRC         Institutional Reform Credit          VAT           Value Added Tax
LDP         Letter of Development Policy
Regional Vice-President         :     Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director                :     Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Director                 :     Paula Donovan
Sector Manager                  :     Cadman Atta Mills
Task Team Leader                 :    Chukwuma F. Obidegwu



The Republic of Rwanda
PROGRAM DOCUMENT FOR
THE INSTITUTIONAL REFORM CREDIT
Table of Contents
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY ...............................1
INTRODUCTION          ...............................3
I.COUNTRY BACKGROUND.3
Poverty and Social Indicators.~4
Developments in the Socio-Political Transition         ..4
II. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS, MEDIUM-TERM PROSPECTS AND FINANCING
REQUIREMENTS.6
Medium-Term Economic Targets.7
External Financing Requirements.7
III. THE POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY.9
Objectives and Key Actions.,,9
Good Governance.9
Rural Development and Agricultural Transformation.9
Private Sector Development.::J1
Economicminf rastructure.et ......................................
HumannDevelopment.11
Institutional Capacity Bquilng .11
IV. THE GOVERNMENT'S REFORM PRGRAM                 .         .11
Reform      s Already Undertaken..................... ..11
Ongoing and Planned Reforms    .....................11
A. Improving the Effectiveness of Public Actions.13
Public Excpenditure Management.13
Publiccadministration.17
B. Human and Social Developmentn                                               17
Edu cation.8 ...............                                              I 
H ealth                                                            ............... 18
GenderMainstream ing                                              ............... 18
C. Private Sector Deelopopentt19
Privatization.19
Establishment of Regulatory Agencies.20..................................
Financial Sector.21
V. THE PROPOSED CREDITT.23
A. Credit Objectives and Design.23
B. Links to Bank Group Operations.24
Rationale for IDA Involvement and Links to the C..                            24
IFC and MIGA.27
Collaboration with the IMF and Donors.27



-ii-
C.   Credit Implementation ...................................... 27
Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership .27
Disbursement and Tranche Releases .28
Implementation and Monitoring Arrangements .30
FiduciaryAAspects.31
Environmental Aspects .32
D. Benefits and Risks of the Program .32
VI. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES .34
ANNEXES..35
Annex A: MATRIX OF POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS SUPPORTED .35
Annex B: Expenditure Accountability Assessment Update Table .41
Annex C: STANDARD ANNEXES .43
Annex D: Letter of Development Policy .53
Table 1: Selected Indicators of Economic Performance                  .6
Table 2: Rwanda: Budget Financing Gap, 2002-2004                     .8
Box 1: Key Macroeconomic and Structural Reforms 1997-2001 .12
Box 2 : Mitigating the Social Impact of Privatization .20
Box 3: Path to Poverty Reduction Support Credits .26
MAP: IBRD No. 32003



The Republic of Rwanda
PROGRAM DOCUMENT FOR THE
INSTITUTIONAL REFORM CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:      Republic of Rwanda
Implementing   Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
Agency:
Credit Amount: SDR 64.5 million (US$ 85 million)
Terms:         Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Credit         The proposed credit is a precursor to a Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) and
Description:   would provide quick disbursing finance to support the implementation of the
Government's poverty reduction strategy as elaborated in the PRSP. Over the next
three years, the Government intends to reinforce its poverty reduction efforts with
policy and institutional measures to strengthen the budget process, improve public
sector capacity and governance, promote private sector investment, production and
employment creation, and develop human resources. The proposed IDA financed
Institutional Reform Credit (IRC) will continue the support for reform efforts
provided by the Economic Recovery Credit (Cr. 31 82-RW).
The main components of the proposed credit are public expenditure reform, including
the strengthening of financial accountability, private sector development including the
financial sector and privatization of state-owned enterprises and human development
including gender reforms. The African Development Bank (AfDB), European Union,
the Netherlands, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and the IMF are also supporting the
reform program. The Credit will be disbursed in three tranches, an initial tranche of
US$45 million on effectiveness, and two tranches of US$20 million each based on
fulfillment of specified actions.
Benefits:      The expected benefits of the program include (i) the improvement of public social and
other key services by strengthening capacity, increasing budget allocations and service
delivery; (ii) the increase in rural production and incomes through enhanced security
of land tenure, improved incentives for producers of coffee and tea and a sustainable
framework for distribution and marketing of agricultural inputs; (iii) the stimulation of
private sector activity and the creation of employment through improved financial
services, better infrastructural services and the privatization of moribund state
enterprises, and (iv) the improvements in economic opportunities and incomes will
reinforce the efforts on national reconciliation.
Risks:         The main sources of risks for Rwanda are (i): the insecurity in the Great Lakes region,
including the effect of the conflict in neighboring Democratic Republic of Congo
(DRC); the continued presence in the DRC of the armed interahamwe militia and
other groups opposed to the Rwandese government; the strained but improving
relations between Uganda and Rwanda; (ii) the weak institutional capacity that is
strained by a heavy socio-political and economic reform agenda; (iii) weak financial
management; and (iv) fragile donor support for the budget. The implementation of the
Lusaka Accord resumed in mid-2002, with an agreement by Rwanda and DRC on the



-2-
withdrawal of Rwandan troops from the DRC and the disarmament of Rwandese
armed groups in the DRC and repatriation to Rwanda.
Rwanda has been implementing fundamental social reforms aimed at decentralization,
democratization, justice (Gacaca) and national reconciliation. These programs are
essential for peace and political stability and consequently for the effectiveness of the
economic reform program. Progressive improvements in economic opportunities will
reinforce national reconciliation and the foundations for political stability. Poor or
delayed implementation, particularly in view of the weak capacity, might jeopardize
the credibility and effectiveness of these critical reforms.
Fiduciary risks are high, due to the institutional devastation of the genocide and the
overall weak capacity for financial management in the public sector. However, the
GoR, with the support from its partners, is engaged in efforts to reform the budget and
rebuild institutions for financial accountability.
Support by donors is still fragile and donor funds continue to be tied up in many
different projects and the delays in disbursements cause difficulties in the
implementation of the budget. These financing problems could impede the
implementation of the poverty reduction strategy. However the PRSP process has
created a positive impression for the development program among donors and the
recent progress in the implementation of the Lusaka Accord augurs well for increased
and more reliable donor support.
Economic Rate Not applicable
of Return:
Environmental  Not Applicable
Rating:
A Letter of Development Policy, prepared by the Rwandese authorities, is annexed to this Report.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
PROGRAM DOCUMENT FOR
A PROPOSED ADJUSTMENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
FOR AN INSTITUTIONAL REFORM CREDIT
INTRODUCTION
1.    Rwanda has made notable progress along an ambitious path of reconstruction, national
reconciliation, and economic reform since the genocide of 1994. Rwanda initiated economic
reforms in 1995 and has made significant progress in rebuilding its economy. An ambitious
program of sociopolitical reforms, aimed at improving justice and governance and empowering
the population through decentralization and democratization, is being implemented in parallel
with the economic reforms. The war in the DRC of which Rwanda has been one of the principal
belligerents, appears to be winding down, with the bilateral agreements in July between the
Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and Rwanda, and in August between Uganda and the
DRC, to accelerate the implementation of the Lusaka Accord. In light of the agreement, Rwanda
started the process of withdrawal its troops from the DRC in mid-September 2002. The
resolution of this conflict will enable Rwanda to pull its troops out of the DRC and concentrate
its resources on development.
2.    The Government of Rwanda launched its National Poverty Reduction Program (PNRP)
in June 2000 and outlined its development strategy, initially in the Interim Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (iPRSP) of November 2000 and further elaborated in a full PRSP completed in
June 2002. The PRSP builds on Rwanda's long term vision (Vision 2020) of 1998 that puts
emphasis on improving the living conditions of the Rwandese through fostering national
reconciliation, improving good governance and security in Rwanda and the region, and rapid,
diversified and sustainable economic growth.
3.    The Government regards strong government/donor partnership as a key element in its
effort to improve the living standards of its citizens and regards the PRSP as an instrument for
rallying the Government, the development partners and the civil society around the cause of
poverty reduction. The Bank, the IMF and other development partners assisted the Government
in preparing its PRS. Other development partners, including the European Union (EU), the
African Development Bank (AfDB), the UK, and Sweden, Netherlands are providing budget
support and financing sectoral interventions. Bilateral donors, the UNDP and other UN agencies
are supporting reintegration efforts, capacity building, justice, decentralization and
democratization. On July 24, 2002, the IMF Board discussed Rwanda's PRSP and approved a
new PRGF arrangement. This was followed by the discussion of the PRSP by the Executive
Board of the World Bank on August 8, 2002.
I. COUNTRY BACKGROUND
4.    Rwanda's per capita income, at US.$220 in 2000, is still much lower than the US$370 in
1990 and Rwanda remains one of the poorest countries in the world. Over sixty percent of the
households live below the poverty line, compared to about 40 percent in 1985. Rwanda's
population, estimated to be 8.5 million in 2000, is growing at 2.9 percent per annum and its



-4-
estimated population density of 337 per km2 in 1999 is in the top ten in the world. The legacies
of the genocide continue to weigh heavily on the social and mental recovery of the people and on
the reconstruction of the country. Rwanda's civil war and the genocide and its aftermath
exacerbated the degradation of the scarce land, forests and water resources that support the
largely agricultural and rural economy. These events also devastated human resources and
destroyed the export and tax bases, increased public indebtedness and saddled the financial
sector with non-performing loans. The war in the DR, one of the legacies of the genocide, has
exacted its own social and economic costs on the Rwandese and the other inhabitants of the
Great Lakes region.
5.    The Arusha Accord provided the framework for the formation of a coalition government
of National Unity and the National Assembly of the Transition in July 1994 after the genocide.
All the political parties that existed in the country in 1993 when the Arusha Accord was signed,
except the party that controlled the government during the genocide, were represented in the
cabinet and National Assembly. Since 1994, Rwanda has resettled over 3 million refugees and
other displaced people, undertaken economic and institutional reforms, conducted local elections
and decentralized its government, completed its Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), and
launched preparations for the full transition to democratic government in 2003.
Poverty and Social Indicators
6.    The consultations, surveys and analysis undertaken in the context of the PRSP process
have immensely improved the understanding of poverty in Rwanda and facilitated the
elaboration of a poverty reduction strategy. The surveys confirmed that living conditions in
Rwanda, while slowly improving since 1994, are still very poor, particularly in the rural areas.
Before the recent recalibration of the poverty line in 2001, the poverty headcount was an
estimated 64 percent in 2000 compared to 40 percent in 1985. Following the Household Living
Standards Survey (HLSS) and the PRSP consultations, a new poverty line of 60.3 percent was
established for 2001. The HLSS also showed a large jump in income inequality, with the Gini-
coefficient rising from 0.27 to 0.455, and with urban populations doing much better than rural
ones. The increase in inequality reflects the relative neglect of the rural areas in the
reconstruction process in Rwanda.
7.    The health status of the population in Rwanda is poor. The social indicators related to
health and survival have more or less stagnated in the last twenty years, with life expectancy of
49 years in 1999 compared to 46 in 1980, and infant mortality of 107 per 1000 live births
compared to 128 in 1980. Rwanda continues to suffer from a high incidence of malaria. Recent
surveys indicate that 10.8 percent and 11.6 percent of the rural and urban population over 12
years of age respectively is infected with the HIV/AIDS virus. HIV/AIDS and violent conflicts
have been direct and indirect factors in worsening survival indicators but other factors, including
malnutrition and declining quality of healthcare have also contributed to this phenomenon.
Developments in the Socio-Political Transition
8.    The rapid and permanent resettlement of groups displaced by the genocide has facilitated
the recovery of the economy and the efforts to rebuild the social fabric. National dialogue has
promoted national reconciliation, regarded as a prerequisite for durable peace and sustainable
development. The countrywide dialogue on national unity in Rwanda, initiated by the National



Unity and Reconciliation Commission (URC), identified poor justice, governance and
leadership, and poverty as the major obstacles to national unity. The results from these
consultations have given impetus to the efforts to reform the economy, and put in place
institutions to foster good governance and accelerate efforts on the trials of the detained genocide
suspects.
9.    The National Assembly adopted a decentralization law in 2000, with elections for the
councils of the new district administrations on March 6, 2001, and the decentralized entities
came into being thereafter. Meanwhile, the Legal and Constitutional Affairs Commission started
work in 2000 on drafting a new constitution that would pave the way for national elections in
2003. The trials of the 120,000 genocide suspects started in 1997 but proceeded slowly with only
about 2,500 cases fully processed by end 1999. In end 2000, the National Assembly adopted the
enabling legislation for the use of a traditional method of justice (Gacaca) to accelerate the trials
and clear the bulk of the caseload. Elections for Gacaca jurors took place in October 2001 and
the process started in June 2002.
National and Regional Security
10.   Rwanda's military involvement in the war in the DRC is a burden to its meager
resources. Its strained relations with Uganda since 2000 have undermined the strong social and
economic ties that existed between the two countries. Peace in the DRC and Burundi is essential
for national reconciliation and security in Rwanda, while good relations with Uganda facilitate
commerce, not only with Uganda but with other countries in Eastern Africa. The recent signing
of agreements between the DRC and Rwanda, and the Uganda and the DRC is another ray of
hope for peace for the people in the region. The relations between Rwanda and Uganda have
been improving as the two countries have continued to work at various levels to build confidence
and trust between them.
Human and Social Developments
11.   Since the genocide, Rwanda has treated human resource, development as one of its
priorities. The reconstruction process put emphasis on rehabilitating social infrastructure, and
reviving social services provision and use. The encouragement given to parents to send children
back to school has swelled enrolments at all levels of education, now surpassing pre-genocide
levels. The enrolment of girls is at par with that of boys in primary and secondary systems.
Health facilities have largely been rehabilitated and a decentralized health management system
has been adopted.
12.   In November 1999, the civil code was amended to give women the right to inherit and
own property. Seats are reserved for women in central and local legislative bodies and an action
plan was adopted in 2000 to eliminate gender disparities. The culture of silence on HI VIAIDS
epidemic has been broken and it has become a subject of open public discussion. The GoR has
adopted a multi-sectoral approach to fighting HIV/AIDS and a new national commission has
been created to spearhead the effort. Eight years after the genocide, Rwanda continues to grapple
with the resettlement and reintegration of refugees and displaced people, albeit with diminishing
assistance from the international community. In 2001, up to 192,000 households were still living
in temporary accommodation under plastic sheets or damaged housing. With the progress in the
Lusaka Accord, returning Rwandese exiles, including ex-combatants will need to be resettled



-6-
and reintegrated. The reintegration of prisoners liberated through the Gacaca process will pose
new challenges for Rwanda.
II. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS, MEDIUM-TERM PROSPECTS AND
FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
13.    Following the genocide of 1994, real GDP fell by 50 percent and the rate of inflation rose
to 64 percent. The Government made a commitment to rapid economic recovery, with prudent
fiscal and monetary policies, liberalization of the economy, and institutional capacity building.
The economy subsequently rebounded, growing by 70 percent in 1994-97 and 8.9 percent in
1998. In 1999-2001, the economy continued to grow, albeit at a lower than expected rate, as real
GDP grew by 7.6 percent in 1999, below the projected rate of 8 percent, and 6.0 percent in 2000,
and 6.7 percent in 2001. Agriculture and construction have been the main sources of growth
since 1998 as the manufacturing, and commerce and other service sectors stagnated following
the reduction in the activities and related employment of international NGOs and relief agencies.
Inflation, as measured by the change in the Consumer Price Index (CPI), was reduced from 17
percent in end-1997 to an average of 6.8 percent in 1998. The CPI declined by 2.4 percent in
1999, due to a steep decline in food prices, and rose by 3.9 and 3.4 percent in 2000 and 2001.
Table 1: Selected Indicators of Economic Performance
97     98      99     00      01     02      03     04
(prel)  (est)  (proj)  (proj)
Real GDP Growth Rate (%)         13.8   8.9     7.6    6.0     6.7    7.3    6.1     6.2
Inflation (%ch CPI, annual avg.)  11.7  6.8    -2.4    3.9     3.4    2.0     3.0    3.0
National Accounts (% of GDP)
Gross Investmnent                13.8    14.8   17.2   17.5    18.4   18.8    19.3   19.8
Private Investment               5.6    8.0     10.9   11.6    11.8   12.0    12.2   12.4
Private Consumption              94.5   92.8    88.8   88.0    86.4   86.1    84.6   83.7
Public Consumption               9.6     10.0   11.0   10.5    11.7   12.1    11.8   10.4
Public Finance (% of GDP)
Government Revenues              10.4    10.6   9.9    9.7     11.4   12.2    12.7   12.8
Grants                           6.8    5.3     6.0    .9.0    8.4    8.8     8.8    8.1
Total Public Expenditures        19.6    18.9   19.6   18.7    21.0   22.1   22.1    20.8
Recurrent Expenditures          11.5   12.1    13.3   12.6   14.2    15.2   14.8    13.3
Military                      4.2    4.3     4.2    3.4     3.3    2.9     2.4    2.0
Social Sectors                       2.8     3.9    4.0     5.3    6.1     6.3    6.4
Development Expenditures       8.2     6.8    6.3     6.0    6.6     6.8    7.2     7.5
Fiscal Deficit (excl. grants)    -9.2   -8.3    -9.7   -8.9   -9.5    -9.9    -9.4   -8.0
Fiscal Deficit (incl. grants)    -2.5   -3.0   -3.8    0.1    -1.1    -1.1   -0.6    0.1
Balance of Payments (% of GDP)
Current Account Balance          -17.4  -17.0  -16.7   -16.3  -16.4   -17.0  -15.8   -13.6
Exports of Goods                 5.0    3.2     3.2    5.0     5.5    4.4     4.6    4.8
Imports of Goods                 15.0    12.9   12.9   13.2    15.0   14.5    13.9   13.3
Off. Reserves (mths of imports)  4.0    4.6     4.7    5.2     5.7    6.2     6.2    6.2
Memo Items
Extemal Debt (% of GDP)          61.6   58.3    65.3   72.1    77.3   73.2    33.6   32.2
Exchange Rate (RWF/USD)          302    312     334    390     443    467     477    487
Source: Rwanda, Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning



-7-
14.   Revenue performance in 1999 and 2000 was disappointing. In 1999 government revenues
amounted to 9.9 percent of GDP compared to 10.6 percent in 1998, and was one-percent of GDP
lower than budget target. Revenue collection also under-performed in 2000, at 9.7 percent of
GDP compared to the budget target of 11.0 percent. Weakness in tax and customs
administration, lower import duty rates combined with lower than expected imports, production
of beer, soft drinks and cigarettes, reduced revenue collections. These phenomena reflect the
structural changes from the steep deceleration of growth from 8.9 percent in 1998 to 7.6 percent
in 1999. However, with the success of the VAT, introduced in January 2001 and efforts to collect
tax arrears and increases in the production of beer and soft drinks, the revenues reached 11.4
percent of GDP for 2001, in line with the budget target.
15.   Exports are low, with exports of goods at under 5 percent of GDP, and concentrated in
three primary commodities-coffee, tea and coltan. The latter, coltan, became an important
commodity in the export basket in 2001, although the price of coltan has since collapsed.
Between 1990-2000, the price of tea and coffee in world markets declined by 6.4 percent and
20.7 percent in real dollar terms respectively. Recent projections indicate that prices of these
commodities will remain depressed in the medium term. Imports amounted to 13.2 percent of
GDP in 2000 and have also been on the decline since 1997 due to the tapering off of
humanitarian assistance by relief agencies and NGOs. The current account deficit excluding
official transfers has remained high, above 15 percent of GDP while the gross international
reserves have been maintained above 6 months of imports. Table 1 shows selected indicators of
historical and projected economic performance.
Medium-Term Economic Targets
16.   As discussed above, Rwanda's economy grew rapidly during the last seven years, largely
a rebound from the sharp decline in 1994, fueled by large inflows of external resources for relief
and reconstruction and supported by the stabilization and liberalization of the economy. The
excess capacity that facilitated the rapid rebound is practically exhausted and new investments in
productive capacity are needed to keep the economy growing. The GoR's commitment to
structural reform and macroeconomic stability, and the ongoing peace process in the region
augur well for continuing strong growth performance and stability. The medium-term
macroeconomic objectives are to: (i) achieve annual average real GDP growth of 6-7 percent a
year during the period 2002-2004; (ii) keep inflation below 3 percent per annum and (iii) reduce
the external current account deficit (excluding official transfers) to about 13 percent of GDP by
the year 2004. The IMF Board approved a three-year PRGF arrangement in July 2002 to support
the macroeconomic program and the proposed IRC will support the deepening of structural
reforms to achieve these targets.
External Financing Requirements
17.   External financing needs for medium-term are substantial due to the costs of its post-
conflict transition programs that are now at implementation stage. This packed agenda includes
(i) the decentralization of government, with a need to provide start-up funds for new local
administrations; (ii) democratization and governance, which involves preparing a new
constitution and the elections and strengthening the institutions.for promoting governance and
national reconciliation; (iii) the disarmament, demobilization and reintegration (DDR) program;
(iv) the acceleration of the implementation of the Lusaka Accord; and (v) the gacaca program.



-8-
The budget estimate for recurrent expenditures on these programs for 2002 amounted to about
3.0 percent of GDP. As a result of the transition programs, the total expenditure to GDP ratio
rose from an average of just over 19 percent in 1997-2000 to 22.1 percent in 2002. The budget
deficits before grants are expected to be 9.9 percent of GDP in 2002 and 9.4 percent in 2003,
compared to 8.9 percent in 2000 and 9.5 percent in 2001.
-  ~JJ7-1      Tabl 2:R Ran  Budget FinacingGap 2  -204 4
1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005
* iS irg.it'-   -   Acrials           Budget.      Projected
Financial Requirements         ,147.1'  1 ..; '145.'4' ,195.3 |209.6  221.7  23Q 2 '241.8
Curfen expenditu2es,I .     753     860 '89    '1074    125.2  1344   132.4   38.4'
'Capital Expenditures ,.    42.3    408    42.0,  50     564    69     74.5i 85.9
Amtnorization of Debt : '>'-  7.0 -3 1-1.8  104    9.2  :;12.2-' . 14.5; -15.3 S'.16.5
!Cange in Area es (duction     -22.2    2.0 ,-2      31.7 ''148      .0, '
Errors and adjustments        .:- '01.1.    A5 -;.8 i_ a      -
! ,,* .:..is  - .- ;. : . -: 7" , _ ', ,k  -. I:.' .,,
Financing                      147.2  141.4  145.4 .195.3   170.4  193.8  204.5  225.8
Revenues                    66.0    63.6   68.7   86.2  100.7  114.9  127.9  138.4'
'.Grants                     33.0    38.5   63.7   63.3   47.6   54.9  , '59.2  67:5
.External Financing          46.2   32.3   25.9   48.7   33.0   24.6    20.9  26.2'
'Ddinestic fancing           ''2.0   7.0  -12.9   -3.0   -10.9   -0.6  '-3.6   -6.3
FinfancialG6p(FRWbill.).          -   .    -          i    ' -  39.1  27.9  25.7.. , 16.1
Finaiicial Gap (US$ mil.)        - --           --     --    83.8   58.5   52.8   32.3
Memo Item:        '                   ' '
Exchange Rale ,           .      312    335. '.390.   443    467    477 .'!-487   497
18.    On the other hand, demobilization of soldiers will reduce the size of the army and
military expenditures. These expenditures at 3.3 percent of GDP in 2001 are expected to decline
to 2.9 percent in 2002, and 2.4 and 2.3 percent in 2003 and 2004. Thus over the 3 years, military
spending will decline by 1 percent of GDP. It is envisaged that over the medium-term, public
expenditure will return to about 20 percent of GDP, with further declines in military spending as
a proportion of GDP, and the integration of the transition programs into regular activities.
19.   To meet the expenditure needs, the GoR is strengthening domestic resource mobilization,
with revenues expected to increase from 11.4 percent in 2001 to 12.8 percent in 2004. The
Government has recently increased the VAT rate from 15 to 18 percent. However, there is still a
substantial external financing gap of US$195.2 million for 2002-2004. The proceeds from the
IRC would be the IDA contribution to fill this gap. Other partners, including Sweden, European
Union, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom are also providing quick disbursing financial
support to Rwanda.



-9-
III. THE POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY
Objectives and Key Actions
20.   The PRSP builds on Rwanda's long-term vision (Vision 2020) emphasizing national
reconciliation, good governance, security in Rwanda and the region, and rapid, diversified and
sustainable economic growth as key elements to improvements in the living standards of the
Rwandese. The targets of Vision 2020 include a GDP per capita of US$900, from the present
US$200, a reduction of the incidence of poverty from 60 percent to 25 percent; an increase in life
expectancy to 65 years from the current 49 years, and an increase in literacy from 52 percent to
90 percent. The ambitious poverty reduction targets would require rapid economic
transformation, with 7-8 percent annual growth of GDP. Vision 2020 envisages this economic
transformation in the context of a private sector-led, all-inclusive economic system, with market-
based agriculture, specialization in export-oriented niche and high value products and light
manufacturing and service industries, and the adoption of modem information and
telecommunications technologies. The PRSP outlines the following as the basic building blocks
for economic transformation and poverty reduction: macroeconomic stability, human
development, good governance, partnership and the prioritization of public actions. It then
identifies six broad and related areas - good governance, rural development and agricultural
transfornation, human development, private sector development, economic infrastructure, and
institutional capacity building, for priority public actions in the medium-term.
Good Governance
21.   Various consultations in Rwanda since the genocide identified poor governance as being
at the root of the tragic history of the country and emphasized the link between national
reconciliation and good governance. The GoR embarked on putting in place the institutions for
good governance, including those for financial accountability and transparency.' The
decentralization of the state was introduced in 2001 to encourage grassroots democracy and to
foster accountability and transparency at all levels of government. National elections are planned
for 2003 and the gacaca system has been put in place for the accelerated adjudication of the cases
of the genocide suspects. A human rights commission has been established and is functioning. A
comprehensive strategy for governance has been drafted and discussed in the context of the
PRSP process. After internal dialogue and examination of practices elsewhere, the Office of
Ombudsman will be established to combat corruption. and injustice. This Office will have the
functions of (i) the traditional role of the Ombudsman that acts as a mediator between the public
administration and the civil society; (ii) the inspector-general of government that watches over
the functioning of government agencies; and (iii) an anti-corruption agency to fight corruption
and injustice.
Rural Development and Agricultural Transformation
22.   Agriculture is the main source of income for 90 percent of the population. The PRSP
notes that the transformation of agriculture is central to poverty reduction. Agriculture provided
the base for the rapid expansion of exports in the medium-term. The strategy for agriculture
Financial accountability and transparency issues are discussed in detail later in this document.



-10-
seeks to transform the sector and the rural economy through greater market-orientation of
agriculture, underpinned by intensification in input use and diversification and specialization in
agricultural production. It emphasizes wider use of improved inputs, the rebuilding of
agricultural extension and research system, the liberalization of land, labor and agricultural
inputs and products markets, and support to associations of farmer groups, as partners in the
generation and dissemination of technologies and in improving credit and the marketing of
inputs and outputs. The strategy also puts emphasis on the improvement of productivity and
efficiency in coffee and tea, assistance to farmers in restocking of livestock and small domestic
animals, the reversal of the degradation of the natural resource base, the promotion of private
small-scale enterprises in the rural areas and rural public works schemes to create non-farm
employment while rehabilitating rural transport and environmental infrastructure.
Private Sector Development
23.   The Rwandan private sector is small and weak, as years of conflict and socio-political
mismanagement have deterred private investments. The financial sector is small, burdened with
non-performing loans and lacks opportunities for good loans and other investments. Reforms
have been initiated to strengthen the financial sector. The poor state of economic infrastructure
as a major obstacle to developing a competitive private sector and reviving agriculture and the
rural economy. The objectives of public actions in infrastructure are to reduce costs, improve the
reliability and coverage of services, and open up access to markets in the country, the region and
the rest of the world. The privatization of the infrastructure parastatals will reduce costs and
improve access to services.
24.   Export Development: The PRSP regards export production as an important source of
economic growth, employment creation and increases in income. There is considerable scope to
increase the production and quality of coffee and tea and expand the exports of high value
products such specialty coffees, cut flowers, pyrethrum, fruits and vegetables. The privatization
of the tea and coffee processing plants will attract the private investments needed for these
industries to reach their potential. Under private management of tea factories and coffee
processing plants, farmers are likely to get the assistance needed to increase productivity and
raise the quality of the products. The GoR, through the Rwanda Investment Promotion Agency,
is promoting altemative high-value smallholder crops. It intends to intensify its efforts to deal
with the logistical bottlenecks to exports. Peace in the Great Lakes region will stimulate expoits
to the region and increase tourism from outside the region.
Economic Infrastructure
25.   There are three key elements in the provision of infrastructure - expansion of the
networks, maintenance of existing networks and the cost-effectiveness of infrastructural services.
The first two have implications for the budget, public investments and donor financing. The
PRSP makes a case for the importance of infrastructure in poverty reduction and some elements
of public infrastructural services are included as budget priorities. The cost-effectiveness element
depends on how these services are conceived, developed and provided. The Govermment is
committed to public/private/community partnership in the provision of infrastructure, to ensure
sustainability and cost-effectiveness.



Human Development
26.   The PRSP's strategy for addressing Rwanda's formidable human and social development
challenges is essentially to combine effective public actions by the central government with
strong local and community involvement in problem identification and solving, in partnership
with the NGOs, the private sector and local governments. The leadership of the central
government is crucial in promoting this partnership, by developing policies and strategies,
effective public spending on and delivery of social services, monitoring and regulation, and
effective information, education and communication on social sector issues. In this regard, the
proposals of the PRSP to put priority on mass education and literacy and the education of girls,
and to include HIV/AIDS issues and health education in the curriculum in formal and informal
education, are important instruments for improving welfare.
Institutional Capacity Building
27.   The objective is to put in place the institutional structures that provide incentives for the
development and the retention of skills in the public and private sectors. For the public sector,
this is critical for improving the effectiveness of public actions, essential for the implementation
of the PRSP. Capacity building, including upgrading of skills, and the reforms of the budget
process, governance and public administration, are essential elements of building institutional
capacity.
IV. THE GOVERNMENT'S REFORM PROGRAM
REFORMS ALREADY UNDERTAKEN
28.   The GOR's program of change in Rwanda underlined that a strong economic revival,
with robust private sector growth, was a key element of the effort on national reconciliation.
During the transition from emergency to development, the reforms focused on stabilizing and
reviving the economy and rebuilding the institutional capacity of the public sector. The program
successfully undertook policy reforms in areas of trade and the exchange regime, revenue
mobilization and public expenditures, public administration and public enterprise reform and
rebuilt the capacity of the Central Bank and the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
conduct monetary and fiscal policies and to design and implement structural reform policies. The
Bank, the IMF, the AfDB and bilateral donors supported these reforms. During 1999-2001, the
GoR made satisfactory progress in implementing the reform program agreed with the Bank and
the IMF under the Economic Recovery Credit and the PRGF respectively, although the lack of
capacity slowed the overall pace of reform. Box 1 outlines the reforms undertaken in 1997-2001.
ONGOING AND PLANNED REFORMS
29.   As noted in paragraph 20, the PRSP identified macroeconomic stability, human
development, good governance, partnership and prioritization of public actions as basic building
blocks and rural development and agricultural transformation, human development, private
sector development, economic infrastructure, good governance, institutional capacity building as
priorities for public actions to meet the goals of economic growth and poverty. In accordance
with these identified key areas, the GoR is focusing its policy and institutional reform program
on maintaining macroeconomic stability, improving the effectiveness of public actions through



-12-
reforms of public expenditure management and public administration, addressing the
institutional constraints to human development and improving the institutional framework
(privatization, regulatory refonn and financial sector reforin.) to stimulate private sector
development.
Box 1: Key Macroeconomic and Structural Reforms 1997-2001
* Revenue: Adoption of measures to increase revenues and rationalize the tax system including the establishment of the
autonomous RRA at end-1 997, the increase in tumover and excise taxes in 1998, and subjecting public enterprises to income
tax in 1999. The VAT was introduced in 2001.
* Expenditure management: The establishment of a current expenditure monitoring system and a Central Projects Bureau
(CEPEX) to improve the coordination and monitoring of investment projects and the introduction of the Medium-Term
Expenditure Framework (MTEF) and an enlarged poverty-focused priority program areas (BPPs), covering the social and
priority economic sectors in 2000.
*   Transparency and Accountability: A National Tender Board was created in 1998 to oversee procurement. An independent
Office of the Auditor General was established in 1999. The Inspector-General of Finance and Audit (IGA) and the Public
Accounts Division (PAD) in MINECOFIN have been revived. The IGA is responsible for intemal audit of govemment agencies
and public enterprises while the PAD prepares regular public accounts and financial reports of govemment operations.
*   Public administration reform: The removal of ghost workers (over 6,000) and unqualified employees (about 6,000), the
regularization of the status of employees, largely returned refugees-teachers, the monetization of fringe benefits in the civil
service and the increase of civil service salaries in 1999 by over 40 percent on average.
* Privatization and public enterprise reform: The legal framework for privatization was adopted in 1996 and the exercise
started in 1998. Since then, 42 of the 70 SOEs have been offered for sale, 35 have been brought to the point of sale, the sale of
25 have been approved by the cabinet. The privatization of the 9 public tea factories and the telephone company (Rwandatel),
and the restructuring of the electric and water utility is underway.
•   Central Bank and monetary policy: A revised central bank statute giving the Banque Nationale du Rwanda (BNR)
independence in conducting monetary policy was adopted in mid-1997. At end-1998, Treasury bill auctions were introduced,
giving the BNR the instrument for controlling monetary aggregates and influencing interest rates.
*   Financial sector reform: A new banking law, promulgated in August 1999, provides for the effectve prudental regulation of
commercial banks. Prudential and other regulations were issued in late 1999 and in 2000. Audits of all five commercial banks
were carried out in 1999 that provided the basis for the restructuring of these banks to comply with the new prudential
regulabtons.
•   Regulatory framework for private sector development: The Nabonal Assembly adopted the Rwanda Investment Promoton
Act and a new labor code in 1999 and a revised intemal trade act in 2000. The Govemment-controlled Chamber of Commerce
was abolished in 2000, and an independent Private Sector Federabon was established. Legislation was adopted to establish
industry-based organizations to replace the parastatals that controlled the processing and markeUng of coffee and tea and
regulated the industries. The National Assembly adopted legislation for the liberalization and regulabon of the
telecommunicaton sector in 2001.
• Gender: An amendment to the civil code giving women the rights to inherit and own property was enacted in late 1999. A
comprehensive action plan to eliminate gender disparibes was adopted by the cabinet in late 2000.
•   Trade liberalization: The maximum tariff rate was reduced in three steps, from 100 percent before 1995 to 25 percent from
early 1999, and the number of non-zero tariff bands reduced from 40 to 3. As a result, the trade restictveness index fell from 8
in 1995-97 to 2 by mid-2000. The coffee export tax was eliminated in early 1999.
*   Exchange regime: A fully liberalized and market-determined exchange rate system has been adopted, foreign exchange
bureaux licensed, and current account restictons abolished. The obligabons under Article VIII of the IMFs Articles of
Agreement were accepted at end-1998.
•   Domestic prices and marketing: Price controls have been eliminated for all but a handful of commodities: cement, elecbicity,
water, and telecommunicabons. A flexible retail petroleum pricing mechanism was implemented in 1999.
*   Demobilization: Since end-1997, the Govemment has demobilized a total of 16,125 soldiers in two rounds; at end-1997, 1998
and 2000. In addition, about 15,000 ex-FAR (ex-soldiers of the former Govemment) have been incorporated into the nabonal
army in accordance with the Arusha Accord.



-13-
A. Improving the Effectiveness of Public Actions
Public Expenditure Management
30.   The reform of the budget process and the strengthening of related institutional capacity
have been the focus of reform in the last five years. These efforts have resulted in the
establishment of functioning budget process, with budget procedures and calendar that are
respected, the decentralization of budget preparation, the treatment of social sectors as budget
priorities, and the adoption of the MTEF. In 1998, the Government initiated reforms for financial
accountability, with the establishment of the National Tender Board (NTB) and the Office of the
Auditor-General. The ongoing and planned reform program is building on these past efforts.
Reform of the Budget Process
31.   The Implementation of the MTEF: The GoR adopted the Medium-Term Expenditure
Framework (MTEF) approach to budgeting in 2000 for the 2001 budget following careful
preparations involving the sensitization of the key stakeholders and training for staff in the
ministry of finance and line ministries. This preparation, as well as the culture of budget
discipline in Rwanda, bodes well for the success of the MTEF approach. The PRSP proposed the
sector strategy process and the MTEF as the key instruments for implementing the poverty
reduction strategy. These two instruments are obviously related, as clear strategies and policies
are essential parts of a sound MTEF process. The Government has indicated that flexible donor
funding (not tied to specific projects) and sector-wide approaches (SWAPs) are its preferred
modalities for donor assistance. The success in implementing the MTEF is recognized as
essential for the wider adoption of these preferred modalities.
32.   The MTEF, when done properly, enables the budget to reflect government policies and
priorities and puts emphasis on results and impact, and less focus on inputs. The fortunate
confluence of the introduction of the MTEF and the focus on poverty provides the institutional
basis necessary to achieve effective public action and a measurable contribution to poverty
reduction. The key elements of the MTEF are:
* Clarity of national objectives and policies and coherent sector strategies and related
programs to meet these objectives;
* A functional budget classification that reflects the objectives and programs;
* Systems and capacity for monitoring budget performance and outcomes and ensuring
transparency and accountability;
* An open and participatory budget process that promotes feedback between budget
performance and the policy process; and
* The development of realistic medium-term (3-5 years) expenditure estimates at program
levels that will help implementing agencies to plan their operations.
33.   In the Rwandan context, implementation of the MTEF requires (i) clear national
strategies and policies such as those determined through the PRSP process; (ii) dialogue on the
determination of sector strategies (iii) training of the staff of line ministries and other budget



-14-
units to help them to sharpen sectoral objectives and strategies, design related budget programs
and monitorable indicators of performance; (iv) an integrated budget (recurrent and capital) with
a functional classification system that permits the linkage to development objectives of the
ministries/budget units; and (v) open and transparent budget process and systems for budget
monitoring and financial accountability. The Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
(MINECOFIN) has been working with line ministries to sharpen their development missions and
objectives, articulate the programs to meet these objectives, and identify the indicators to
monitor performance.
34.   Rwanda has made progress in implementing the MTEF in the context of the 3-year
implementation plan adopted in 1999. A program structure has replaced the previous complex
organization/economic classification; this will be imbedded in a functional classification that has
been designed. All ministries have elaborated their MTEF 2002-2004. A Budget Framework
Paper (BFP) setting out budget policies and priorities, the overall resource envelope and sectoral
ceilings is discussed early in the budget process. For the 2002 budget preparation process, the
Budget Call Circular provided preliminary ceilings for ministries based on the budget policies
agreed in the BFP. The reforms in the next phase of implementation of the MTEF include:
•   The integration of the recurrent and development budget, combining the activities of
recurrent and development expenditures into programs. In the preparation of the 2002
budget, MINECOFIN required all line ministries to classify development projects
according to the programs reflecting key sectoral and national objectives.
•   Comprehensive monitoring of expenditures on and outcomes from budgets and timely
dissemination of budget information to the public. In this respect, the planning, financial
administration and accounting departments in line ministries, local administrations and
MINECOFIN, and the Central Projects Bureau (CEPEX) will need to be strengthened.
•   Establishing a functional monitoring capacity and networked computerized systems for
the MTEF based budget and for monitoring budget inputs, outputs and outcomes.
*   Improvement in the linkages between objectives and activities to be undertaken to
achieve the objectives, through sharpening of sector strategies and program definition and
in that context refine the functional classification.
*   An end to system of cash-budgeting that hampers the predictability of resources and
therefore undermines the credibility of the MTEF process.
*   Capacity building in MINECOFIN, the line ministries and local administration to
improve technical skills and internalize the MTEF approach.
*   The elaboration of a consistent medium-long term macroeconomic framework to
underpin the MTEF.
35.   The implementation of the MTEF is underpinned by a number of recent ongoing and
planned public and sector expenditure reviews (SERs). In particular, the SERs aim to internalize
the MTEF approach in sector ministries. SERs were undertaken for the health and education
sector in 1998-2000 and currently, SERs are underway for agriculture and transport. A broad



-15-
public expenditure management review (PEMR) is also underway, to review progress in the first
phase of implementation of the MTEF and provide the basis for planning for the next phase.
36.   Prioritization of the budget: The PRSP identified the prioritization of public actions and
institutional capacity building as key elements for improving the effectiveness of public actions.
The budget prioritization program, in place since 1998, has been expanded. The operational
principles of prioritization are: (i) budget priority programs (BPPs) are poverty focused
andidentified through the participatory PRSP process; (ii) BPPs get real and above average
budget allocations; and (iii) the funds allocated must be released in full and in a timely fashion.
The current BPPs are drawn mostly from agriculture and rural development, and human resource
development (education, health, gender, youth, HIV/AIDS). Transfers to the provinces and
districts are also important but transfers to provinces are mostly for social sector programs.
Attachment 2 of the LDP contains the list areas identified in the PRSP as priorities and the
budget allocations for 2002.. The current prioritization process is only on recurrent expenditures
but the GoR intends to extend the prioritization to programs in the development budget. The
GoR will review the progress in implementing and monitoring the impact of the BPPs and will
take the necessary actions to improve them.
Financial Accountability and Transparency
37.   The legal and institutional framework for public sector financial management is in a state
of transition. Since 1998, the Government has established the Office of the Auditor General
(OAG) and the National Tender Board (NTB) and recently revived the department of the
Inspector-General of Finance and Audits, with the responsibility to audit the finances of
government agencies, and the Public Accounts Division (PAD) of MlNECOFIN, responsible for
the preparation of annual financial statements of govemment operations. Audit units have been
established in line ministries. With the exception of the OAG that is working under new
legislation, the rest of the institutions are operating under outdated laws and regulations or
ministerial decrees. The OAG's role is apparently in conflict with the legally established Cour de
Comptes that is largely inactive. Furthermore, the responsibilities of the Inspector of Finance and
Audit and the OAG appear to overlap.The GoR has thereforeembarked on revising the legislation
and regulations governing the budget process and financial accountability. A revision of the
national constitution is underway and a number of key finance laws are already in draft or under
development. The Organic Budget Law, the Public Accounts Law, the Procurement Code and
the financial instructions for management of state finances are all in draft form. A manual of
Financial Management and Accounting Procedures for Local Govemment has also been drafted.
38.   With many related activities underway simultaneously, it is essential to streamline and
coordinate activities to ensure consistency and avoid conflicts and overlapping responsibilities.
The Government, with the support from the World Bank and DFID has started work on a
comprehensive financial accountability review and action plan (FARAP). A diagnostic mission
of FARAP has been completed and its report will provide the basis for the formulation of an
action plan to improve financial accountability. FARAP will aim to provide a time-bound and
appropriately sequenced plan of activities, taking into consideration the constraints of the
revisions of the laws, the crowded legislative agenda, and the implications of the upcoming
elections in 2003. The audits undertaken by the OAG highlighted the poor capacity of ministries
in financial management. The FARAP action plan will include a component for capacity
building. Meanwhile, the GoR will put emphasis on capacity enhancements and work to:



-16-
*   Strengthen the capacity of the Public Accounts Department to enable it meet the goal of
producing a financial statement of government operations for the 2003 budget;
*   Strengthen internal audit functions within ministries, with priority on the large ministries
- education, health, agriculture, transport and communication - and provide an enabling
framework for the development of the internal audit profession across government;
*   Review the Financial Instructions and ensure that all government ministries and agencies
are working from the same set of instructions and use this to underpin training;
*   Harmonize the Financial Management and Accounting Procedures Manual for Local
Governments with the accounting system being developed for local governments and use
the manual to underpin training; and
*   Introduce regular training sessions for government officials to familiarize them with
financial management and accountability issues, making use of the various manuals and
legislative instruments that are available in draft or final form.
39.   Budget Monitoring and Evaluation: Budget monitoring is an integral component of the
annual budget cycle, important for performance monitoring and thus for effective public
administration. Budget monitoring involves comparing and analyzing the revenue collection and
spending that occurred in the most recent accounting period, usually a month, with what was
planned for the same period, as reflected in the approved budget. Such comparison and analysis,
when performed at monthly intervals, permits timely corrective action to be taken as required.
The MINECOFIN current system consists of: (i) the monthly tracking of commitments and
payments of the recurrent budget (flash reporting system); and (ii) the tracking of financial flows
and monitoring of progress in the implementation of capital projects by its central projects
bureau (CEPEX).
40.   The introduction of the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) with its focus on
results, feedback and informed participation, makes it essential to monitor and report inputs,
outputs and impact regularly in the budget cycle. The Poverty Observatoire of Rwanda (OPR), a
unit in the new Strategic Planning and Poverty Monitoring Department (SPPMD), was created in
1999 to monitor trends in poverty, is a key agency for monitoring and dissemination and
outcomes of the budget. MINECOFIN has decided to implement a quarterly Joint Monitoring
System (JMS) starting in January 1, 2003. The JMS will integrate the efforts of the recurrent and
development expenditure on a single monitoring system. It will include an annual execution plan
for each ministry and province; and a quarterly monitoring form to be used to record progress
against planned execution. The JMS will start with monitoring priority program outputs in the
recurrent budget. A pilot program is being conducted this year with the Provinces of Kigali-
Ngali and Gitarama, and the Ministries of Health, Education, and the Interior.
41.   Once this system becomes fully operational on January 1, 2003, it will produce quarterly
sector reports that will identify implementation problems for follow-up by the budget
department, CEPEX, and the SPPMP. In addition, it will provide a background to budget
execution for MINECOFIN and a year-end report which analyzes budget execution issues across
line ministries and sectors, thereby informing the planning process for the coming year. The JMS



-17-
is a step in the right direction and will require continuous training and capacity building. In
addition, the Government will:
*   In accordance with the proposal of the PRSP, require all ministries to submit an annual
progress reports on their planned activities, use of resources, the impact of their
programs/activities on poverty reduction, and indicators of performance;
*   Produce a version of the Flash Report in a concise format covering key expenditure and
revenue data, including variances between actual and budget. This report will be
published monthly and within 4 weeks of the relevant month. The existing detailed line
item report will not be abandoned and will continue to be made available to those with an
interest in the details.
Public administration
42.   Public administration reforms have concentrated on rationalizing government institutions
and building capacity. The key actions taken include the elimination of ghost-workers, the
adoption of new organizational and staffing structures, the development of competitive
recruitment procedures and the computerization of the management system for human resources
and payroll. The realignment of staffing to the new positions and grades, in accordance with the
new organizational framework, necessitated the retrenchment of 6003 mostly unqualified civil
servants at the central level. These actions, as well as the removal of 6,573 ghosts (including
ghost teachers) from the payroll, have reduced the staffing complement in the central civil
service, including the provinces and districts, from over 15,000 in 1995 to less than 9500, with
the actual work force under 8500 due to many vacancies. A public service code, adopted the
National Assembly in 2001, incorporates the organizational reforms undertaken to regulate the
management of civil servants in all posts in central and decentralized administration and contains
a code of conduct for all civil servants. The new code will be promulgated in by end-2002.
43.   The poor skill base, weak institutional capacity and the inadequate remuneration of civil
servants hinders the delivery of public services to the population, In line with the PRSP,
emphasis of the next phase of reforms will be on institutional capacity building, including the
improvement of compensation to attract and retain skilled staff, and the adoption of competitive
recruitment into the service, transparent performance evaluation and merit-based reward systems.
The UNDP and DFID are continuing to assist the Government in the design of reform programs.
B. Human and Social Development
44.   The Government has an intensive involvement in the social sectors compared to other
areas. The social sectors receive over 30 percent of the total budget and about 40 percent of the
recurrent budget. Improvements in budget process and the overall effectiveness of public actions
is will enhance social sector performance. Conversely, ineffective public actions would
undermine human development outcomes and poverty reduction. The GoR will continue to put
high priority on social sector programs, with progressive increases in operational and
maintenance expenditures so as to improve access, quality and impact of services on the poor.



Education
45.   Education has the largest share of the budget, at almost 25 percent of the recurrent budget
and 22 percent of the total budget. Most programs in education, particularly in the primary and
secondary levels, are included in the budget priority programs. Nevertheless, the sector faces
severe resource constraints. Public expenditure in primary and secondary schools covers
primarily the salaries of teachers, with minimal contribution to operational expenses such as on
textbooks and other teaching materials, and the remission of school fees for indigent students.
The GoR will progressively increase operational budgets for primary and secondary schools. The
progressive introduction of cost sharing with beneficiaries of tertiary education will reduce the
burden of an expanding tertiary sector on public resources for education. The key activities
underway and planned with the support of the Bank and DFID, to prepare the education sector
for a SWAP/PRSC, include:
*   Preparation of a sector status report to be completed by end 2002.
*   Preparation of a sector strategy, a plan for Education for All (EFA), and the framework
for a SWAP in the sector.
*   A sector expenditure review in 2004, focusing on identifying and quantifying the
operational expenditure needs in education and developing integrated sectoral programs
and monitorable performance indicators in the context of a medium-term expenditure
framework.
*   Reform of sector administration, capacity building, and strengthening internal audit and
monitoring systems.
*   The establishment of the framework for community participation in support of primary
and secondary education
Health
46.   The GoR has rehabilitated the health facilities and established a decentralized system of
health management and financing. However, utilization rates of the health facilities are low due
mainly to the high cost of health services. The share of the health sector in the budget is low, at 4
percent and 6 percent of the recurrent and total budgets respectively. The Government will
prepare and implement an action plan for improvements in health financing and access to health
services by the poor, including the progressive extension of the mutuelles health insurance
scheme. The GoR will also adopt and implement a framework for the coordination of public,
private, and NGO health providers. A sector status report is underway and a health financing
study and sector expenditure review is planned. Capacity building will continue to put emphasis
on the training of health workers and the management of the sector. Strengthening the audit
capacity is urgent. As in education, these activities will pave the way for a SWAP/PRSC.
Gender Mainstreaming
47.   The focus of the efforts will be on law reform, gender responsive budgeting and sector
strategies, and improvements of educational opportunities for females. The ERC supported the



-19-
GoR's development of a Comprehensive Gender Legal Action Plan that provides for the revision
of iaws to eliminate gender disparities and permit Rwanda to meet the goals of the Beijing
Platform of Action. The Ministry Gender of Women Affairs (MIGEPROFE) worked closely
with the civil society, particularly women NGOs, in this effort. An IDF Grant has been provided
to strengthen capacity in government and the civil society for the implementation of this Gender
Legal Action Plan. A number of other development partners are supporting gender programs and
related reforms.
48.   As Rwanda is preparing a new constitution and in the process of revising many existing
laws, MIGEPROFE is actively involved in the discussions on   the constitution and
revisions/drafting of existing/new laws. The new land policy provides equitable rights to women
on access to and ownership of land and MIGEPROFE needs to ensure that the land law reflects
this provision. MIGEPROFE is also involved in ensuring the effective implementation and
enforcement of the laws adopted. This task includes the sensitization of the general public and
the agents responsible for enforcement at central and local levels, and the education of women on
their legal rights. The expansion of mass education will provide further support for gender
responsive legal reform and literacy.
49.   The MIGEPROFE will work with MINECOFIN and line ministries to mainstream gender
in sector strategies, and with MINECOFIN will initiate efforts to develop capacity in gender
budget analysis and management. These initiatives will support the application of gender
expenditure incidence analysis and responsive priority program review and institutional analysis.
C. Private Sector Development
50.   Private sector development is one of the six PRSP priorities for public action. The private
sector will have the leading role in economic activity while the government fosters an
institutional environment conducive to private sector investment and competitiveness. The key
institutional measures in the reform program include the privatization of the remaining state
owned enterprises (SOEs), the establishment of the institutional framework for the regulation of
the telecommunications, energy and water utilities and the coffee and tea sectors and the reforms
of the financial sector.
Privatization
51.   The PRSP notes "privatization is important for poverty reduction in Rwanda". Some of
the existing state owned enterprises (SOEs) are in the key agro-processing sectors (tea and
coffee) and tourism that impact on rural incomes and exports. In the tea sector, the one privately
operated tea factory produces 30 percent of the processed tea from 10 percent of the plantation
area. Thus substantial potential for increasing production through privatization exists, from
improved efficiencies and new investment in the expansion of processing capacity. Overall this
will lead to increased production and incomes for smallholders and cooperatives that supply the
factories. State enterprises currently provide basic infrastructure services (electricity,
communications, water), important for overall private sector investment and competitiveness.
These enterprises, often inefficient, require extensive new investment that state cannot and
should not undertake. The involvement of the private sector in these activities is essential.
52.   The privatization process started in 1996 with the adoption of a privatization law by the
National Assembly that provided for the establishment of the National Commission for



-20-
2
Privatization to guide the process and the Privatization Secretariat to manage the transactions.
The Government planned to complete the process in three years but actual privatization
transactions started in 1998. Despite the limited implementation capacity and weak response of
domestic and foreign investors, as of May 2002, 41 enterprises, out of about 78 SOEs have been
privatized. The privatization process has generally been kept transparent, key stakeholders have
been consulted and there have been efforts to mitigate adverse social impact (See Box 2)
53.     The Government is committed to completing the privatization by end 2004. The major
remaining privatization transactions include Rwandatel, the public telephone company, the 9 tea
factories, and two commercial banks. In addition, the process of putting Electrogaz, the
Box 2: Mitigating the Social Impact of Privatization
*  The privatzaton program started in 1998 and so far 41 largely small enterprises have been privatzed. Employees of public
enterprises have severance benefits similar to civil servants. However, as many of these enterprises were either dormant or
operabing at low levels, retrenchment of workers was limited and the overall impact on employment and wages is likely to
have been positive.
*  The privatzation program is now at a stage that involves relatively large and operabonal firms with substantial employment
(Rwandatel, Banque Commercial du Rwanda (BCR) and the tea factories and estates). These privaizations should be
completed by 2004. Rwandatel and BCR have about 300 employees each. For Rwandatel, a consultanYs assessment
indicates that privatizaffon will not lead to a reduction in employment. Rather, the infusion of new capital after privatization will
expand the network and create more jobs. The imminent restructuring and privatization of BCR will involve retrenchments
and severance payments and other benefits will be paid to those affected. The Govemment will finance these expenditures.
* Regarding the tea factories and estates, a review has indicated that privatization will not lead to loss of jobs. However, the
Govemmenfs tea privatization strategy requires that strategic investors will be requested to submit a social plan with the
commitment to retain all existing employees and to pay severance benefits to employees subsequently laid off.
electricity and gas monopoly, under private management is also an important activity of the
Privatization Secretariat. The policy framework and strategies for these major privatizations (tea,
Rwandatel) and the restructuring of Electrogaz were developed under the ERC. Technical
assistance for these privatizations is being provided under the IDA financed Competitiveness and
Enterprise Development Project (CEDP).
54.     For Rwandatel, the transaction will involve the sale of the majority shareholding to a
strategic investor. The Government is finalizing the recruitment of an adviser to assist in the
privatization transactions and the sale should be concluded before the end of 2003. A private
operator to run the new restructured Electrogaz (the water and electricity utility) should be in
place before March 2003. This management arrangement will be followed by a concession
arrangement in 3-5 years. For the privatization of the tea industry, a strategy is to sell the assets
of the tea factories and the associated publicly owned estates to private investors, with minority
stakes reserved for tea producing cooperatives and out-growers. Meanwhile the privatizations of
remaining 30 small SOEs will continue and should be completed by end 2004.
Establishment of Regulatory Agencies
55.     The privatization of utilities and the coffee and tea industries required new institutional
arrangements to regulate the activities in these sectors. Under the Economic Recovery Credit and
the now closed energy, telecommunications and private sector development projects, a number
2    The Privatization Secretariat was established as a semi-autonomous unit under the Ministry Of Finance and
Economic Planning while the Cabinet assumed the role of the National Commission for Privatization.



-21-
of studies were undertaken to determine the appropriate privatization strategies and regulatory
environment needed to make privatization work effectively. The National Assembly has adopted
legislation establishing the new regulatory enviromnent and agencies. Consequently, the
Government will:
*   Ensure that the transition from OCIR-The, the parastatals regulator and owner of tea
factories and estates, to the Tea Board, a government-tea industry body to regulate,
promote and monitor the performance of the tea sector is effectively completed. With the
establishment of the Tea Board and privatization of tea factories and estates current held
by OCIR-The on behalf of the Government, OCIR-The will cease to exist.
*   Ensure that the transition from OCIR-Coffee, the current state marketing and regulatory
body for the coffee sector, into a government-coffee industry body with its responsibility
limited to monitoring and promotion of the industry, including research and extension
services is effectively completed; and
*   Establish the multi-sector regulatory agency to regulate the telecommunications sector
and other utilities.
Financial Sector
56.   The banking sector has come under severe stress in recent years. Its revival is critical for
macroeconomic stability, private sector development, sustaining economic growth, meeting the
economic diversification objectives of the PRSP, and reducing poverty. The sector has a serious
non-performing loan (NPL) problem with overall NPL as a percentage of gross loans of 30
percent as of September 2001. The recovery of NPLs is a very difficult process. Court
procedures are lengthy and the enforcement of verdicts is often jeopardized by weak
administrative procedures3. The banking system, while liquid, provides relatively little credit to
the private sector and lacks long-term investment opportunities in local currency (T-Bills,
development bonds) for its excess liquidity.
57.   The NPL problem is most acute at the Banque Commeciale du Rwanda (BCR), the 2nd
largest bank, jointly owned by the Government (49.36 percent) and Banque Bruxelles Lambert
(BBL) a Belgian financial institution (49.14 percent), with the rest owned by parastatals. BCR
controls 30 percent of the commercial banking sector. As of April 2002, NPLs were 56 percent
of gross loans. The high operational inefficiency of the BCR and the lack of competition in the
sector result in very large spreads and high interest rates. The immediate priority of the GoR is to
revive BCR and the process of restructuring and divestment of the bank has started. The
preferred option for the divestment is a stock sale to a reputable bank. The GoR also envisages
actions to strengthen the financial sector in general. With regards to BCR:
* The BCR has been placed under the administration (controle provisoire) of central bank
(BNR). The BNR has put in place a new management and Board of Directors and signed
a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with BCR's shareholders and management
that obligates BCR to meet agreed benchmarks on cost reduction, loan recovery and other
business improvements.
3   During six months of 2001 year, there was no notary public appointed in Kigali. Therefore, no real estate
transaction was possible, stalling the recovery of NPLs in the real estate sector.



-22-
* BNR has also engaged a bank-restructuring expert to assist it in the restructuring and
divestment of BCR.
58.   On the financial sector in general, the GoR intends to improve the environment for loan
recovery and to this effect will:
*   Reinforce the capacity of the Arbitration Center, reform and reinstate the voie par6e
system that allows creditors to seize an asset without a lengthy court procedure 4, employ
more bailiffs and notaries to facilitate foreclosure on NPLs. Establish a commercial court
5
system and improve the credit information systems5.
*   Establish new and higher credit underwriting standards and require banks to meet them
within a year or face sanctions.
*   Require all commercial banks that the monthly loan listing report to BNR should
segregate the non-performing (Class 3 and greater) borrowers, that this listing will be
made available to banks within 30 days of filing and maintained in a centralized database
and be accessible to credit information or rating companies and banks. Further, banks are
to be prohibited from making loans to such non-performing borrowers except to repay
loans in default in other banks.
*   Improve off-site banking supervision. Enforce all significant regulatory requirements
including closure of deposit taking banks that do not meet capital requirements.
*   Privatize its holdings in the Banque du Kigali (BK), the largest bank in Rwanda, with
majority Government ownership but the management under the minority partner.
*   Facilitate the establishment of a banking institute to help to build capacity for the
financial sector;
*   Implement the new regulatory framework to promote micro-banking;
*   Reform of laws covering non-bank financial institutions to encourage the mobilization of
resources for term credit; and in particular the revision of the law relating to the Caisse
Social du Rwanda to broaden its investment possibilities.
*   Undertake studies of the financial sector, with the support of the World Bank, to identify
further specific actions and reforms necessary to strengthen the financial system, and to
develop options for providing long-term real estate and other loans.
The voie paree nile was temporarily suspended by parliament.
The new Credit for the Competitiveness & Enterprise Development, approved in March 2001, is supporting the
establishment of a commercial court and the training ofjudges.



-23-
V. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A. Credit Objectives and Design
59.   The proposed Institutional Reform Credit (IRC) will support the Government's reform
effort in the context of the implementation of the PRSP in Rwanda. This reform program is
presented in the attached Letter of Development Policy (LDP) from the Government of Rwanda
(Annex D). Specific medium-term actions under this program are spelled out in the Matrix of
Medium-Term Policy and Institutional Reforms and Actions attached to the LDP (Attachment
1). The main objectives of the reform program are, in line with the PRSP, to help to focus the
development agenda on poverty reduction, sustain economic growth in the range of 6-7 percent
and reduce the incidence of poverty from 60 percent in 2000 to about 52 percent in 2004. The
medium-term actions aim to (i) revitalize agriculture and the rural economy, (ii) strengthen the
private sector; and (iii) build human resources and (iv) improve governance and the
effectiveness, efficiency and poverty impact of public sector actions. These areas cover the six
thematic priorities identified in the PRSP.
60.   The key reforms to be supported and monitored by the Credit are summarized in Annex
A: Matrix of Policy and Institutional Measures Supported and Monitored by the Credit. The
proposed IRC will build on the progress made in reform under the preceding Economic
Recovery Credit (ERC) and consolidate the benefits from those reforms. The IRC will focus on
(i) improving public expenditure management building on an ongoing public expenditure
management review and a financial accountability review and action plan (FARAP); (ii) private
sector development including privatization and the reforn of the financial sector, building on the
work done under the ERC to prepare enterprises for privatization, and working closely with the
Competitiveness and Enterprise Development Project (CEDP) that is providing technical
assistance for the implementation of the reforms; and (iii) addressing gender and budget related
institutional issues in the area of human development. Reforms in agriculture and rural
development and other institutional reforms in the social sectors will be closely monitored under
the IRC.
61.   Design: The credit amount is SDR 64.5 million (US$85 million), designed to provide
external financing to support the GoR's reform program under the PRSP. Disbursement will be
in three tranches, an initial tranche of US$45 million on effectiveness and, a second tranche and
a floating tranche of US$20 million each to be released on the fulfillment of specified conditions.
The frontloading of the releases is to respond to the Government request for assistance to meet
the increase in external financing needs due to the accelerated implementation of the Lusaka
Peace Accord and additional costs to the transition programs due in part to the withdrawal of
Rwandan troops from the DRC and their return to Rwanda. The releases of the floating and
second tranches are expected for April 2003 and January 2004 respectively. The financial sector
component of the Credit aims to stem the deterioration of the commercial banking sector,
particularly the Banque Commercial du Rwanda (BCR), the second largest bank in Rwanda.
Thus the floating tranche release conditions are benchmarks of progress in the
restructuring/divestment of the troubled BCR as well as actions to improve loan recoveries by
the banking sector.
62.   The implementation of the reform program under the Credit will take account of the
lessons from the ERC. The key lessons include the need for: (i) a strong and consistent effort by



-24-
the Government to monitor the implementation of the reform program; (ii) the active
involvement of the line ministries in the process of the implementation of the program; and (iii)
capacity building in the agencies responsible for the implementation of the program. The
supervision of the Credit will closely monitor and ensure that the Project Coordinator has the
resources to closely monitor the program and regularly apprise policy makers of the progress, the
technical and oversight committees are fully involved in the process, and the line ministries
participate actively in these committees.
63.   The lack of capacity caused delays in the implementation and monitoring of the program
under the ERC. Rwanda's reform agenda remains large relative to the capacity for
implementation, reflecting the desire of the GoR to catch up with other countries in the reform
process and to promote national reconciliation with sustained economic recovery and poverty
reduction. It is also due to the understanding that reform is important for attracting private
investments as well as donor support. Technical assistance is essential for the implementation of
the program and the GoR has demonstrated the effective use of TA. The Competitiveness and
Enterprise Development Project and proposed Multi-sector Capacity Building Project will
provide TA and support capacity building efforts in implementing agencies.
B. Links to Bank Group Operations
64.   Since 1970, Rwanda has received 59 IDA credits totaling approximately US$1,113.1
million. The IFC has financed three loans and two equity participations, with three other
operations approved. The IDA has financed projects in (i) infrastructure, particularly road
construction and maintenance; (ii) agriculture, rural development, and forestry; (iii) social
infrastructure, including water supply and sanitation, health and population, and education and
training; (iv) private sector development, public enterprise reform, financial development, and
technical assistance; and (v) two policy-based quick-disbursing operations. In the immediate
post-genocide period, IDA financed two emergency quick disbursing operations and restructured
the pre-genocide portfolio of investment projects to meet the needs of the emergency. Ongoing
IDA projects are in education, health, rural sector/agriculture, private sector development,
community reintegration, rural water supply and demobilization and reintegration. Projects to
support HIV/AIDS prevention and institutional capacity building are in advanced stages of
preparation. Disbursements to date from IDA to Rwanda have totaled about US$813.6 million,
with a total undisbursed balance of US$170.5 million. Rwanda's current portfolio of nine credits
represents, as of Aug 2002, a total commitment value of US$291.4 million.
Rationale for IDA Involvement and Links to the CAS
65.   The IRC, part of the continuing effort to support economic reform in Rwanda, is the third
policy-based quick-disbursing credit supported by IDA. As noted above, IDA provided two
quick-disbursing emergency credits to Rwanda in 1995 and 1997 that supported post conflict
recovery. The ERC, in the amount of the equivalent of US$85 million and approved by the
Board on March 30, 1999, was the first adjustment-type reform credit that Rwanda has
implemented fully and successfully.6 The CAS has proposed four areas of assistance to the
6   The Rwanda Structural Adjustment Credit, approved in 1990, was not fully disbursed. The conditions for the
second tranche were not met before the genocide and the credit was cancelled in 1995, after the genocide.



-25-
implementation of the PRSP, with the IRC supporting the policy and institutional reforms in the
those areas as follows:
*   Improvement in the effectiveness of public sector actions and governance: The reform
program supported by the IRC includes measures to reform the budget process, particularly
the implementation of the MTEF, and to put in the institutional framework and capacity for
financial accountability and budget monitoring.
*   Private sector development and employment creation through support for policy and
institutional reforms and infrastructure investments to' enhance productivity and
competitiveness and to create employment: The actions to be supported by the IRC
include the reform of the financial sector, the privatization of tea factories and estates and
the major utilities, and the establishment of regulatory agencies for coffee and tea and a
multi-sector regulatory agency to regulate privatized utilities.
*   Human and social development, with support for education, health, HIV/AIDS
prevention, the elimination of gender disparities, and the demobilization and
reintegration of ex-combatants. The IRC will address these through budget reforms and
allocations to put emphasis on social service delivery including adequate support for
operating expenditures in primary health care and education, and continued support for
gender mainstreaming.
The revitalization of the rural economy with the provision of the social and economic
infrastructure and services to promote market-based agricultural and non-farm
activities, improve productivity and the create non-farm employment. The IRC will
support the inclusion of programs for agricultural services and rural feeder roads and
markets as budget priority programs, further reforms of the coffee and tea sectors, including
the privatization of the tea factories and estates, and coffee processing plants.
Links to Ongoing and Planned IDA supported Operations
66.   The Bank's recently new credits, namely the Rural Sector Support (RSSP), the Human
Resources Development (HRDP), the Rural Water and Sanitation, (RWSP), and Competitiveness
and Enterprise Development (CEDP) project are providing the financial resources to improve
service delivery and capacity building for the implementation of reforms and programs. The
CEDP is providing technical assistance and monitoring progress in the privatization of the tea
factories and Rwandatel, the installation of a competent private operator to manage Electrogaz,
the establishment of the multi-sector regulatory agency, the reform of the financial sector and the
strengthening of investment promotion and facilitation activities. The RSSP is providing support
to farmers groups including groups in the coffee and teas sectors, to improve productivity. The
HRDP is supporting institutional reforms in the education sector. The IRC and the proposed
multi-sector capacity building project will complement these sectoral activities by supporting
cross-sectoral institutional reforms, capacity building, monitoring and dialogue at high policy-
making levels of government.
67.   The proposed IRC is expected to be the last traditional adjustment credit. Preparations are
underway for a Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) in FY04. These preparations include
economic and sector work, efforts to improve financial accountability, poverty and budget
monitoring and evaluation. The monitoring will build on the comprehensive program of poverty



-26-
monitoring     proposed     in  the  PRSP. Box        3  summarizes      the  analytical and      other activities
underway and planned, to support the PRSP and the PRSC.7
Box 3: Path to Poverty Reduction Support Credits
The completion of the full PRSP dears the way for PRSCs, with the first PRSC planned for FY05. A number of ongoing and planned ESW on budget
management and financial accountability and capacity building in statistics, monitoring and evaluation are underway or planned to support the move to
PRSCs. Donor coordination is also important as the move to PRSCs coincides with the adoption of sector wide approaches (SWAPs), starting with the
education sector.
ESW to support the implementation of the PRSP
The key budget-related analytical activities for the implementation of the PRSP relate to the development of sectors strategies, the MTEF, the framework for
SWAPs, and public administration reform. A number of analytical activities are already underway or planned including
*   country status reports on education and health that will provide snapshots of the status of the sectors and thus the sound basis for revising the, sector
strategies;
*   a rural energy study is nearing completion and a water resources management strategy is under development.
!   a public expenditure management review (PEMR) and sector expenditure reviews (SERs) in agriculture and transport are underway. The PEMR is
focusing on the implementation of the MTEF while the SERs are designed to assist line ministries to intemalize the MTEF. SERs help in the design, in
line with sector strategies, of integrated budget programs and to identify indicators for monitoring the performance of the programs. These expenditure
reviews will be completed by end-2002;
*   SER for the education sector and health financing and SER are planned.
*  The framework for the use of a SWAP for education is under development.
*   DFID and UNDP are assisting the GOR in the review of public administration,
Improving the Fiduclary Environment
A financial accountability review and action plan (FARAP) is underway. The diagnostic/review phase of FARAP has been completed. It highlighted the gaps,
strengths and weaknesses of the system of accountability and provides a basis for dialogue and action planning. In this second phase, the Govemment,.in
consultation with interested donors, will prepare an action plan that will bring together and rationalize ongoing activities and iniegrate new priorities. Key'
I areas for action include intemal auditing, financial reporting, procurement, financial accountability systems and capacity in local govemments,-and monitoning
and dissemination of budget information. The action-planning phase should be completed in late 2002. The FARAP also provides the basis for carrying out a
CFM.
The FARAP found that he National Tender Board, established in 1998, has made substantial progress. A Country Procurement Assessment and Review
(CPAR) is proposed to assess the performance in detail and propose action for strengthening the system.
Monitoring and Evaluation
A number of actions have been taken and'underway to strengthen the institutional framework for monitoring the budget, poverty and social indicators. The
Poverty Observatoire (OPR), established In 1999 to monitor the impact of public actions on poverty and' social indicators is operational. CEPEX was
established for monitoring and evaluation of public investment programs. The budget has been computerized which wilIfacilitate the production of the.regular
flash reports on government expenditure commitments and payments. The statistics and management information systems in the' ministries of health,
education and agriculture are being strengthened. A reform of the national statistics system is underway.
The PRSP sets out a comprehensive system for monitoring poverty including the use of a number of instruments, namely: the household living standards
survey (HLSS), the Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire (CWIQ), the Public Expenditure Tracking Survey (PETS), national poverty assessments (NPA),
and the Demographic and Health Survey (DHS). These instruments, which have recently been used'to collect information in 200-2001 for the preparation.of
the PRSP, will be complemented by routine information from the line ministries, OPR, CEPEX and national statistics. In addition, the PRSP envisages the
use of Citizen Report Card to assess the citizens perception of public sector policies and performance, and specifically the delivery of public services
Donor Coordinatlon
We plan to work with other donors, either through cofinancing of a PRSC or in the context of a SWAP. The GoRs new donor partnership fr'amework will
facilitate the coordination-of donors. Nevertheless, the donors will have to be sensitized of the PRSC.and SWAP and be involved in-the preparatory activities
such as the ESW,and the fiduciary exercises. We have been working with some'bilateral donors in these areas but we intend to.bring in more donors into the
process.
7    In accordance with the Operational Memorandum, Interim Guidelinesfor Poverty Reduction Support Credits,
May 31, 2001.



-27-
IFC and MIGA
68.   International Finance Corporation: IFC has one old investment in a Rwanda match
factory (Sorwal). In FY98, IFC approved an investment in Highland Flowers and in FY00 in
Rwandacell, the cellular telephone provider. However neither proceeded to utilize IFC resources.
IFC also approved a US$800,000 investment in an apartment hotel in Kigali in December 2000.
LFC is ready to support viable investments in Rwanda and IFC staff visited Rwanda to look at
opportunities in privatization, SMEs, financial and industrial sectors.
69.   Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency: Rwanda ratified the MIGA convention in
October 27, 1987 and Rwanda signed and ratified the MIGA Convention on October 27, 1989. It
has paid the usable currency portion of its initial subscription, but has yet to make its local
currency contribution or finalize its promissory note portion. Consequently, MIGA cannot issue
guarantees for Rwanda. The GoR has recently shown interest in making all outstanding
payments to MIGA. MIGA staff assisted Rwanda in the setting up its investment promotion
structures.
Collaboration with the IMF and Donors
70.   The IMF Board approved a new 3-year PRGF arrangement in July 2002. Bank staffs
collaborated with IMF staffs on the preparation of this program. The Bank worked with the IMF
in preparing the HIPC Decision Point for Rwanda and will work together on the Completion
Point expected in mid-2003. The staffs also jointly supported the Government on the PRSP and
in preparing the Joint Staff Assessment of the PRSP.
71.   The Bank has collaborated with DFID and Belgium on public expenditure reviews,
financial accountability assessment, monitoring and statistical capacity building. It has worked
with DFID on policy and strategy development in education and gender issues. Sweden, Canada,
the Netherlands, and USA have supported the establishment of the Auditor-General and capacity
building in that institution. DFID and UNDP are providing support for public administration
reform, and a number of donors, including the USA are supporting fiscal decentralization and
financial management systems for local authorities. Several partners including the European
Union (EU), Belgium and the AfDB are supporting capacity building for economic management.
The EU, the AfDB, the UK, the Netherlands and Sweden are also supporting the reform program
with financial assistance. The Bank staffs are working closely with them. The assistance
provided by these development partners in institutional capacity building and program
implementation enhances the results from the reform program supported by the IRC.
C. Credit Implementation
Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership
72.   The GoR has already demonstrated its commitment and ownership to reforms by the
implementation of significant measures since 1995 to liberalize the economy, including the
reforms supported by the Economic Recovery Credit. All major political parties, the Cabinet and
the National Assembly support the orientation of the economy to a liberal private sector-led
market economy. This model is recognized as necessary to open up economic opportunities to all
social groups in the country, improve governance, and reduce poverty, key elements of the



-28-
search for national reconciliation and unity. The model is also an important element in the
growth strategy based on increasing Rwanda's role in regional and global markets. The reforms
supported by the IRC are in line with the strategy and priorities of the PRSP that, as the Joint
Staff Assessment indicated, enjoyed very strong domestic ownership.
Disbursement and Tranche Releases
73.   The Credit will follow the Bank's simplified disbursement procedures for adjustment
credits.8 The Credit will be disbursed against satisfactory implementation of the reform program
and not tied to specific purchases and no procurement procedures will be needed. The Borrower
will open a US dollar Deposit Account in the Banque National du Rwanda (BNR) and upon
notification of a tranche release and at the request of the Borrower, proceeds of the credit in US
dollars will be deposited in this account, with the counterpart funds being immediately available
to the Treasury. If the foreign exchange proceeds of the credit are used for ineligible purposes,
IDA will require the Borrower to either return the amount for use on eligible purchases or refund
the amount directly to IDA, in which case IDA will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of
the Credit. The Deposit Account may be audited; in such case, the audit will be carried out on
terms of reference acceptable to IDA. The Credit will be disbursed in three tranches: an initial
tranche of US$45 million to be released on effectiveness; a second tranche of US$20 million tied
to broad structural reform conditions and a floating tranche of US$20 million tied to conditions
related to financial sector restructuring.
Prior Actions
74.   In the context of the preparation of PRSP and the credit, the Borrower continued. to
implement the reform program supported by the Economic Recovery Credit. Key actions in
2001-2002 include the implementation of the MTEF, the computerization of budget transactions,
the adoption of budget priority programs based on the PRSP priorities in the 2002 budget, the
revival of the Inspector General of Finance and Audit, and the Public Accounts Division of
MINECOFIN, the drafting of the manual of financial management and accounting procedures
for local governments, the initiation of the financial accountability review and action plan, the
increase in green leaf tea producer prices from 37 FRW per kilo to 45 FRW, and the continuation
of preparations for the ultimate privatization of the tea factories, Electrogaz and Rwandatel. The
GoR has fulfilled the conditions for Board presentation which were:
*   Agreement by BNR and BCR's largest shareholder and management on a Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) satisfactory to IDA, for stemming the deterioration of BCR's
financial condition and the implementation of agreed actions on cost reduction, loan
recovery and other business improvements;
* Selection of Advisors for the privatization of Rwandatel;
* Commenced the preparation of a financial accountability review and action plan (FARAP);
and
s   Simplifying Disbursements under Structural and Sectoral Adjustment Loans, Operational Memorandum,
February 8, 1996.



-29-
*   Finalized the PRSP and officially submitted to the management of the World Bank.
*   Receipt by the Association of a signed Letter of Development Policy, satisfactory to the
Association.
Conditions for Tranche Releases
75.   In addition to the conditions below, for each tranche release, IDA must also be satisfied:
(i) that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower, as monitored on the basis of
indicators agreed between the Borrower and IDA, is conducive to sustainable growth and
poverty reduction; and (ii) with the implementation of the overall reform program as outlined in
the Letter of Development Policy. The conditions for the release of the second and floating
financial sector tranches are as follows:
Second Tranche
The Borrower has:
*   Adopted an implementation plan covering 2003-2005, satisfactory to the Association, for the
continued implementation of the MTEF.
*   Reviewed the poverty-focused budget priority programs (BPPs) and made increases in
budget allocations to the BPPs in the 2003 budget, to the satisfaction of the Association.
*   For the purpose of strengthening financial accountability, prepared and adopted an action
plan for improvement of financial accountability, satisfactory to the Association.
*   Appointed a competent private operator, with terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, as the manager of ELECTROGAZ.
*   Commenced the monthly publication of reports on budget revenue and expenditure, in a
format satisfactory to the Association.
*   Established and operationalized a commercial court and recruited new bailiffs and notaries,
to the satisfaction of the Association.
*   Established credit underwriting and loan accounting standards, satisfactory to the
Association, and required compliance by commercial banks.
Financial Sector Floating Tranche
The Borrower has:
*   Achieved progress satisfactory to the Association in the implementation of the
Memorandum of Understanding between the BNR and the shareholders and management of
BCR.
*   For the purpose of restructuring and divestment of BCR, made adequate budget allocations
in the FY 2003 budget, to the satisfaction of the Association.



-30-
a   Brought to the point of sale at least 80 percent of its shares in BCR to qualified buyers9 or
effected divestment of the bank through the implementation of a back-up plan, satisfactory
to the Association.
*   Caused the BNR to (i) direct all commercial banks that the monthly listing report made to
BNR should reflect separately the non-performing (Class 3 and greater) borrowers, (ii) make
available to banks the listing report within 30 days of filing; (iii) maintain the listing report
in a centralized database and make it accessible to credit information or rating companies
and commercial banks; and (iv) prohibit commercial banks from making loans or advancing
any monies to non-performing borrowers, except for the purpose of repayment of loans in
default in other banks.
Implementation and Monitoring Arrangements
76.   The program will be implemented under the aegis of the National Commission for
Poverty Reduction chaired by the Prime minister and consisting of key ministers, the Governor
of the Banque Nationale du Rwanda (BNR), and the Vice-President of the National Assembly.
The lead implementing agency will be the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
(MINECOFIN). The Permanent Secretary for Reform/Director of Macroeconomic Policy in
MINECOFIN will be the Project Coordinator and has already been appointed. The BNR will be
responsible for supervising the disbursement and collection and storage of supporting import
documents.
77.   The Government has a Technical Steering Committee responsible for monitoring the
implementation of its overall economic reform program. This committee is chaired by the
Secretary General (SG) of MINECOFIN and includes all SGs, the Permanent Secretary for
Reform and the Director of the Strategic Planning and Poverty Monitoring Department
(SPPMD). The SPMMD is the overall coordinator of the poverty-focused monitoring system.
The PRSP has identified the indicators to be monitored and the instruments for monitoring them
including the household living standards surveys (HLSS), the Core Welfare Indicators
Questionnaire (CWIQ) surveys, expenditure tracking (PETS), the census, and the demographic
and health survey (DHS). Rwanda has recent experience with these surveys and the Bank
provided assistance in the HLSS, the CWIQ and the PETS.
78.   Monitoring will be in the context of this PRSP monitoring program that has specified the
frequency of use of the various instruments - HLSS (every 5 years), PETS (3 years) and CWIQ
(annually). An improved and concise Flash Reporting System will provide routine monitoring
information on budget inputs (commitments, releases). The Bank will provide technical
assistance to improve the Flash Report and assist SPMMD in carrying out the PETS and CWIQ
surveys.
79.   The Project Coordinator will provide semi-annual reports to IDA on progress and
problems of implementation based on an agreed reporting matrix. The first report is expected in
March 2003. Essentially this report will cover the broad socio-economic transition reform
program as articulated in its policy matrix attached to the Letter of Development Policy,
indicators of budgetary performance including the releases of funds for the priority programs
9   Govermment holdings should not exceed 10 percent of the shares of this buyer.



-31-
(also defined in the LDP) and changes in social and economic indicators, drawing from the work
of the Poverty Observatoire (OPR). IDA will field about three supervision missions per year.
These missions will closely monitor the progress on the key reforms being supported by the
Credit (Annex A) as well as the progress in the overall transitional reform program (Attachment
1 of the LDP) and provide feedback to the Government in the aide-memoirs. At each supervision
mission, IDA staff and the Government will agree on benchmarks to be met by the following
supervision mission. The missions will share the draft and final aide memoirs with members of
the National Commission and the Technical Committee, other ministries/officials involved in the
reform program and the donor community. The Bank and the Borrower will prepare an
implementation completion report within six months of the project closing date of the project to
be fixed in the DCA as March 31, 2004.
Fiduciary Aspects
80.   Financial management and monitoring remain weak as the civil was and genocide
destroyed the institutional capacity for these activities. Budget preparation has improved
significantly but budget execution, internal auditing and financial reporting are still weak. While
the National Assembly debates and approves the annual budget, it has yet to discuss any audited
financial accounts of government operations. In the HIPC Tracking Assessment and Action Plan
(AAP) undertaken in late 2001, Rwanda met 8 of the 15 criteria for public expenditure
management, with particular weaknesses in budget execution, auditing and financial reporting '0
The skills for financial management work are scarce in Rwanda and with its low salaries the
government is unable to compete for the scarce skills and staff turnover is very high.
81.   The GoR, with the support from its partners, has established of the Office of the Auditor-
General (OAG) and the National Tender Board (NTB), embarked on the reform of the budget
process and the revision of financial management laws and regulations. Since its establishment,
the OAG has carried out a number of audits of ministries and other government agencies. The
NTB has streamlined the tendering of public contracts, providing rules and regulations for the
procurement process. The GoR has also revived the units responsible for preparing financial
statements and reports (the Public Accounts Division) and for internal audits (the office of the
Inspector General of Finance and Audit and audit units in line ministries). The computerization
of the budget will facilitate budget monitoring, reporting and reconciliation. The GoR has
responded to the recommendations of the HIPC Assessment and the attached expenditure
Accountability Assessment Update Table (Annex B) presents the actions that are underway.
82.   The Bank, IMF and other partners have supported the efforts to improve public sector
financial management. The Bank and DFID have supported a series of public expenditure
reviews since 1996 and the Bank carried out a Country Profile of Financial Accountability
(CPFA) in 1998. These analytical exercises underpinned the budget reforms and culminated in
the introduction of the MTEF. To streamline its efforts on financial management, a broad
financial accountability review and action plan (FARAP), with support from the Bank and DFID,
is underway to prepare an action plan for improving financial accountability. The Bank plans to
to See Actions to Strengthen the Tracking of Poverty Reducing Public Spending in Heavily Indebted Poor
Countries, IDA/SecM2002-0030, March 2002. Although the assessment found weaknesses, it identified
Rwanda as one of 9 HIPC countries requiring "some upgrading," with the rest of the countries requiring
"substantial upgrading".



-32-
work with the GoR on a Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA), building on the
FARAP.
Environmental Aspects
83.   The potential environmental impact of the proposed credit is related to the privatization
component. In the context of the Competitiveness and Enterprise Development Project, approved
by the Board in 2001, an environmental pre-audit was commissioned on the major enterprises of
the privatization program in Rwanda. The privatization of the tea factories and estates raise the
main environmental issues. Environmental audits are to be conducted for each transaction to
determine the magnitude of the environmental problems involved and recommend measures to
mitigate them. Environmental issues will be included in the information documentation and
discussed at the bidders conference. Bidders will be required to include their plans for dealing
with the environmental problems in their technical proposals.
D. Benefits and Risks of the Program
Benefits
84.   The reform program is intended to eliminate distortions in incentives and improve access
to inputs into economic production, investments and productivity growth, and social well-being.
The adoption of the land law will provide security of land tenure and equal rights to land
ownership regardless of gender, and encourage investment in the land including for the
protection of soil fertility and the environment. Along with other planned measures -
improvement in rural infrastructure, financial services and extension services - this will improve
agricultural productivity and increase rural incomes. The full implementation of the reforms of
the coffee and tea sectors will provide the incentives for the full recovery and growth the two
sub-sectors, with significant contributions to improving rural incomes and exports.
85.   The progressive adoption and implementation of the MTEF principles in the budget
process, the prioritization of the budget in line with the recommendations of the PRSP, and the
strengthening of the institutional capacity in public administration will improve the delivery of
economic and social services to the poor, enhancing productivity and well-being. The proposed
Credit will permit additional increases in budget allocations to these priority programs. The
improved transparency and accountability will contribute to the strengthening the effectiveness
of public actions, and enhance governance and national reconciliation. Gender equality will
improve family life, galvanize the participation of women in economic and social affairs, with
benefits to economic performance and social stability.
86.   The privatization of public enterprises will put idle assets into productive use, improve
the efficiency of use of resources, generate new investments, improve the provision of services,
create jobs and raise incomes. The reform of the financial sector will enhance access and the
lower the cost of credit to the private sector, stimulating investments and improving
competitiveness. The Credit will enhance access to foreign exchange and facilitate investment
and production.



-33-
Sustainability and Risks
87.   The sustainability of this operation depends principally on the outcome of the peace
process in the Great Lakes region and the transition process in Rwanda. Without peace, stability,
and political legitimacy of the Government, the economic reforms and other measures to
stimulate economic growth will have limited supply response. The main risk factors include: (i)
the conflict and insecurity in the Great Lakes region, particularly the conflict in neighboring
Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC); (ii) the lack of institutional capacity; (iii) the difficult
socio-political environment; (iv) the weak fiduciary environment; and (v) the fragile donor
support.
88.   Conflict in the Great Lakes region: The conflict in the region is undermining Rwanda's
recovery from conflict and the effectiveness of its development programs. Recent agreement by
Rwanda and the DRC, with the support from the international community, and the rapid
withdrawal of Rwandan troops that followed, has given renewed hope for peace in the region.
The return of the troops, the envisaged disarmament of the interahamwe and related forces, and
the demobilization and reintegration of these ex-combatants will enable Rwanda concentrate its
efforts on dealing with the other legacies of the genocide and on poverty reduction. The
deterioration of relations between Rwanda and Uganda in 2000 adversely affected mutually
beneficial economic and social transactions between the two countries. Both countries are
engaged in dialogue to build confidence and trust and the relations have been improving.
89.   Institutional: The capacity of the public sector is weak. This exacerbated by the
extensive and ambitious program of socioeconomic reform. Substantial technical assistance and
capacity building will continue to be required for implementing the reforms and other
development programs. The government has demonstrated its ability to use technical assistance
effectively.
90.   Socio-Political Reforms: Rwanda is implementing fundamental socio-political reforms
to foster national reconciliation and socio-political stability. The success of decentralization,
reintegration, democratization and the Gacaca (for the accelerated trials of the suspects of
genocide) is essential to achieve these objectives. Failure of any of these programs, which could
be due to the poor institutional capacity, poor management due to corruption and/or lack of
transparency, could create a difficult climate for national reconciliation and increase the risks of
social strife.
91.   Fiduciary Risks: Fiduciary risks are high, due to the institutional devastation of the
genocide and the overall weak capacity for financial management in the public sector. .However,
the GoR, with the support from its partners, has been engaged in efforts to reform budget
management and build institutions for financial accountability. It already has in place the Office
of the Auditor General and a National Tender Board. It is preparing a plan for improving
financial accountability that will include a component for capacity building in this area.
92.   Donor Assistance: Donor assistance remains fragile and unreliable. The flows of donor
assistance continue to be unreliable and most of the funding is tied to projects, with questionable
efficiency and effectiveness. Inadequate funding and the lack of flexible in the use of funds could
impede the vigorous implementation of the poverty reduction strategy. The conflict in the region
has prevented donors from making long-term commitments of support. The end of conflicts in
the region, as well as the strong support by donors for the PRSP, would pave the way for more
reliable and flexible donor support.



-34-
VI. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES
93.   The Credit complies with all applicable Bank policies



ANNEXES
Annex A: MATRIX OF POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS SUPPORTED
AND MONITORED BY THE IRC AND INDICATORS OF PROGRESS TO BE MONITORED
Policy Objective       Medium-term (2002-2005) Policy and Institutonal                     Intermediate Benchmarks                        Monitoring Benchmarkslindicators
Measures)                    Actions undertaken by October  Actions to be undertaken by end 2003 (2nd
2002 (Board Conditions in    tranche conditions In bold, floating tranche
bold)                        conditions In italics)
Effective public action  Develop capacity and systems for montoring trends in  Finalized the PRSP  Increase budget allocations to BPPs    Integration of PRSP priorities into the
as a catalytic tool for  poverty and social indicators.             Identify poverty-focused                                              budget
poverty reduction and  Strengthen the systems for monitoring budget inputs  programs in the budget (BPPs)                                 Capacity building in the Poverty
improving the quality of  and outcomes and poverty impact.          and treat them as priorities for                                      Observatoire (OPR)
life.                                                              the 2002 budget                                                        Status Reports by OPR
Achieve annual growth  Maintain sound fiscal and monetary policies                               Undertake a study to identify sources of growth  Growth of GDP, inflation rate, status
of GDP of at least 6  Undertake policy and institutional reforms and                                                                      of unemployment
percent pa and keep  implement the priority actions identified by the PRSP                                                                Poverty headcount by urban/rural
inflation at 3 percent                                                                                                                    Perceptions of changes in well-being
p.a.
Improve productivity of  Adopt a land policy and land law that provides security  Adopt a land policy  Submit a Land Law to the National Assembly  Submission of land law to the
rural assets while    of tenure, gives women land inheritance and ownership                                                               National Assembly
recapitalizing these  rights, and improves overall land use.
assets
Improve agricultural  Increase budget allocations and implementation  Increase budget allocations to  Ditto                               Budget allocations to priority
services              capacity for agricultural field services to provide access  agricultural services                                   agricultural programs, status of
to by farmers to extension services, market                                                                         extension services, growth of
information, improved varieties of seeds and                                                                        agricultural production
appropriate improved inputs.
Raise agricultural and  Uberalize the coffee and tea sectors and give private  Put in place new regulatory  Put in place a pricng mechanism for the  No of tea factories, coffee
rural incomes by raising  sector agents an enhanced role in the regulation and  structures for coffee and tea  adjustment of tea prices to changes in world  processing facilities privatized
the productivity and  promotion of the industries, and adjust tea prices to  Review and adjust upward the  market prices and to reflect a premium for high  Tea prices and mechanism to adjust
retums to farmers from  reflect market conditions                   producer prices for tea      quality tea.                            them
existing cash crops.  Privatize the coffee and tea processing plants  Adopt a strategy and action plan  Privatize 4 tea factories and estates  Status/performance of Tea Board
for the pilot privatizations of 2 tea                                 and 'coffee board'
factories and estates
Promote foreign and   Strengthen the Rwanda Investment Promotion Agency  Reduce the company tax from 40  Revise and adopt the mining code to attract  No and amounts of new investments
domestic investment   (RIPA) to facilitate investments, promote exports and  percent to 35 percent  investors.                           through the RIPA
and trade             business development.



-36-
Policy Objective        Medium-term (2002-2005) Policy and Institutional                      Intermediate Benchmarks                         Monitoring Benchmarkslindicators
Measures)                     Actions undertaken by October  Actions to be undertaken by end 2003 (2nd
2002 (Board Conditions In     tranche conditions In bold, floating tranche
bold)                         conditons In italics)
Promote private sector  Privatize the management of the new Electrogaz                              Appoint a competent private operator as   Selection of management firm,
competitiveness with  through a two-step process: a 3-5 year performance-                           manager of Electrogaz                  . negotiating and signing of contracts,
reliable and cost     based management contract; and (ii) a long4erm                                                                          and effective takeover of
effective energy and  concession lease arrangement                                                                                            management by the firm
telecommunications    Sell 51 percent of Rwandatel to a strategic investor  Select the adviser for the                                        Progress toward sale of majority
services                                                              privatization of Rwandatel                                              shares of Rwandatel, arrangements
for sale of the rest.
Provide market-friendly  Improve the regulatory framework for the activities of  Establish an independent multi-                              Selection and appointment of the
regulation of utility  the utilities (electricty, gas, water, telephone).  sector utlity regulator                                            members of the Board, chief
companies.                                                                                                                                    executive and other top officers.
Promote the adoption  Use privatelpublic sector partnerships to provide  Adopt a strategy to promote the  Strengthen RITA
of new technology by  leaming opportunifies on the use of Information  adopton of technology by the
the private sector    communications technology (ICT) and other       private and public sectors.
technologies in public and private sectors      Establish the Rwanda
Informaton Authority (RITA) to
implement the strategy
Privatize public      Complete the privatization/liquidation of the remaining                                                                 No of enterprises privatized
enterprises           30 state enterprises.
Improve financial     Improvement of legal and regulatory process for                               BNR to (i) direct all commercial banks that the  Progress in reducing NPLs, percent
services              recovery of bank loans including NPLs requiring the                           monthly loan listing report to BNR should  of NPLs in commercial bank
strengthening of the Arbitration Center, the reform and                       segregate the non-performing (Class 3 and  portfolios, percent of NPLs
reinstatement of the voie paree system that allows                            greater) boffowers, (ii) make available to all  recovered by the banks
creditors to seize assets without lengthy court                               banks this listing report within 30 days of filing  Progress in making information on
procedures, the improvement of information on                                 (iii) maintain the listing report in a centralized  non-performing borrowers available
borrowers; and the establishment of commercial courts                         database and make it accessible to credit  to other banks and to the public
with bailiffs.                                                               infomnaton or rating companies and banks; (iv)
Review and revise the law that established the notary                         prohibit banks from making loans to such non-
public to provide for the appointment of additional                           performing borTowers except to repay loans in
notaries.                                                                     default in other banks.
Establish new and higher credit           Banks meeting new credit standards,
underwriting and loan accounting standards  proportion of portfolio of each bank
and require commercial banks to comply    underwritten on the new higher
with these standards.                     standards
Establish and operationalize the commercial  Appointment of the officers of the
courts and recruit new bailiffls and notarles.  court and bailiffs
As an interim measure, prior to the
establishment of the court, establish a
commercial chamber to deal specifically with
the cases on recovery of NPLs



-37-
Policy Objective       Medium-term (2002-2005) Policy and Institutional                     Intermediate Benchmarks                         Monitoring Benchmarksnlndicators
Measures)                    Actions undertaken by October  Actions to be undertaken by end 2003 (2nd
2002 (Board Conditons in     tranche conditions in bold, floating tranche
bold)                        condiflons In italics)
Increase competWtion in  Restructure and resolve the Banque Commercial du  Agreement by BNR and BCR's  Implement the MOU between the BNR and the  Loan collections, number of
the banking sector    Rwanda (BCR)                                   largest shareholder and       shareholders and management of BCR.      employees, closure of unprofitable
Privatize the Banque du Kigali (BK             management on a              Make adequate budget allocations in the 2003  branches and plans for such
Improve off site banking supervision and require more  Memorandum of        budget for the funds for restructuring and  Losures, total profits, status of
transparencyin accountin and  require Understanding (MOU) for    divestment of BCR.                       NPLs, liquidity position
transparency in accounfng and profitability reporting by  stemming te deteroraton of
the banks.                                    Its financial condition and    Bring to the point of sale at least 80 percent of  Progress in the restruCuring and
Govemment to repay/regularize its debt to the banks  Implementation of agreed  his shares in BCR to qualified buyers" or  pdvatization of BK
and state enterprises                          remedies, sanctions and/or    effected divestment of the bank thmugh the prvtzinofB
Adopt and implement a program to dear govemment  next divestment steps;     implementation of a satisfactory back-up plan.
arrears to the private sector and avoid future arrears.                      Explore altemative mechanisms for providing
Recapitalize the Banque.Populaire and strengthen                       long term real estate and other loans in addition
Recapitalize the Banque Populaire and strengthen                            to the proposed real estate restructuring
supervision of small.and rural credit institutions.                         scheme using CHR
Improve the provision  Increase the allocation of budget resources to the  Increase and protect allocations  Ditto                          Percent increase in the budget
of social services,   social sectors within Govemment's sector dassification  to identified social sector                                   allocation for social sectors, and the
(education, health,   (education, health, water and sanitation, youth and  priorities                                                       allocations to priority social sector
reintegration, water and  social protection) to at least 40 percent of the recurrent                                                        programs
sanitation) particularly  budget (excluding debt payments).                                                                                 Quarterly releases of funds to these
for the poor in rural  Progressively improve the balance between the wage                                                                   sectors
areas                 and the non-wage category of social sector spending.                        Increase budget allocations to non-wage   Non-wage/total expenditure in
Develop a framework for the adoption of the sector-                         categories                                education and health
wide approaches for the development of the health and                                                                 Perceptions of quality of social
educations sectors.                                                                                                   services
Improve the efficiency  Carry out a sector expenditure review to assist in  Establish a frame work for  Develop a sector strategy for education  Spending/enrollments in
of use of budgetary   further development of the MTEF                community participation in                                             primary/secondaryltertiary levels
resources in the      Tertiary level scholarships/bursaries to be    support of primary and                                                 performance indicators (drop-out,
education sector      progressively replaced by student loans        secondary education                                                    repetition, pass rate in exams),
inputs (books, teachers)
Improve access to and  Assist the decentralized health providers to reduce the  Extend the mutuelle insurance  Carry out a health financing and sector  Percent of households enrolled in
quality of health     costs of health services to its clients and thus improve  scheme to more health districts  expenditure review.        mutuelle insurance scheme, cost of
services              the access of the population to health services  while ensuring that this is  Develop a framework for the coordination of  the scheme
Increase immunization campaigns and treatment  affordable by the poor       public, private and NGO health providers.  Utilization rates in health centers
programs for tibberculosis and malaria                                                                                Perception of costs by users
" Government holdings should not exceed 10 percent of the shares of this buyer.



-38-
Policy Objective       Medium-term (2002-2005) Policy and Insttutional                     Intermediate Benchmarks                        Monitoring Benchmarksllndicators
Measures)                    Actions undertaken by October  Actions to be undertaken by end 2003 (2nd
2002 (Board Conditions In   tranche conditions In bold, floating tranche
bold)                        conditions In Italics)
Promote the           Initiate implementation of the Comprehensive Legal  Build capacity for gender related  Gender disparities and discriminations of all  Treatment of gender in ongoing and
empowerment of        Action Plan to eliminate gender disparities.  legal work in the Ministry of  forms to be abolished in all forthcoming  prospective reforms of the land law,
women                 Provide incentives for girls to attend upper secondary  Gender and Women Affairs  legislation                       constitution, NGO statute, and
and tertiary institutions                     (MIGEPROFE)                   Promote reproductive health education   Nationality laws
Continue to sensitise communities and teachers on the                                                               Enrollment of girls in tertiary
education of girls, increase the number of female                                                                   education
teachers and improve the school environment for girls
(separate dormitories, toilets, etc)
Enhance gender        Develop capacity for gender budget analysis in the
sensitivity of public  ministry of finance and line ministries
actions               MIGEPROFE to work with line ministries to mainstream
gender in sector strategies
Strengthen prevention  Promote HIV/AIDS education                                                                                         HIV infection rates by age and
and treatment         Implement a new strategy and gender responsive                                                                      gender
multi-sector action plan for HIV/AIDS control,
prevention and treatment.
Improve civil service  Confinue to improve the management and       Adoption by the National     Promulgate the new Public Service Code and  No of civil servantsAteachers, No of
processes and staffing  effectiveness of the civil service per the recently  Assembly of the Public Service  implement the code of conduct in the code.  civil servants in
and upgrade the       adopted Public Service Code                   Code                         Design and implement a program to facilitate  central/provincialdistrict
qualifications of the civil  Strengthening the instruments for effective control of  Capacity building (ongoing)  the transifion of retrenched civil servants into  administrations
servants.            the civil service establishment,                                            the private sector
Transparent recruitment, deployment, promotion, and                         Adopt a sector-wide approach for capacity
retrenchment of staff from the civil service, and for                       building interventions.
managing the payroll
Prepare and implement a plan to improve the                                                                         Changes in salary and benefits by
compensation of civil servants under the revised pay                                                                grade
and grading structure to enable the Govemment to                                                                    Tumover in technical cadres
attract and retain capable civil servants.
Reform budget process  Continue the implementation of the MTEF approach.  Carry out a public expenditure  Adopt an Implementaton plan covedng  Annual progress report on
to be transparent,    Specifically, focus on sharpening of objectives and  management review (PEMR) and  2003-2005 for the continued implementation  implementation
participatory and result  related programs and monitorable output indicators,  sector expenditure reviews  of the MTEF                    Preparation of sector strategies and
oriented.             improving budget classification, integrating the                                                                    programs, with monitorable
development and recurrent budgets, and capacity                                                                     indicators of performance and
building.                                                                                                           outcomes



-39-
Policy Objective       Medium-term (2002-2005) Policy and insifttonal                    Internediate Benchmarks                        Monitoring Benchmarks/lndicators
Measures)                   Actions undertaken by October  Actions to be undertaken by end 2003 (2rd
2002 (Board Condiflons in   tranche condiflons in bold, floating tranche
._________________ ______________________________________ bold)         conditions in italics)
Prioritise budget    Focus budget expenditures on key poverty reducing  Identify poverty-focused  Review the poverty-focused BPPs and make  Increase in budget allocation for
expenditures         budget programs in the priority areas identified in the  programs in the budget (BPPs)  Increased allocations to these programs.  each program
PRSP process. Provide real per capita and above  and treat them as priorities for  Review the implementation of the priority  Share of BPPs in recurrent and total
average increases to the allocations to these budget  the 2002 budget     program including an assessment of the  budgets
priority programs (BPPs). Protect the allocations to the                  capacity to implement and monitor the impact of  Amounts released (quarterly to each
BPPs from cuts durng the course of the fiscal year.                       these programs.                         program
Strengthen the capacity of the units in the line                          Establish a formal framework for monitoring the
ministries responsible for the implementation of the                      impact of the priority programs on poverty
BPPs                                                                      reduction.
Improve monitoring of  In accordance with the proposal of the PRSP, require  Restructure CEPEX to focus on  Ministerial progress reports prepared and made  Annual progress report by each
budget performance   each ministries to prepare annual report on progress  its main tasks       available to the public.                ministry
on their planned activities, use of resources, the impact                 Extend the pilot 'Joint Monitoring System' for  Quarterly monitoring reports for each
of their programs/activities on poverty reduction, and a                  recurrent and development expenditure to  sector/ministry
management report with output indicators of                               monitor progress against planned outputs and  Revised, concise, timely flash report
performance;                                                              expenditures.                           available on paper as well as on the
Strengthen the central projects bureau (CEPEX) for                        Commence the monthly publication of     web.
donor coordination, and facdlitating and monitoring of                    reports on budget revenue and expenditure  Semiannual reports of expenditures
the implementation of capital projects, ex-post review                    in a concise format and coverage of revenue  on capital projects by donors and
of project performance, and spearheading the                              and expenditure outcomes.                govemment.
introduction of sector-wide approaches to sector
development.
Develop and implement  Develop a system of public accounts and introduce and  Commenced the preparation of  Prepare and adopt an action plan to improve  Completion of FARAP and
systems for          strengthen the intemal audit functions in line ministries  a financial accountability  financial accountability, based on the  agreement on an action plan
transparency and     and provide an enabling framework for the     review and action plan       FARAP reporL                            Specific actions taken to implement
accountability       development of the intemal audit profession across the  (FARAP)            Introduce regular training for relevant  FARAP
govemment.                                                                govemment officials to familiarize them with
Review the Financial Instructions manual and ensure                       financial management and accountability issues
that all govemment ministries are working from the                        as well as the manuals and systems under
same set of instructions.                                                 development.
Strengthen the capacity of the Public Finance Division  Capacity building in the  Harmonize the manual of Financial  Complete financial statement of
of MINECOFIN to enable it to meet in 2003, its goals of  Inspectorate of Finance and  Management and Accounting Procedures for  govemment operations for the 2003
producing annual and quarterly financial statements of  Audit, and the establishment of  local govemment with the accounting system  budget
govemment operations                         audit units in line ministries  currently under development and use the  Quarterly statements of government
manual to underpin training             operations
Strengthen the Office of the Auditor-General and                          Adoption of the Procurement Code by the  Audits of the financial operations of
promptly and simultaneously distribute its report to the                  National Assembly and revision of the decree  the govemment, the ministries and
authorities-President and National Assembly and the                       establishing the National Tender Board (NTB).  other govemment agencies.
general public.



-40-
Policy Objective       Medlum4erm (2002-2005) Policy and Instfflrional                   Intermediab Benchmarks                         Monitoring Benchmarkstindicators
Measures)                    Actions undertaken by October  Actions to be undertaken by end 2003 (2nd
2002 (Board Condfilons In   tranche conditions in bold, floatng tranche
bold)                        condHions In italics)
Increase revenues to  Continue to build the capacity of the revenue authorty  Increase of VAT rate from 15
12.8 percent of GDP by  to implement the recently introduced VAT   percent to 18 percent
2004.



Annex B: Expenditure Accountability Assessment Update Table
Indicator and Benchmark Description             Actions to Strengthen - From  |SM*      [Progress to Date on Action Plans and Indicated Improvements
(Same for all)                                  Agreed Action Plans                      (Outcomes)
BUDGET FORVULATION
1     Composition of budget entity - does not stricty  Improve dassification through strict  M  The current budget covers central govemment ministries, provinces, and
follow GFS definition of general govemment  GFS definition in the next budget      transfers from the central govemment to autonomous and semiautonomous
cyde                                     agencies and district govemments. Consolidated district budgets will be
induded in the FY03 budgets.
2     Umitations to use of off-budget transactions -  N/A (meets benchmark)     -S       Extra-budgetary transactons were identified and been included in the 2002
extra-budget expenditures are not substantial                                      budget; the few remaining are quite small. A study by a private audit firm has
identified numerous bank accounts of all govemment agencies. Once the
study is finalized, decisions will be made to rationalize these accounts. Many
of them will be closed.
3     Reliability of budget as guide to outtum-level -  N/A (meets benchmark)            Expenditures have been generally kept close to original appropriations.
composition of outtum is quite dose to budget
4     Data on donor finandng - Coverage of planned  Improve monitoring and reporting on  M  The reorganization of CEPEX has been completed and efforts to build the
donor-financed activities in the budget is fairly  receipt of donor support and project  capacity for monitoring donor financing of projects will continue. The joint
complete, but the estimates are poor.     implementation.                          monitoring system to be introduced in 2003 will include project financing.
5     Classification of budget transactions - function,  N/A (meets benchmark)  -S       A functional classification has been developed and linked to budget programs.
organization, program and economic information                                     Since 2001, the budget has been prepared in a program framework, structured
provided                                                                           by program, subprogram, administrative, and economic dassificabons. For the
2002 budget, requirements for outputs and activites were incorporated in the
program. An overall functional dassification will be fully implemented in the
2003 budget
6     ldentification of poverty reducing expenditures -  N/A (meets benchmark)           Poverty-reducing expenditures are identified by program and budget code and
Poverty-reducing public spending can be dearly                                     are specifically tagged to facilitate tracldng.
identified in the budget
7     Quality of multi-year expenditure projections -  N/A (meets benchmark)             A three year Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) has been
Multi-year expenditure projections integrated into                                 integrated into the budget process, beginning with the budget for 2001.
the budget cyde.
8     Level of payment arrears- There are significant  Pay off existing arrears and improve  M  The Auditor General has reviewed examined these arrears and identified valid
expenditure arrears.                       cash management                         ones. A schedule of payments for 2002, 2003, and 2004 has been adopted.
Cash budgeting has been adopted as a temporary step to control new arrears,
pending improvements in cash management and the predictability of
resources inflows.
9     Quality of intemal audit -Intemal audit function is  Improve capadty building at the  M  Capacity building at the IGA. The staff of IGA carry out pre and post audit of



42-
Indicator and Benchmark Description               Actions to Strengthen - From    SIMt      Progress to Date on Action Plans and Indicated Improvements
(Same for all)                                    Agreed Action Plans                       (Outcomes)
very week.                                  office of the Inspecton Generale et       budget transactions. Audit units have been established in line ministries to
Audit (IGA) in MINECOFIN                  assist in financial management
10    Use of tracking surveys - tracking surveys  N/A (meets benchmark)                     Tracking surveys have been carried out for health and educaton sectors.
supplement intemal control                                                            Sectoral public expenditure reviews for some key ministries were also recently
carried out Tracking surveys will be carried out regularly for key ministries.
11    Quality of fiscal/banking data reconciliaton - There  Iden0ify all appropriate accounts  S  The computerizaton of budget transactons and the impending rationalizaton
is no routne, timely recondliaton of the monetary                                     of govemment accounts in the banking system will facilitate reconciliaton of
and fiscal accounts.                                                                  monetary and fiscal accounts.
BUDGEF REPORTING
12    Timeliness of intemal budget reports - monthly  N/A (meets benchmark)       -S        Budget tracking is carried out through the computerized budget management
expenditure reports provided within four weeks of                                     system (Systeme du Budget et de I'Etat (SIBET)). A flash report on budget on
end of month                                                                          budget commitments and payments id produced monthly within 4 weeks of
end of the month. A joint monitoring system is to be introduced on a pilot basis
in January 2003 to monitor spending on key sets of programs, line ministries
and local govemments.
13    Classification used for budget tracking - to date no  Improve reporting through SIBET  S  SIBET is able to produce current informaton on the approved budget for the
regular in-year reports following a functional                                        year, commitments against it, and invoices paid by the Banque Nationale du
dassification have been produced.                                                     Rwanda (BNR) on the basis of instructions from Treasury; the exercise is
underway to indude information on revenues such as tax receipts from the
Rwanda Revenue Authority (RRA) to make it not only an expenditure tracking
information system, but also a true accounting system.
14    Timeliness of accounts dosure - accounts dosed  N/A (meets benchmark)                 Per Finance Law, ministers have to dose commitments against budget
within two months of year end                                                         appropriatons by November 15, and payments by December 15.
15    Timeliness of final audited accounts - This has not  Improve the capacity at the Office of  S  The capacity pf the PAD is being strengthened to prepare regular financial
been done since the resumpton of a formal budget  the Auditor General (OAG) and the   statements and reports of budgetary operations. The capacity of the Auditor
process with the 1998 budget                Public Accounts Division (PAD) of         General has been strengthened recently with recruitment and by continuous
MINECOFIN                                 professional training of 25 members of staff by the Association of Chartered
Certified Accountants (ACCA).
* Benchmark descriptions reflect Board paper of February 21, 2002.
* Action plans were agreed between the Govemment, the IMF, and World Bank.
* S = short term, i.e. acton that is expected to be completed in one year. M = medium term, i.e action that is expected to be completed in 2-3 years.
e  Progress to date should indude short descripton of progress and improvements, and should note degree of implementation, i.e. whether implementation has started, is
underway, or is complete.



Rwanda
Institutional Reform Credit12
Annex C: STANDARD ANNEXES
Annex Cl: Rwanda at a Glance
Annex C2: Key economic indicators
Annex C3: Operations Portfolio (IBRDIIDA and Grants)
Annex C4: Statement of IFC's Held and Disbursed Portfolio
12
The Task Team for the preparation of the Institutional Reform Credit were: Chukwuma
Obidegwu (Task Team Leader), Guido Rurangwa, Raju Kalidindi, Christine Richaud,
Lucia Chuo (AFTP3), Daouda Zoure (Consultant) Marie-Chantal Uwanyigilira (AFTEG),
Charles Schlumberger, Paul Murgatroyd (AFTFS),Francesco Tomieri, Elizabeth Morris-
Hughes (Consultants), Hassane Cisse (LEGAF), Emile Loius Rene Finateu (AFTQK), and
Juvenal Nzambimana (LOAG2). Overall guidance and supervision were provided by
Emmanuel Mbi (Country Director), Cadman Atta Mills (Sector Manager, AFTP3) and
Gerard Byam (Sector Manager, AFTFS).
The team benefited from the parallel work on the public expenditure management review
and the financial accountability review and action plan undertaken by Bank staff,
consultants and government officials. The team also benefited from the work of the bank-
restructuring expert hired by the Government of Rwanda to assist it in the restructuring
and divestiture of the Banque Commerciale du Rwanda.
Project preparation started in October 2001 and appraisal took place in September 2002.






-45-
Annex Cl
Rwanda at a glance                                                         9/20102
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCiAL                                    Saharan     Low-
Rwanda     Africa  Income     Development dlamond-
2001
Population, mid-year (millions)                  8.7      659    2,459                Lffe expectancy
GNI per capita (AUas method, USS)                220      480      420
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                 1.8      313     1,030
Average annual growth, 1995-01
Population (%)                                   5.2       2.6      1.9
Labor force (16)                                 5.5       2.6      2.4    GNI                       ,   Gross
per                          primary
Most recent estimat (tatestyear avallable, 1995401)                        capita       \     ,         rolment
Poverty (6 ofpopulatlon below natfonal poverty line)  60
irban populatIon (6 ottotal populaton)            10       34       32
Life expectancy at birth (years)                  49       47       59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)         107       92       77
CNid manurition (% ofchildren under 5)            29        ..       ..         Access to improved watar source
Access to an Improved water source (96 otpopulatlon)  ..   55       76
Iilteracy (% ofpopulaton age 15+)                 31       38       38
Gross pdmary enrollment (% ofschool-age populatfon)  100   78       96                Rwanda
male                                             ..      85      102                Low-income group
Femade                                           ..      71       86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1081    1991     2000     2001
Economic ratlos
GDP (US$ billions)                       1.3      1.9      1.8      1.7
Gross domestic Investment(GDP           13.3     14.0     17.5     18.4
Exports of goods and services/GDP        9:8     7.3       8.3      9.3                    rae
Gross domestic savings/GDP               1.4      3.3      1.4      1.9
Gross national savngs/GDP                9.8     12.3     12.5     11.9
Current account baiancelGDP             -5.1     -1.7     -8.0     -6.5
Interestpayments/GDP                     0.2     0.3      12.8     12.2    Domestic                  Investmen
Tobtr debtVGDP                          14.9     42.4     72.1     77.3    savings                        m
Total debt servIce/exports               4.7     16.0     28.1     24.9
Presentvalue of debt/GDP                   ..      ..     12.1     14.0
PresentvalueofdebVexports                 ..       ..    176.4    180.2
Indebtedness
198141 1991-01     2000     2001   2001-05
(average annual growth)
GDP                              1.6     1.9     6.0       6.7      6.4          -     Rwanda
GDP per capita                  -1.3     0.5     3.5       4.1      3.8                Low-income group
ExportB of goods and services    2.3     1.5     9.4      39.9      1.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981    1991     2000     2001      GrowthafInvestmentandGDP(%)
(16 of GDP)                                                                100
Agricutiure                             43.5     33.0     41.4     40.5     so
Industry                                22.2     21.5     20.6     21.6    e0
Maacturing                             16.8    16.6      9.7      9.8     40
Services                                34.3    45.5      38.1     37.9    20
-20                             0
Pdvate consumption                      78.6    84.7      88.0     86A     .40te
Generaigovemmentconsumption             20.0     12.1     10.5     11.7
Importsofgoods and services             21.8    18.1      24.4     25.8                              G
1981411 1991401     2000     2001     Growth ot exports and Importso %)
(average annual growth)                                                     6
Agrictiture                              0.4     4.2       9.1      8.3    60
Industry                                 0.9    -0.2       3.4      7.6     0
Manufacturing                           1.2    -1.7     -4.1      9.5           so    9 7  O's N     6-  o
Services                                 4.2     2.1       3.6      4.4    -60
Prtvate consumpton                       1.7     1.9       4.6      2.0   410
Genera govemment consumption             4.7    -0.8       1.1     18.2    1 0
Gross domestc investment                 0.2     4.9     -15.1      3.0                EVor       s  1rpn
Imports of goods and services            3.2      ..     -11.4      4.0
Note: 2001 data are preminary estmates.
The diamonds show four key Indicatora In the country (In bold) compared with its Income-grup average. If data are missing, the diamond wI1I
be Incomplets.



-46-
Annex Cl
Rwanda
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981    1991     2000     2001     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
('Y change)                                                                50-
Consumer prices                          6.5    19.6       3.9     3.4     40 -
Impicit GDPdeflator                      7.7    15.0       3.2     0.2     20   \
20
Govemment flnance                                                          10-
(% of GDP, Includes cumrnt grants)                                          0 
Currentrevenue                          12.2    15.1      18.7    19.8     10     se   97   98    99   00   01
Current budget balance                   1.2    -1.1      6.1      5.6           -    GDP delfltor  .  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                   ..    -8.2      0.1     -1.1
TRADE
1981    1991     2000     2001     Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                      113      96       90       93     400
Coffee                                   ..     58        23       19    350
Tea                                       ..    22        24      23     300
Manufactures                             ..      2        42      48     250
Total imports (cNI)                       ..     302      328      340     50
Food                                      ..    35        47      52     100
Fuel and energy                                 39        94      73      s0
Capital goods                            ..     54        53      51        s
Exportpricelndex(1995=100)                ..      71      107      108         95   95  97   9a   99  00   Ot
Import prtce Index (1995=100)             ..      89      105      108               * EMorts     *Iports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                  ..     79      102      100
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1981    1991     2000     2001     Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services            151     140      150      159      0
Imports of goods and services            329     345      441      440     *2 
Resource balance                        -178    -205     -291     -281      4      *    *   *    *    *    *
Net income                                 9     -11      -15      -20     *e .              U    U 
Net current transfers                    103     183      217      191     *8 
Currentaccoint baance                    -67     -33      -90     -110    *10
Flnancing Items (net)                     46      99      100      121    *12
Changes In net reserves                   21     -66      -10      -11    *14
Memo:
Reserves Including gold (USS millions)   173     110      191      212
Conversion rate (DEC, localIUS$)        92.8   125.1     390.0   443.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981    1991     2000     2001
(US$ millions)                                                             Composition of 2001 debt (USS mill.)
Totaldebtoutstanding and disbursed       197     810     1,305    1,316
IBRD                                     0       0        0        0
IDA                                     65     390      692      713              E: 14S F: 1
Total debt service                         8      23       42       40
IBRD                                     0       0        0        0
IDA                                      1       4        11      14
D: 370
Composlion of net resource flows                                                                       B:713
Officiel grants                          ..      ..     267      234
Officael creditors                      25      78       32       51
Pfivate creditors                        0      -1        4       13
Foreign direct investment               ..      ..        8        4
Portfolio equity                        ..       ..       ..       ..             C: 84
World Bank program
Commitments                             14     147         .       ..    A - IBR                  E - B6ilaal
Disbursements                            7      48       37       53     B - IDA  D - Othrr uitialr  F - Private
PrIcipal repayments                      0       2        6        8     C -Iw                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                7      47       31       45
Interest payments                        1       2        5        5
Net transfers                            7      44       26       40
Development Economics                                                                                   9Q20/02



-47-
Annex C2
Rwanda - Key Economic Indicators
Actual               Estimate            Projected
Indicator              1996     1997    1998    1999    2000    2001     2002    2003    2004
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Grossdomesticproduct'                  100      100     100     100     100      100     100     100      100
Agriculture                            47      46      46      42       41      41      42      42       42
Industry                               18      19      19       19      20      22      22      22       22
Services                               35      35      36      39       38      38      37       36      36
Total Consumption                       106     104     103     100      99       98      98      96      94
Gross domnestic fixed investment        14       14      15      17       18      18      19      19      20
Govemment investment                    9       8       7        6       6       7       7        7       7
Privateinvestmoent                      5       6       8       11      12      12      12       12      12
Exports (GNFS)b                          6        8       6       6       8        9       8       8       9
inmports (GNFS)                         26       26      23      23      24       26      25      24      22
Gross domestic savings                   -6      -4      -3       0       1        2       2       4       6
Gross national savings'                  9        4       5      10       13      12       8       9       11
Memorandum items
Gross domesticproduct                  1384    1846    1989    1932     1811    1703    1768    1900    2050
(US$ million at current prices)
GNP per capita (US$, Atlas method)     200      220     230     240     230      220
Real annual growth rates (%, calculated from 1985 prices)
Gross domestic product at marketprices  12.7  13.8     8.9     7.6     6.0      6.7     7.3     6.1     6.2
Gross Domestic Income                12.1     18.5     6.5     6.2     6.9     5.1      6.5     6.0     6.8
Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from 1985 prices)
Gross domesticproductat marketprices  7.2     -3.0     6.1     4.9     3.5     4.1      4.7     3.5      3.6
Total consumption                     4.0      1.1     4.6    -0.6     0.4      1.9     4.1     1.0      2.0
Private consumption                   2.1      4.0     3.9    -2.5     0.6      0.0     3.4     2.2     3.7
Balance of Payments (US$ nillions)
Exports(GNFS)b                         84      144     111     113     150      159     143     158      176
Merchandise FOB                      62       93      64      62      90      93       78      87      99
Inports (GNFS)b                       363     474     462      443     441     440     443      456     458
Merchandise FOB                     213     277      256     249     240     255      257     265     272
Resource balance                      -279    -330    -351    -330    -291     -281    -300    -298    -282
Net current transfers                 223      172     167     198     217      191     136     136      128
Current account balance               -70     -175    -190    -143     -90     -110    -187    -188     -176
Net private foreign direct investment   2        3       7       2        8       5       5       5        6
Long-termloans(net)                    54       42      44      62      35       64      18      18       16
Official                              53      41       47      52-     32       51      11      10       4
Private                                I        1      -2      10       4       13       7       8       12
Other capital (net, inc. errors a ornnissions)  1 4  26  21      -9     -19     -19
Change in reservesd                     -8     -29       4      10     -10      -11     -17       0        0
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of GDP)           -20.2   -17.9   -17.6    -17.1   -16.1   -16.5   -17.0    -15.7   -13.7
Real annual growth rates ( YR85 prices)
Merchandise exports (FOB)             39.4    13.4    -8.9     12.9    19.7    36.7   -13.8      6.5     5.2
Primary                              44.3    -9.8     0.5     7.6     -6.7    11.8    10.0     10.3     8.4
Manufactures                        -15.5     2.8   -46.9     61.9    93.7    14.2   -35.5      2.0     0.1
Merchandise imports (CIF)              6.2    38.3     3.3     -4.8   -14.2    11.0    -0.4      2.9     1.5
(Continued)



-48-
Annex C2
Rwanda - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual               Estircte            Projected
Indicator              1996     1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002     2003    2004
Public flnance (as % of GDP at narket prices)'
Current revenues                      16.7    17.2    15.9    15.8     18.7    19.8    21.0    21.5     21.0
Curet expenditures                    13.2    11.5    12.1     13.3    12.6    14.2    15.2     14.8    13.3
Current account surplus (+) or deficit(-)  3.5  5.7    3.8     2.5     6.1      5.6     5.8     6.7      7.7
Capital expenditure                    9.3     8.2     6.8     6.3      6.0     6.7     7.0      7.3     7.6
Foreign financing                      2.5     2.1     6.3     3.2      2.2     5.2     4.2      1.4     0.9
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP                                16.3    18.3    15.8    16.2     16.9    16.9    16.9     17.0    17.0
Growth ofM2(%)                         8.1    47.3    -3.9     6.6     14.4     6.6     9.6     10.1    10.6
Private sector credit growth /          ..      ..      ..      ..       ..      ..
total credit growth (%/6)
Price lndlces( YR85 =100)
Merchandise exportprice index         98.1   129.8    98.2    84.1    101.8    77.4    74.6     78.6    84.9
Merchandise iniport price index       96.8    93.4    85.2     87.7   105.8    99.0    99.9    100.2   101.3
Merchandisetemrnsoftradeindex        101.3   138.9   115.2    95.9     96.2    78.2    74.6     78.4    83.8
Real exchangerate (US$/LCU)f          85.2   102.2   103.2    104.8   106.4   106.4   106.4    106.4   106.4
Real interest rates
Consumnerprice index (%change)         8.9    11.7     6.8     -2.4     3.9     3.4     2.0      3.0     3.0
GDPdeflator(%change)                  11.1    15.6     2.2     -3.5     3.2     0.2      1.9     3.5     3.8
a. GDP at factor cost
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of iMF resources.
e. Consolidated central govermnent.
f "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



Annex C3
CASAm BS 4b-Rmia
Sti d Bank Gr4o  Opeatios (Opwasiors
Parffdlo)
aosed           43
TcS ashesed rhe)          110.30
d Wih sben    id      0.81
Tod Dasbsed (aad)         66Z30
d    has been 3aid    49.5D
Tda tshxsed Odj%e + aaed)  77Z59
d v has beerl red     50.33
TdS UAsbined (A dte)      170.45
Tcda WoLuxs  (at ad74
Tda Uxzused (A&ve + OCsed)  171.1
.__     _                                                                                                                     Dif!eren
Last                                                                                    aiec d u 
&LpervWon                                  OiPnalAm    tio t otin US$                Dsbu.w
Ro4ect               Prqect                                    Fiscal           IBRD         IDA      GRN         Cancde UrKLsb   01g
PO5803               AC    URAL      r TDEV. S         S         2000             0            5         0            0     3.9    1.6
P05193               CRaD                  HS          S         1999             0            5         0            0     3.3     1
P05729                oe                     S         S         2001             0         40.8         0            0    40.1     0
P00223               HEAL11- &             S           S         1991             0         26.6         0            0     6.1   -6.2
P04518              RFNRureiVaVrS. py      S           S         2000             0           20         0            0    18.7   -0.5
P06578               Reciard Trade FaC Prc. - S        S         2001             0            0         0            0      0      0
P0G224               R#9EZrgY              S           S         1993             0           26         0            7     3.6    3.9
P04509               RW*+IkunR FXsOue      S           S         2000             0           35         0            0    31.4    0.4
P06496               RwandaRUnd Sedtor     U           U         2001             0           48         0            0    47.1     0
P00223               1RANSPORT             S           S         1990             0           85         0            0    16.2  -38.9
Overel resJt                                                    Reut              0        291.4         0           7   170.5   -38.7



-50-
Annex C4
Rwanda
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                  Disbursed
FY Approval Company        Loan Equity Quasi Partic Loan Equity Quasi Partic
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan Equity Quasi Partic
2001 AEF Dreamland    800     0      0     0
Total Pending Commitment:  800      0     0     0



-51-
Annex D: Letter of Development Policy
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA                           Klgali, .. 1 OCT. 2002
of =s N° $.ff~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~igai     .. ..p....................
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND
ECONOMIC PLANNING
P.O. Box 158 Kigali
Tel: +250-577994 Fax: +250-577581
E-mail: mfin(irwanda1.com
Mr. Edward BROWN
World Bank Resident Representative
KIGALI
Dear Sir,
Subject: Transmitting the Letter of Development Policv
I am honoured to transmit to you our Letter of Development Policy in an
effort to request a credit of SDR 64.5 million, equivalent to US$ 85 million
from the Intemnational Development Association (IDA). The credit is to
support our continued efforts in economic reforn, stability and growth. The
overall policy objectives are herein elaborated.
I also take this opportunity to extend our sincere appreciation to the World
Bank Group for the continued support in our efforts of national building.
Please accept, the assurances of my highest consideration.
Yours Sincerely,
Celestin
Minister                    lanning






-53-                             Annex D
October 11, 2002
Mr James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank Group
Washington, D.C., 20433
USA
Subject: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Mr. President:
1.    I am writing to request, on behalf of the Government of Rwanda, a credit of SDR 64.5
million (US$85 million) from the International Development Association (IDA or the
Association) in support of our economic reforn, stability and growth effort. The overall policy
objectives of the Government are to consolidate progress made in the reconstruction of Rwanda
especially in national reconciliation, lay the basis for sustainable economic growth, stability and
reduce poverty. These require efforts to develop the productive base of the economy, particularly
to create a dynamic agricultural and rural economy and a vigorous and competitive private sector
that would provide productive employment as well as social and economic infrastructure. Our
programme is based on the Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS) formulated by the Government
after wide consultations through the whole country. Proceeds from the credit will go towards
filling Rwanda's external financing gap.
BACKGROUND AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
2.    The civil war and the genocide of 1994 led to rapid economic and social decline, created
massive poverty and destroyed the social-fabric of Rwanda. The country has gone through a
painful challenge of rebuilding itself in the context of complex socio-economic problems
stemming from the structural constraints to development and the consequences of 1994 events.
We are encouraged by the' progress that has been made along the path of reconstruction, national
reconciliation and economic reform since 1994 and we intend to continue to build on this
progress. National reconciliation and security, poverty reduction and the pursuit of good
governance, peace and stability have been key elements of the Government's social and
economic policies. A program of socio-political reforms, aimed at improving governance and
empowering the population through decentralization and democratisation, has been implemented
in parallel with the economic reforms. The National Assembly adopted a decentralization law in
November 2000 and elections to local administration were held in March 2001 to ensure broad
participation in the political and economic arenas at grassroots level. The National Assembly has
adopted a new legislation to deal with the cases of the persons accused of genocide crimes
through traditional participatory forms of justice at the community level (GACACA law) and the
GACACA judges were elected in October 2001 and the system became operational in June 2002.



-54-                              Annex D
Recent Economic Development
3.    In the past seven years, the economy has recovered in all sectors and domestic financial
imbalances have declined significantly and the extemal position improved, reflecting the
adoption of prudent financial policies and key structural reforms by the Government. Real GDP,
which fell by one half in 1994, is estimated to have reached the 1990 level at end 2000. At the
same time, the annual rate of inflation fell from 64 percent in 1994 to about 2.5 percent in 1998,
to -2 percent in 1999, to 3.9 percent in 2000 and to 3.5 percent in 2001. The external current
account deficit (excluding transfers) has improved (from 19 percent of GDP in 1996 to 16
percent of GDP in 2001). The gross foreign reserves of NBR have been maintained to the
equivalent of about seven months of imports CIF.
4.    The fiscal situation also has improved, mostly because of the efforts to improve tax
administration and rationalize tax measures. The Rwanda Revenue Authority was created in
1998 and since then substantial efforts have been made to strengthen its capacity and reduce
fraud and corruption within the system. The excise taxes on consumption goods were
significantly increased and brought to an ad valorem basis; a new import tariff code has been put
in place with few rates and a maximum rate of 25 percent compared to a peak of 100 percent in
the pre-war era. The VAT system has been introduced in 2001. As a result of these efforts, the
revenue to GDP ratio has risen from 5.2 percent in 1996 to 11.4 percent in 2001. Government
expenditure has been contained around 20 percent of GDP and defence expenditure has been
reduced from 4.4 percent of GDP in 1998 to 3.3 percent of GDP in 2001. The primary deficit has
been progressively reduced from -2.2 percent of GDP in 1999 to - 0.1 percent of GDP in 2001.
5.    The Govemment made good progress in structural reforms despite the limited
administrative capacity. The key areas of reform were in the trade and exchange regime, the
fiscal area, the financial sector and privatisation, the civil service reform. Based on the good
performance under economic reform program, Rwanda obtained debt relief from Paris Club
creditors in June 1998 and under HIPC initiative in December 2000.
Poverty and Social Indicators
6.    The proportion of households below the poverty line is estimated to have increased from
53 percent in 1993 to 70 percent in 1994. Many households have become vulnerable, especially
the 34 percent of them headed by females and minors. While the proportion has been declining
slowly and is now 60 percent, vulnerability remains a serious concem, and social indicators
remain stagnant, including a life expectancy of 49 years, infant mortality of 107 per thousand,
and matemal mortality of over 800 per 100,000 births. The scourge of HIV/AIDS is very serious,
with 13.4 percent of adults between the ages of 15-49 infected. A significant and rapid reduction
of poverty and the standard of living in general can improve the prospects for national
reconciliation. We are determined to put in place structural reforms and the investments in
human development needed to generate high and sustainable economic growth that will create
employment and improve social conditions.
Government Development Strategy
7.    In November 2001, we completed the draft of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(PRSP) and discussed it with the development partners and civil society. The paper was finalized



-55-                             Annex D
in June 2002. The PRSP builds on the development goals Rwanda set for itself in the Vision
2020 elaborated in 1998; these goals are consistent with the targets of the UN's Millennium
Development Goals (MDGs). The PRSP assessed the nature and causes of poverty in Rwanda
and concluded that it stems from long-term structural constraints, the legacy of the genocide and
bad political and economic governance. The former includes the low human resource base, high
population density and growth, the high transport costs related to being land-locked, and
environmental degradation. The PRSP notes that the genocide severely depleted the human
resources, created large numbers of vulnerable households and traumatized the population. In
addition, it created a large prison population, and increased the incidence of HIV/AIDS. The
severe loss of capital stock during the genocide, particularly by poor rural dwellers set back rural
economic recovery and development. The loss of social capital undermined community
solidarity, individual security, and the legitimacy of government.
8.    The poverty reduction strategy (PRS) of the PRSP aims to reduce poverty to less than
half the 2001 level by 2015 and improve social indicators in line with the Vision 2020 and the
MDGs. This poverty reduction target would require average annual growth of real GDP of 7-8
percent over a sustained period. The PRS and its rapid economic transformation and poverty
reduction goals are founded on our recognition of the very strong inter-linkages between
economic growth, poverty reduction, national reconciliation, good governance, human
development and welfare, and regional peace and security. The PRSP identifies five key areas
that would provide an enabling context for economic growth and poverty reduction: good
governance, macroeconomic stability, human development, prioritisation and effectiveness of
public actions, and partnerships. In this context, the PRSP identified six broad areas for priority
public actions, ranked by importance are: rural development and agriculture transformation,
human resource development, economic infrastructure, governance, private sector development
and institutional capacity building. Within these areas, the core programs have also been
identified and given priority in the national budget. Reduction of inequalities is also an important
objective of public action. The top priority placed on rural development and agricultural
transformation is an important element of reducing inequality as the vast majority of the poor
live in rural areas.
9.    The Government is strongly committed to poverty reduction, has started to implement the
PRS and will continue to use it as the instrument for participatory dialogue on the development
of Rwanda. We intend to update the PRSP every two years, along with annual progress reports to
reflect evolving circumstances and ensure that it remains on course. The Government recognizes
that the growth and poverty reduction targets of the PRS are very challenging but the people of
Rwanda are committed to the exceptional efforts required to achieve these targets. We realize
that the growth rates of 6 percent per annum over the next 15 years, which is the minimum we
need to make significant improvements in the standard of living of Rwandese, will require
durable peace and security in Rwanda and the region, strong regional cooperation, improvements
in the use of public resources and persistent efforts at economic and social reform to attract the
private investments and external development assistance needed to support the ambitious growth
and poverty reduction agenda. Attachment 1 presents the main public actions including the
policy and institutional reforms planned for the medium-term.



-56-                             Annex D
SOCIO-POLITICAL FRAMEWORK
10.   As noted above, the PRSP recognized the importance of peace and a stable socio-political
environment for economic growth and poverty reduction. To this end, we are continuing, in line
with the PRS, to resettle and reintegrate vulnerable populations, demobilize and reintegrate ex-
combatants, and to put emphasis on good governance, justice, national security and regional
peace.
Resettlement and Reintegration
11.   During the period of emergency, the process of resettlement and reintegration of
refugees, internally displaced persons and other vulnerable groups, focussed on ensuring their
basic human needs, and helping them become self-sustaining by providing immediate survival
assistance and, subsequently permanent shelter, adequate social services, and assistance for
income generating activities. The focus of international assistance for relief, resettlement and
reintegration was on refugees. In order to address the needs of the genocide survivors, in 1997,
the Government established a Fund to assist the victims of genocide and contributes, by law, 5
percent of the annual revenue to the fund. The fund has contributed to helping the victims build
sustainable livelihoods by providing them assistance for shelter, education, medical care, social
rehabilitation and income generating activities.
Demobilisation and Reintegration
12.   In 1997, the Government with the assistance of UNDP designed and implemented the,
first stage of demobilisation and reintegration of RPA and Ex-FAR combatants. The project
which originally was expected to cost US$ 38.9 million envisaged the demobilisation of 25, 000
RPA and several thousand Ex-FAR and their reintegration into civilian life. The reintegration
was to be facilitated by providing the demobilised combatants with access to education and
vocational training as well as assistance for obtaining employment and medical rehabilitation.
Due to inadequate donor support, some of the activities in the original programme could not be
implemented. By end 2001, 16,125 RPA personnel (and 2,634 child soldiers have been
demobilised). Of the 30,000 Ex-FAR who returned from the DRC, 15,000 were reintegrated in
the RPA and the rest settled in their communities. However, most of the economic and social
support envisaged could not be provided to the demobilised RPA soldiers and the resettled ex-
FAR.
13.   The Lusaka Agreement on the conflict in the DRC provides for the withdrawal of foreign
forces as well as the demobilisation and reintegration of ex-combatants (RPA and other forces)
in Rwandan society. This is further enhanced by the recently signed agreement between the two
leaders of Rwanda and DRC in Pretoria, July 30th 2002. The Government of Rwanda is fully
committed to implement all decisions under these accords. In line with the Lusaka Agreement,
the Government with the assistance of IDA designed the second phase of the Rwanda
Demobilisation and Reintegration Programme (RDRP I1). This programme has the following
four prinicipal objectives: (i) demobilize an estimated 45,000 soldiers from the RPA and ex-
combatants from the members of armed groups, and support their transition to civilian life; (ii) in
the spirit of the Arusha Agreement, support the reinsertion of ex-FAR; (iii) support the social and
economic reintegration of all ex-combatants to be demobilized in stage II and all stage I ex-



-57-                              Annex D
combatants who remain socio-economically vulnerable; and (iv) facilitate the reallocation of
Government expenditure from defence to social and economic sectors.
14.   The RDRP Phase II is expected to cost US$ 54 million and IDA has approved a credit of
US$ 25 million for the program. Government is expected to contribute US$ 2.8 million whilst
the donors provide US$ 26.2 million. Donor support for the implementation of this programme
will be crucial. The successful implementation of the demobilisation program will facilitate the
reallocation of resources from defence to the priority sectors especially education and health for
poverty reduction in the medium to the long term.
Governance and Justice
15.   A Commission for National Unity and Reconciliation has promoted broad dialogue in the
country on rebuilding the society and facilitating the coexistence of all Rwandans. The
Government has also established and operationalised a Human Rights Commission to promote
respect for human rights. The commission has produced two annual reports on its activities. The
Legal and Constitutional Affairs Commission, to draft a new constitution for Rwanda, started its
work in 2000 with a view to draft a new constitution for Rwanda which will provide the
framework for the election of a democratic national government in 2003.
Decentralization
16.   Democratic and decentralized governance is an effective way of transferring decision-
making power and resources to local people to enable them plan for local development and fight
poverty at grassroots. It is also an effective way of engineering the mobilization and participation
of local populations as well as development partners into the process of planning and
implementing programs for local development. Following the successful local elections at the
grassroots level in March 1999, elections for offices in new district administrations were held on
March 6, 2001. The rate of participation (estimated at 96 percent of the electorate) was a clear
testimony of the good will of the population to contribute to the building of local grassroots
administrative structures by giving them democratically elected organs and accountable leaders.
17.   The decentralisation policy and law was promulgated in 2001. The main unit of local
Government will be at the level of the district (formerly called the commune), with another
administrative layer at the level of the province (formerly the Prefecture). There are 106 districts
and 11 provinces and the City of Kigali. The elections of March 6 replaced the former system
where officials at the District level were centrally appointed. Decentralisation will change, but
not reduce, the responsibility of sectoral ministries. Most sectoral ministries will shift from being
implementers to providing policy guidance to the provinces and the districts.
Free Press
18.   The Government has declared its commitment to a free and independent press. The
Government and the press have identified training of journalists as a priority for ensuring the
independence of the press. A press law has been published. Meanwhile, many private print
media establishments are operational and the Government intends to license private radio and
television stations.



-58-                              Annex D
Corruption
19.   The National Assembly has been playing an active role in the fight against corruption. Its
investigations of alleged corrupt practices have led to the resignations of a number of ministers
and other senior officials. The Government intends to put in place mechanisms, including Public
Disclosure Rules and a Code of Conduct for Public officials, to guide the behaviour of public
officials and deal with corrupt practices. The National Assembly will adopt the civil servants'
code of conduct.
Justice
20.   Rwanda is striving to put an end to the "culture of impunity" in order to achieve a
sustainable national reconciliation and ensure justice and the rule of law. These goals require an
effective police force, a strong and independent legal system, good political govemance, and
decentralized decision making, with broad participation by the population in the political and
economic arenas. The Government has started to strengthen the police and judicial systems at all
levels and has created and will continue to strengthen other institutions for good governance.
21.   The adjudication of the cases of the 120,000 genocide suspects started in 1997 but
proceeded relatively slowly with only about 2,500 cases fully processed by end 1999 Recently,
however the Government released all child prisoners including 400 prisoners under the age of 14
in December 2000. Consultations on the use of traditional participatory method of justice
(Gacaca) to accelerate the trials and clear the bulk of the caseload started in 1998 was concluded
with the National Assembly adopting the legislation in 2000 to use the Gacaca system for the
trials. There will be about eleven thousand gacaca tribunals around the country, requiring about a
quarter of a million elected judges. Elections of 260.000 Gacaca judges were held on October 4-
6, 2001 and these judges have received training in the process. The Gacaca system became
operational in June 2002. A national civilian police force to replace the para-military
gendarmerie in law enforcement was established in 1999.
National Security and Regional Stability
22.   The Government appreciates that sustainable development is dependant upon peace,
stability and security in the region. Conflicts discourage private investment, intra-regional trade,
and the flow of official development assistance into the region. Rwanda has reaffirmed its
commitment to the Lusaka Accord and has pulled back its troops 200 kilometres from the
frontline to demonstrate its commitment. The Government has continued to participate in a
bilateral and multilateral talks aimed at seeking a peaceful resolution to the conflict in the DRC.
This is clearly manifested in the agreement signed in Pretoria in July 2002 by H.E The President
of the Republic of Rwanda and H.E. The President of the Democratic Republic of Congo which
among others addressed the two core issues that underlie the conflict in the region. These key
issues are how to deal with the disarmament of Rwandese armed groups based in the DRC, and
the withdrawal of Rwandese troops from the DRC.
23.   In line with the Pretoria Agreement and the Lusaka Peace Accord, Rwanda has already
pulled out her troops from DRC within three weeks (from Sept. 13th- Oct. 5th 2002). We expect
that DRC will implement its part of the agreement to disarm, dismantle and repatriate the
interahamwe militias and other Rwandese armed groups based in the DRC thus the need for us to



-59-                              Annex D
intensify efforts to reintegrate returned ex-fighters into the Rwandan society. The rapid
withdrawal of all the 23,400 troops from DRC will enhance peace and stability in the region,
accelerate the demobilization and reintegration of ex-combatants into civilian life, facilitate the
implementation of our reform efforts under the PRSP, and enhance Rwanda's development
prospects. The Government will continue to work closely with the UN Observer Mission to the
Congo (MONUC) as per both the Lusaka Peace Agreement and the Pretoria agreement.
However, the withdrawal exercise was not provided for in the 2002 budget and thus the new
expenditures imply additional financing needs for Rwanda.13 We have sought the support of our
partners including IDA, for additional assistance to continue to fund our reform and transition
program.
MEDIUM TERM POLICY FRAMEWORK
24.   Despite the significant economic and social progress made during the last years, Rwanda
continues to face deep-seated social, financial and economic problems. These problems include
(i) low agricultural productivity, (ii) high population density and growth (iii) environmental
degradation; (iv) limited employment opportunities; (v) low level of human resource
development; (vi) a weak and small private sector; (vii) high transport costs (viii) low savings, a
weak financial sector and heavy dependence on foreign aid; (ix) a narrow revenue base (x) a
narrow export base and vulnerability to external price shocks; (xi) a heavy external debt burden
and (vii) a weak public sector with low capacity resulting from inadequate remuneration and
incentives for civil servants. The PRSP sets out the long-term strategy and medium-term policy
framework for dealing with these challenges. As noted above, the PRSP, through extensive
national consultations, identifies six broad areas as priorities for public action, namely: rural
development and agricultural transformation, human development, economic infrastructure,
governance, private sector development, and institutional capacity building.
25.   Against this background, the main elements of the Government's macroeconomic
policies for the medium term aim at, -achieving (i) an annual real GDP growth of about 6-7
percent a year; (ii) reduce the average rate of inflation to no more than 3 percent; (iii) lower the
external current account deficit (excluding official transfers) from 16.4 percent of GDP in 2001
to 13.5 percent in the medium-term (2004) and (iv) maintain gross official reserves at an average
level of about 7 months of imports c.i.f during the medium term, in view of Rwanda's narrow
export base and vulnerability to external chocks.
26.   Achieving these medium-term objectives and strengthen the foundation for longer-term
sustained growth would require (i) an improvement in government savings (mainly by improving
revenue performance); (ii) an increase in investment through a recovery in private sector savings
and investment; (iii) a deepening of structural reforms (maintaining the present liberal
investment policy, allocation of more resources to the high priority areas aimed at reducing
poverty); (iv) improvement in agricultural productivity through the progressive adoption of new
technology; (v) creation of non-farm rural employment (vi) specialization in export-oriented high
value agriculture and light manufacturing and services industries, employing modern information
and telecommunications technologies to be competitive, (vii) a labour force with skills in
3 We are financing the costs under the emergency provision in our budget law that allows the Government to
spend money to meet emergency needs and then report to the National Assembly.



-60-                              Annex D
science, technologies and management and appropriate transport and communications
infrastructures.
THE POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORM PROGRAM
27.   The policy and institutional reform program supports the implementation of the PRSP
and will promote the mainstreaming of poverty reduction in the development agenda and
reinforce the institutional anchors for sustainable growth and rapid poverty reduction. It will help
to achieve the medium-term economic growth and poverty reduction goals and build the basis for
long-term development. In that context, the reform program will undertake reforms to strengthen
the foundations of the market economy, improve governance and the effectiveness of
govermment, enhance human resource development and promote an environment that enables the
private sector, including farmers and small-scale enterprises, to create value and employment.
28.   The implementation of the program will build on the ongoing and planned analytical
work including (i) the public expenditure management review and sector expenditure reviews
including progress in the implementation of the MTEF and the implications of the
decentralization for public expenditure management; (ii) review the mechanisms for service
delivery as well as for monitoring and tracking of public expenditure; (iii) review of public
sector accountability; (iv) analytical work undertaken to support privatisation policies and
strategies for various sectors, particularly telecommunication, energy, and tea and coffee.
Attachment 1 contains the policy and institutional reforms planned for the medium-term. The
World Bank, the IMF, the African Development Bank, the European Union, the United
Kingdom, Sweden and the Netherlands are supporting these reforms. In July 2002, the IMF
Board approved a 3-year PRGF arrangement to support the program and the proposed
Institutional Reform Credit from IDA will continue the support for structural reforms previously
provided by IDA's Economic Recovery Credit.
Public Expenditure Management Reform
Reforming the Budget Process
29.   The MTEF: The Government is committed to making the public expenditure
management system transparent, accountable and results oriented and to this effect, we
introduced the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) for budgeting in 2000 for the
preparation of the 2001 budget. The sensitisation of key stakeholders and the training of staff in
the MINECOFIN and the line ministries preceded the introduction of the MTEF. These training
programs have continued and now include staff from decentralized local governments. The
MTEF budgeting approach will continue to be developed to strengthen the link between policies
and budget decisions and outcomes, and promote broader participation of the civil society in
budget decisions and monitoring.
30.   The next stage of actions in the MTEF implementation include (i) the integration of the
recurrent and development budgets; (ii) the refinement of sector strategies and programs in
accordance with PRSP; (iii) improving the macroeconomic framework; (iv) improving auditing,
monitoring, reporting and dissemination of budget performance and outcomes. A public
expenditure management review (PEMR) is underway to assess progress -in the implementation
of the initial 3-year plan for the MTEF and provide options for the way forward. Based on this,



-61-                             Annex D
the Government will prepare by end 2002, a new 3 year MTEF implementation plan. Meanwhile,
the Government, the World Bank and other partners have agreed on a strategy for analytical
work to support the MTEF implementation. Sector expenditure reviews (SERs) will be
undertaken to intemalise the MTEF approach in sector ministries and identify programs and
monitoring indicators in those ministries. SERs for agriculture and transport are underway and
reviews are planned for health, education and justice in 2003-2004. A broad public expenditure
management review will be undertaken every 2-3 years to assess overall progress and provide
the basis for planning.
31.   Budget Prioritisation: The PRSP process identified key priority poverty focused areas
as well as the criteria for identifying programmes in those areas to be treated as budget priority
programmes (BPPs). For the FY2003 budget and beyond, the Government will in the course of
the budget process review the BPPs in accordance with performance and the PRSP criteria, and
using the MTEF, develop and set spending targets for these programs. The Government will
continue to provide above average budget allocations for the BPPs and protect these allocations
to priority sectors from cuts during the course of the fiscal year. The Government will review the
arrangements and capacity for implementing and monitoring the BPPs in line ministries and take
measures to strengthen capacity where appropriate. The Government will also monitor closely
the outputs and outcomes in these areas and the impact of budget expenditures. Attachment 2
shows a list of budget priority programs in the 2002 budget.
32.   Decentralization of government to the provincial and district levels is expected to
reinforce accountability, refine the focus of government spending, and improve the delivery of
public services. The legal framework for fiscal decentralisation was largely established during
2000-01. Additional legislation adopted in early 2002 established the revenue base and financial
management for district government. As full implementation of the framework will depend on
effective communication between levels of government and an ongoing adaptation of
responsibilities and resources, the central government is taking steps to ensure that provincial
and district governments report the necessary information. The central government will also give
priority to obtaining financial support for training needed to strengthen the public accounting and
internal audit functions for central government ministries, provincial administrations and district
governments. Beginning 2004, representatives of the various levels of government will jointly
provide to parliament an assessment of the strengths and weaknesses of the existing legal
framework, and an assessment of the measures needed to resolve outstanding problems,
particularly as regards ensuring allocation of resources across district governments.
33.   The Common Development Fund (CDF) has been set up and will eventually commit 10
percent of government revenue to fund development programmes identified by the districts. The
draft law on the operational modalities is being finalised and under this law a portion of
government revenue (2.5 percent in 2002 rising to 5 percent in 2003) will be dedicated to the
CDF. To avoid disruption to the functioning of the central Government, the pace of
implementation will depend on the availability of fiscal resources and the time required
establishing the administrative mechanisms for CDF management. In 2001, provinces and
districts have developed budgets in the MTEF format including proposals for the Common
Development Fund. It is envisaged that in the future this will be extended to allocating resources
to cellule level through the community action planning methodology that is under development.



-62-                              Annex D
Financial Accountability and Transparency
34.   The Government has been progressively established the institutional framework for
financial accountability, with the establishment of the Office of the Auditor General (OAG) and
the National Tender Board (NTB), and the initiation of the process of revising the legislation and
regulations governing the budget process and financial accountability. The Government has also
reactivated the Office of the Inspector-General de Finance and Audit and the Public Accounts
Division of MINECOFIN to respectively audit the finances of government agencies and prepare
regular public accounts (financial statements) of government operations. The Public Accounts
Department is working towards a financial statement in 2004 for the budget of 2003. By the end
of this year 2002, the OAG will have carried out 69 audits missions (21 audits in 2000, 27 in
2001 and 30 audits in 2002) including the ministry of defence.
35.   The Government is reviewing the legal and institutional framework for public sector
management to provide the basis for strengthening accountability. The Constitution is
undergoing review and a number of key finance-related bills/regulations are under development
or in draft including the Organic Budget Law, the Public Accounts Law, the Procurement Code,
the decree establishing the NTB, and the Financial Instructions for management of state finances.
The Government is working with its partners on a financial accountability review and action plan
(FARAP). Based on the findings of this activity, the Government will formulate an action plan
for improving financial accountability. This plan should be completed before the end of 2002.
36.   Additional steps will be taken during 2002-03 to strengthen the legal framework,
including the development of draft legislation to create a formal appeals process for taxpayers
and a comprehensive bill of taxpayer's rights. The establishment of both a tax and commercial
courts will be given priority during the program period and draft legislation establishing the
public accounting mechanism and a public investment regulatory framework will be presented to
the cabinet by June 2003.
37.    Meanwhile, the Government will (i) strengthen the capacity of the Public Accounts
Department to enable it meet the goal of producing a financial statement of government
operations for the 2003 budget; (ii) introduce and strengthen internal audit functions within
ministries, with priority on the large ministries - education, health, agriculture, transport and
communications - and provide an enabling framework for the development of the internal audit
profession across government; (iii) review the financial Instructions and ensure that all
government ministries and agencies are working from the same set of instructions and use this to
underpin training; (iv) harmonize the Financial Management and Accounting Procedures manual
for Local Governments with the accounting system being developed for local government and
use the manual to underpin training; and (v) introduce regular training sessions for government
officials to familiarize them with financial management and accountability issues, making use of
the various manuals and legislative instruments that are available in draft or final form.
38.   Budget Monitoring and Evaluation: The MINECOFIN has a system for tracking
commitments and payments (flash reporting system) and has a unit (CEPEX) that monitors
financial flows and progress in the implementation of capital projects. The introduction of the
Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) in 2001 has increased the importance of both
reporting and monitoring in the budget cycle since the MTEF focuses on outputs and outcomes
rather than on (financial) inputs. The Poverty Observatoire of Rwanda (OPR), created in 1999



-63-                              Annex D
and to monitor trends in poverty, is a key agency for monitoring and dissemination and outcomes
of the budget. The OPR is a unit in the new Poverty Reduction and Strategic Planning and
Poverty Monitoring Department (SPPMD)
39.   The Government has decided to implement a quarterly Joint Monitoring System (JMS)
starting in January 1, 2003. The JMS will integrate recurrent and development expenditure on a
single monitoring system. The system will include an annual execution plan for each ministry
and province; and a quarterly monitoring form to be used to record progress against planned
execution. The JMS will start with monitoring priority program outputs in the recurrent budget.
A pilot program is being conducted this year with the Provinces of Kigali-Ngali and Gitarama,
and the Ministries of Health, Education, and the Interior. Once this system becomes fully
operational on January 1, 2003, it will produce a quarterly sector report that will identify
implementation problems for follow-up by the budget department, CEPEX, and the SPPRP. In
addition, it will provide a background to budget execution for MNNECOFIN and a year-end
report which analyses budget execution issues across line ministries and sectors, thereby
informing the planning process for the coming year. The JMS will require continuous training
and capacity building.
40.   Further, the Government will (i) in accordance with the proposal of the PRSP, require all
ministries to submit an annual report on progress on their planned activities, use of resources, the
impact of their programs/activities on poverty reduction, and a management report with
indicators of performance; (ii) produce a version of the Flash Report in a concise format usually
associated with management reports, with all the relevant budget information including variances
between actual and budget summarized in a report of less than 3 pages. This report will be
published monthly and within 4 weeks of the relevant month. The existing detailed line item
report will not be abandoned and will continue to be made available to those with an interest in
the details.
Public Service Reform
41.   The Government will continue to reform the civil service by rationalizing and
streamlining functions and staffing within the civil service both in the central administration and
in the provinces. Staff will be redeployed according to the newly developed cadres organiques.
In moving forward in the reform of the civil service, new organigrams are being completed for
the provincial level of government, and organigrams for the district level will follow.
Computerisation of the complete human resource management process remains a priority and the
full integration of the information systems of the line different ministries has been targeted for
end-2002. Improving the quality of the civil service is a government priority. In parallel, the
Government is preparing a long-term vision of improving governance and public service delivery
in line with its strategy for poverty reduction, capacity building and human resources
development. This will form the basis for future reforms.
Agriculture and Rural Development
42.   For over a decade, agriculture productivity has been declining, impoverishing the rural
population. The major causes of the decline include the fragmentation and over-exploitation of
available agricultural land owing to rapid rural population growth; the degradation of the soil and



-64-                              Annex D
the enviromnent, the lack of use of modem inputs and weak research and extension services.
Most Rwandan households are small agricultural producers who engage in mixed farming and
consume most of what they produce. Many farms are very small (the average size is .7 hectares
and 95 percent of farms are less than two hectares). To make a living with such small areas of
land, it is essential to be highly productive. Agricultural transformation, rural development and
expansion of non-agricultural employment, with an immediate focus on the recapitalisation of
the rural economy, are central to our strategy. Furthermore, agricultural intensification must be
accompanied by environmental protection actions to stem the degradation of the natural
resources and the erosion of soil fertility. This transformation can be achieved by households
operating on small areas of land only with the support of energetic public action. The security of
land tenure, the reversal of the loss of soil fertility, and the adoption of fertilizers and other
improved inputs are essential for the transformation of Rwanda's traditional agriculture.
43.   The objectives of the agricultural sector strategy are to increase rural incomes and
enhance food security. The main thrust of the strategy are: (i) to increase agricultural
productivity through intensification with the promotion of the adoption of new technologies and
improved inputs; (ii) promote rural credit and other financial mechanisms to support rural
production (microfinance institutions) and recapitalise the rural economy; (iii) to promote
security of land tenure, improve land use and encourage land markets; (iv) to effectively combat
the degradation of the natural resources that promote the agricultural and rural economy; and (v)
improve rural market and transport infrastructure to enhance access to markets.
44.   Given the great significance of achieving the above-mentioned priorities the GOR will:
(i) adopt a land law that provides security of tenure, gives women land inheritance and
ownership rights, and improves overall land use; (ii) increase budget allocations and
implementation capacity for agricultural field services and infrastructure to provide access by
poor farmers to extension services, markets and market information, improved varieties of seeds
and appropriate improved inputs; (iii) accelerate the privatisation of the coffee and tea processing
plants; (iv) implement the new regulatory structures that liberalize the coffee and tea sectors and
give private sector agents an enhanced role in the regulation and promotion of the industries. (vi)
put in place, in consultation with all the stakeholders, a pricing mechanism for the adjustment of
tea prices to changes in world market prices and to reflect a premium for high quality tea; (v)
strengthen the supervision of rural micro-finance institutions and recapitalise the Banques
Populaire to serve farmers and small rural and urban entrepreneurs and (vi) initiate rural public
works schemes to create rural non-agricultural employment, increase rural incomes while
rehabilitation rural feeder roads, markets and environmental infrastructure.
Human Resource Development/ Social Sector Reform
45.   The Genocide cost Rwanda heavily in human capital, which will take time to rebuild. The
acute lack of human resource and poor health standards and facilities are major constraints to the
households' effort to emerge from poverty. In education, most people in Rwanda now have some
access to primary education for their children (Gross and net enrolment rates are now 100
percent and 73 percent respectively). However, access to secondary and tertiary education is
much more limited as the rate of transition from the final year of primary school to secondary
school is available to only 42 percent. Two concerns that arise are the quality of teaching
achieved during the recent period of rapid expansion of education. The main concern is the



-65-                              Annex D
shortage of furniture and materials especially textbooks. The provision of adequate textbooks is a
critical input in ensuring good educational outcomes.
46.   In health, the utilisation of health services in Rwanda is low, and has fallen in the last
few years. Health services, although available, are expensive for the poor to use them. The
country also faces increasing incidence of HIV/AIDS and drug-resistant malaria. Women
constitute the majority of the Rwandese population and its labour force, particularly in
agriculture, but have faced substantial constraints on their participation in the economy and
society. Thus the majority of women in Rwanda remain poor and vulnerable. The society is
generally impoverished as it loses the substantial contribution that women would make if given
the opportunity.
47.   The social sectors receive 30 percent and 40 percent of the total budget and recurrent
budget respectively. Improvements in the budget framework and the effectiveness of public
actions will have the greatest impact on social sector perfornance. The government will continue
to put high priority on social sector programs that accelerate human and social development, and
will make progressive increases in operational and maintenance expenditures so as to improve
the access and quality of services.
48.   The Government will also make efforts to increase the effectiveness of resources use in
the social sectors. In the education sector the Government is preparing a plan for education for
all (EFA) and the framework for a Sector-Wide Approach (SWAP) for implementing sector
programs. It is also reforming sectoral administration, building capacity and strengthening
internal audit and monitoring systems. A sector expenditure review focusing on developing
integrated sectoral programs and monitorable performance indicators in the context of the MTEF
is planned for 2003. For the health sector, the Government will continue to strengthen the
capacity of the decentralized health system and put emphasis on accountability in health service
delivery, community participation and information, education and communication on issues
related to preventive health care, HIV/AIDS, reproductive health, and nutrition. The government
will prepare and implement an action plan for improvemrents in health financing and access to
health services by the poor, including the progressive extension of the mutuelles health insurance
scheme. The GOR will also adopt and implement a framework for the coordination of public,
private, and NGO health providers.
49.   The government has developed a national strategy for multi-sectoral interventions against
HIV/AIDS. The cost of the programme has been estimated at $68 million over five years. These
interventions will mostly be implemented through sectoral strategies in health and other sectors.
It is important to emphasize that Rwanda is well endowed with social, political and religious
structures that can be hamessed to transmit awareness of the causes and prevention of
HIV/AIDS. By using these structures, it should be possible to reduce the cost of spreading
awareness.
50.   The Government is committed to the empowerment of women and ensuring the increased
participation of women in decision-making. The Ministry of Gender and Women in
Development is charged with the responsibility to champion the government's program to
enhance women's integration in the development process and facilitate the empowerment and
mainstreaming of women in the development process. The key medium-term actions include (i)



-66-                              Annex D
the implementation of the Legal Action Plan prepared in partnership with the civil society to
eliminate gender disparities in the laws of the land; (ii) ensure gender-sensitive policies, sector
strategies and budgets; (iii) improve access by women to higher education as well as non-formal
education, appointed and elected positions, and the capacity of women to participate actively in
decision-making and leadership; and (iv) ensure that the revised laws to correct gender
disparities are generally understood and enforced.
Private sector development and employment creation
51.   Government recognises that private sector development is the engine for growth and
development in Rwanda. The main role of the Government is to building an enabling
environment for private sector development. The main objectives for private sector development
are: (i) to energetically encourage investment from the private sector; (ii) promote private/public
sector dialogue on public policy issues and partnerships where appropriate, for instance on the
development and adoption of new technology; (iii) reform the financial sector with the aim of
restoring financial soundness; (iv) to privatise state owned enterprises and put in place the
appropriate market-friendly regulatory structure where regulation is necessary; (v) to promote
the competitiveness of the domestic private sector through policy reform, provision of cost
effective infrastructural services and promotion of the use of appropriate technology and (vi)
establish a legal framework and a support network for small-scale enterprises.
52.   Government is of the view that its large debt by way of arrears on domestic goods and
services to some public enterprises and the private sector is a factor preventing the rapid growth
of the private sector. Accordingly, it adopted a schedule for the regularisation of these arrears in
2001. The Government paid RWF 15.6 billion of these arrears by cash and treasury bonds in
2001. An amount of .8 Billion RWF is projected to be paid in 2002 and 14 billion in equal
instalments in 2003 and 2004. These arrears carried include those carried forward from 2000 as
well as those from earlier years. In the case of the later, only the arrears verified by Auditor
General as legitimate will be paid.
Investment promotion and private sector representation
53.   The Rwanda Investment Promotion Authority (RIPA) has been set-up to promote
investments and exports. In these tasks it works closely with the Private Sector Federation (PSF).
RIPA is establishing a one-stop window for investors, enabling them to deal with bureaucratic
requirements more easily. RIPA is funding studies on the experience and constraints of investors
in Rwanda; the results will enable it tailor its services to the needs of investors. The PSF will be
mounting a project to identify clusters of potential competitive advantage, and will also operate a
matching fund for technical assistance to the private sector. The Agribusiness Centre in Kigali
also provides funds for research in this area.
Financial sector reform
54.   One of the consequences of the war and genocide was the damage done to the quality of
the banks' portfolio, as many enterprises were physically damaged and borrowers who had left
the country. We recognize that an efficient and strong financial sector is essential for maintaining
economic stability and promoting private sector development and sustained economic growth.
During the last few years, a number of reform measures have been implemented to improve the



-67-                              Annex D
conduct of monetary policy and revive financial institutions: A new banking law was
promulgated in 1999, prudential and other regulations were issued in late 1999 and in 2000,
audits of all five commercial banks were carried out in 1999 and these provided the basis for the
restructuring of these banks. The exchange rate continues to be market determined as Rwanda's
exchange regime is free of restrictions on current account transactions.
55.   Nevertheless, the financial sector continues to face sever problems of non-performing
(NPLs), with these bad assets having reached 40 percent of the portfolio of the banks. The
problem is most severe in the Banque Commercial du Rwanda (BCR) in which the Government
is the majority shareholder. The financial condition of BCR has deteriorated during the last two
years and the Government has initiated action to salvage and privatise the bank. To this end, the
following actions has been taken: (i) BNR has placed the Bank under control provisoire and
installed a new management and Board of Directors; (ii) the Government has engaged a bank
restructuring expert to assist it in restructuring and privatising the bank; and (iii) agreement by
BNR and BCR's largest shareholder and management on a Memorandum of Understanding
(MOU) for stemming the deterioration of its financial condition and implementation of agreed
remedies, sanctions and/or next resolution steps.
56.   The BNR will closely monitor the implementation of the MOU between the BNR and the
shareholders and management of BCR to ensure that the targets are met. The Government will
make adequate budget adequate allocations in the 2003 budget for the funds for the restructuring
and resolution of BCR. This will include provisions to bring the capital to zero and to help BCR
meet its severance obligations to staff whose employment have to be terminated. The
Government will sell its shares in BCR or most of its assets to qualified buyers. Banks in which
the Government has more than 10 percent of the shares will not qualify to bid for the
Government's shares in BCR.
57.   To improve the environment for banking and loan recovery and ensure that the BCR
transaction will be successful, the Government will take other measures including (i) the
strengthening of the Arbitration Centre and the reform and reinstatement of the voie paree
system that allows creditors to seize assets without lengthy court procedures; (ii) the
establishment of a functioning commercial court including the appointment and training of
judges, the employment of new bailiffs and notaries, the availability of facilities for the court and
the establishment of legal and regulatory framework needed to make the court operational; (iii)
as an interim measure to facilitate the recovery of non-performing loans, the Government will
establish a commercial chamber to hear cases related to non-performing loans (iv) establish new
and higher credit underwriting and loan accounting standards and require commercial banks to
meet these new standards; (v) BNR to direct all commercial banks that the monthly listing report
to BNR should segregate the non-performing (Class 3 and greater) borrowers, that this listing
will be made available to banks within 30 days of filing and maintained in a centralized database
and be accessible to credit information or rating companies and banks. Further, banks are
prohibited from making loans to such non-performing borrowers except to repay loans in default
in other banks; and (vi) the Government will sell its shares in the Banque du Kigali, the largest
commercial bank in Rwanda. With regard to the new loan underwriting and accounting
standards, the BNR will review progress after the first year and set the targets for meeting the
new standards all the loan portfolios of the banks.



-68-                               Annex D
58.   Further measures will continue to be implemented in the coming years: The BNR will
continue its efforts to improve bank supervision, it will conduct a full audit of all banks and
efforts will be made to carry out on-site inspection of all six banks in Rwanda by 2004. A very
small proportion of commercial banks' lending is directed to agriculture. This is not surprising
given the risks associated with lending to smallholders. Commercial banks do, however, fund
agro processing, trade, and larger agricultural enterprises where these have spin-off benefits for
the poor. The Government with the assistance of IDA will carry out a financial sector assessment
to determine the modalities for stabilizing the commercial banking sector and improving its
performance. Furthermore the financial and management restructuring of the Union des Banques
Populaires (UBP) will be undertaken in 2002.
Privatisation
59.   Government has since 1998 privatised a number of enterprises and has established a
timetable for the remaining ones. Some of the actions to be undertaken include the following:
The new telecommunications law, providing for the end of Rwandatel's monopoly, and the
establishment of the multisector regulatory agency, was passed by parliament in May 2001. In
the case of the privatisation of RWANDATEL, the Government has selected an adviser for the
transaction and negotiations are underway with the selected firm. The Government will establish
the multi-sector regulatory agency by the end of 2000. In the case of the tea privatisation, which
is of particular importance for poverty-reduction, two pilot sales (Mulindi and Pfunda) will take
place this year. To respect agreements with pre-genocide government regarding the ownership of
tea factories and to promote post privatisation growth of the industry, the Government, following
consultations with tea cooperatives and smallholder producers (the villagois), decided to allocate
shares in the privatised tea factories to these key stakeholders in the industry. The strategic
investor will be able to acquire at least 55 percent ownership of the tea factory and related
estates.
60.   With regards to Electrogaz (which provides urban water and electricity), a five-year
management contract is being negotiated; a short list has been prepared and a bidders'
conference has been organized, bids received and technical assistance solicited to assist in the
selection process. Other enterprises to be privatised, or recently privatised include Tabarwanda,
which produces tobacco and cigarettes, Rwantexco, which produces textiles, Bralirwa, the
brewery, Sonafruits, which produces fruit juice, a maize factory, three rice mills, several hotels,
Rwandex, which exports a significant proportion of Rwanda's coffee, Oprovia, which previously
handled agricultural marketing and held strategic reserves. The Govemment will continue to
ensure that the privatisation process is very transparent and will continue to implement the
timetable for privatisation.
Transport infrastructure
61.   Rwanda faces two major problems with transport infrastructure: its weak intemational
links, which impose high transport costs, and the poor state of the transport network, which
contributes to the high transaction costs on intemal trade resulting in high prices for imported
goods. Road rehabilitation and maintenance will be treated as high priority, since it is known to
have high retums and delaying maintenance imposes significant costs on rehabilitation. The
intemational links will be strengthened by improvements to the airport to cope with larger



-69-                              Annex D
volumes of imports and exports and the development of better facilities at Issaka for Rwandan
transporters using the railway line between Dar-es-Salaam and Issaka.
Energy for the formal sector
62.   The price of energy in Rwanda is very high by regional standards. We will give priority
to a multi year programme of investing in energy of all types and rehabilitating the existing
network of power and water distribution. A significant proportion of Rwanda's electricity is
imported. Investments on rehabilitating existing facilities and for the exploitation of the natural
gas reserves in Lake Kivu and of the country's peat reserves, and improved management of
Electrogaz would bring down the cost of energy. The financing options for rehabilitation,
network extension and new power stations for Electrogaz will be explored; private sector
investment will be invited for exploitation of the reserves in Lake Kivu.
CONCLUSION
63.   The Government is committed to strengthening and accelerating these processes of
change in the economic reform program. The financial and other assistance by the IDA and other
partners in the international community is needed to accelerate the process of change and
development in Rwanda. The Government welcomes continuation of your institution's support in
this effort.
Yours Sincerely,
Donald KABERUKA
Minister of Finance and Economic Planning



-70-



-71-
Attachment 1
Matrix of Medium-Terrm Policy and Institutional Reforms and Actions
Reform Area       Obiectives                                  Policy and Institutlonal Measures                  ImmIementation
Themne 1. INCREASING ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITIES AND INCOMES
Mainstreaming     Prepare a Poverty Reduction  Carry out a diagnosis of poverty in Rwanda and through intensive consultations of  Done, June 2002
Poverty Reducton  Strategy Paper (PRSP)     the population, including the poor, formulate a poverty reduction strategy and
In the Devt                                identify medium-term priorities programs and actions
Agenda
Implement the PRSP       Implement the MTEF, with a budget process that is transparent and focuses on  Ongoing
results.
Identify poverty-focused programs from the priority areas identified in the PRSP  2002
and treat these programs as budget priorities.
Develop capacity and systems for monitoring trends in poverty and social  2002-2003
indicators.
Strengthen the systems for monitoring budget inputs and outputs and poverty  2003-2004
impact.
Develop sector strategies through consultations of the stakeholders  Ongoing
Macroeconomic     Growth of GDP of at least 6  Put prorty on revitalising agriculture and the rural economy, private sector  Ongoing
Growth and        percent per annum with    development, policies to promote exports, regional peace and integration, adoption
Stability         inflation of 3 percent.   of new technology in the productive process, capacity building, and overall
effectiveness of public actions.
Continue to maintain prudent fiscal and monetary policies, and improve the  Ongoing
coordination of these actions
Revitalizing      Improve the productivity of  Adopt a land policy that provides security of tenure, gives women land inheritance  Done
agriculure and    rural assets while        and ownership rights, and Improves overall land use
the rural         recapitalizing rural assets  Adopt a land law in line with the policy                         Nov 2004
economy.                                    Develop credit schemes to support the restocking of livestock with improved  2003-2004
varieties
Formulate national seed policy, induding the steps to privatise the seed production  2003-2004
company
Promote farmers groups as an instrument to promote the functioning of markets  Ongoing
and the adoption of technology
Improve agricultural services  Increase budget allocations and implementation capacity for agricultural field  2003-2004
services to provide access to by farmers to extension services, market information,
improved varieies of seeds and appropriate improved inputs.
Raise agricultural and rural  Privatise the coffee and tea processing plants                 2002-2003
incomes by raising the    Implement the new regulatory structures that liberalize the coffee and tea sectors  Feb 2002
productivity and returns to  and give private sector agents an enhanced role in the regulation and promotion of
farmers from existing cash  the industries.
crops.                    Review and adjust upward the producer prices for tea.               December 2002
Put in place a pricng mechanism for the adjustment of tea prices to changes in  2003
world market prices and to reflect a premium for high quality tea.
Improve rural access to   Put in place a regulatory framework for rural microfinance institutions and  June 2003
credit and other banking  strengthen the capacity for supervision
services                  Recapitalize the Banques Populaire to serve farmers and small rural and urban  Dec 2002
entrepreneurs.
Reduce rural unemployment  Develop a rural public works programmes to create employment and work on rural  July 2003
and poverty              transport and environmental infrastructure by districts, line ministries only providing
technical support.
Protect the      Reverse the degradation of  Develop a policy to protect the environment, with TA from the WB and dbnors  June 2003
Environment      the land and improve soil  Implement programmes in swamp management, agroforestry, terracing and water  Ongoing
fertility                 management. Use the envisaged locally managed labour-intensive public works to
implement these programmes.



-72-                                      Attachment 1
Reform Area        Obectives                                   Pollcv and Insttutonal Measures                     Imulementon
Developing the    Improve the enabling      Improve tax administraton and customs procedures to reduce the transactions  On-going
Private Sector     environment for private  costs on the private sector.
sector development.       Strengthen private/public sector dialogue                           On-going
Reform the legal environment for commerce to ensure the respect and  2003
enforcement of contracts. Strengthen the Arbitration Centre and create commercial
Courts in close collaboration with the private sector.
Promote foreign and       Strengthen the Rwanda Investment Promotion Agency (RIPA) to facilitate  2002-2003
domestic investment       investments, promote exports and business development.
Revise and adopt the mining code to attract investors.              June 2003
Reduce the company tax from 40 percent to 35 percent                Done July 2002
Restructure CAPMER (Centre de Promotion des Petites et Moyennes Entreprises),  Ongoing
to provide services to SMEs
Private Sector   Promote the adopton of new  Adopt a strategy to promote the adopton of Informaton communicatons  Done
Compettiveness  technology by the private  technology (ICT) by the private and public sectors.
sector                    Strengthen the Rwanda Informaton Technology Authority to use private/public  2003
sector partnerships to provide leaming opportunities on the use of ICT.
Provide reliable and cost  Privatise the management of the new Electrogaz (water and electricty) through a  March 2003
effective energy and      two-step process: a 3-5 year performance-based management contract; and (ii) a
telecommunications services  long-term arrangement that will involve private sector ownership interest.
Transfer and sell to the private sector the holdings of Rwandatel (the telephone  Dec 2003
monopoly) in Rwandacell (the cellular phone company).
Sell 51% of Rwandatel shares to a strategic investor
Provide market-friendly   Establish an independent multi-sector utility regulator to regulate the activities of  Dec 2002
regulation of utility     the utilities (electricity, gas, water, telephone).
companies.
Privatise public enterprises  Complete the privatisationAiquidation of the remaining 30 state enterprises.  2003-2005
Financial Sector  Improve financial services  Improve the legal and regulatory processes for recovery of bank loans, including  2002-2003
NPLs, requiring:
.   The reform and reinstatement of the vole paree system that allows creditors to
seize assets without lengthy court procedures
*  The strengthening of the Arbitration Center
*   BNR to direct all commercial banks that the bank's monthly loan listing report  January 2003
to BNR should segregate the non-performing (Class 3 and greater) borrowers,
that this listing will be made available to banks within 30 days of filing and
maintained in a centralized database and be accessible to credit information or
rating companies and banks. Further, banks are prohibited from making loans
to such non-performing borrowers except to repay loans in default in other
banks;
+  Establish new and higher credit underwriting and loan accounting standards  2002-2003
and require commercial banks to meet them.
*  Establish a functioning commercial court including the appointment and  December 2003
training of judges, the employment of new bailiffs and notaries, the provision of
facilities for the court and establishment of legal and regulatory framework.
* As an interim measure prior to the establishment of the full court, establish a
commercial chamber to deal specifically with the cases of recovery o f non-
performing loans.
*   Review and revise the law that established the notary public to provide for the
appointment of additional notaries.
Undertake a financial sector study and develop a plan of action for strengthening  2003
the financial institutions.



-73-                                       Attachment 1
Reform Area        Oblectives                                   Policy and Institutional Measures                   Implementatlon
Increase competition and  Restructure and divest the Banque Commercial du Rwanda (BCR)          March 2003
efficiency in the banking  *  Agreement by BNR and BCR's largest shareholder and management on a  Done
sector                        Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) for stemming the deterioration of its
financial condition and implementation of agreed remedies, sanctions andlor
next resolution steps;
*   Implement the MOU between the BNR and the shareholders and management  Ongoing
of BCR;
*   Make budget allocations in the 2003 budget for the funds for restructuring and  Nov 2002
privatization of BCR.
+   Sell the shares of the Govemment in BCR to a qualified buyer     March 2003
Privatise the Banque du Kigali (BK)                                  August 2004
Improve off site banking supervision and require more transparency in accounting  Ongoing
and profitability reporting by the banks.
Govemment to repay/regularize its debt to the banks and state enterprises  On-going
Adopt and implement a program to clear govemment arrears to the private sector  Ongoing
and avoid future arrears.
Improve micro and housing  Recapitalise the Banque Populaire and strengthen supervision of small and rural  Ongoing
finance                    credit institutions.
Explore altemative mechanisms to providing long term real estate and other  2003
houding loans in addition to the proposed real estate restructuring scheme using
CHR
Theme 11: BUILDING HUMAN RESOURCES
Expenditures on    Improve the provision of  Increase the allocation of budget resources to the social sectors within  On-going
Social Services    social services, (education,  Govemment's sector classification (education, health, water and sanitation, youth
health, reintegration, water  and social protection) to at least 40 percent of the recurrent budget (excluding debt
and sanitation) particularly  payments).
for the poor in rural areas  Progressively improve the balance between the wage and the non-wage category  On-going
of social sector spending.
InstlhtUonal       Improve the efficiency of use  Develop a sector strategy for education                          Ongoing
Reforms In         of budgetary resources     Develop a framework for the adoption of the sector-wide approaches for the  Ongoing
Educatdon          (capital and recurrent) in the  development of the health and educations sectors.
sector                     Carry out a sector expenditure review to assist in further development of the MTEF  2004
Establish a frame work for community participation in support of primary and  Ongoing
secondary education
Tertiary level scholarships/bursaries to be progressively replaced by student loans  Ongoing
Develop the existing programme of functional adult literacy and adult educaton into  2004
a national programme
Institutional      Improve access to and      Make preparations for the adoption of the sector-wide approaches in the health  2003
reforms In health  quality of health services  sector
sector                                       Carry out a health financing.and sector expenditure review.           2003
Assist the decentralized health providers to reduce the costs of health services to  Ongoing
its clients and thus improve the access of the population to health services
Extend the mutuelle insurance scheme to more health districts while ensuring that  Ongoing
this is affordable by the poor
Develop a framework for the coordination of public, private and NGO health  Ongoing
providers.
Promote health educaton                                               Ongoing
Improve progressively the terms and conditions of health workers      2003-2004
Increase immunization campaigns and treatment programs for tuberculosis and  2003-2004
malaria



-74-                                      Attachment 1
Reform Area        Obiectives                                   Policy and Institutional Measures                   Implementation
Gender             Promote the empowerment    Initate implementation of the Comprehensive Legal Action Plan to eliminate  On-going
mainstreaming      of women                  gender disparites.
Gender disparities and discriminafions of all forms to be abolished in all  Ongoing
forthcoming legislation
Provide incentives for girls to attend upper secondary and tertiary institutions  2004
Continue to sensitise communities and teachers on the education of girls, increase  Ongoing
the number of female teachers and improve the school environment for girls
(separate dormitories, toilets, etc)
Promote reproductive health education                                2003
Enhance gender sensitivity of  Develop capacity for gender budget analysis in the ministry of finance and line  Ongoing
the budget and other public  ministries
actions                    MIGEPROFE to work with line ministries to mainstream gender in sector strategies  Ongoing
HIVIAIDS           Strengthen prevention and  Promote HIV/AIDS education                                           On-going
treatment                 Implement a new strategy and gender responsive multi-sector action plan for  Ongoing
HIV/AIDS control, prevention and treatment.
Water and          Improve the supply of water  Develop a water resources management and delivery strategies, with emphasis on  Ongoing
Sanitation         to rural and urban         community participation and decentralized management of water projects and
communities                supplies.
Build capacity in rural areas for management and maintenance or rural water  Ongoing
systems, expedite the restructuring of Electrogaz and strengthen urban
administrations to manage sanitation services.
Theme III: IMPROVING GOVERNANCE and DEVELOPING AN EFFECTIVE GOVERNMENT
National           Promote national unity    The National Unity and Reconciliation Commission (URC), created in March 1999,  Ongoing
Reconciliation                                has undertaken major national consultations and will continue its work of promoting
national reintegraton and unity.
Constftutional     Develop national democratic  The Legal and Constitutional Affairs Commission is working on a natonal  Ongoing
Reform and         institutions              constitution, which after adoption by the national Assembly and a country-wide
Democratisatlon                              referendum, will be the basis of the transition to elected govemments at all levels
National elections to be held                                         2003
Decentralize govemance     Rwanda adopted a decentralized system of govemment in 2001. Capacity building  Ongoing
for service delivery and financial accountability of local authorites is receiving
emphasis.
Security           Natonal and regional peace  Rwanda strongly supports the Lusaka Framework for peace in the Great Lakes  Ongoing
and security              region. Peace in the region will enhance national reconciliation and improvements
in national securty and will permit the reduction in military expenditures
Demobilize and reintegrate  Implement the Demobilization and reintegration program for RPA soldiers, ex-FAR  2002-2004
ex-combatants              and other armed groups and reduce military expenditures accordingly from 3.3
percent of GDP in 2001 to 2.3 percent in 2004.
Rationalize and strengthen  A community policing approach has been adopted and mechanisms are being  Ongoing
the policing functions     developed to ensure that the police forces are accountable to local people and to
regularly monitor the quality of service delivery.
Justice and        Speedily adjudicate the    Modify and adopt the Gacaca - a traditional system for dispute resolution, for the  Done
Human Rights       cases of the detained      accelerated resolution of the cases of the genocide suspects.
genocide suspects          Elect Gacaca judges and establish tribunals                          Done
Start Gacaca processes                                                Done, June 2002
Establish a culture of respect  Established a Human Rights Commission in 1999. The HRC undertakes civic  Ongoing
of human rights            education, monitors and reports human rights conditions, and investigates abuses
Corruption         Monitor and fight Corruption  Adopt and make operational the Code of conduct for public officials, and establish  Dec 2003
and injustice              an agency to monitor and fight corruption and injustice (the ombudsman)
Sector Strategy   Improving Govemance         Develop a strategy/framework for improving govemance                 Done
Implement the strategy/framework for improving govemance              Ongoing



-75-                                      Attachment 1
Reform Area       Obiectives                                   Policy and Institonal Measures                     Imolementation
Reform of         Improve civil service      Continue to improve the management and effectiveness of the civil service per the  Ongoing
Institutions of    processes and staffing and  recently adopted Public Service Statute by:
public             upgrade the qualifications of  *  Strengthening the instruments for effective control of the civil service  Ongoing
administration     the civil servants.          establishment,
*  Transparent recruitment, deployment, promotion, and retrenchment of staff
from the civil service, and for managing the payroll,
*  Capacity building
Promulgate the New Civil Service Code and implement the code of conduct in the  Jan 2003
code.
Design and implement a program to facilitate the transition of retrenched civil  2002-2003
servants into the private sector, with support of the WB and donors.
Capacity of the    Improve pay and incentive  Prepare and implement a plan to improve the compensation of civil servants under  2003-2004
state             structure of the public service  the revised pay and grading structure to enable the Govemment to attract and
retain capable civil servants.
Develop public sector     Adopt a sector-wide approach for capacity building interventions.    March 2003
capacity
Public             Reform budget process to be  Continue the implementation of the MTEF approach. Specifically, focus on  On-going
Expenditure       transparent, participatory and  sharpening of objectives and related programs and monitorable output indicators,
Management         result oriented.         improving budget dassification, integrating the development and recurrent budgets,
(PEM)                                        and capacity building.
Update the 3 year plan for the implementation of the MTEF, to cover 2003-2005
Budget         Prioritise budget         Focus budget expenditures on key poverty reducing budget programs In the priority  On-going
Prioritisation  expenditures             areas identified in the PRSP process. Provide real per capita and above average
increases to the allocations to these budget priority programs (BPPs). Protect the
allocations to the BPPs from cuts during the course of the fiscal year.
Improve implementation    Review the implementation of the priority program including an assessment of the  2003
capacity in the BPPs      capacity to implement and monitor the impact of these programs.
Strengthen the capacity of the units In the line ministries responsible for the  2003-2004
implementation of the BPPs
Establish a formal framework for monitoring the impact of the priority programs on  2003
poverty reduction.
Capacity       Improve capacity for core  Reinforce the capacity in MINECOFIN and the planning/budget units of line  2003-2004
Building       PEM functions.            ministries, particulardy to arrest the rapid tumover of staff.
Monitoring of  Improve monitoring of budget  In accordance with the proposal of the PRSP, require all ministries to submit an  March 2003-
Budget         performance               annual report on progress on their planned activities, use of resources, the impact
Performance                              of their programs/activities on poverty reduction, and a management report with
output indicators of performance. These reports will be made available to the
public.                                                              Jan 2003
Extend the pilot 'Joint Monitoring System' for recurrent and development
expenditure to monitor progress against planned outputs and expenditures.  March 2003
Start the production of a monthly version of the budget Flash Report in a concise
format and coverage of revenue and expenditure outcomes.             Ongoing
Strengthen the central projects bureau (CEPEX) for donor coordination, and
facilitating and monitoring of the implementation of capital projects, ex-post review
of project performance, and spearheading the introduction of sector-wide
approaches to sector development.
Accountability  Develop and implement    Prepare and Implement an action plan to improve financial accountability.  Dec 2003
and            systems for transparency and  Develop a system of public accounts and Introduce and strengthen the intemal  2003-2004
Transparency   accountability            audit functions in line ministries and provide an enabling framework for the
development of the intemal audit profession across the govemment.
Review the Financial Instructions manual and ensure that all government ministries
are working from the same set of instructions.



-76-                                      Attachment 1
Reform Area        Oblectives                                  Policy and Insftutional Measures                    lmDlementabon
Strengthen the capacity of the Public Finance Division of MINECOFIN to enable it  Ongoing
to meet in 2003, its goals of producing annual and quarterly financial statements of
govemment operations
Harmonize the manual of Financial Management and Accounting Procedures for  2003
local govemment with the accounting system currently under development and use
the manual to underpin training
Introduce regular training for relevant govemment officials to familiarize them with  2003
financial management and accountability issues as well as the manuals and
systems under development.
Strengthen the Office of the Auditor-General to carry out independent audits of  On-going
govemment agencies and promptly and simultaneously distribute its report to the
authorities-President and National Assembly and the general public.
Adopt the Procurement Code by the National Assembly and revise the decree  Sept 2002
establishing the National Tender Board (NTB). Improve the capacity of the NTB to
monitor and regulate public procurement.
Domestic          Increase revenues to 12.8  Continue to build the capacity of the revenue authority to Implement the recently  On-going
Resource           percent of GDP by 2004.   introduced VAT
Mobilzatlon
Donor              Improve the effectveness of  Consult with donors on key policy issues and involve them In the budget process  Nov 2002
Coordination       extemal assistance       through participatory public expenditure management reviews (PEMR) and annual
meetings with each donor to review progress and agree on an assistance strategy
and the contribution to the budget.



-77-
Attachment 2
ALLOCATIONS TO PROTECTED PRIORITY PROGRAMS EXPENDITURE 2002 (excludes exceptional expenditure)
Figures in RwF millions
nc h a; ' i rtil li41 '                                                     I .onglnal Ibudg. _
old def. old def.  new def.  new def.
Internal Affairs                                            3,521   4,959    4,959       5,322      363
National Police services                                     3,095  3,422    3,422       3,422        0
Prisons                                                       426     874      874         874        0
0
Provinces                                                             664      664       1,026      362
Agriculture                                                  1,485  2,402     2,402      2,402        0
Agricultural production                                       797   1,008     1,008      1,008        0
Livestock production                                          455     451      451         451        0
Forestry Resources                                             77     141      141         141        0
Soil conservation and water systems management                107      73       73          73        0
Agricultural extension and marketing                           49     146      146         146        0
Provinces                                                             583      583         583        0
Commerce                                                      437     767     1,008      1,042        34
Promotion of trade and commerce                               177      33       33          67        34
Industrial development and artisanal promotion                260     465      465         465        0
Added         Export promotion                                                               241         241         0
Provinces                                                             269      269         269        0
Education                                                   25,044  27,166   27,166     27,054      -112
Pre-primary and primary education                           10,731  1,859     1,859      1,859         0
Secondary education                                          4,629    599      599         599         0
Tertiary education                                           7,839  8,119     8,119      8,119         0
Scientific and technological research                         275     463      463         463         0
Institutional support                                               1,038     1,038        926      -112
Reclassified  Special education                                               10                                     0
Reclassified  Institutional support to education and sdientific and tech research  1,531                             0
Reclassified  Bilingualism                                                     7                                     0
Reclassified  Program for fighting against HIV/AIDS in schools                 2                                     0
Reclassified  Peace education                                                  6                                     0
Reclassified  Girls education                                                 14                                     0
Provinces                                                           15,088   15,088      15,088        0
Youth and Sports                                              984     831      700         700         0
Dropped       Central support services                                       300    155                              0
Youth mobilisation                                             70      50       50          50         0
Dropped       Leisure and sports promotion                                   154    133                              0
Culturalpromotion                                             249     169      169         169         0
Vocational training                                           211     179      179         179         0
Added         Research, acquisition and conservation of the national heritage                 158         158        0
145      145                  -145
Provinces                                                                                  145       145
Health                                                       5,180   5,438    5,438       5,438        0



-78-
Attachment2
Changes in    IProgramre                        ;      +  .2001 2002 qngnal budg. ;002 rev.                  varlance
definition                                                                   I . - ,     .              I ,
Reclassified  Central support services                                     3,676                                     0
Reclassified  Support to specialised health care programs                   754                                      0
Reclassified  Reinforcing the capacity of reference hospitals and evacuations  750                                   0
Primary health care                                                   754      754         754        0
Specialist care for major helth problems                            1,680     1,680      1,680        0
Development of health structures                                      101      101         101        0
Improvements In health management services                          1,155     1,155      1,155        0
Provinces                                                           1,748     1,748      1,748        0
Transport and communications                                  388     382     2,451      2,451        0
Development and modemisation of communications infrastructures  57    145      145         145        0
Improvement in transport srvices                              113     163      163         163        0
Rationalization nad management of urban land                  162      47       47          47        0
Added         Development of transport infrastructure                        56             2,069       2,069        0
Provinces                                                              27       27          27        0
Gender                                                        463     477      325         324        -1
Dropped       Institutional support                                          152    152                              0
Support programs for promotion and development of women       211     192      192         192         0
Promotion of gender In development                             40      47       47          47         0
Promotion of socio-economic equity                             13      10       10          10         0
Reclassified  Reinforcement of institutional capacity of MIGEPROFE           47                                      0
Provinces                                                              75       75          75         0
Public service                                                 85     380      421         448        27
Civil service reform                                           85     380      380         380         0
Added         Employment and social security promotion                                         40         68        28
Lands and resettlement                                        328     527      527         628       101
Land planning and management                                   53     328      328         328         0
Planning and supervision of housing amenities                 249      83       83         183       100
Conservation and protection of the environment                 26      98       98          98         0
Provinces                                                              19       19          19         0
Local Govemment (excluding excepUonal expenditure)           1,761  2,335     7,921       6,133   -1,788
Decentralization                                             1,514    177      177         177         0
Community development                                          30      78       78          78         0
Social reinsertlon                                             134     83       83          83         0
Familly rehabilitation                                          5      14       14          14         0
Mass education                                                 78       7        7         107       100
Added         Promotion of children rights                                                     16          16        0
provinces                                                            1,976    1,976       2,288      312
Added         Decentralization (districts transfers In recurrent budget)                    1,370       1,370        0
Added         Common Development Fund (Districts transfers in development budget)           4,200       2,000    -2,200
Energy and Water resources                                    304     365      365         365         0
Energy and Water resources                                     30      44       44          44         0
Water and sanitation                                           126    131       131        131         0



-79-
Attachment2
Mining and other geological programs                           54      70       70          70        0
Methane gas unit                                               94      95       95          95        0
Provinces                                                              25       25          25        0
Total                                                       39,980  40,030   53,684     52,307    -1,377
Note: Province sub-programs have been allocated to the major ministry under each program.
Memorandum items
Provinces                                                                         20,618   20,618      21,148      530






MAP SECTION






NIGERIA i2~CHAD/ \)     f, "EH-                              29                                          30'                                          3'1
, CENL K'_       SU2j   N i  31°
'AE  AFPICAN REPUBUC -                                                                                     U      A      D
DAKENYA
,/~G LDEMOCLk                   'I
OF CON    ~    icOs                                                                                            K2Ink
ANCS IPORI  ANGOA N                                      D   M 
SOUTHi               k   a   TA  IA                                                   I 2
AL cANTi    N   LA                                       D EM. R E P.a                  9      2                    r 
OCEAN            rj,ZAMSIA  -                                                                   i"
NAMIBIA  - ~ ~   07AWIUEOF                     CONGO                                Lks      -J          ~Lk
NA IBA -                                                                             Lai.OZSBOE  srr  ,,,ay
\_Ruesgei                          YUMBAur
28-                                                                          LJ[k.                   UMBA4>  6oira,.^.
i ~~~~~RWANDA                                                               ISENY                                                   H>% ,.>
PRIMARY ROADS                                    L/,ke                                                               Lak
Lak6
o    SELECTED TOWNS                               a e  vu  )-)a
o    REGION CAPITALS                                                                                                         P,
-2             *    NATIONAL CAPITALS                                            2BUYE                           KIGALI             BUNGO\              2°-
REGION BOUNDARIES                                                                          t iyablraa)   9
-   - - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                            5K
0         25        50 KILOMETERS                                                      Ny-zJ
I                                     CY L ~~~~~       ~~~~~~~~~~GUGU  GIKONGORO                     r
0               25              50 MILES                  d_zi
J A 9 6 ti - TANZ~~~~ANIA
This map was produced by the
Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                          Is,-
The boundaries, colors, denominations
and anyother information shown on
this map do not imply, on the part of          '\                               B U   R U   N  D  I
The Worldc Bank Group, any judgment                                                U  R U   N  D
on the legal status of any erritory, or                                                                                  *-*37
any endorsement or acceptance of                                                                                                       3
such boundaries.
o                  28'                                         29'                                      \,30°                                           31'  "



