Report No. PID10996
Project Name                     Rwanda-Institutional Reform...
Credit
Region                           Africa Region
Sector                           Other Economic Pol.
Project ID                       RWPE66385
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning
P.O. Box 158,
Kigali
Phone: (250) 75438,
Fax: (250) 77581
Date of PID                      January 23, 2002
Appraisal Date                   March 1-12, 2002
Board Date                       April 16, 2002
Country Background
1.      Rwanda has made significant progress along an ambitious path of
reconstruction, national reconciliation, and economic reform since the
genocide of 1994. National reconciliation, security and economic recovery have
been the priorities in the transition from emergency to development. Poverty
reduction, justice and good governance, seen as the essential instruments for
national reconciliation, peace and stability in Rwanda, have been key elements
of the Government's economic and social policies. An ambitious program of
sociopolitical reforms, aimed at improving justice and governance and
empowering the population through decentralization and democratization, is
being implemented in parallel with the economic reforms. The National Assembly
adopted a decentralization law in November 2000 and elections to local
administrations were held in March 2001.
2.      The Rwandan economy rebounded strongly from the steep decline (50
percent) and high inflation (62 percent) of 1994, with GDP growing by 70
percent in 1995-97 and 12.5 percent in 1998, and inflation down to single
digits by 1998. The growth of GDP decelerated to 7.4 percent and 6.0 percent
in 1999 and 2000, well below the program targets of 8 percent. However,
inflation at -2.5 percent in 1999 and 3 percent in 2000, was well below the 5
percent targets. The Government completed in November 2001, a comprehensive
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) that articulates its socioeconomic
goals, targets and priority actions for poverty reduction.
3.      Development partners including the Bank, the IMF, the AfDB, and the EU
provided budgetary support, Technical Assistance (TA) and policy advice to the
Government's policy and institutional reform program. The Bank has supported
this reform program with an IDA financed and quick-disbursing Economic
Recovery Credit (Cr. 3182-RW) and a supplemental (Cr. No 3182-1-RW), in the
amounts of the equivalent of US$75 million and US$15 million, and approved by
the Board in March 1999 and December 2000 respectively. The Economic Recovery
Credit (ERC) and the supplemental have now been fully disbursed; the project
closed on March 31, 2001. The IMF Board approved the third-year PRGF
arrangement for Rwanda in December 2000. In addition, the Boards of the Bank,
the IMF and the African Development Bank approved Rwanda's request for a
decision point under the Enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (eHIPC)
initiative, making Rwanda eligible for US$810 million in debt relief. Rwanda
began receiving interim debt relief under the eHIPC in January 2001 and the



completion point is expected in end 2002.
Credit Objectives and Description
4.      Over the next three years, the Government intends reinforce its poverty
reduction efforts by the implementation of its recently prepared PRSP. In that
context, it tends to take policy and institutional measures to strengthen the
budget process, improve public sector capacity and governance, promote private
sector investment, production and employment creation, and develop human
resources. The proposed IDA financed Institutional Reform Credit (IRC) IDA
will help to mainstream poverty reduction in the development agenda and
reinforce the institutional anchors for sustainable growth and rapid poverty
reduction. It will support policy and institutional reforms to promote the
market economy, enhance human resource development and improve governance and
the effectiveness of government, thus establish the environment that enables
the private sector, including farmers and small-scale enterprises, to create
value and employment. The main components of the credit are budget reform,
public administration reform, private sector development including the
financial sector, privatization of state-owned enterprises, and the
establishment of regulatory frameworks for developing the coffee and tea
sectors, and human development including gender reforms.
5.      The actions proposed under the IRC are consistent with the CAS objective
of supporting Rwanda to develop the basic economic and social services and
fundamental institutions for social and economic recovery, sustained poverty
reduction and national reconciliation. The IRC will build on the progress in
reforms made with the support of the IDA's ERC. The Bank has a number of
recent projects, including the Rural Sector Support (RSSP), the Human
Resources Development (HRDP), the Rural Water and Sanitation, (RWSP), and
Competitiveness and Enterprise Development (CEDP) projects, that are assisting
the Government in the high priority areas in its development agenda. These
provide the financial resources to improve service delivery and strengthen
institutional capacity. Furthermore the IRC and the multi-sector capacity
building project under preparation will be mutually supporting and complement
and reinforce other ongoing Bank projects.
Environmental Aspects
6.      The implementation of the reform program is not expected to have any
negative environmental impact. No environmental assessment is required and the
credit is therefore placed in Category C.
Poverty Focus
7.      The reform program has a strong poverty focus. The budget reform will
help to shift budget allocation to economic and social services to the poor.
This is expected to long-lasting impact on the productivity, capacity and
well-being of the poor. Reforms envisaged to reduce gender disparities will
open up economic and social opportunities to poor women. The privatization of
the largely dormant state enterprise sector will bring their assets into
production, creating jobs and improving the provision of goods and services.
Measures to be taken under the program, such as the privatization of the tea
factories and coffee processing facilities, the rationalization of the
regulatory framework and better pricing for tea will increase tea production
and revive the coffee sector, ensuring a sustained growth in rural incomes.
Program Financing and Implementation
-2-



8.      The proposed IDA credit of an equivalent of US$75 million will be
disbursed in three tranches, with an initial tranche on effectiveness, and two
tranches tied to progress in implementing the reform program. The proceeds of
the credit will finance imports of Rwanda while the counterpart funds
(domestic currency equivalent) will be made available for financing programs
in the national budget. The implementing agency will be the Ministry of
Finance and Economic Planning (MINICOFIN). The Government has set up a
Steering Committee, headed by the MINICOFIN that will guide and monitor
implementation of the reform program. The Committee has representatives from
key ministries as well as the central bank.
Sustainability and Risks
9.      The main sources of risks for Rwanda are: (i) the conflict and
insecurity in the Great Lakes region, particularly the war in neighboring
Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC); (ii) weak institutional capacity; the
difficult socio-political context in Rwanda - the legacies of the genocide,
the fragile social fabric, the poor and divided society, weak justice system
and governance; and (iii) donor support.
Conflict in the Great lakes: Rwanda and other belligerents signed the
Lusaka Accord in July 1999 that provided the framework for bringing the
war to an end. Implementation is now underway after a delay of 18
months. However, the remnants of the interahamwe militia have recently
stepped incursions into Rwanda from the DRC. Unless the interahamwe is
disarmed as provided by the Lusaka Accord, the security of Rwanda will
remain at risk, with ramifications for peace, national reconciliation
and poverty reduction. Furthermore, relations between Rwanda and Uganda
have deteriorated since early 2001. This carries a high risk of
military action and has undermined mutually beneficial economic and
social transactions between the two countries.
Institutional: The capacity of the public sector is weak. This
exacerbated by the extensive and ambitious program of socioeconomic
reform. Substantial technical assistance and capacity building will
continued to be required for implementing the reforms. The government
has demonstrated its ability to use technical assistance effectively.
Social: The reform programs have involved layoffs of some civil
servants and workers in public enterprises privatized or liquidated.
Adequate assistance should be to these retrenched employees to ease the
transition of these retrenches to the private sector and limit the risk
of social tension in an already fragile society. The Government is
preparing a transition program and will require donor assistance to
implement it.
Socio-Political Reforms: Rwanda is implementing fundamental social
reforms aimed at decentralization, democratization, and national
reconciliation. It is also implementing a program (Gacaca) for the
accelerated trials of the suspects of genocide. The success of these
programs is essential for peace and political stability and
consequently on the effectiveness of the economic reform program. On
the other hand, progressive economic prosperity will strengthen
national reconciliation and the foundations for political reforms and
stability. There are implementation risks (delays for instance),
particularly in view of the weak capacity, that might jeopardize the
- 3 -



credibility and effectiveness of these critical and related reforms.
Donor Assistance: Donor assistance remains fragile and unreliable.
Donor assistance continues to be tied up in projects, with questionable
efficiency and effectiveness. These could impede the program in
particular and the vigorous implementation of the poverty reduction
strategy. The continued implementation of the Lusaka Accord and the
adoption of a full PRSP and the MTEF are expected to lead to more
reliable donor inflows and improved efficiency of use.
Contact Points:
Chukwuma F. Obidegwu
Task Manager
(202) 473-9458
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington DC 20433
Telephone: 202-458-5454
Fax: 202-522-1500.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
March 1, 2002.
-4-



