             Document of
           The World Bank




                                       Report No: 32483

 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
              (IDA-37210)

                 ON A

                CREDIT

    IN THE AMOUNT OF 85$ MILLION

                TO THE

        REPUBLIC OF RWANDA

                FOR A

RWANDA - INSTITUTIONAL REFORM CREDIT




             June 27, 2005

                                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                  (Exchange Rate Effective June 27, 2005)

                                        Currency Unit = Rwandan Francs (RFW)
                                         SDR 0.6822 = US$ 1
                                               US$ 1 = 556.6377 RWF

                                             FISCAL YEAR
                                          January 1-December 31

                                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB: African Development Bank
BACAR: Continental Bank of Rwanda:
BCR: Banque Commerciale du Rwanda
BK: Banque de Kigali
BNR: Banque Nationale du Rwanda ( The Central Bank of Rwanda)
BPPs: Budget Priority Programs
BRD: Rwanda Development Bank
CAPMER: Center for Support of Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises
CAS: Country Assistance Strategy
CDF: Common Development Fund
CDHS: Census and Domestic Health Survey
CEDP: Cempetitiveness and Enterprise Development Project
CEPEX: Central Public Investment and External Finance Bureau
CHR: Caisse Hypothecaire
CWIQ: Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire
DFID (UK): Department of International Development (United Kingdom)
DHS: Demographic and Health Survery
ELECTROGAZ: Water and Electricity Utility Company
ERC: Economic Recovery Credit
FAR: Forces Armées Rwandaises
FARAP: Financial Accountability Review and Action Plan
GDP: Gross Domestic Product
GoR: Government of Rwanda
HLSS: Households Living Standards Survey
HIPC: Highly Indebted Poor Countries
HIV: Human Immunodeficiency Virus
ICR: Implementation Completion Report
IDA: International Development Association
IFC: International Finance Corporation
IMF: International Monetary Fund
IRC: Institutional Reform Credit
LDP: Letter of Development Policy
MDG: Millennium Development Goals
MINECOFIN: Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MoU: Memorandum of Understanding
MRA: Multisector Regulatory Agency

MTEF: Medium Term Expenditure Framework
NGO: Non Governmental Organization
NPL: Non-Performing Loans
NTB: National Tender Board
OAG: Office of the Auditor General
OCIR-CAFÉ: Office des Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda pour le Cafe
OCIR-THE: Office des Office des Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda pour le The
PEMR: Public Expenditure Management Review
PETS: Public Expenditure Tracking Survey
PRGF: Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSC: Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRSP: Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSIA: Poverty and Social Impact Analysis
QAC: Quality Assurance Control
RWANDATEL: Rwanda Telephone Company
RIPA: Rwanda Investment Promotion Agency
RITA: Rwandan Information and Technology Agency
RURA: Rwand Utilities Regulatory Agency
RWF: Rwandan Francs
SERs: Sectoral Expenditure Reviews
SIBET: Government Finance and Expenditure Management Software
SDR: Special Drawing Rights
SPPMD: Strategic Planning and Poverty Monitoring Department
SWAPS: Sector Wide Approaches
VSW: Vulnerability Support Window



                                      Vice President:      Gobind T. Nankani
                                    Country Director       Pedro Alba
                                     Sector Manager        Cadman A. Mills
                                  Task Team Leader         Kene Ezemenari

                                           RWANDA
                    RWANDA - INSTITUTIONAL REFORM CREDIT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
9. Partner Comments                                                              21
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            33
Annex 8. ICR Ratings by the Borrower                                             35
Annex 9. Government's Assessment                                                 37

Project ID: P066385                                                  Project Name: RWANDA - INSTITUTIONAL
                                                                     REFORM CREDIT
Team Leader: Kene Ezemenari                                          TL Unit: AFTP3
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 27, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: RWANDA - INSTITUTIONAL REFORM                            L/C/TF Number: IDA-37210
                            CREDIT
   Country/Department: REPUBLIC OF RWANDA                                                  Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: General public administration sector (50%); General education
                            sector (20%); Other social services (20%); General industry and
                            trade sector (10%)
                  Theme: Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring (P); Other human
                            development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/30/2002                                     Effective: 12/23/2002                12/23/2002
     Appraisal: 07/31/2002                                         MTR:
      Approval: 12/03/2002                                      Closing: 03/31/2004                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          THE REPUBLIC OF RWANDA/MINECOFIN
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Pedro Alba                                     Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager:                 Cadman A. Mills                                Cadman A. Mills
Team Leader at ICR:             Kene Ezemenari                                 Chukwuma Obidegwu
ICR Primary Author:             John W. Otieno; Kene
                                Ezemenari


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          HS


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1. The Institutional Reform Credit (IRC) supported the Government of Rwanda's reform program and
implementation of the PRSP. In line with the PRSP, the main objectives of the economic and sociopolitical
reform program was to help focus the development agenda on poverty reduction, to sustain economic
growth at 6 percent and inflation at 3 percent. Medium term measures envisioned in the reform program
aimed to (i) revitalize agriculture and the rural economy; (ii) strengthen the private sector; (iii) build human
resources and (iv) improve governance and the effectiveness, efficiency and poverty impact of public sector
actions. These objectives are closely aligned to the six thematic priorities of the PRSP, which in turn
defined areas of assistance of the 2002-2005 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS).

3.1.2. In the wake of the genocide, the exceptional economic, political, and institutional conditions that
continued to prevail in the country (and the Great Lakes as a whole) defined the focus of the Government's
reform program. Rwanda's strategy for transition from conflict to peace and development consisted of
parallel programs of sociopolitical and economic reforms aimed at national reconciliation, rapid economic
growth and poverty reduction. An enabling environment for private sector led growth, employment
creation, and increased rural economic activity, was considered essential to national integration and
reconciliation to build a peaceful and prosperous Rwanda. The Economic Recovery Credit (ERC), which
preceded the IRC therefore supported the GoR's reform program that aimed to sustain economic recovery,
improve macro-economic stability, and lay the institutional foundation for national reconciliation,
sustainable economic growth, and poverty reduction.

3.1.2. The IRC was designed to build on the progress made in reforms under the preceding ERC and
consolidate the benefits from those reforms. The IRC focused on (i) public expenditure management and
implementation of a financial accountability review and action plan (FARAP); (ii) private sector
development including privatization and the reform of the financial sector, building on the work done under
the ERC to prepare enterprises for privatization, and working closely with the Competitiveness and
Enterprise Development Project (CEDP) that is providing technical assistance for the implementation of the
reforms; (iii) gender and budget related institutional issues in the area of human development.

3.2 Revised Objective:
3.2.1. The IRC's principal objectives defined at appraisal remained unchanged during the implementation
cycle of the program and continued to be relevant to the country's development needs. No revision of
program objectives were needed.

3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1. The IRC provided budget support to the Government of Rwanda. As a result, the macro-economic
framework was an implicit component and satisfactory performance in this area was a general requirement
for disbursement. The IRC consisted of the following components: (a) public expenditure management; (b)
private sector development ( including privatization and financial sector reforms); and (c) human and
social development (including social services, HIV/Aids and gender mainstreaming):

(a) Public Expenditure Management. The major objectives under this component focused on strengthening
measures in the following areas: (i) governance, and the effectiveness, efficiency and poverty impact of
public sector actions through public sector financial management reforms; (ii) the budgeting process
through reforms and decentralization of the MTEF; (iii) integration of the recurrent and development
budgets; (iv) linking the MTEF to sector plans, with a focus on sectoral strategies for education and health;
(v) the Financial Accountability Review and Action Plan-FARAP and Budget Priority Programs-BPPs.




                                                      - 2 -

(b) Human Resource Development: The main objective of this component was to build human resources,
in terms of promoting human and social sector development (including health, education and gender
mainstreaming and monitoring priority public and social spending). Specifically, the measures supported
under this component focused on: (i) allocation of resources to the social sectors; (ii) donor coordination
through the adoption of a sector wide approach; (iii) access to health services; (iv) incentives for girls to
attend upper secondary and tertiary institutions; (v) develop capacity for gender budgeting in the ministry
of finance and line ministries; and (vi) HIV/AIDS education and a multi-sector action plan for HIV/AIDS
control.

(c) Private Sector Development: Under this component, the main objective focused on promoting an
enabling business environment for private sector development through improvement of the legal and
regulatory framework to support investment and development of the private sector, financial sector
reforms, and the privatization of key public enterprises. Measures supported under this component
included: (i) promotion of private sector competitiveness through privatization of public utilities; (ii)
improvement in the regulatory framework for public utilities; (iii) improvement of the legal and regulatory
process for recovery of bank loans including NPLs; (iv) restructuring and privatization of insolvent banks;
(v) adoption of measures to improve banking practices and prudential banking regulations, the reduction of
non-performing loans, and the overall promotion of operational efficiency in the banking system.

3.3.2.   Each of the above components directly addressed the overall development objective of the
Government's reform program, as well as pressing issues that the country faced in rebuilding its human
resource base, reinstating institutions to promote good governance (particularly related to accountability
and transparency), and supporting measures to improve the business environment. The main lesson learned
from the ERC, was that low capacity required close and regular supervision missions, with regular
consultations with partners in the field. Furthermore, IRC program components were closely aligned to
the areas covered by the ERC, and conditionalities aimed to prepare action plans for the next stage of
reforms (to be supported under the PRSC), while consolidating progress made so far.

3.4 Revised Components:
The original components of the program remained unchanged.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1. Quality at entry of the IRC is rated as satisfactory. Given the post-conflict context under which
the IRC was prepared, where reforms initiated under the ERC still needed to be consolidated, the approach
adopted is assessed as appropriate. This is in contrast to the marginal satisfactory rating given by a QAG
review. In general, the key reasons for the satisfactory rating are related to the design of the credit in
response to the following areas: a) appropriate mitigating measures against risks related to the complexity
of design and weak capacity; b) linkage with other lending operations; c) analytical work; d) Borrower
commitment. These are explained below:

3.5.2. Risk Mitigating measures. Given the context, the main risks identified related to a re-emergence of
conflict, weak institutional capacity, particularly related to financial management, and fragile donor
support. These remained the main risks at the time of design of the operation and were adequately
addressed in the course of the operation. As with the ERC, the IRC avoided tranche release conditions that
could potentially exacerbate social tensions, such as those related to civil service retrenchment. In addition,
a Bank financed demobilization project was used to support the Government in minimizing the risk of
re-emergence of conflict. In all, 16,592 soldiers of the Rwanda Defense Forces have been demobilized,
with over 12,000 ex-soldiers of the former FAR (who remained after 1994) registered to receive reinsertion
assistance. More recently, the estimated 25,000 ex-combatants in the Democratic Republic of Congo (who



                                                    - 3 -

previously refused to disarm voluntarily), have agreed to disarm, and this should help improve the chances
for peace in the region.

3.5.3. With regard to design of the credit and the issue of weak capacity, the design of the IRC took into
account the lessons learned from the ERC. The IRC constituted the appropriate follow-on operation to the
ERC in that fiduciary arrangements were identified as the main constraint to be addressed prior to a PRSC.
During pre-appraisal, the need for a medium term expenditure framework (MTEF) and the corresponding
capacity building to facilitate implementation was identified. Both aspects were then incorporated into the
financial accountability review and action plan (FARAP), and formed a key component of the IRC. The
process of addressing institutional and capacity limitations in financial and expenditure management was
undertaken in partnership between the Bank and DFID, and later the EU. Results of this effort led to an
agreement on a framework for a harmonized approach to public finance and expenditure management
(currently underway in Rwanda). The approach also informed the development of a harmonized budget
support framework which defined the framework for the PRSC, and is helping to improve donor
commitment to budget support. Moreover, a comprehensive capacity building program was launched
parallel to the IRC to address identified capacity constraints (i.e. Public Sector Capacity Building Program,
as well as a component under the Competitiveness and Enterprise Development Project --which contains a
component for capacity building for the private sector). Finally, an important lesson learned from the ERC
was that to avoid delays and undue pressure on the National Assembly, conditionalities should be linked
only to presentation of relevant laws, and not the adoption of laws to the Assembly. The design of tranche
release conditions were simplified to minimize delays in disbursement and optimize access to funds to
support the budget.

3.5.5. Linkage with other operations. The link with ongoing and planned operations was established to
reinforce the key areas of focus and mitigate any potential risks. As discussed above, the demobilization
project help to support efforts to build peace and reconciliation. In addition, the CEDP provided the
technical assistance required to underpin reforms that were being supported under the IRC. Similarly, the
Public Sector Capacity Building Project has been designed to address the capacity issues that became
evident during the ERC.

3.5.6. Analytical work. In addition to other operations, prior or concurrent analytical work informed the
design and implementation of the program.         These included analytical work in the areas of public
expenditure management review, poverty and social impact analysis of public expenditures by DFID and of
tea sector reforms by the Bank; sector expenditure reviews in key sectors (education, health, agriculture,
transport) to support implementation of the MTEF; Highly Indebted Poor Country Assessment and Action
Plan for public spending, and the FARAP.

3.5.7. The Borrower's strong commitment to the program, arose mainly from the fact that the key
components were taken from the PRSP. Borrower commitment was also evident during the preparation
and implementation phases.        Commitment was demonstrated through Government's willingness to
undertake fundamental reform measures, some of which were politically sensitive--i.e. land reform,
reforms and actions to ensure gender is reflected in the legal and constitutional framework of the country
(which are still ongoing), privatization of tea factories, improved regulation of public utilities, and other
key government agencies.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1. The achievement of the overall development objective of the program is rated as satisfactory,



                                                     - 4 -

although the target growth rate of 6 percent per annum with inflation of 3 percent was not achieved.
Instead, GDP growth averaged 4.8 percent on an annual basis, with an average inflation rate of just over 7
percent, during the period 2002-2004. Real GDP growth was a low 0.9 percent in the latter part of 2003
and 4 percent in 2004. This contrasted with the annual average growth of 9.4 percent in 2002 and 6.7
percent in 2001. The decline in agricultural output and serious power shortages during 2003-2004 are the
main reasons for this lower than expected performance. Inflationary trends have also persisted, largely
due to high food prices, which reached about 20 percent and were brought on by weather shocks as well as
the energy crisis. The inflation rate rose from 2 percent in 2002 to 7.4 percent in 2003, and is estimated at
12 percent in 2004. The effect on the food supply coupled with the rise in inflation would therefore have
likely had adverse effects on the poor. (Precise changes in poverty cannot be estimated since the last
household survey was collected in 2000 and a follow-up survey that would enable this type of estimation is
currently under preparation). Nonetheless, average GDP growth of close to 5.0 percent is considered
satisfactory. For a country that has emerged from an economically and humanly destructive civil strife, and
continues to be confronted by unfavorable exogenous factors, such as high fuel prices, vulnerability to debt
distress, high transport costs, and inadequate resource flows, this growth performance is still remarkable.

4.1.2. On the fiscal side, the deficit widened as a result of higher than budgeted for spending (on elections
in 2003), although internal revenue collection improved, rising as a proportion of GDP, from 11.0 percent
to 14.0 percent over the period 2002-2004. The external sector experienced persistent deficits on the
current account, which fluctuated between 16.6 percent and 19.2 percent during 2002-2004, despite the
improvement in the terms of trade over the period 2003-2004. Although high debt ratios persisted during
2002-2004, the HIPC completion point led to debt relief and a reduction of debt indicators to sustainable
levels, as defined by the HIPC initiative.

4.1.3. At all times, the macroeconomic framework was consistent with the objective of the program
supported by the IRC. Overall, satisfactory economic performance is evidenced by the successful
completion of the 4th review of the PRGF. Monetary and exchange rate policies were broadly geared to
achieving the inflation and international reserves targets. However, in 2003, unprogrammed government
outlays (on goods and services, elections, as well as on a large hotel project) led to slippages in the PRGF
program. Domestic bank financing of a large hotel contributed to higher than programmed expansion in
the monetary aggregates, in the second half of 2003. This was quickly corrected in 2004. However, it led
to the delay of the second and third reviews of the PRGF, which were completed in June 2004. The 4th
review was completed concurrently with the HIPC Completion point in April 2005.

4.1.4. Despite a widening deficit, the pattern of public spending led to satisfactory progress in the key
outcome indicators. For example, priority public spending (as a percentage of GDP) rose from 6.2 percent
in 2002 to 7.0 percent in 2004 and accounted for about 27.0 percent of total government expenditure in
2004. Recent trends in social progress are presented in Table 1. Overall, supported reforms have: (a)
improved resource allocation to priority social sectors; (b) increased coverage and accessibility to health
services; (c) improved the effectiveness and functioning of the public expenditure framework as the main
vehicle for delivery of public services; (d) strengthened gender mainstreaming in the development process;
and (e) strengthened the mechanism for monitoring priority public and social spending.




                                                     - 5 -

           TABLE I: SELECTED ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL INDICATORS (2001-2004)
INDICATOR                                                                                2001 2002 2003 2004
Economic Indicators
Real GDP Growth (% change)                                                               6.7    9.4     0.9   4.0
Inflation Rate (average annual consumer prices)                                          -0.2 2.0       7.4   12
Balance of payments: current account balance                                             -15.9 -16.6 -19.2 -18.1
External terms of trade ( % change)                                                      -37.9 -24.0 4.1      13.2
Social and Other Indicators
Priority public spending (as % of GDP)                                                   5.3    6.2     6.9   7.0
Priority public spending (as % of total government expenditure)                          25.4 29.2 28.5 26.8
Social spending (as % of GDP)                                                            5.3    6.1     6.5   6.7
Social spending ( as % of total government expenditure                                   25.4 28.6 27.1 25.5
Health and education (as % of GDP)                                                       3.7    4.1     4.5   4.9
Health and education (as % of total government expenditure)                              17.6 19.4 18.7 18.8
Priority spending on education (as % of GDP)                                             3.5    3.9     4.2   4.0
Priority spending on health (as % of GDP)                                                0.7    0.8     0.6   1.0
Gross primary school enrollment (%)                                                      99.9 103.7 108.9
Gross secondary school enrollment (%)                                                    12.0 12.0 13.0
HIV/AIDS Prevalence Rate (%)                                                             11.2 13.5 8.0        5.1
Maternal health: Rate of contraceptive use (%)                                           7.0    8.0     9.0
Maternal health: Rate of skilled deliveries (%)                                          31.0 35.0 37.0
Maternal health: Rate of antenatal care (%)                                              30.0 35.0 45
Access to micro "mutuelle health insurance" scheme                                                      4.0   7.0
Priority spending for agriculture (as % of GDP)                                          0.2    0.3     0.2   0.2

Source: Report No 29467-RW on PRSC (September 23, 2004), Report No. 31678-RW on the Enhanced HIPC Debt Initiative (
March 25, 2005)
 Note: Indicators for HIV prevalence may not be strictly comparable across years, due to methodological changes in the
estimates.

4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1. Achievements in outputs by components, or program areas are detailed in Annex 1. Outputs are
assessed against specific objectives and the associated planned measures at appraisal, as specified in
paragraph 60 of the program document. Specific measures assessed are therefore related directly to the key
areas and objectives listed in Section V of the program document, along with the specific tranche conditions
monitored under the program, and is limited to the timeframe of the IRC. As a result, the measures covered
here are a subset of Matrix A in the program document which covers the medium term timeframe of the
Government's reform agenda, and therefore provides a wider coverage of reforms, over a longer time period
relative to the actual focus of the IRC.

4.2.2. Overall, achievements in outputs are rated satisfactory. All tranche conditions were achieved
(without need for waivers) prior to disbursement. These are summarized in Table 2. Most of the other key
measures monitored under the program were also achieved as detailed in Annex 1. The discussion that
proceeds highlights key areas of achievement and related issues. Issues related to those sectors where
measures are ongoing or have not yet been fully achieved are also reviewed.




                                                        - 6 -

                    TABLE 2: TRANCHE RELEASE CONDITIONS FOR THE IRC
TRANCHE CONDITIONS                                                                                    STATUS
A. General Conditions for Tranche Release
1. The macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is satisfactory to the Association, as      Completed
measured on the basis of indicators agreed between the Borrower and the Association
2. The Borrower has achieved progress satisfactory to the Association in the implementation of Completed
the overall Program, as summarized in the Letter of Development Policy.
B. Specific Conditions for Release of the Second Tranche
1. The Borrower has adopted an implementation plan, satisfactory to the Association for the       Completed
purpose of continued implementation of its medium-term expenditure framework, in
accordance with paragraph 29 of the Letter of Development Policy (LDP)
2. The Borrower reviewed the poverty-focused budget priority programs and made increases in Completed
the budget allocations, for each program in the FY 2003 budget, to the satisfaction of the
Association, as specified in paragraph 30 of the LDP
3. The Borrower for the purpose of strengthening financial accountability, prepared and           Completed, with
adopted an action plan for improvement of financial accountability, satisfactory to the           implementation
Association, in accordance with paragraph 34 of the LDP                                           ongoing.
4. The Borrower appointed a competent private operator, with terms of reference satisfactory to Completed.
the Association, as the manager of ELECTROGAZ
5. The Borrower commenced monthly publication of reports on budget revenue and                    Completed.
expenditure outcomes, in a format satisfactory to the Association, as described in paragraph 39
of the LDP
6. The Borrower established and operationalized in accordance with paragraph 56 of the LDP, Completed.
a commercial court to the satisfaction of the Association
7. The Borrower established credit underwriting and loan accounting standards, satisfactory to Completed.
the Association, and required compliance thereof by the commercial banks, in accordance with
paragraph 56 of the LDP
C. Specific Conditions for Release of the Third (and Floating) Tranche
1. The Borrower achieved progress satisfactory to the Association in implementing the             Completed, with
Memorandum of Understanding, as described in paragraph 54 of the LDP--i.e. related to             institutional
improved supervision and loan recovery, improved loan accounting and underwriting                 reforms ongoing.
standards, establishment of commerical chambers and recruitment of bailiffs, etc.
2. The Borrower for the purpose of restructuring and divestiture of Banque Commericale du         Completed.
Rwanda (BCR), made adequate provision in its budget for the FY 2003, to the satisfaction of
the Association, in accordance with paragraph 55 of the LDP
3. The Borrower has caused BNR to: (i) direct all commercial banks that the monthly listing       Completed.
report made to BNR shall reflect separately non-performing borrowers; (ii) make available to
the commercial banks, the listing report within 30 days of filing; (iii) maintain the listing
report in a centralized database and make it accessible to credit information or rating
companies and commercial banks; (iv) prohibit commercial banks from making loans or
advancing any monies to non-performing borrowers, except for the purpose of repayment of
loans in default on other banks, all to the satisfaction of the Association and in accordance with
paragraph 56 of the LDP
4. The Borrower brought to the point of sale at least 80 percent of its shares in BCR to          Completed.
qualified buyers or effected divestiture of BCR through the implementation of a back-up plan,
satisfactory to the Association, in accordance with paragraph 55 of the LDP.


4.2.3. Public Expenditure Management (Governance). The achievement of objectives and output
under this component or program area of the IRC is rated as satisfactory. Aside from the integration
of the development and recurrent budgets, all outputs envisaged under this component were achieved. A
number of fiscal reforms were successfully implemented, although some delays resulted due to capacity



                                                          - 7 -

constraints in program implementation. Achievements included measures to strengthen the budget process,
institutionalize budget program priorities for social services, build capacities and institutions needed to
foster increased transparency and accountability in public resource management (including internal and
external audit functions and public procurement) and introduce a system for monitoring budget inputs and
outcomes (Joint Monitoring System, JMS).

4.2.3.1. The budget process has been strengthened through the adoption of the Medium Term
Expenditure Framework (MTEF) approach. However, capacity constraints is an issue that remains a
challenge to the process, despite successful implementation at both the ministerial/sectoral and district
levels. The training program of staff in ministries and provinces on the MTEF process and the PRS
priorities continues to be delivered on a regular basis. Yet, high staff turn-over persists. Government is
attempting to address this issue in the context of the current civil service reform. The Bank is also
supporting capacity building and training through the Public Sector Capacity Building Project and is
engaged with Government on policy dialogue to identify ways of improving wage incentives to address this
issue.

4.2.3.2. Nevertheless, the MTEF approach has been mainstreamed in the ministries and is being used to
train the districts in budget preparation. Substantial progress has recently been made in the costing and
prioritization of strategies in some sectors, particularly education and health. Much of this work is being
supported by the Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC). Progress has also been made in other key
sectors such as energy, water, and infrastructure. In addition, all districts have produced an MTEF and
have completed their five-year plans. To establish a link between decentralization and sector strategies, a
decentralization focal point has been established in each ministry to assist the decentralization unit.
However, district level plans and MTEFs need to be better integrated into the national level MTEFs and
budget process. One approach being discussed with the government in the context of the PRSC is to
provide technical assistance on piloting block grants to districts tied to certain key results. But, more work
is required in defining and linking spending ceilings to district development plans, to ensure appropriate
costing, given the available resources.

4.2.3.3. As a result of the focus on budget program priorities, budget allocations for priority programs
in 2003 increased by 15 percent compared to the 2002 budget, with 50 percent of the total priority budget
allocated to education. Allocations for health priority programs increased by 20 percent relative to the
2002 budget. Priority budget for programs in agriculture, livestock, and environment increased from FRw
3 billion in 2002 to FRw 5.8 billion, an increase of 93 percent. These increases have been maintained.

4.2.3.4. Capacity issues have posed a challenge toward adopting measures to improve transparency.
This pertains particularly to measures related to: a) integration of the development and recurrent budgets;
and b) strengthening internal audit functions. Integration of the development and recurrent budgets has not
occured because the agency charged with monitoring donor activities (CEPEX) does not receive complete
data from donors. The inability of CEPEX to derive accurate data on donor activities (which is the main
source of finance for the development or capital budget) is also partially related to how the agency was
structured. CEPEX has now been restructured to sit under the Ministry of Finance, as a first step toward
adopting measures to improve data collected from donors on their projects. Progress in this area will help
to improve the quality of budget monitoring. Overall, there has been progress toward institutionalizing the
public expenditure review, which was initiated with the adoption of a harmonized framework for financial
management, and the adoption of the annual budget review.

4.2.3.5. Each line ministry, government agency, province, and district now has an internal auditor,
although due to limited human resource availability and staff mobility, positions may sometimes not be



                                                     - 8 -

filled. Despite these capacity problems, many internal auditors are preparing routine reports highlighting
deficiencies in financial management and recommending actions to be taken by management to address
them. These reports are further strengthened by periodic inspection reports of both the General Inspector of
Finance (IGF) and MINALOC financial inspectors, which also highlight problems and actions that
management should take to improve their performance. These reports are considered important by the
Office of the Auditor General, which consults the internal auditors when making their annual audit of
institutions.

4.2.3.6. The reports indicate actions to be taken for each problem identified, including, in some cases, a
time frame for correcting them. It should be emphasized that many of the problems identified by auditors
and inspectors are due to limited capacity among financial management staff, many of whom are not
adequately trained. Nevertheless, access to financial procedures has recently been improved through the
issuance of financial procedures manuals for both central and local governments.

4.2.3.7. In the case of budget monitoring, a Joint Monitoring System (JMS) was introduced to monitor
budgeted inputs of resources against expenditures. A key component of the system is a computerized
financial software package (SIBET) which is used to produce regular reports. For priority ministries
(health, education, agriculture, internal affairs) a 'flash report' is produced on a quarterly basis, for the
recurrent budget only. Currently, expenditures are tracked on a payment order basis, as opposed to regular
financial reporting from ministries, agencies, and sub-national governments. The main cause of this is
related to capacity constraints in the area of accounting practices and standards, which has also hampered
the preparation of the manual on financial management and accounting procedures to guide Government
staff. Despite this, training in financial management has progressed at the district level.

4.2.4. Human and Social Development.             Progress in the social sectors are assessed as highly
satisfactory. In the case of social services (education and health), outcomes included: a) an enhanced level
of activities, resulting from increased social sector recurrent spending, which (compared to 2002) were up
by 18 percent in 2003 and 13 percent in 2004; b) the sustainability of health and education programs,
resulting from increased recurrent spending in both priority sectors; c) measures introduced to combat
HIV/Aids, for which the prevalence rate is now estimated at 5.1 percent in 2004; d) increased coverage of
the health insurance scheme, as the proportion of the population covered, rose from under 4.0 percent in
2002 to 7 percent in 2004; e) the introduction of community participation in education finance, which
contributed to an increase in the gross primary enrolment rate from 99.9 percent in 2001 to 110.2 percent
in 2003 (with net enrollment estimated to be 95 percent in 2005), exceeding the average rate of 75 percent
for Sub-Saharan Africa.

4.2.4.1. The above outcomes have resulted from measures which led to the development of strategies and
outcome focused MTEFs in the education and health sectors. There is a move toward a sectorwide
approach in both sectors, with education at a more advanced stage.            In the case of education, the
framework for community participation of primary and secondary education became operational, and a
sector-wide approach has been adopted for a framework to build capacity in the management of education
at the primary and secondary levels, including a regular stock-taking exercise conducted jointly by the
Ministry of Education (MINEDUC), provincial and district authorities, donors, and parent-teacher
associations. A revised action plan that incorporates changes from the civil service reform related to teacher
training, recruitment, deployment, and professional development is scheduled to be adopted by mid-2005.
In the case of HIV/AIDs, a multi-sectoral approach was adopted by Cabinet in 2003, and the availability of
essential drugs has been maintained at close to 90 percent of all available essential drugs over the past few
years due to community-managed revolving drug funds and an independently managed central purchasing
store.


                                                      - 9 -

4.2.4.2. In the area of gender mainstreaming, the measures taken comprised of :                   a) enhanced
empowerment of women with their share of strategic positions reaching 49 percent in the legislature
(women members of parliament), 32 percent in the executive (ministerial posts) and 41 percent in the
judiciary (women judges); (b) adoption of a framework for promoting gender equality which has been
institutionalized as a result of the review and enactment of Rwanda's new constitution, eliminating all forms
of discrimination, including those based on gender; (c) improved enrollment rates for girls' primary
education (which is now on parity with boys' enrollment), (and in the case of secondary schooling, girl's
enrollment is nearing parity with that of boys). These measures are complemented by a Comprehensive
Gender Action Plan (adopted in 2003) to eliminate gender disparities in the legal framework that is
currently under implementation, including dissemination of information and sensitization of the government
and NGOs.

4.2.5. Private Sector Development. The achievement of objectives and output under this component
of the IRC is rated as satisfactory. The private sector development component was successfully
implemented, although privatization experienced some delays that were ultimately resolved. This
component consisted mainly of actions related to privatization and the establishment of the regulatory and
institutional framework to promote private sector development.          This component consisted of three
sub-components related to actions in : (a) Privatization, with particular emphasis on the key export sectors
of tea and coffee and support to farmers, in these sectors; (b) Reforms in the Financial Sector; and (b)
Establishment of Regulatory Agencies.

Privatization
4.2.5.1. The achievement of objectives and output under this sub-component of the IRC is rated as
satisfactory. Although slow, the process of privatization of tea factories and associated tea estates resulted
in the sale of two factories in 2004 (Pfunda and Sorwathe), with Mulindi tea factory being brought to the
point of sale. The Government is in the process of analyzing the experience to inform the privatization of
the remaining 10 factories. In addition, steps have been taken to redefine the government's role in the tea
sector, aimed at preparing the institutional framework to support a privatized tea industry. In particular, a
law redefining the role of OCIR-Thé, and OCIR-Café was passed in 2003.                 Both, OCIR-Thé and
OCIR-Café are now to provide extension activities to improve the capacity of smallholders and facilitate
their access to inputs. In the case of OCIR-Thé, it no longer sets prices, which are now determined based
on negotiated agreements with farmers' associations and representatives from the factories. Moreover,
OCIR-Thé will gradually begin to focus on policy and strategy development, collection and dissemination
of market information, enforcing standards, and providing incentives for improved tea quality and exports.
To improve incentives to tea producers, beginning in 2004, the government included a price premium for
the quality of tea harvested. In addition, budget allocations to the agriculture sector has increased, and a
revised land law has been adopted by cabinet and is soon to be passed by Parliament.

4.2.5.2. In addition to reforms in the export crop sector, steps were taken to reform Electorgaz, the main
public utility responsible for delivery of services in water, gas, and electricity. As an initial move toward
privatization, a private contractor was engaged to manage the utility.                    Similarly, in the
telecommunications sector, Rwandatel was privatized in June 2005. Finally, in the financial sector, the
Banque Commerciale du Rwanda (BCR) which accounted for the highest shares of non-performing loans
was privatized. This contributed to a significant reduction in the percent of non-performing loans.

4.2.5.3. Some of the above outputs have only recently been achieved, and as a result there will be a timelag
before they translate into improved outcomes in the sector. Nevertheless, agricultural sector reforms are
expected to result in: (a) increased productivity and efficiency in processing beverage products (tea and


                                                     - 10 -

coffee). Currently, data indicate that yields for tea production are two to three times higher on privately
owned plantations (including Sowarthe) compared to the Government owned plantations; (b) the new
pricing mechanism for tea is expected to lead to increased output levels; c) security of tenure for land is
expected to increase, particularly for women, as the new land policy provides land ownership rights and
improves collateral for rural credit.

Financial Sector
4.2.5.4. The achievement of output under this sub-component is rated as satisfactory. Specific outputs
achieved included: a) the adoption and implementation of a Memorandum of Understanding between BNR
and BCR, aimed at reducing costs, recovering unpaid loans and improving operational efficiency within
BCR; b) the revision of the central banking statutes, granting more autonomy to BNR; c) the introduction
of prudential banking rules, in the form of credit underwriting and loan accounting procedures to be
observed by all commercial banks. Additional prudential rules imposed on all commercial banks included:
a) listing on a monthly basis, of all non-performing loans; b) availing the banks of all monthly listings
within thirty days of filing; c) computerizing the monthly listing in a data base to facilitate access by credit
information agencies, rating agencies and commercial banks; and d) issuance of instructions prohibiting
banks from lending to borrowers with a history of loan defaults.

4.2.5.5. Under this sub-component, reform measures aimed to enforce loan recovery from debtors were also
successfully undertaken. These included: (a) the establishment of functional commercial courts to settle
business disputes; three courts are now operational; and (b) the recruitment of more court bailiffs and
notaries public, to accelerate the enforcement of court judgments. Both measures were implemented as part
of the financial sector floating tranche conditions.

4.2.5.6. The main outcomes generated by reforms in this sub component included: (a) the emergence of a
new, modern, competitive and more efficient banking system in Rwanda (b) by granting operational
autonomy in a new central banking legislation to BNR, a more effective system of surveillance and
supervision of banks was institutionalized; (c) improved capacity for enforcement of commercial contracts,
through the establishment of commercial courts and capacity improvements resulting from employment of
additional para-legal staff; (d) improvement in loan portfolio quality, due to the adoption of prudential
regulations by commercial banks under the auspices of the central bank (which led to a fall in the
proportion of non-performing loans (NPLs) to total outstanding loans for all banks, from 36.8 percent in
2001 to 29.9 percent in 2003, and 13 percent in 2004); (e) improved operational efficiency and financial
performance resulted from the privatization of BCR, along with enhanced financial intermediation in
general; (f) increased private sector participation resulted from the sale of GoR's shares in BCR; g) the
local Bankers' Association has been reinforced as the main agency through which information on defaulting
borrowers is shared among banks, thereby strengthening the enforcement of sanctions against defaulting
borrowers.

Establishment of Regulatory Agencies

4.2.5.7. This component is rated as satisfactory. The following outputs were achieved: (a) multisectoral
regulatory agency (RURA) was established to regulate the public utility company Electrogaz (which is
charged with provision of services in the electricity, gas, and water sectors); (b) Rwanda's investment code
was revised in 2004 to ensure improved alignment with the revised tax code; (c) a new One-Stop-Window,
the Rwanda Investment Promotion Agency (RIPA) was established to promote foreign and domestic
investment; d) although delayed, the development of the new mining code for Rwanda was initiated and is
currently under preparation.




                                                    - 11 -

4.2.5.8. The main outcomes under this sub-component included: (a) Increased regulatory efficiency and
more effective supervision of utility operations following the establishment of a multi-sector regulatory
agency, and the establishment of a management contract for Electrogaz. However, the recent energy crisis,
brought on by low water levels in the hydro-plant has also affected the quality of service in the sector.
Electrogaz has responded by purchasing diesel generators to supplement the reduced capacity of the hydro
plant. In addition, Government recently moved to implement a tariff structure (after more than a decade
since the last tariff increase) that is more in line with current costs of production. (b) Establishment of the
RURA is expected to eventually lead to enhanced management capacities and better services through
improved efficiency in the telecommunications industry (i.e. Rwandatel, has recently been privatized). (c)
An investor friendly climate is being fostered and has resulted in increased interest from prospective
investors both from within and outside the region (as evidenced by increased interest expressed at the
annual investor's conference).

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1. The institutional development impact of the IRC is rated as substantial. The main focus of the
facility was institutional and policy reform oriented. The majority of institutional policy reforms supported
under the program have been carried out with strong government commitment, demonstrated by approvals
from the Cabinet and Parliament (in most cases). Where appropriate, these reforms have been backed by
broad consultations within the country, and have been consistent with the PRSP process. It is very
unlikely that these reforms will be reversed. The institutional impact of the various components and sub
components of the program are summarized below:

a) The impact on governance institutions has been substantial, in terms of inculcating new practices and
professional culture in the way the budgeting process and public procurement is managed and
institutionalizing financial accountability and transparency in public expenditure management.               In
particular the introduction of new concepts and principles, such as the MTEF and BPPs has shown how
scarce resources can be optimally allocated with equity considerations to give priority to poverty-focused
programs. The MTEF has been fully mainstreamed at the Ministerial/sectoral level, as well as the district
levels and is now fully part of the budget process. Training and capacity building to districts is ongoing
and will also be supported by the PRSC.

b) The Joint Monitoring System which was first launched in 2003, is a key institution in the GoR's
monitoring system for the PRSP. The system produces a report, based on recurrent expenditures, on a
quarterly basis for the education, health, and agriculture sectors. A report covering more sectors is
produced on a biannual basis, but often does not have complete data on the development budget (or donor
activities). Work is ongoing to address this problem and link the system to the monitoring of outputs.
However, it is important to note that the process of strengthening the system has also helped to increase
understanding and focus on results based budgeting and programming .

c) As a result of consultations and measures supported by the IRC, there is now an institutionalized process
of annual budget reviews (in line with annual sector reviews) that inform and launch the Annual Review of
the PRSP. Results of this exercise feed into preparation of the Annual Progress Report of the PRSP, as
well as budget preparation for the following fiscal year.



                                                      - 12 -

d) Finally, the enhanced autonomy of the Auditor General, along with the regular publication of OAG
reports and periodic audit of ministerial accounts, has promoted increased accountability and transparency
in public financial management.

4.5.2. The only potential risk to sustainability is related to capacity constraints. The various reforms
implemented through the different components of the IRC highlighted above involved a series of capacity
building efforts, to ensure that human skills and capacities are in place, so as to sustain the policy and
institutional reforms. This capacity building process will continue to be a challenge in the near future given
issues of high staff turn over in Government.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

5.1.1. There have been four major factors outside of the Government's control. First, drought conditions
during 2003-2004 adversely affected agricultural output, the main source of economic growth in Rwanda.
This resulted in a lower overall GDP growth rate than envisaged at appraisal. Second, the potential
adverse effects of negative movements in the primary commodity markets, particularly for tea, coffee and
imported fuel, continued to put at risk the various reform efforts in those sectors. Third, the slow
restoration of investor confidence in the economy of Rwanda continued to have a depressing impact on
foreign direct investment flows. This partly explains the gradual pace of privatization, despite the existence
of an appropriate legal framework. In addition, the prospects for incursions by anti-government rebel forces
remained a real possibility. The moves towards achieving rapprochement with neighboring countries,
particularly, Uganda and the Democratic Republic of Congo, seemed to have prevented the re-emergence
of externally motivated violence that could have disrupted ongoing reform efforts in the country. Related to
this context, the unpredictability of donor lending compromised the country's ability to undertake urgent
development projects needed to accelerate the post-conflict economic recovery process. Finally, the
aftermath of the genocide continues to impact adversely on the economy, following the massive loss in
human capital and the resulting issue of capacity across sectors.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

5.2.1.The Government's role in the reform process has been to consistently foster a conducive political
environment and to assume the overall responsibility for implemention of the reform agenda envisaged
under the IRC. First, the successful implementation of reforms requires a conducive political environment,
which could be seriously undermined by a resurgence of social conflict from within and outside the country.
Internally, the situation has been broadly under control (mainly reflected in peaceful presidential and
legislative elections held in 2004) thanks to the Peace Accord.

5.2.2. Second, the successful implementation of the IRC depended, to a large extent, on the Government's
commitment and ability to initiate policies in various areas, including the adoption by Cabinet of the land
law (which is currently in Parliament), the reform of the public utilities monopoly and the implementation
of policy and structural reforms needed to strengthen the country's banking sector. The implementation of
various reform measures constituted a test of the Government's commitment to the country's post-conflict
reform agenda. Subsequent actions by Government have demonstrated its commitment to politically
sensitive reforms, such as the land law and privatization of tea factories.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:




                                                     - 13 -

5.3.1. The Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, which is the ministry responsible for overseeing the
day-to-day implementation of the reform program, played the critical role of ensuring that implementation
bottlenecks were addressed and that corrective measures were taken, as necessary, to prevent serious
implementation slippages and short-comings. As the main implementing and coordinating agency, the
Ministry of Finance and Economy had the important task of mobilizing financial and human resources
needed (both externally and internally) for reform execution. Subsequent events showed that these were
pressing tasks and that capacity issues constrained implementation in specific areas (i.e. privatization and
public sector management).

5.3.2. Progress associated with the fulfillment of all conditions tied to the release of the three tranches of
the IRC Credit demonstrates that the Ministry did all within its purview to ensure that all preconditions
were implemented. The achievement of triggers under the first tranche involved legislative functions aimed
at elaboration and adoption of new statutes needed to generate improved legal, institutional and incentive
frameworks in the important areas of land tenure, new banking legal and regulatory framework, earmarking
of budgetary resources to support commercial bank restructuring and improving the corporate tax regime
(through the reduction of the tax rate). Since the implementation of a wide range of measures envisioned
in the reform program involved several sectors, several ministries were also participants in the
implementation process. Hence, the implementing agency had the task of dealing simultaneously with
several ministries. The success with which these tasks were handled is signified by the timely
implementation of most of the measures envisaged under the program.

5.4 Costs and financing:
5.4.1. The total amount to be disbursed was $85.0 million, equivalent to SDR64.5 million. This amount
was disbursed in three tranches, as envisaged at appraisal. However, because of higher exchange rate of the
SDR, actual disbursements were higher than planned. The first tranche of $46.05 million was disbursed on
effectiveness. The second tranche of $22.12 million and the third and final floating tranche in the amount of
$22.27 million were each disbursed following Government's achievement of the tranche conditions.
Although there were some slight delays in meeting the conditions for tranche release, these delays did not
have any serious adverse effects on the program. Delays in tranche release were primarily related to the
triggers pertaining to privatization and institutional reform. In the case of the second fixed tranche, delays
were related to the appointment of a private sector operator to manage Electrogaz. As can sometimes be
the case, the process of selection of a competent operator took longer than was planned. In addition, the
condition for establishment of commercial chambers also led to delays, and required amendment of the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA). The DCA amendment took place on October 15, 2003, to reflect
the requirement under the new constitution for establishment of commercial chambers (as opposed to
commercial courts as initially stipulated in the DCA). In the case of the third tranche, delays were related
to the privatization process for BCR. Technicalities arose related to the manner in which one of the
previous shareholders or strategic partners had decided to liquidate its holdings in the bank. These
technicalities or issues arising from them needed to be resolved before the Bank could be privatized.

                                 TABLE 3: IRC DISBURSEMENT (2003-2004)
Tranche                        Planned Disbursement                                 Actual Disbursement
          Date               Amount (SDR m)        Amount ($ m)            Date            Amount ($ m)
First     02-28-03           34.1                  45.00                   12-30-02        46.05
Second    02-28-04           15.2                  20.00                   05-27-04        22.12
Third     03-31-04           15.2                  20.00                   09-03-04        22.27
Total                        64.5                  85.00                                   90.44



                                                     - 14 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1. The sustainability of policy changes and institutional reforms implemented under the IRC is
rated as likely. The rationale for this rating is based on the sustainability assessment related to the various
components and sub components of the program. In general, the following elements of the IRC will help to
promote sustainability: a) Government's commitment and implementation of reforms have been deep and
widely adopted; b) complementary institutional and legal frameworks have been adopted or implemented
with a long-term vision; c) reforms have given rise to strong lobby groups which will further help to ensure
sustainability; and d) complementary projects help to further reinforce reforms initiated under the IRC:

    a) Government commitment to reforms. The reforms are likely to be sustained primarily because
    they are drawn from the Government's reform agenda, and GoR has demonstrated a strong sense of
    ownership and commitment to its PRSP. Furthermore, the legal and institutional framework supporting
    the various financial reforms was designed with a long-term perspective in mind. This is the case in the
    financial sector, where the central bank function has been reformed in a manner compatible with
    universal central banking practice, and a recent statute has transformed BNR into an autonomous
    entity. The measures taken to introduce new credit underwriting rules to minimize the risks associated
    with non-performing loans are also highly unlikely to be reversed. In addition, the establishment of a
    strong enforcement mechanism is intended to ensure that the entire body of banking practices and
    regulations are observed. The same rationale holds for reforms in the human and social development
    sectors. For example, the MTEF has been widely adopted, both at the ministerial and district levels.
    Similarly, measures being taken to reform and restructure public enterprises have gone far, and are
    being consolidated.

    b) Adoption of complementary institutional and legal reforms. Government commitment to reforms
    is also illustrated in its establishment of key institutional and legal frameworks to complement its
    reform agenda. In the case of expenditure and budget management, a harmonized framework for
    public financial and expenditure management agreed upon by donors, including the Bank, will help to
    ensure sustainability of reforms. Furthermore, issues of transparency were further solidified following
    the establishment of the Office of the Auditor General and the establishment of audit units in all key
    and line ministries. In addition, the position of Accountant General was created and filled in 2005, and
    this will further help to reinforce reforms in this area since there is now a champion for issues to do
    with public financial management.         Finally, by modernizing public procurement legislation and
    establishing a National Tender Board, the Government's commitment to promoting transparency and
    accountability in public spending on a more sustainable basis is further reinforced.

    In the case of expenditure management, GoR has institutionalized a system of priority budget
    allocations to the social sectors, to ensure that the delivery of public services assumes center stage in its
    poverty alleviation strategy. The principle of gender equality is strongly embedded in the civil statutes
    and land law, and the revised constitution eliminates all forms of gender discrimination. Government
    has followed this with a series of activities to build capacity and sensitize stakeholders on gender
    issues. Furthermore, the establishment of a single multisector regulatory authority for the various
    utilities will reinforce and further protect the new institution emerging from the reform process. Apart
    from the establishment of commercial chambers, the sustainability of reforms in the private sector will
    be further ensured given the creation of innovative institutions, such as the Center for Support of Small



                                                      - 15 -

    and Medium Sized Enterprises (CAPMER) and the Arbitration Center as well as the creation of a
    National Accounting Commission and an accounting regulatory agency. The establishment of
    commercial chambers to settle business disputes, such as those arising from non-performing loans, is
    intended to sustain the reforms that have been successfully introduced in the banking sector.

    c) Existence of strong lobby groups. Reforms have also given rise to strong lobby groups. For
    example, women form a strong pressure group in Rwanda and their newly gained rights will not be
    easily encroached upon. In addition, tea and coffee producers constitute another important lobby
    group. Therefore, reforms to restructure the state agencies OCIR-thé and OCRI-café to support
    improved provision of agricultural services (credit, technology, fertilizer and seed input supplies) will
    continue to have strong supporting constituencies, both within government and the private sector.

    d) Complementary projects reinforce ongoing reforms. In the case of reforms in the private sector,
    the sustainability of reforms was buttressed by a number of sector-specific IDA operations, such as
    the Private Sector Development Project, aimed to strengthen the legal and institutional framework and
    the incentive system; and the Competitiveness and Enterprise Development Project, designed to
    strengthen the enabling environment for private sector development through provision of technical
    assistance. Furthermore, key reforms initiated under the IRC in the area of public financial and
    expenditure management are being further supported under the PRSC.



The Role of Other Bank Activities in IRC's Sustainability:

6.1.8. Capacity building constitutes a critical component under the PRSC, to the extent that a dedicated
project- the Public Sector Capacity Building Project- launched in September 2004, was specifically
designed to complement the credit and will form an integral part of building the capacity of public service
in Rwanda. The borrower's commitment to undertake capacity building as a long-term objective was
evidenced by the creation of the Human Resource Institutional Development Agency (HIDA) as the key
entity for implementing the Multi-sector Capacity Building Program, while capacity building at the
community level was entrusted to the Ministry of Local Government (MINALOC). Furthermore, by
re-orienting the Bank's strategy from investment project lending to sector and budget-support based
operations, the Country Assistance Strategy endorsed by the Board in November 2002 remains a critical
source of assurance that the emerging lending instruments for Rwanda will only serve to consolidate and
sustain the measures already implemented under the IRC.

6.1.9. It is also expected that the analytical work to be undertaken under the umbrella of the PRSC will
reinforce the reform process, thereby consolidating results so far, especially in the social sector and in the
area of public financial management. The pipeline of analytical work includes Country Status Reports
(which have already been completed for health and education), and ongoing work on various approaches of
PRSP monitoring and evaluation (consisting of PSIA, household living standard survey, or HLSS, CWIQ,
PEMR, CPIP and Investment Climate Analysis). In addition, funding was recently approved from the
PRSP multi-donor Trust Fund to support capacity building in the area of monitoring and evaluation.
Finally, the National Institute of Statistics will soon be established, which should further reinforce the
capacity for monitoring and evaluation and policy analysis.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1. Following their completion, IDA-financed components under the IRC do not require additional
arrangements to support them since the various policy and institutional changes have been institutionalized.



                                                    - 16 -

Reforms have aimed to strengthen Government institutions and processess without creating separate
arrangements. Also, Government continues to be committed to deepening reforms. Therefore, no separate
transition arrangements are required to move to regular operations.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1. The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation and implementation of the reform program
was satisfactory. The Bank's role at identification stage reflected a proper assessment of the Borrower's
needs for further policy and institutional support in the key areas outlined above. The needs identified for
IDA financing broadly reflected additional support that needed to be provided following the completion of
the ERC, which preceded the IRC. This additional support was consistent with the borrower's development
priorities, as defined in the PRSP and the LDP. By supporting policy and institutional reforms, the IRC
was the appropriate lending instrument chosen for IDA intervention for post-conflict reconstruction in
Rwanda. A pre-appraisal mission undertaken by the Bank during the first quarter of 2002 identified issues
and constraints that subsequently shaped the design of the IRC. Later, during the implementation phase, a
Bank supervision mission identified the need to harmonize activities of different donors operating in
Rwanda. To this end, a budget support working group was formed and subsequently in 2004, a Partnership
Framework Agreement was agreed upon among budget support donors, including Sweden, DFID and the
European Community.

7.1.2. The implementation of reforms involved a number of stages and the Bank's performance at each
stage was undertaken in a satisfactory manner. The implementation of the IRC involved the design by the
Bank of conditionalities intended to improve the policy environment for implementing various action plans
envisaged in the execution of the program. By linking the disbursement of the IRC resources to the
fulfillment of specified conditionalities, the Bank contributed significantly to the smooth implementation of
the program. Tranche conditions were simplified to facilitate the disbursement process. The program
envisaged three tranches. Although there were some delays in meeting conditions at some stages in the
implementation process, these did not affect program implementation in any significant manner; on the
whole, the IRC was satisfactorily executed.

7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1.The Bank played an active role during the implementation phase in the following specific ways. First,
the Bank exercised an oversight over fiduciary issues associated with the use of the proceeds of the IDA
Credit through various forms of financial supervision. Financial statements on the use of credit deposit
accounts were periodically made available to the Bank in compliance with financial covenants of the Credit
agreement. Second, the Bank effectively used its implementation assistance function to oversee operational
aspects of program implementation on the basis of progress being made to meet the various performance
benchmarks defined in the Matrix of policy actions agreed with the borrower. The main aim of supervision
or implementation assistance was to ensure that any slippages and deviations from planned actions were
adequately addressed and that appropriate remedial or corrective actions were taken to bring reform actions
on track in a timely fashion. The Bank fielded a number of implementation assistance missions which, in
collaboration with the Government, were instrumental in keeping the program on course, by identifying
constraints and providing remedial or corrective measures as appropriate and as needed. The Bank's
contribution during this process was made possible by deploying appropriate staffing and skills and
providing adequate supervision mission budget for the work.

7.2.2. Implementation assistance missions were fielded by the Bank in February 2003, May 2003,


                                                    - 17 -

November-December 2003, and May 2004, with the following results. First, Program implementation
performance was found to be satisfactory, although delays were observed in the implementation of
prudential lending rules and the privatization of BCR. Second, in view of the continued low growth in
exports, the Bank's mission prevailed upon the Rwandan authorities to launch an integrated action plan for
the promotion of exports. Third, the significance of complementary programs was recognized and parallel
or joint missions were undertaken to further facilitate monitoring and implementation assistance for the
IRC.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
7.3.1. Based on the foregoing assessment, the overall performance of the Bank regarding the IRC is
rated as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1. The Government of Rwanda was actively involved in all stages of the IRC's program cycle, including
identification, preparation, appraisal. By clearly articulating its development objectives in the context of the
PRSP, the borrower provided a development blueprint that provided a road map for its long-term
development strategy, detailed in its Vision 2020. On this basis, the borrower was also able to articulate
the key objectives of its short- and medium-term reform strategy in the Letter of Development Policy,
which formed the basis for formulating the IRC.

7.4.2. During the preparation and appraisal stages, the borrower contributed to the Bank's appraisal
process by providing the policy foundations for the IRC. The definition of triggers were drawn from the
milestones defined by Government in its reform program.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1. The Government's implementation performance is rated as highly satisfactory for the following
reasons. First, it implemented the various measures needed to trigger disbursements under the IDA Credit.
This was achieved in a timely manner. Second, the borrower put in place an adequate implementation and
coordination mechanism to oversee the execution and progress of the program, using existing Government
processess and institutions. In this regard, the highest implementation coordination and policy organ,
namely, the National Commission on Poverty Reduction (chaired by the Prime Minister and made up of key
government ministries, the Vice-President and the BNR Governor) conducted its oversight role over
program execution. On the technical and operational side, the borrower selected the Ministry of Finance
and Economic Planning to be responsible for day-to-day implementation of the program. From within the
ministry, the Head of Reform and Macroeconomic Policy was appointed as the Project Coordinator to lead
the implementation process. This unit was responsible for coordinating all the policy reform programs
including those supported by the Bank, the IMF, the EU and the AfDB.


7.5.2. The Government's role extended beyond preparation and implementation to monitoring progress and
collaborating with the Bank's supervision function. In order to effectively monitor program
implementation, the borrower set up a Technical Steering Committee and appointed the Permanent
Secretary of the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning as its Head. This monitoring body included
secretary-generals of all ministries, as well as the Permanent Secretary for Reform and the Director of
Strategic Planning and Poverty Monitoring Department (SPPMD). The borrower also developed
appropriate instruments for monitoring the program and further strengthened the Poverty Observatoire
(Poverty Monitoring Observatory) as a monitoring entity. In addition to monitoring the implementation
performance of the PRSP, this organ carried out the function of tracing budget allocations to outputs and
outcomes at the level of beneficiaries through the PETS approach. It also conducted surveys to assess



                                                      - 18 -

poverty and the social impact of donor assistance through the Core Welfare Indicator Questionnaire
(CWIQ).      Also, as required under the Credit, the borrower produced progress reports on program
implementation. Regarding its role in the disbursement process, the borrower designated BNR to be the
recipient of funds released under each tranche. The borrower is considered to have satisfactorily carried out
its fiduciary responsibilities under these arrangements.

7.5.3. Besides the IMF's intervention through the PRGF, and budget support donors (i.e. DFID, EU,
Sweden, AfDB), other donors significantly complemented the Bank's role in providing further post-conflict
assistance to Rwanda, under the IRC. These include, for example, the EU, which provided financing for the
implementation phase of FARAP. A consortium of donors also established a PRSP Trust Fund (i.e. Japan,
Dutch, Swiss), which is supporting capacity building in poverty focused monitoring and evaluation.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1. The Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning played the central coordinating role in the
implementation of the program, and set up a Steering Committee to monitor progress in program execution.
The Ministry is traditionally the entity responsible for coordinating development assistance activities and
oversees the implementation of programs and projects. The Ministry is the best equipped, in terms of
administrative and analytical capacities, to undertake these activities. The multifaceted character of the
program entailed the participation of other line and key ministries. In this regard, the implementation of the
various components of the IRC called for close collaboration with ministries and departments responsible
for agriculture and the rural economy, private sector development and public financial and expenditure
management--i.e. central bank, Office of the Auditor General, and relevant units at the ministerial level.

7.6.2. The overall supervision and coordination function was properly undertaken by the Ministry of
Finance, which was the core implementation agency. Other government agencies also performed equally
well in their respective spheres of responsibility to ensure a smooth implementation of the program. For
instance, BNR carried out its delegated tasks satisfactorily by instituting prudential banking regulations
and overseeing compliance by commercial banks in Rwanda. Similarly, the Ministry of Agriculture
satisfactorily assisted in the implementation of agricultural sector reforms, in the export sector. On its part,
the Ministry of Finance performed well in implementing public expenditure management reforms and
streamlining the budget process across line and key ministries. Most importantly, as the key project
implementation agency           the Ministry of Finance performed remarkably well in meeting policy
conditionalities, enabling the successful launching of the IRC facility and the subsequent disbursements.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.7.1. The borrower's overall performance under the IRC is rated as highly satisfactory. The rating
is based on GoR's strong commitment and ownership in implementing far reaching policy and institutional
reforms in the context of a difficult social, political and economic environment and given the track record of
reform measures undertaken by the GoR prior to and after Board approval of the IRC.

8. Lessons Learned

8.1. The design and preparation, as well as the implementation and supervision of the IRC revealed some
interesting lessons, relevant to development policy operations in general, and also specific in nature to the
IRC. Lessons that have been derived from experience under the IRC and which belong to the generic
category include the following:

     a) The presence of a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) which recommends budget
     prioritization as critical for effective public actions underscores the GoR's strong commitment and



                                                        - 19 -

    ownership of the IRC.

    b) The adoption and institutionalization of the principle of Budget Program Priorities (BPPs) of the
    PRSP and the MTEF constitute effective measures for increasing the allocation of budgetary
    resources to priority public and social spending needed to combat poverty in Rwanda.

    c) Effective implementation and monitoring mechanisms for reform programs are those that are
    supported at the highest levels of a country's political hierarchy and civil service and are adequately
    equipped with resources to function effectively.

8.3. The major lessons specific to the implementation of the IRC, but which have implications for future
development policy operations with policy and institutional reform components are presented below:

    a) Reforms carried out on a more comprehensive and multifaceted basis than those that tend to be
    narrowly focused, are also more likely to have a greater impact and sustainability, if supported by
    complementary or parallel programs or projects. The IRC's focus on the policy and legal (or
    institutional) framework complemented investment programs and technical assistance in the sectors.
    Also, concurrent IRC and project missions (i.e. project or program missions related to education or
    health, or private sector) facilitated supervision of the program and the preparation of the MTEF.
    Taking advantage of the synergies between budget support and program/investment lending helped to
    ensure there was significant engagement in the relevant areas through the involvement of both staff at
    the Ministry of Finance as well as staff in the sectors. The current PRSC is also following this model.

    b) To facilitate supervision of the development policy credit, it would be recommended to have a policy
    matrix or indicators of outputs and outcomes which are specific to the time horizon being supported by
    the adjustment credit. Since the IRC was budget support, it financed the Government's overall program
    (as outlined in the LDP). As a result, this formed the rationale for elaboration of the IRC policymatrix
    to heavily overlap the Government's program. The approach adopted by the Bank team in elaborating
    the IRC policy matrix promoted ownership, but made it difficult to clearly differentiate between areas
    being of focus for the IRC and the Government's overall program. More prioritization of areas of
    focus for the credit would better facilitate implementation assistance and ensure intermediate actions
    and outputs leading to development objectives (in the medium term) are supported and corrective
    measures taken in the course of implementation. One approach would be to prioritize by identifying
    the most binding constraints to achieving the overall development objectives, over the timeframe of the
    credit, and focus on the most critical of these actions or policy measures.

    c) Successful institution-building measures that move beyond the mere passage and enactment of
    enabling statutes are likely to be more effective if they are accompanied by appropriate and adequate
    facilities and resources. This lesson emerges from banking reforms undertaken in Rwanda, where a
    new banking legislation was backed by the establishment and operationalization of commercial courts
    and employment of bailiffs and notaries, to ensure the adjudication of commercial disputes and
    enforcement of court decisions pertaining to non-performing loans, as well as collection and
    enforcement of foreclosure.

    d) The successful implementation of policy and institutional reforms requires adequate capacities in
    key areas. This factor will need special attention in the formulation of future programs. Human capital
    constraints were a major factor in slowing down the implementation of some of the program's
    components. This was especially true in the areas of public financial management and privatization,
    where local capacities were weak.


                                                     - 20 -

    e) Tranche release conditions can be designed to facilitate disbursement, and consolidate progress from
    previously initiated reforms, in the context of a post-conflict country with weak capacity.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

9.1. An initial draft of the ICR and a questionnaire based on the Matrix of agreed policy measures were
forwarded to the borrower for comments and completion. The borrower's assessment                 of the   IRC
implementation performance is broadly consistent with the conclusions reached in the ICR. Most
importantly, the borrower has identified areas where measures agreed upon in the Policy Matrix have not
been implemented or are still in the process of implementation. Measures belonging to this category
include:

(a) the introduction of a mechanism for adjusting producer prices, in the tea sector; (b) the privatization of
additional tea factories ( in all, about 10 transactions are pending); (c) the enactment of the mining code,
which is an important issue in the creation of a climate conducive to foreign investment; (d) a framework
for coordinating efforts by the GoR, the private sector and NGOs has yet to be established; (e)
institutionalization of a public expenditure review and sector expenditure review is ongoing; (f) further
refinement of the Joint Monitoring System is still in process; (g) key governance-related legislations are
pending, namely: the Procurement Code (being discussed in parliament) and the revision of the code for the
National Tender Board (NTB) which is soon to be submitted to Cabinet; (g) capacity building and
institutional improvements for accountability institutions, particularly that related to the audit function are
ongoing; and (h) the establishment of a system for monitoring and reporting on donor support and project
implementation is expected to be launched in 2005. It should be noted that those measures that have not
yet been completed (i.e. are pending or ongoing), constitute a very small proportion of the measures that
were to be completed under the credit, and as a result, do not detract from the overall satisfactory rating.

9.2. The GoR's own evaluation of the program and their responses to the questionnaire referred to above
are annexed; these documents form an integral part of this report.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                     - 21 -

 Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Program Areas and Key                      Program Outputs                       Program Outcomes --Actual and Expected
       Objectives            (Specific Tranche Release Conditions are                  (and status of ongoing measures)
                                        indicated in the table)
Macroeconomy and
Development Objective
                          Achieved: Maintain overall satisfactory             PRGF successfully completed and country reached
Promote sustained growthperformance in the macro-economic policy              H IPC Completion.
of 6 percent of GDP, and framework.
maintain annual inflation                                                     Actual average GDP growth rate has hovered
at close to 3 percent.    Not achieved: Sustain growth at 6 percent of        around 5 percent. The rate of inflation was also
                          GDP and inflation at 3 percent.                     higher than envisaged, at 7.4 percent in 2003, and
                                                                              10.2 in 2004, compared to 2.0 percent in 2002.
Structural Reforms in
Agriculture and the
Export crop sectors
Introduce tea and coffee Completed. Adopt a land law policy in Cabinet. Coffee export strategy resulted in significantly
price adjustment system                                                       increased exports especially in the case of fully
to market conditions      Completed. Submit a land law to Parliament.         washed coffee. Overall exports increased from
                                                                              13,000 tons in 2001 to 31,000 tons in 2004.
                          Completed. Increase allocation to agriculture in
                          the budget.                                         Tea exports decreased from 15,162 tons to 13,060
                                                                              tons, following very cold weather which damaged
                          Completed. Introduce new regulatory structure       tea crops in a major producing region.
                          for tea and coffee.

                          Completed. Review and increase producer price       A price premium for quality of tea leaf harvested
                          for tea.                                            has been included in the price of tea to farmers

                          Ongoing. Introduce a pricing mechanism for
                          adjusting producer prices for tea.                  OCIR-thé and OCIR-café no longer sets prices,
                                                                              which are now based on negotiated agreements
                                                                              with farmers' associations and representatives from
                                                                              the factories (beginning in 2004, a price premium
                                                                              for quality of tea harvested was included in pricing
                                                                              mechanism to improve incentives to farmers).
Public expenditure
management and
poverty impact            Completed: Focus budget expenditures on key         Enhanced efficiency in the budget process. The
                          poverty reducing programs prioritized in the        MTEF has been strengthened as the instrument for
Reform the budget         PRSP, and increase budget allocation, and protect budgeting and monitoring recurrent and
process, particularly the these from cuts in the fiscal year. Also,           development expenditures for ministries and public
medium-term               strengthen capacity of units in the line ministries agencies and ultimately at decentralized and local
expenditure framework     responsible for implementation of the budget        government level.
(MTEF)                    priority programs (BPPs), as specified under the
                          second tranche release condition.
                                                                              Enhanced efficiency in the allocation of resources to
                         Completed. Adopt an implementation plan              poverty-focused programs has resulted from the
                          covering 2003-2005 for the continued                adoption and institutionalization of the BPPs
                          institutionalization of the MTEF, as specified      principle of allocating recurrent and capital
                          under the second tranche release condition.         expenditures. Expenditure allocations as a
                                                                              proportion of GDP for BPPs increased from 3.5%
                                                                              (2001) to 8.5% (2004).

                                                                              Progress has been made in the development of
                                                                              sector strategies to inform an outcome focused




                                                               - 22 -

                                                                            MTEF in key sectors: education, health, water,
                                                                            energy. Work is underway for agriculture,
                                                                            transport, private sector development.
Improve monitoring and Completed. Strengthen the central projects           Restructuring of CEPEX should facilitate improved
budget performance.      bureau (CEPEX) for donor coordination, to          collection of data on donor activities, and
                         facilitate monitoring of the implementation of     coordination of donors.
                         capital projects, ex-post review of project
                         performance, and spearhead introduction of         Ministerial progress reports form part of the
                         sector-wide approaches in the sectors.             preparation of the Annual Progress Report of the
                                                                            PRSP.
                         Completed. Sector reviews or annual progress
                         reports prepared and made available to the public. Work is ongoing to expand the current monitoring
                                                                            system by institutionalizing a mechanism to enable
                         Ongoing. Extend the pilot Joint Monitoring         monitoring of planned outputs and linking these to
                         System (JMS) to monitor progress against plannedexpenditure allocations.
                         outputs.
                                                                            Higher levels of accountability and transparency are
                         Completed. Commence the monthly publication        emerging from the adoption and commencement of
                         of reports on budget revenue and expenditure in a  implementation of the FARAP.
                         concise format covering revenue and expenditure
                         outcomes (as part of the second tranche            FARAP facilitated the development of a
                         condition of the IRC).                             harmonized framework for public financial
                                                                            management which currently guides the budget
                         Completed: Prepare and adopt an action plan to     review process
                         improve financial accountability based on
                         Financial Accountability Review and Action Plan
                         (FARAP). FARAP was launched in 2003 and
                         implementation is ongoing, as required under the
                         second tranche condition.

Develop and Implement Ongoing: Introduce regular training for relevant      The autonomy of Auditor General has been
systems for transparency government officials to familiarize them with      enhanced. It has also resulted in increased
and accountability.      financial management and accountability issues as accountability and transparency in public sector
                         well as manuals and systems under development. financial management through the publication of
                                                                            OAG reports and periodic audit of ministerial
                         Ongoing: Introduce a Manual on Financial           accounts.
                         Management and Accounting Procedures for local
                         government and harmonize/align this with           Financial Management Manuals are complete, but
                         accounting system currently under development, not yet harmonized. Financial instructions have
                         and use to underpin training.                      been issued.

                         Ongoing. Commence capacity building in the         The establishment of a Cash Management Unit has
                         inspectorate of Finance and Audit, and establish   resulted in improved public financial management
                         audit units in line ministries.                    and accountability, and weekly meetings to review
                                                                            treasury developments have been established.
                         Completed. Establish a Cash Management Unit.
                                                                            The legal and institutional framework for public
                         Completed. Adopt legislation to govern the         sector financial accountability were strengthened by
                         budget process.                                    the Organic Budget Law and Auditor General's Act
                                                                            adopted in 2004.
                         Ongoing. Strengthen the Auditor General's
                         Office - (answerable to Parliament) and the Public A regular training program on financial
                         Accounts Division of the Ministry of Finance to    management and accountability for government
                         serve as additional public accountability          officials has been established (although staff
                         institutions.                                      turnover is a challenge). In this connection, a
                                                                            Needs Assessment and Curriculum Development
                                                                            Study are underway to improve the training
                                                                            program.
                         Ongoing: Adopt the Procurement Code in             Following Cabinet approval in 2004, the



                                                              - 23 -

                           Parliament.                                       Procurement Code was submitted to Parliament in
                                                                             October 2004; Parliamentary approval is pending.

                           Ongoing: Revise the National Tender Board         Revision of the NTB decree is pending submission
                           decree.                                           to Cabinet. The procurement process will be
                                                                             strengthened further when the NTB decree is
                                                                             ultimately approved and implemented.
                           Achieved. Increase revenues to 12.8 percent of    Revenues are now at 14 % of GDP.
                           GDP by 2004.
                                                                             VAT rate increased from 15% to 18%.

Private Sector
Development.
Privatization

Appoint privatization      Completed: Appoint a private sector operator to The appointment of a competent private operator as
advisers for Rwandatel     manage Electrogaz (as specified under the second the manager of Electrogaz was implemented as
and a manager for          tranche release condition).                       required under the second tranche condition. New
Electrogaz                                                                   management for Electrogaz (comprising a board of
                          Completed: Select adviser for the privatization of directors, a chief executive officer and top officers)
                          Rwandatel.                                         was installed in October 2003 following the signing
                                                                             of a management contract in September 2003
                          Ongoing: Sell 51 % of Rwandatel to a strategic
                          investor.                                          Enhanced management capacities resulted from the
                                                                             recruitment of advisors for privatization of
                           Ongoing: Complete the privatization/liquidation   Rwandatel, which took place June 2005.
                          of the remaining 30 state enterprises.
                                                                             Tender bids for Rwandatel privatization were
                                                                             launched in April 2004, following Cabinet approval
                                                                             of privatization strategy.

                                                                             Out of a total of 77 enterprises 50 have been
                                                                             privatized (leaving 27 yet to be privatized).
Establish regulatory       Completed: Strengthen OCIR-Thé and                A law redefining the roles of the two institutions
agencies for major export OCIR-Café to be independent commodity boards, was passed in 2003.
commodities-coffee and minimizing their roles as state-owned agencies.
tea.
Establish a multi-sector   Completed: A multi-sectoral agency-the Rwanda Increased efficiency and improved delivery of
regulatory agency for      Utilities Regulatory Agency (RURA) was            public utility services is expected to result from the
major privatized utilities established, following legislation on 13          establishment of RURA.
                           September 2001.
Strengthen Rwanda          Completed: Rwanda's Investment Code was           An investor friendly environment is being fostered
Investment Promotion       revised in 2004 and a One-Stop-Window- the        and has resulted in increased activity from
Agency (RIPA) to           Rwanda Investment Promotion Agency (RIPA)         prospective investors from within and outside
facilitate investment,     was established. Recently, this agency was        Africa.
promote exports and        restructured and its mandate expanded to cover
business development.      export promotion. It is now the Rwanda
                           Investment and Export Promotion Agency            When completed, the mining code should stimulate
                           (RIEPA).                                          further private investment in Rwanda's mining
                                                                             industry.
                           Completed: Reduce the company tax from 40 %
                           to 35 %

                           Ongoing: The mining code is still under
                           preparation.
Financial Sector                                                             Increased effectiveness in the enforcement of
                                                                             commercial contracts has resulted from legal
Improve legal and          Completed: As part of measures to improve the     framework and capacity improvements as well as
regulatory process for     legal and institutional framework for the banking the establishment of a commercial court.



                                                               - 24 -

recovery of bank loans    sector, court bailiffs and public notaries were
including NPLs requiring appointed as required under the second tranche        A commercial chamber was established in Kigali
strengthening of the      condition.                                           and became operational in 2004 to settle business
Arbitration Center.                                                            disputes as required under the second tranche
                          Completed: Establish and operationalize the          conditionality. The condition was changed to
Review and revise the     commercial courts and recruit new bailiffs and       commercial chambers in line with changes in the
law that established the  notaries, as stipulated under the second tranche new constitution.
notary public to provide  release condition.
for appointment of                                                             BNR's ability to implement prudential regulations
additional notaries       Completed. (i) Direct all commercial banks that      across the banking sector has transformed it into an
                          the monthly loan listing report to BNR should        effective tool for banking supervision and for
                          separate non-performing (Class 3 and greater)        enhancing the performance of commercial banks.
                          borrowers; (ii) make available to all banks this
                          listing report within 30 days of filing; (iii)       The role of the Bankers' Association was
                          maintain the listing report in a centralized         reinforced as the main instrument through which
                          database and make it accessible to credit            information on defaulting borrowers is shared
                          information or rating companies and banks; (iv)      among banks, thereby strengthening the
                          prohibit banks from making loans to such             enforcement of sanctions against defaulters.
                          non-performing borrowers except to repay loans in
                          default in other banks, as specified under the
                          third or floating tranche release condition.
                          Completed: Adopt an MoU between the BNR              The near-collapse of the commercial banking sector
                          and BCR and put in place measures aimed at           including the BCR was successfully preempted by
                          reducing costs, recovering defaulted loans and       this measure. It also improved operational
                          enhancing efficiency in BCR, as specified under      efficiency and financial performance as the
                          the third or floating tranche release condition. non-performing loan (NPL) rate declined and net
                                                                               income to BCR improved.
                          Completed: Establish prudential banking rules        Loan portfolio quality improved, with the rate for
                          pertaining to credit underwriting and loan           non-performing loans declining from 36 percent in
                          accounting standards for commercial banks as         2001 to 29.9 percent in September 2003, and 13
                          required under the second tranche release            percent end-2004, following the adoption of
                          condition.                                           prudential guidelines in the banking sector.
                          Completed: Allocate budget resources toward the Enhanced operational efficiency of BCR and
                          restructuring of BCR and divestiture of              competitiveness resulted from privatization. As a
                          Government shareholdings, as required under the result, the bank's negative net worth was reduced
                          third or floating tranche release condition.         from FRw 7.0 billion in 2002 to FRw 1.0 billion in
                                                                               2004.
                          Completed: Evaluate BCR's stock, prepare a           The sale of BCR on September 19, 2004
                          prospectus and the launch the bidding process to contributed to increased private sector participation
                          sell the bank (as stipulated under the third or      in BCR's equity resulted from this process, which
                          floating tranche condition).                         also enhanced the bank's efficiency.
                          Completed: Privatize the Continental Bank of         Efficiency in the banking system was further
                          Rwanda and restructure the Rwanda Development enhanced by these institutional measures.
                          Bank.
                          Completed. Recapitalize the Banque Populaire duImproved access to micro-finance and financial
                          Rwanda and strengthen supervision of small and intermediation for small enterprises is expected
                          micro-finance (including rural credit) institutions. from this measure. To facilitate this, a department
                                                                               has been established in the central bank to oversee
                                                                               microfinance supervision.
Human and Social
Development
Social Services
                          Completed: Increase allocation of budget             Social sector recurrent budgetary allocations
Improve the provision of resources to social sectors to at least 40 % of the increased by 18 percent in 2003 and 13 percent in
social services,          recurrent budget.                                    2004. Since 2003, at least 50% of recurrent
particularly in the rural                                                      expenditures have been allocated to the social
area.                     Completed: Increase budgetary allocation to          sectors
                          non-wage expenditures.
                                                                               Allocation to non-wage expenditures now stands at



                                                                - 25 -

                                                                               58%.
Improve the efficiency of Completed. Conduct an education sector
use of budgetary            expenditure review to assist in further developing Gross primary school enrolment increased from
resources in the            the MTEF.                                          99.9 percent in 2001 to 110.2 percent in 2003,
education sector.                                                              higher than the 75 percent average for Sub-Saharan
                            Ongoing. Progressively replace tertiary level      Africa.
                            scholarships/bursaries with student loans.

                            Completed. Establish a framework for
                            community participation in support of primary and
                            secondary education.
                                                                               Development of the education sector strategy has
                            Completed. Develop an education sector             been based on a sector wide approach and has
                            strategy.                                          facilitated the development of an outcome focused
                                                                               MTEF.
Strengthen prevention       Completed: A Multi sector Action Plan for          The incidence of HIV/AIDS is estimated to have
and treatment of            HIV/AIDS Control, Prevention and Treatment wasdeclined to 5.1 percent in 2004.
HIV/AIDs                    adopted by the Cabinet (and, is now under
                            implementation).                                   HIV/AIDS 2002-2006 Strategic Plan prepared in a
                                                                               participatory manner, and adopted in 2003. Solid
                                                                               progress in implementation with progress in
                                                                               decentralizing program to the provinces, mobilizing
                                                                               segments of the population, improving sentinel
Improve access to and                                                          surveillance, expanding HIV testing and increasing
quality of health services. Completed: Extend the coverage of mutuelle         access to anti-retroviral treatment.
                            health insurance.
                                                                               Proportion of the population covered under the
                            Completed: Undertake a health sector financing mutuelle health scheme increased from 4 percent
                            and expenditure review.                            to 7 percent during the period 2003-04.

                                                                               Once established, improved coordination will result
                            Completed: Adopt and implement a framework         in better health service delivery and a more
                            for the coordination of public, private and NGO    efficient utilization of resources.
                            health providers.
                                                                               Roll Back Malaria Strategic Plan (2004-10)
                                                                               developed in collaboration with donors and is under
                            Completed. Increase immunization campaigns         implementation with good progress in providing
                            and treatment programs for tuberculosis and        subsidized treatment, distribution of impregnated
                            malaria.                                           bednets, building on preventive treatment through
                                                                               other programs and addressing drug resistance.

                                                                               Immunization program one of strongest in Africa
                                                                               with DPT2 (diptheria, pertussis, tetanus) coverage
                                                                               rates of 96%.
Gender                      Completed: Establish a dedicated Ministry of       Increased commitment to gender mainstreaming.
                            Gender and Women Affairs and strengthen it with
Promote the                 capacities for gender related legal work           Increased empowerment of women has resulted
empowerment of                                                                 from various gender mainstreaming measures.

women.                      Completed: Adopt a Comprehensive Legal ActionConsequently, women's role in legislative,
                            Plan to eliminate gender disparities. This was     executive and judiciary functions has increased
                            adopted by the Cabinet in 2003.                    significantly: ( 45 % of legislators, 32 % of cabinet
Enhance gender                                                                 ministers and 41 percent of judges are women).
sensitivity of public       Completed: Adopt a Strategic Plan for the
actions                     Ministry of Gender and Women Affairs
                            (MIGEPROFE). This was also adopted by the
                            cabinet in 2003.

                            Completed: Introduce a Gender Budgeting
                            Initiative. This initially covered 5 ministries and




                                                                 - 26 -

three provinces.
Completed: Increase girls' access to education. Enrollment between girls and boys is at parity at
                                                the primary levels, and nearing parity at the
                                                secondary level, where girls' enrollment is
Completed. Adopt and implement the              estimated to represent 48 percent of total secondary
Comprehensive Action Plan to eliminate gender   school enrolment.
disparities
                                                Adopted in 2003. Implementation ongoing,
                                                including gender sensitive reforms of the
                                                constitution, the land law, and the
                                                anti-discrimination law (adopted in 2001).




                                  - 27 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

N/A

N/A
N/A
N/A




                                      - 28 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




                                      - 29 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               August 2001               3    1 Sr. Economist, 1 Economist, 1       S               S
                                              Operation Officer
               November 2001             6    1 Sr. Economist, 1 Economist, 1       S               S
                                              Operation Officer, 1 Financial
                                              Specialist, 2 Consultants

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               September 2002            3    1 Economist, 1 Country                S               S
                                              Manager, 1 Operations
                                              Officer

 Supervision
               Feb.- March 2003           4   1 Sr. Economist, 2                    S               S
                                              Economists, 1 Consultant
               May 2003                   6   3 Economists, 1 JPA, 1 Financial      S               S
                                              Analyst, 1 consultant
               November -               10    1 Sr. Economist, 2 Economists, 5      S               S
               December 2003                  consultants, 1 JPA, 1 Program
                                              Assistant
               May 2004                   3   2 Economists, 1 Consultant, 1         S               S
                                              Program Assistant

 ICR
                                         3     1 Senior Economist, 1                S               S
                                               Economist, 1 consultant



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation              51.73                      146,690.76
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                           103.08                       232,854.87
  ICR
  Total                                 154.81                       379,545.63




                                               - 30 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Disarmament and
Reintegration
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA
Public Financial and Expenditure
Management




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. Concept Paper: Proposed Institutional Reform Credit for Rwanda ( July 2001).

2. SMO: Rwanda Identification Mission for the Institutional Reform Credit (July, 6, 2001).

3. Aide-Memore: Appraisal Mission for Institutional Reform Credit ( September 3-13, 2000).

4. Aide-Memoire: Identification Mission for the Proposed IRC, PRSP and PEMR ( July 9-31, 2001).
.
5. Draft on IRC Pre-Appraisal Mission: Assessment of BCR (March 11, 2002).

6. Aide-Memoire: Pre-Appraisal Mission for the proposed IRC (Februrary 23-March 11, 2002).

7. Back-To-Office Report: IRC Pre-appraisal Mission (April 8, 2002).

8. Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)-Rwanda-Ref: 24501-RW (November 21, 2002.

9. Development Credit Agreement for the Institutional Reform Credit ( December 4, 2002).

10. Memorandum of the President on the Institutional Reform Credit Ref: 24892-RW (Program document
dated October 23, 2002).

11. Office Memorandum: Analytical Work and Technical Assistance Support for IRC and PRS
Implementation (May 6-23, 2003).

12. Rwanda: Institutional Reform Credit-Sixth Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA6).

13. Rwanda: The Search for Post-Conflict Socio-Economic Change, 1995-2001, (Chukwuma Obidegwu)
Africa Region Working Paper Series No.59, (October 2003).

14. Aide-Memoire-Supervision Mission : Annex on the Financial Sector Component (November 5-12,
2003).

15. Aide-Memore: Supervision Mission of IRC and PRS Implementation ( November 4-17, 2003).

16. Office Memorandum: Full Compliance-Release of the Third (Floating )Tranche of the Rwanda IRC (
August 31, 2004).

17. Office Memorandum: Full Compliance-Release of the Second (Fixed) Tranche of the Rwanda IRC (
May 12, 2004).

18. Rwanda-Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper and Annual Progress Report and Joint Staff Assessment:
Report No 28350-RW (May 18, 2004)

19. Program Document Ref: 29467-RW on Poverty Reduction Support Credit and Grant ( September 23,
2004).




                                                  - 33 -

20. Evaluation of Project Implementation Report-Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, Rwanda (
April 2005).

21. Memorandum of the President on the Enhanced HIPC Debt Initiative-Report No. 31678-RW (March
25, 2005).

22. Government's Assessment in PDF Format (2005)




                                                - 34 -

Additional Annex 8. ICR Ratings by the Borrower




                                        - 35 -

                             RATING BY THE BORROWER (GoR)
               A. RATINGS FOR ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES/OUTPUTS
            OF COMPONENTS (FILL CYCLE FOR SELECTED RATING)
                                1



       Macro policies                        H  SU     M       N    NA

       Sector policies                       H  SU     M       N    NA

       Physical                              H  SU     M      N     NA

       Financial                             H  SU     M      N     NA

       Institutional development             H  SU     M       N    NA

       Environment                           H  SU     M       N    NA
Social:

            Poverty Reduction               H   SU    M       N     NA

            Gender                          H   SU    M       N     NA

            Demobilization                H     SU    M        N    NA

            Reintegration                  H    SU    M        N    NA

Private Sector Development

           Privatization               H H     SU     M      N     NA

          Financial sector reforms        H    SU     M      N     NA


Public Sector Financial Management         H   SU    M     N       NA




       1Legend: H= High; SU= Substantial; M=Modest; N=Negligible; NA= Not
       Applicable)




                                       - 36 -

- 37 -

Additional Annex 9. Government's Assessment




                                       - 38 -

- 39 -

- 40 -

- 41 -

- 42 -

- 43 -

- 44 -

- 45 -

- 46 -

- 47 -

- 48 -

- 49 -

- 50 -

- 51 -

- 52 -

- 53 -

- 54 -

