Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3721 RW 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Institutional Reform Credit) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated December 4, 2002 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3721 RW 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 4, 2002, between REPUBLIC OF RWANDA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated 
October 11, 2002, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
poverty reduction through policy and institutional reform to strengthen the budget process of 
the Borrower’s economy, improve public sector capacity and governance, promote private 
sector investment, production and creation of employment and human resource development 
(hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the 
execution thereof; and  
(B) 
on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, the Association has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in three 
tranches as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6, 1999) with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Development 
Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit 
account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.”; 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower 
shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the program referred to in 
the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower 
and the Association of their respective obligations under the Development Credit 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 and 
9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.  
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a) “BCR” 
or 
“
Banque Commerciale du Rwanda
”
means a commercial bank 
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower as a Limited Liability Company under 
its 
Statuts
 No. 11 of June 1, 1988, as amended on March 9, 1989; 
(b) “BNR” 
or 
“
Banque Nationale du Rwanda
”
means the Borrower’s central bank 
established pursuant to the Borrower’s law of April 24, 1964, as amended by Law No. 11/97 of 
July 26, 1997; 
(c) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;  
(d) 
“ELECTROGAZ” means the state utility company owned by the Borrower, 
established pursuant to Law - Decree No. 18/76 of April 20, 1976 and granted a monopoly for 
the production, transportation and distribution of gas, water and electricity in the territory of the 
Borrower; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(e) 
“First Tranche” means the Tranche (as hereinafter defined) of the proceeds of 
the Credit allocated to Category (1) in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(f) 
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the fiscal year of the Borrower beginning on 
January 1 and ending on December 31; 
(g) 
“Second Tranche” means the Tranche (as hereinafter defined) of the proceeds 
of the Credit allocated to Category (2) in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(h) 
“Floating Tranche” means the Tranche (as hereinafter defined) of the proceeds 
of the Credit allocated to Category (3) in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;  
(i) 
“LDP” means the Letter of Development Policy referred to in Recital (A) of 
the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement; 
(j) 
“Memorandum of Understanding” or “MOU” means a memorandum of 
understanding, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, executed between BNR 
and BCR for restructuring of BCR; 
(k) 
“RWANDATEL” means the Borrower’s telecommunications company 
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Law - Decree of 17/6/76 relating to 
telecommunications and confirmed by Law No. 01/82 of January 26, 1982 relating to 
institutional reform of telecommunications; and 
(l) 
“Tranche” means any of the following: First Tranche, the Second Tranche or 
the Floating Tranche. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to sixty-four million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
64,500,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account in 
support of the Program. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a Deposit 
Page  5
-
4
-
Account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals 
from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account. 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If 
the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall have 
been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the 
amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the 
Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the 
Credit Account for cancellation. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2004 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on 
the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of 
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from 
time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year 
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, 
the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of  
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may 
from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually 
on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15 and 
October 15 commencing April 15, 2013, and ending October 15, 2042.  Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on October 15, 2022, shall be one percent (1%) of such 
Page  6
-
5
-
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal 
amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining
 eligibility to access the Association’s 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by the Association of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have 
been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, 
the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated 
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.09. The Governor of BNR is designated as representative of the Borrower for 
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program 
and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken after 
the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the 
objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination  
Section 5.01. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister of the 
Borrower responsible for finance is designated as the representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning 
 
PO Box 158 
 
Kigali 
 
Republic of Rwanda 
 
Cable 
address: 
   Telex: 
 Facsimile: 
MINFIN-RWANDA  
22687 
MINFIN-RAW  
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477 6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  9
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA 
 
By 
 
 
 
           s/ H.E. Richard 
Sezibera 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
     
/s/ 
Callisto 
E. 
Madavo 
Regional Vice President 
Africa 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and Excluded Expenditures 
1. 
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the table below sets 
forth the amounts allocated to specific Tranches to be withdrawn from the Credit Account: 
 
Categories
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent)
%
of
the 
Expenditure 
to be Financed
(1)   First Tranche 
34,100,000 
100% 
(2)   Second Tranche 
15,200,000 
100% 
(3)   Floating Tranche 
 
15,200,000 100% 
 
TOTAL 
__________ 
64,500,000 
========= 
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall not 
be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
(a) 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
(b) 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall 
have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have financed or 
agreed to finance under another credit or a loan; 
(c) 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United 
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor 
groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by 
notice to the Borrower: 
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured 
 
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
(d) 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
(e) 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph t
he term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or 
import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party; 
(f) 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on account of 
any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations; and 
(g) 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy 
the situation. 
3. 
No withdrawal shall be made from the Credit Account under Category  (2) of the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless the amount specified in Category (1) has been withdrawn 
by the Borrower and the Association shall be satisfied after an exchange of views as described 
in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association: 
(i) 
with the fulfillment of the requirements of Part A of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; and  
(ii) 
that the actions described in Part B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
have been taken in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 above, withdrawals may be made by the 
Borrower in respect of Category (3) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule at any time 
when the Association shall be satisfied after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 
of this Agreement, based on evidence satisfactory to the Association, that the requirements of 
Part A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been fulfilled, and the actions described in Part C 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been taken in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association. 
5. 
If after any of the exchange of views referred to in paragraphs 3 and 4 above, the 
Association shall have given notice to the Borrower that the requirements of part A of Schedule 
2
to this Agreement, or the actions taken under parts B and C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
as the case may be, are not satisfactory and, within ninety (90) days after such notice, the 
Page  13
-
12 - 
 
Borrower  shall not have met the requirements of Part A of said Schedule 2 or taken 
Page  14
-
13 - 
 
the actions under Parts B or C of said Schedule 2, as the case may be, then the Association may, 
by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof. 
Page  15
-
14 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement 
 
Part A
:
General Requirements for Tranche Releases
1. 
The macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is satisfactory to the 
Association, as measured on the basis of indicators agreed between the Borrower and the 
Association. 
2. 
The Borrower has achieved progress satisfactory to the Association in the 
carrying out of the Program. 
Part B
:
Specific Conditions for the Release of the Second Tranche
The Borrower has: 
(a) 
adopted an implementation plan, satisfactory to the Association for 
purposes of continued implementation of its medium-term expenditure framework, in 
accordance with paragraph 29 of the LDP; 
(b) 
reviewed the poverty-focused budget priority programs and made 
increases in the budget allocations, for each program in the FY 2003 budget, to the 
satisfaction of the Association, as specified in paragraph 30 of the LDP;  
(c) 
for the purpose of strengthening financial accountability, prepared and 
adopted an action plan for improvement of financial accountability, satisfactory to the 
Association, in accordance with paragraph 34 of the LDP; 
(d) 
appointed a competent private operator, with terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association, as the manager of ELECTROGAZ; 
(e) 
commenced monthly publication of reports on budget revenue and 
expenditure outcomes, in a format satisfactory to the Association, as described in 
paragraph 39 of the LDP;  
(f) 
established and operationalized in accordance with paragraph 56 of the 
LDP, a commercial court to the satisfaction of the Association; and 
(g) 
established credit underwriting and loan accounting standards, 
satisfactory to the Association, and required compliance thereof by the commercial 
banks, in accordance with paragraph 56 of the LDP.  
 
Page  16
-
15 - 
 
Part C
:
Specific Conditions for the Release of the Floating Tranche
The Borrower has: 
(a) 
achieved progress satisfactory to the Association in implementing the 
Memorandum of Understanding, as described in paragraph 54 of the LDP; 
(b) 
for the purpose of restructuring and divestiture of BCR, made adequate 
provision in its budget for the FY 2003, to the satisfaction of the Association, in 
accordance with paragraph 55 of the LDP; 
(c) 
caused BNR to: (i) direct all commercial banks that the monthly listing 
report made to BNR shall reflect separately non-performing borrowers; (ii) make 
available to the commercial banks, the listing report within 30 days of filing; (iii) 
maintain the listing report in a centralized database and make it accessible to credit 
information or rating companies and commercial banks; and (iv) prohibit commercial 
banks from making loans or advancing any monies to non-performing borrowers, except 
for the purpose of repayment of loans in default on other banks, all to the satisfaction of 
the Association and  in accordance with paragraph 56 of the LDP; and 
(d) 
brought to the point of sale at least eighty percent (80%) of its shares in 
BCR to qualified buyers or effected divestiture of BCR through the implementation of a 
back-up plan, satisfactory to the Association, in accordance with paragraph 55 of the 
LDP. 
For the purposes of subparagraph (d) hereto, the term “brought to the point of sale” 
means: (i) carried an evaluation of the stocks of BCR, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
an 
evaluation of its assets and liabilities; (ii) prepared a prospectus for distribution to 
prospective buyers; (iii) solicited offers for the purchase of share capital; (iv) evaluated 
any such offers and selected successful bidders; and (v) invited the successful bidders to 
enter into good faith negotiations. 
 
