Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24446
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-40200)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 10 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF
MOLDOVA
FOR AN
ENERGY PROJECT
June 28, 2002
Infrastructure and Energy Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective at December 31, 1995)
Currency Unit = Leu (plural is Lei) (MDL)
1 MDL = US$ 0.22
US$ 1 = 4.5 MDL
(Exchange Rate Effective at December 31, 2001)
1 MDL       =    US$0.08
US$ 1 = 13.08 MDL
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANRE          National Energy Regulatory Agency
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CHP           Combined Heat and Power
EIRR          Economic Internal Rate of Retum
EU TACIS      European Union Program for Technical Assistance for the Commonwealth of
Independent States
FIRR          Financial Intemal Rate of Retum
FMS           Financial Management System
FSU           Former Soviet Union
[AS           Intemational Accounting Standards
IBRD          Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA           Intemational Development Association
IDF           Institutional Development Fund
IFC           International Finance Corporation
ILO           Intemational Labour Organisation
IRR           Intemal Rate of Retum
kWh           Kilowatt hours
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
SAC           Structural Adjustment Credt
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SPFA          State Production Fuel Agency
USAID         United States Agency for Intemational Development
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:   Roger W. Grawe
Sector Director:  Hossein Razavi
Task Team Leader:    Jann Masterson



MOLDOVA
ENERGY PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               12
6. Sustainability                                                                   14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    15
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  18
9. Partner Comments                                                                 19
10. Additional Information                                                          19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               29
Annex 8. Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective (IBRD Ln. 4020-MD)          30






Project ID: P008555                                       Project Name: ENERGY
Team Leader: Jann Masterson                               TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 29, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: ENERGY                                         L/C/TF Number: SCL-40200
Country/Department: MOLDOVA                                              Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: GS - Refining, Storage & Distribution; PT - Thermal
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:    10/22/1993                            Effective: 08/16/1996         01/31/1997
Appraisal:  01/06/1995                                MTR: 10/31/1997           10/25/1999
Approval:  05/23/1996                              Closing: 06/30/2000          12/31/2001
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA/MOLDOVAGAS; REPUBLIC OF
MOLDOVA/CHISINAU CHP2
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                          W. Thalwitz
Country Manager:     Roger W. Grawe                            Basil Kavalsky
Sector Manager:      Hossein Razavi                            Dominique Lallement
Team Leader at ICR:  Jann Masterson                            Barbara Evans
ICR Primary Author:  Jann Masterson; Margaret A.
Wilson
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Perfornmance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The original project objectives were to: (i) strengthen the financial management and accounting systems
that are needed in order to place gas and electricity sales on a commercial basis, and establish Moldovagas
and Moldenergo as financially viable energy enterprises; and (ii) improve the measurement of consumed
energy and the efficiency of electricity production in order to reduce losses and waste of costly imported
fuels.
Context: The objectives and design of the Energy Project need to be assessed in the context of (i)
Moldova's heavy dependence on imported energy (it imports over 99 percent of its primary energy
requirements, with Russia as the main supplier); and (ii) the economic contraction, terms-of-trade shock
and decline in real wages which Moldova experienced following the break-up of the former Soviet Union
(FSU). The most serious policy problem in the energy sector since 1991 has been the inability to place
Moldova's energy consumption on an economic basis, as a result of: (a) energy prices that did not reflect
full costs; (b) widespread energy system losses and theft, amounting to 50 percent of consumed electricity
in some regions; (c) inadequate metering, accounting, and control systems for conducting energy sales as an
economic transaction; (d) Government's reluctance to terminate deliveries to nonpaying customers; and (e)
the focus, inherited from Soviet times, on maximizing production volume at the expense of economic
efficiency and profitability. These problems had brought Moldova's energy agencies to the brink of
insolvency, and delayed structural reformn in the energy-consuming sectors and permitted the build-up of
large debts to external creditors. Such debts exceeded US$300 million as of May 1995.
The project was the first loan to the Moldovan energy sector. The project was envisaged by the Bank as a
limited, focussed intervention, intended only as a first step in moving the energy sector toward better
economic and financial management.
The Energy Project was consistent with the joint IBRD/IDA/IFC Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
discussed by the Bank's Board on May 7, 1996. The CAS recognized the macroeconomic impact of
Moldova's large energy debt, and that the restoration of the competitiveness of the economy required a
substantial reduction in its energy intensity. While the bulk of the reduction in energy intensity was
expected to come about through a hardening of budgetary constraints and policy reforms, and these
measures were key requirements under the Second Structural Adjustment Loan, the Energy Project was
expected to install a significant amount of the hardware needed to enforce payment discipline and also
reduce gas losses, and improve energy efficiency at one combined heat and power generation plant.
The main risk identified was the possibility that Government and energy agencies would be reluctant to
fulfill key items of the Financial Action Plan, which could seriously undermine the financial position of the
energy agencies. Key measures of the Financial Action Plan and planned due dates were as follows:
*   Development of a Regulatory Framework for Energy Supply: Implement new rules of supply and
use for each energy resource in order to define relations between suppliers and consumers, including:
(a) procedures for termination of non-paying customers, (b) measures to reduce high non-technical
losses of electricity and unrecorded consumption (meter bypass), (c) Government will not force the
energy companies to supply non-paying customers on credit or otherwise interfere with disconnection
of non-payers, (d) the energy companies will supply industrial and commercial agents only pursuant to
supply and payment contracts, (e) customers that do not respect their contracts will be disconnected,
and efforts will be made to improve reliability of deliveries to paying customers (June 1996);
- 2 -



*   Billing and Financial Management Systems: Data systems will be put in place at Moldovagas and
Moldenergo that allow daily, real-time monitoring of deliveries to all economic agents and budget
organizations, monitoring of payment performance, and supervision to ensure that non-payers have
been disconnected in a timely manner;
*   Tariff Reform: Govemment to present to Parliament a new law on Social Protection, establishing a
timetable to replace the existing energy-tariff discounts with targeted direct subsidies to needy
consumers financed from the State Budget (January 1, 1997);
*   Electricity Tariffs: (a) Increase residential electricity tariffs by at least 40% relative to current levels
and maintain industrial tariffs at levels providing coverage of all operating costs (May 1996); (b)
Periodically adjust residential tariffs as necessary to ensure that they at least recover cash operating
costs, including production costs, fuel, maintenance, etc. (ongoing); (c) Phase out remaining cross
subsidies between industry and households in electricity tariffs (December 1998); (d) Complete an
impact analysis of lifeline levels and tariffs on various income groups, and prepare a govemment
Resolution to adjust lower-tier lifeline consumption levels (March 1997);
*   Natural Gas Tariffs: (a) Residential gas tariffs will be maintained at cost-recovery levels with
adjustments as needed to reflect changes in import prices and exchange rates. Tariffs for industrial
consumers and for power generation will remain at current levels, adjusted regularly to reflect changes
in costs (May 1996), (b) Cross subsidies in gas tariffs will be phased out to achieve a unified level for
all customers (December 1997);
*   Heafing Tariffs: (a) Residential heating tariffs will be raised by at least 40%, to approximately 25%
of production costs. Tariffs to other categories of consumers will remain at existing levels (May 1996),
(b) Cross subsidies will be phased out over several years, in conjunction with the introduction of
targeted direct subsidies to needy consumers. The Department of Energy and the Ministry of Economy
will complete a detailed study of Heating Tariffs and impact on various consumers groups by April
1997. Recommendations agreed with the World Bank will be phased in by April 2001 (April 1997 and
ongoing);
*   Management of Energy Indebtedness: (a) No future growth of consumer energy debts: For
electricity overall collection of payments will be maintained at at least 80 percent of billings for 1996
and 100 percent on an annual basis thereafter. For gas, overall collections will be at least 60% in
1996, 80% in 1997, and 100% thereafter (Ongoing); (b) Cash Collection Targets: The ratio of cash
collections to barter settlements will be targeted to increase as outlined in the Financial targets
(1996-Ongoing);
*   Resolution of Past Debts Owed by the Energy Companies to Suppliers and Creditors: The
Department of Energy will prepare with Moldovagas and Moldenergo a Debt Management Plan for
Moldovagas and Moldenergo. (a) These plan will quantify the now-existing debt balances owed to all
creditors, including: Gazprom, The Government of Moldova, Commercial banks, Other Economic
Agents. (b) For the future period through 2001, the plan will explain measures that will be pursued to
reduce or reschedule the existing debt balances. Based on these hypotheses, the plan will provide an
estimate of how  quickly the debt balances owed to the above four categories of creditors can be
reduced and these debt settlements will affect the companies' financial position. (c) The plan will also
set specific collection targets for reducing and eventually eliminating overdue receivables. (d) The plan
will be submitted to the World Bank and measures for its implementation agreed (October 1996).
- 3 -



*   Financial Targets:
1996          1997         1998
Collections  Cash/Barter Ratio           30/70         70/30
Quick Ratio  Moldenergo                  0.6           0.7
Moldovagas                    1.0          1.0
Debt Service Ratio                                     1.2           1.5
Reduction of Energy Losses
Gas                                    30% reduction of losses in 1997
Electricity                           10% reduction of losses in 1997
A timebound implementation plan was agreed at negotiations, and up-front actions were taken on several
key items. After the first year of project implementation, the reform measures under the Financial Action
Plan were shifted to the Second Structural Adjustment Loan, which offered government incentives to
implement difficult energy sector reforms. Collection targets were made more realistic in the Letter of
Development Policy of SAL II. In retrospect, the Financial Action Plan as designed was unachievable in
its totality (even utilities in developed countries do not achieve 100 percent collections) in the envisaged
timeframe, but its value lay in setting targets and opening a dialogue with government on measures that
could be taken to improve the crisis situation in the energy sector.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Development objective (i), as originally stated, was ambiguous and juxtaposed the objective itself
("strengthen the financial management and accounting systems of Moldovagas and Chisinau CHP2") with
the reasons for having the objective ("in order to place gas and electricity sales on a commercial basis and
establish Moldovagas and Chisinau CHP2 as financially viable energy enterprises). Strengthening the
financial management and accounting systems alone -- while essential -- would not be enough to establish
financially viable energy enterprises. This juxtaposition led to an ambiguity as to what the project
objective really was, which could have been interpreted as "establishment of Moldovagas and Chisinau
CHP2 as financially viable energy enterprises", which was inconsistent with the nature and scope of the
project. After two years in which the achievement of the development objective was rated unsatisfactory
due to the ambiguity of the development objective and to Government's inability to meet all the targets in
the Financial Action Plan, in June 1999, the Loan Agreement was amended to restate the development
objective as follows:
The project would: (i) strengthen the accounting systems of Moldovagas and Chisinau CHP2 in order to
improve the billing of customers, tracking of payments and operating costs, and facilitate financial decision
making; and (ii) improve the measurement of consumed energy and the efficiency of electricity production
in order to reduce losses and waste of costly imported fuels.
Restatement of this objective did not amount to a restructuring. It was approved at the Director level and
reported in the Monthly Report to the Executive Directors. Monitoring indicators for the restated objective
were also revised so that they were no longer the Financial Action Plan targets, but indicators related to the
restated objective.
3.3 Original Conmponents:
The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) included five components:
-4-



Component 1: Overhaul of the Chisinau No. 2 Combined Heat and Power (CHP) Plant:
Cost: US$1.2 million (appraisal estimate); US$1.99 (actual cost).
The project was expected to reduce fuel consumption and restore operating efficiency, which had
deteriorated due to deferred maintenance. The work included: repair of air preheaters, boiler tubing
replacement, condenser cleaning, repair of the water demineralizing system, maintenance of the circulating
and main feeding pumps, fitting and piping for the district heating system and miscellaneous parts for the
plant.
Component 2: Repair of Approximately 180 Leaky Gas Distribution Points:
Cost: US$1.0 million (appraisal estimate); US$ 0.79 (actual cost).
Gas leakage, operating inefficiencies, and unscheduled outages were to be reduced by replacing obsolete
pressure transmitters and indicators, installing safety devices, and replacing leaking distribution lines at
roughly 180 of the 800 distribution points (consumer stations) where imported gas enters the domestic
distribution network.
Component 3: Gas Meter Installation:
Cost: US$12.2 million (appraisal estimate); US$9.17 (actual cost).
A pilot program of gas meter installation was to be carried out for all consumer groups in order to begin
the process of universal metering, improve the accuracy where meters already exist and reduce losses. The
program was to install 30,000 household meters and 7,000 apartment risers (multiple households) for
consumers who did not currently have any meters. In addition, existing meters would be replaced with
more accurate metering systems for 60 large industrial customers and 2,100 commercial customers.
Component 4: Upgrade of Accounting and Billing Systems and Financial Management.
Cost: US$2.4 million (appraisal estimate); US$0.17 (actual cost).
Moldenergo and Moldovagas were to receive computer system upgrades, consultant services and training in
administrative procedures in order to improve intemal collection and handling of operational data, to
improve billing and financial management. These upgrades were needed in order to reduce nontechnical
energy losses, facilitate better financial decision-making and to support implementation of subsequent
sector reforms. The accounting assistance was to be divided into four implementation phases: (a) phase 1:
irnprovement in accounting data; (b) phase 2: management information systems; (c) phase 3: conversion
of financial statements to an accruals basis using IAS; and (d) phase 4: parallel accounts/full accruals
accounting.
Component 5: Project Management and Implementation Assistance:
Cost: US$0.7 million (appraisal estimate); US$0.53 (actual cost).
Since this was the first investrnent project in the Moldovan energy sector, technical assistance was to be
provided to Moldovagas and Moldenergo in project management and in preparing bidding documents and
carrying out World Bank procurement procedures. Technical assistance was also required to finalize the
metering design and specifications.
The design of the five components was clearly linked to the objectives described above. Due to the limited
capacity of the Moldovan energy sector to borrow, the project components were selected in areas where
investments could contribute immediately and directly to the sector's financial recovery, while
simultaneously taking the first step in what would need to be a much more substantial investment program
in the sector.
3.4 Rev ised Components:
Although the components were not revised (no new components, no deletion of components) during
- 5 -



implementation, the amounts allocated to each component were revised through reallocations and
amendments during the Project.
Component 1: Overhaul of the Chisinau No. 2 Combined Heat and Power (CHP) Plant: This
component was increased at the request of the government from US$1.2 million to US$1.99 million in
order to finance additional urgently needed equipment.
Component 2: Repair of Approximately 180 Leaky Gas Distribution Points: This component was
decreased from US$1.0 million to US$0.79 million due to the restructuring of Moldovagas mid-way
through the project. Control of the distribution points was passed to the regional gas enterprises, and
Moldovagas lost its oversight function. Installation of the equipment procured for the gas distribution
points lagged considerably and some equipment was stolen before it could be installed (the equipment was
eventually recovered). Moldovagas and the PIU were also unable to obtain information from the regional
enterprises about how much equipment had been installed (this situation eventually improved, but was a
deciding factor in the decision to reduce this component).. As a result, Moldovagas requested to reallocate
the unspent funds in this component to the purchase of metering, over which it did have control. This
request was approved by an amendment signed by the Director and reported in the monthly report to the
Executive Directors.
Component 3: Gas Meter Installation: The gas metering program amount is about US$3.0 million less
than the appraisal estimate, primarily because the prices of meters were much cheaper than originally
estimated, and also because of the dramatic depreciation of the Moldovan Lei, which resulted in less local
financing than originally estimated.
Component 4: Upgrade of Accounting and Billing Systems and Financial Management: This
component was reduced from US$2.4 million to US$0.17 million since the financing was done entirely by
Moldovagas and Chisinau CHP2, in order to meet the government's requirements for the adoption of
Moldovan National Accounting Standards (similar to IAS). Additional financing was provided by
USAID as part of its overall program in Moldova, but these amounts are difficult to track, and have not
been included in the actual costs.
Component 5: Project Management and Implementation Assistance: This component is roughly the
same amount as envisaged at appraisal, but when the PIU was established in April 1998, with three full
time staff, operating costs of the PIU were included in this component.
3.5 Quality at EntrY:
Quality at entry was not formally assessed for the project. The ICR rating of quality at entry is
satisfactory. The project was prepared before the use of the log-frame became commonplace, and the
objectives were somewhat ambiguous, without a clear link to expected outcome and outputs. Despite this
shortcoming, the project was well prepared, and adequate implementation arrangements were in place for
project start-up.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Ouitcie/achieveoment of objective:
Original Objective: Strengthen the financial management and accounting systems that are needed in
order to place gas and electricity sales on a commercial basis, and establish Moldovagas and
Moldenergo as financially viable energy enterprises.
- 6 -



Restated Objective: Strengthen the accounting systems of Moldovagas and Chisinau CHP2 in order
to improve billing of customers, tracking of payments and operating costs, and facilitate financial
decision making.
Both the original and restated objectives have been achieved. Following a 2 year period in which the
achievement of the original development objective was rated unsatisfactory, due to the mixed performance
in fulfilling the Financial Action Plan agreed at negotiations, this development objective was restated to
remove ambiguity, and a new set of monitoring indicators was developed. Although at the time the
objective was restated there was uneven progress in meeting the conditions of the Financial Action Plan
(legislation had been enacted, an independent regulator had been established and was functioning
satisfactorily, tariffs for gas and electricity had been increased, but collections had registered only slight
improvements and each year decreased dramatically during the winter season, and energy debts for gas
imports continued to rise), by the end of the Project, as a result of the energy privatization dialogue under
SAL 11 and SAC III, electricity collections had improved dramatically with the privatization of 3 of the 5
electricity distribution companies.
In conjunction with the installation of universal gas metering, Moldovagas eventually took steps long
recommended in the Financial Action Plan to improve its commercial practices, i.e., by creating a special
unit for gas meter read-out at household and industrial consumers, timely billing, and cutting off the
nonpaying customers. Moldovagas also increased its gas consumption norms for customers who did not
have meters, so that their payments were cioser to the real gas usage. Collections from the population for
supplied gas improved significantly in recent years, with the population paying almost 100 percent of its
gas consumption. The main non-payers now are the large energy sector consumers such as CHP 1, CHP2
and Ternocom, which pay only about 58 percent. Moldovagas' total collections for the year 1997 were 62
percent (of which 15% in cash; the remaining in barter). During the first nine months of 2001 total
collections reached 72 percent.
The restated development objective was also met. Staff of Moldovagas and Chisinau CHP2 were trained
in the new Moldovan National Accounting Standards. Both Moldovagas and Chisinau CHP2 adopted the
new National Accounting Standards and their financial statements beginning in January 1998 were
prepared in accordance with the National Accounting Standards. Full audits of the underlying accounting
data, including comprehensive management letters, were carried out annually by independent auditors, and
all audit reports were unqualified.
Improve the measurement of consumed energy and the efficiency of electricity production in order to
reduce losses and waste of costly imported fuels. With the help of the Energy Project, Moldovagas
embarked on a program of universal metering and went from a situation in 1996, where only industrial and
commercial customers were metered, often with highly inaccurate meters, and individual residential
consumers had no meters and were billed according to "norms", to the current situation. Now, 100 percent
of industrial consumers, 92 percent of household consumers, 98 percent of apartment consumers (this
figure is a bit misleading, because some of the meters are on apartment risers, serving 10- 15 apartments,
and the apartments are not individually metered), and 99 percent of social consumers are billed according
to metered consumption (compared to an appraisal target of 60 percent of total gas consumers). (In
Moldova, the customer is responsible for purchasing the gas meters, and the meters are the property of the
customer, rather than the gas company, so the expenses for purchasing and installation of the meters were
paid by the customers. The customers were free to purchase the meters from Moldovagas or on the open
market, so not all the meters were financed by the Loan.) Gas losses at the gas distribution and consumer
stations were significantly reduced as a result of the installation of gas pressure regulators, meters and flow
computers, and service became more reliable, once the distribution and consumer stations were able to
- 7 -



provide a steady, regular pressure to consumers. Between 1998-2000 gas measurement equipment at 75%
of the transmission/acceptance stations was modernized by replacing gas meters type DSS-712 with
electronic high performance instantaneous devices "Superflow-2". Emission of leaking gas due to faulty
regulators was also reduced. Gas losses fell from 0.8 percent in 1997 to 0.18 percent in 2000. Equipment
purchased for rehabilitation of Chisinau CHP2 Plant resulted in improved plant performance and
reliability. However, because of the bankruptcy of Termocom (the district heating company for
Chisinau), which was the major customer of Chisinau CHP2 Plant, since 1999, the plant has been operated
with frequent interruptions and sub-optimally.
On the basis of the above analysis, achievement of the project objectives is rated as satisfactory.
4.2 Outputts by coo7ponents:
Component 1: Overhaul of the Chisinau No. 2 Combined Heat and Power (CHP) Plant: At the time
of appraisal, the anticipated economic benefits from the overhaul of the CHP plant accrued mainly in the
form of increased fuel efficiency at the CHP plant. The fuel consumption per kWh at the time of appraisal,
as well as the projected fuel consumption on completion of the project, presumed that the plant would
continue to operate primarily as a cogeneration plant - with electricity production being driven by heat
demand. Over the course of the project, however, the physical and financial condition of the central heating
networks deteriorated badly, and the amount of heat dispatched from Chisinau CHP2 declined steadily.
However, since electricity was in short supply, the plant continued to be operated increasingly in
condensing mode. This change in operating regime has had a significant impact on the fuel efficiency of
the plant. Unfortunately, the data on heat production and heat fuel efficiency that was collected at the time
of appraisal is insufficient to allow construction of a scenario that would allow comparison of the plant
efficiency before and after the project. The project financed: chemicals for water treatment during the
1998-99 winter period, measuring devices (pH meters, salt-meters, scales, etc.), spare parts for
turbo-generators, two water retainers for water cooling towers, condensation pumps, computers and
photocopiers for the accounting department, motor operated gate valves, and thyristor excitation systems
for the 3 generators. These investments made it possible to undertake normal maintenance to keep the plant
in a reliable operating condition, to renew obsolete equipment whose lifetime had expired and to prevent
further deterioration. The installation of water retainers decreased water losses and resulted in an annual
savings of about 1328.6 thousand Moldovan Lei. The installation of chemical control and measuring
devices halved the amount of chemical reagents required to produce chemically purified and desalinated
water. Installation of automatic chemical control devices decreased the amount of sedimentation on the
surface of the heat-exchange apparatus of the boilers, which reduced the temperature of effluent gas,
decreased labor costs, and increased the reliability of equipment operation. Plant management has indicated
that plant reliability and efficiency have both improved, but direct evidence that this is in fact the case
cannot be established due to insufficient baseline data.
Component 2: Repair of Leaky Gas Distribution Points: Gas leakage, operating inefficiencies, and
unscheduled outages were reduced by replacing 142 obsolete pressure regulators and pressure transmitters,
installing safety devices, meters, and installing 20 super flow computers at gas distribution points (gate
stations).
Component 3: Gas Meter Installation: The Project (loan plus Moldovagas and customers) financed the
acquisition of 236,521 meters, including: 135,082 meters for households, 6,825 apartment riser meters,
91,385 meters for individual apartments; 621 industrial meters and 2608 meters for social objects, as well
as a gas calibration facility for large industrial meters. The gas calibration facility, enabled the industrial
meters to be verified at the facility in Moldova and eliminated the need for costly transportation outside
Moldova for calibration. Of the 127,417 meters financed from the Loan, about 89,000 have been
- 8 -



installed. Moldova went from a pre-project situation where there was no residential metering to a
post-project situation with a universal metering program in place that covered about 92 percent of
household gas consumers and 98 percent of apartment consumers. The project vastly exceeded the
appraisal targets of 37,000 meters installed, with 23,710 customers billed with meters. Moldovagas
indicates that 373,399 customers are billed via meters (this number is larger than the number of meters
because it includes multiple apartments metered by a single meter at the apartment riser).
The results of the two gas components (2 and 3 above) in terms of both loss reduction and increased
consumption efficiency were substantial. Owing either to repair of distribution points, to improved gas
accounting as a result of metering, or improved commercial practices by Moldovagas, system losses fell
from 0.8 percent to 0.18 percent of total gas throughput (including transit). In addition, total gas
consumption within Moldova (which presumably in the past included unmetered and hence unbilled
consumption) has declined by 32 percent.
Component 4: Upgrade of Accounting and Billing Systems and Financial Management: As a result of
an IDF Grant for accounting, international accounting standards were introduced in Moldova and the
government adopted new National Accounting Standards, developed with the assistance of international
organizations such as the World Bank and USAID. Government made these standards mandatory for all
enterprises beginning January 1, 1998. Moldovagas and Chisinau CHP2 Plant took all necessary actions
for transition of their accounts and financial procedures to the new National Accounting Standards.
Training for their accounting staff was also provided, from sources other than the project. Beginning
January 1, 1998, the financial statements of Moldovagas and Chisinau CHP2 Plant were prepared in
accordance with the National Accounting Standards. All audit opinions were unqualified.
Component 5: Project Management and Implementation Assistance. The loan was intended to
finance technical assistance to Moldovagas and Chisinau CHP2 Plant in project management and
procurement; however, because the project was financed by an IBRD loan, the government was extremely
reluctant to use the loan funds to finance technical assistance. The task team sought and obtained grant
financing from the Netherlands Consultant Trust Fund for project implementation assistance. This
assistance included a gas specialist, a power engineer, a project management specialist and a procurement
specialist. During the first year and a half of implementation (February 1997-October 1998) the
implementation consultants assisted the PIU, Moldovagas and Chisinau CHP2 in development of technical
specifications, preparation of bidding documents, and evaluation of bids/offers, as well as project
management assistance, including preparation of quarterly progress reports. They provided on-the-job
training to the PIU, and by the end of their assignment, the PIU prepared the quarterly progress report, and
took over responsibility for procurement. The loan also provided consultant services to design and set-up a
financial management system, which performed well throughout the Project. USAID provided considerable
technical assistance as part of its overall program in Moldova in the area of energy sector reforms and also
provided a useful twinning arrangement with a U.S. gas company to improve Moldovagas' knowledge of
international practices in gas company operations and in billing and collections. The IBRD loan financed
the annual audits of the project accounts and the accounts of Moldovagas and Chisinau CHP2, and the
operating costs of the Project Implementation Unit.
4.3 Net Present Value/lEcononmic rate of return:
(a) Overhaul of the Chisinau No. 2 Combined Heat and Power (CHP) . Owing to insufficient data on the
extent of improvements in fuel efficiency, we are unable to calculate the actual EIRR of this component.
(b) Gas Network Rehabilitation and Metering. The IRR currently projected for the repair and metering of
the gas distribution network vastly exceeds the expectations at the time of project appraisal. For the gas
-9-



rehabilitation and metering component, the projected economic rate of return at the time of Board
presentation was 12.6 percent. One of the contributory factors to the EIRR was the assumption that there
would be a decline in consumer surplus as a result of customers no longer getting gas for free. This decline
was valued at the tariff. We would, however, suggest that this overstates the lost consumer surplus. If
customers had been willing to pay the tariff, then there would be no decrease in consumption as a result of
more accurate metering. Hence, the value of willingness to pay (and hence in this instance of consumer
surplus) lies somewhere between the tariff and zero. For purposes of this analysis it has been valued at 50
percent of the tariff (including VAT). Based on the economic price of gas savings (and including the l3st
consumer surplus as discussed above), the EIRR of the repair and metering initiatives is estimated to be
3,117 percent. Net present value at 10 percent is estimated to be $194.8 million, as compared with $1.2
million estimated at the time of appraisal. The main reasons for the increase are that the original analysis
did not anticipate the large reduction in system losses (which alone are sufficient to recover the cost of the
program). In addition, restating the value of lost consumer surplus has a significant positive impact on the
net benefits.
(c) Overall Project. In the absence of a basis for estimating the benefits of the CHP component of the
project, the consolidated EIRR includes the costs from both investment components, but only the benefits
associated with the gas component. The overall EIRR is estimated at 674 percent. Net present value at 10
percent is estimated to be $182 million.
4 4 Financial rate of return:
(a) Overhaul of the Chisinau No. 2 Combined Heat and Power (CHP) Plant Owing to insufficient data on
the extent of improvements in fuel efficiency, we are unable to calculate the actual FIRR of this component.
(b) Gas Component. For the Gas component (including the metering and repair of distribution points), the
FIRR was estimated at 226.5 percent at the time of Board presentation. Based on actual results in terms of
both reduction in technical losses and savings due to reductions in unbilled consumption, the FIRR is
currently estimated at 9,488 percent. Net present value at 10 percent is $563.7 million.
(c) Overall Project. The consolidated FIRR of the project, which includes the costs from both investment
components, but only the benefits associated with the gas component, is estimated at 2,576 percent. Net
present value at 10 percent is estimated to be $551.3 million.
4.5 Instituitional development inmpact
To avert the escalating energy crisis in the mid-1990's, Moldova embarked on an ambitious set of reforms
in the energy sector, the main elements of which were:
*   development of a new, market oriented legalframework: A new set of energy laws, codifying
separation of regulatory, policy and ownership functions, allowing private ownership in the energy
sector, unbundling and corporatization of the industry, and liberalization of energy trading was adopted
in 1998.
*   establishment of an independent energy regulatory agency (ANRE) in 1997.
*   restructuring and corporatization: The country's vertically integrated electricity monopoly
(Moldenergo) was unbundled into 5 distribution companies, 4 generation companies (3 combined heat
and power plants, and a small hydropower plant), and Moldelectrica, a transmission and distribution
company. All companies were converted into joint stock corporations, except Moldelectrica, which is a
state enterprise. The country's district heating networks were transferred from the central state to the
municipal governments.
*   changing electricity trading rules: In 1999, electricity trading rules were changed so that distribution
- 10 -



companies were made solely responsible for contracting directly with importers and domestic
generators sufficient amounts of electricity to supply their customers. This model displaced the single
buyer model, where the single buyer (Moldtranselectro) imported electricity or bought it from domestic
generators and sold it to distribution companies. In conjunction with the privatization of a substantial
share of electricity distribution (about 70%), this bilateral contracts-based market allowed significant
reduction of the state's direct or indirect involvement in electricity trading, unlike in the case of
single-buyer trading arrangements, through which the state usually continues to exercise its influence
and/or accumulate direct and contingent liabilities.
*    debt restructuring: Historic debts of the electricity sector - accumulated by distribution companies
before their privatization and by Moldtranselectro - were transferred and consolidated on the books of
Moldtranselectro, which became a debt-holding company, without any involvement in the sector's
operations.
*   adjusting the level and the structure of tariffs: In the pre-reform period (before 1997), nonresidential
tariffs for all types of energy were significantly higher than residential, and all tariffs were generally
below costs. For example, residential electricity tariffs in 1996 were between 1.2-1.6 US c/kWh
(average tariffs were below 3 US c/kWh). This implied significant cross-subsidies to residential
consumers for energy consumption. In 1997, tariffs were increased and equalized for all consumers to
about 5.1 US c/kWh, a level which has been more or less maintained since then.
* reducing and re-targeting subsidies for energy consumption: Subsidies for electricity, heating and
gas have been substantially reduced in 2000 and brought in line with budget means by eliminating a
number of groups whose eligibility was unrelated to their income.
*   privatization of electricity distribution companies: Three of the five electricity distribution
companies, covering about 70% of the market, were sold in February 2000 to Union Fenosa, an
international investor and electricity operator from Spain, through an open international tender.
*   divestiture of the gas industry: The majority of shares in Moldovagas - the country's monopoly gas
supplier - were sold to Russia's Gazprom, in exchange for a portion of the debt.
These achievements have put the energy sector in Moldova at the forefront of economic reforms in the
country and at the forefront of energy sector reforms among the FSU countries. The reform achievements
have started to show important benefits, and have improved the sectoral environment:
* payment collections increased, especially for electricity: Both privatized and state-owned electricity
distribution companies have improved their collections. While some problems with collecting from
state-owned entities remain, such as district heating and water companies, state-owned distribution
companies have been collecting between 90 percent and 100 percent, with cash collections now
exceeding 70 percent (in the mid-1990's, cash collections were about 30-40 percent). Exact collection
figures for the private companies are not known, but they pay fully for all their financial obligations.
* reliability of energy supply improved& Reliability of energy supply improved dramatically, especially
in the areas outside the capital, Chisinau.
* electricity import prices to the privatized companies have dropped substantially (by 25-30 percent),
as the creditworthiness and credibility of the companies improved.
*   quasi-fiscal deficits reduced: The Government stopped accumulating external debt for gas and
electricity imports, except for the electricity supply in non-privatized areas.
As part of project preparation, the Moldovan authorities and the Bank worked closely to develop a
comprehensive framework for financial rehabilitation of the energy sector. A comprehensive Financial
Action Plan, which included development of a regulatory framework for energy supply, improved billing
and financial management systems, reduction of tariff discounts, increase in residential tariffs for
electricity, natural gas and heating, management of energy indebtedness, and resolution of past debts owed
-1 1-



by the energy companies, was agreed on during negotiations and covenanted in the legal agreements.
Supervision missions monitored implementation of the Financial Action Plan during the first year of the
project, and many of the actions were taken, although debts continued to increase and collections remained
low. It was decided to incorporate the Financial Action Plan into the Second Structural Adjustment Loan,
and subsequently this was monitored through the energy sector dialogue that was part of the adjustment
program. The significant accomplishments made by Moldova in reforming its energy sector cannot be
considered as the result of the US$10 million investment project, but should be viewed as the result of the
ongoing energy sector reform dialogue pursued as part of the adjustment program that began during
preparation of the Energy Project, when the Financial Action Plan was developed and agreed with
Government. Both the introduction of a universal gas metering program financed by the project and the
privatization of Moldovagas played a major role in facilitating its transition to a more commercial
operation. The institutional development impact is characterized as "modest" because most of the energy
sector reforms are attributed to the adjustment program rather than directly to the Energy Project.
The beneficiaries of the Project (Moldovagas and Chisinau CHP2) were introduced to annual audit reports
by independent auditors, completed their conversion to Moldovan National Accounting Standards (which
were similar to IAS), and became familiar with competitive procurement procedures and contracting (for
example, some of the first contracts signed under the project were submitted to the Bank without a contract
signature date; however, by the end of the project, signed contracts were dated and completed properly).
Moldovagas adopted commercial practices such as meter reading, billing, revising the standard norms to
more realistic consumption for those consumers without meters, cutting off non-payers, and offering
installment payment plans for the customers purchasing meters.
The Project Implementation Unit gained considerable experience with Bank procurement and disbursement
procedures, contract management, and English, and is now serving as the project implementation unit for
the proposed Second Energy Project.
5. Major Factors Afiecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of governinent or implementing agency.
The main factor outside the control of the government was the total collapse of the heating sector
enterprises. The bankruptcy of Termocom (the Chisinau District Heating Company) negatively impacted
the operation of Chisinau CHP2 plant, forcing it to increasingly operate with interruptions and
sub-optimally. Termocom was Chisinau CHP2 Plant's main customer, and, when Termocom became
unable to pay for the heat it received from Chisinau CHP2 plant, Chisinau CHP2 plant was no longer able
to pay its suppliers.
5.2 Factors generally subject to goverinient control:
In 2000, Government imposed a 20 percent VAT on meter sales by Moldovagas to its customers, making
the remaining meters procured under the Loan uncompetitive on the local market. As a result of this
action, about 34,000 of the meters financed by the Loan had not been installed by the end of the project;
they are being installed gradually (about 1,200 per month), and should be completely installed in 2.5 to 3
years. According to information provided by Moldovagas, there are about 11,744 unmetered household
consumers and about 152,374 apartment consumers who may wish to purchase individual apartment
meters rather than relying on communal billing at the apartment riser. It is also assumed that new gas
consumers would be added.
The Government attempted to adhere to the Financial Action Plan, albeit with mixed results. However, by
the end of the Project, most of the specific measures in the Financial Action Plan had been implemented,
- 12 -



albeit much more slowly than the initial schedule.
In 1998, the country's vertically integrated electricity monopoly (Moldenergo, a beneficiary of the Project)
was unbundled into 5 distribution companies, 4 generation companies (3 combined heat-and power plants,
and a small hydropower plant), and Moldelectrica, a transmission and dispatch company. All companies
were converted into joint stock corporations, except Moldelectrica, which is a state enterprise. The
Ministry of Finance requested and was granted an amendment to the Loan Agreement and Project
Agreements substituting Chisinau CHP2 Plant for Moldenergo as a beneficiary of the loan proceeds.
Moldovagas was purchased by Gazprom, and the Govemment transferred its repayment and financial
reporting obligations to Chisinau-gaz SRL, a Moldovan owned subsidiary. Since all procurement under
the gas components had been completed, Government did not request an amendment to the Loan
Agreement.
5.3 Factors generally sutbject to implementing agency control:
Moldovagas made considerable efforts to improve its commercial practices (see 4.5) and achieved a
dramatic reduction in gas losses (see 4.2).
Chisinau CHP2 Plant had difficulty covering its share of local costs for installation of equipment procured
under the Project, and in some cases delayed installation by a year or more. Some items procured could not
be installed before the loan closing date, due to lack of funds or due to operational restrictions of the plant
(whereby only one unit could be shut down during the construction season). Installation of the second
water retainer is scheduled for summer 2002, and installation of the second and third excitation systems are
scheduled for summer 2002 and summer 2003 respectively.
Both Chisinau CHP2 and Moldovagas appointed competent teams to be responsible for technical
implementation. During the first year of the project, all procurement was done by these teams, as there
was no PIU, only a Project Coordinator, who was also Director of the Energy Department. Moldovagas
financed training for one of its employees in "Procurement of Goods" at the ILO training institute. This
employee was later appointed as the Procurement Specialist in the PIU. This demonstrates clearly the
implementing agencies' commitment to the project, although they may not always have had the financial
resources to organize installation in a timely manner.
The PIU was composed of three competent and motivated staff (Deputy Coordinator, Financial Officer and
Procurement Specialist) who managed the project satisfactorily. The PIU was recruited in April 1998, and
operated with considerable efficiency (total PIU operating costs financed by the Loan in the three years
from 1998-2001 were only $1 10,000, compared to approved annual operating budgets of
$80,000-$ 100,000).
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Costs: The total project cost came to about US$12.63 million (compared to an appraisal estimate of
US$17.5 million -- net of taxes), or about 72 percent of the appraisal estimate. There are four main
reasons for the reduction in project costs: (i) prices of gas meters were considerably lower than estimated
at appraisal, and although savings were applied to the purchase of additional meters, the actual cost of the
gas metering component was about US$3.0 million less than the appraisal estimate; (ii) local costs
decreased significantly due to depreciation of the Moldovan Leu against the US Dollar (actual local costs
were US$3.37 million compared to the appraisal estimate of US$5.7 million); (iii) USAID financing is not
included in the actual costs, as USAID manages these funds and it is difficult to extract the amount that is
project related from the overall USAID program; and (iv) the upgrade of the accounting and billing systems
was financed by Moldovagas/Chisinau-gaz and Chisinau CHP2 using their own resources instead of the
- 13 -



loan.
Financing: Most local financing was provided by Moldovagas, Chisinau-gaz, Chisinau CHP2 Plant, and
by customers of Moldovagas (metering) and was used to cover the costs of installation of the equipment
provided by the Loan, the accounting/computerization improvements to enable transition to the new
Moldovan National Accounting Standards, and social charges of PIU staff (financed by the Ministry of
Finance using the proceeds of a Grant from the Netherlands). A Dutch consultant trust fund of
US$189,821 financed project implementation consultants.
Disbursements. Loan effectiveness (and consequently, disbursements) was delayed by eight months from
Board approval in May 1996, due to delays in meeting the standard effectiveness conditions (ratification by
Parliament and signature of Subsidiary Loan Agreements). As a result of the delays in effectiveness, two
dated covenants in the Loan Agreement became due and became defacto conditions of effectiveness,
although once the standard conditions were met, the Bank agreed to extend the due dates to fulfill the two
conditions, and declared the Loan effective on January 31, 1997. Disbursements were slow during the first
year from Board approval, but picked up considerably once procurement got under way, partly because the
first year's procurement was primarily international shopping, which was much easier for new
implementing agencies to manage. The closing date was extended twice and the final closing date was 1.5
years after the original closing date. US$9.08 million of the IBRD Loan was disbursed (or about 91
percent of the US$ 10.0 million loan), leaving a balance of US$915,720.87, which was canceled on June
13, 2002.
6. Sustainabilitv
6.1 RationaleJ]rsustcainabiliti rating:
It is likely that the achievements of the project will be sustained, although there is a considerable short to
medium term risk associated with Termocom. Sustainability of the project depends largely on the
Government's willingness to continue and deepen the reforms begun under the First Energy Project and to
be continued through the proposed Second Energy Project and SAC III. Factors affecting the long-term
sustainability are:
*   commercial performance of Termocom, the Chisinau heating supplier, and its impact on commercial
performance of Chisinau CHP2 Plant and Moldovagas;
*   the ability and willingness of Moldovagas to enforce payment discipline;
*   financial performance of electricity distribution companies, and their impact on commercial viability of
Chisinau CHP2;
*   maintaining tariffs at cost recovery levels;
*   resolution of electricity sector debt overhang.
Moldovagas, after its privatization to Russia Gazprom, is making more of an effort to operate on a
commercial basis, and has improved collections from the population. The threat of gas cutoff to the
country has diminished considerably. Gas and electricity tariffs have been increased so that they cover full
operation and maintenance costs; however, heating tariffs are still kept artificially low. The reductions in
gas losses as a result of the project investments (universal metering program and repair of gas distribution
points) and the commercial measures Moldovagas has taken to reduce losses are expected to be sustained.
Moldovagas, with financing from EU TACIS, has begun a border gas metering program, which should
further reduce gas losses. Chisinau CHP2 Plant remains in a critical financial position, as its single
largest customer is Termocom, which is undergoing bankruptcy and is unable to pay for heating supplied
by Chisinau CHP2. Until the difficulties in the heating sector are resolved, Chisinau CHP2 Plant will
- 14 -



remain in a precarious financial condition. A plan is envisaged for the eventual privatization of Chisinau
CHP2 following privatization of the 2 remaining state-owned distribution companies.
The Second Energy Project and SAC III are good indicators that the dialogue on energy sector reforms will
continue.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
* The project was fully integrated into the regular operations of the beneficiaries, Moldovagas and
Chisinau CHP2 Plant, and equipment provided to both facilities is operating satisfactorily. The
IDA-financed follow-up Energy II Project is expected to provide further improvements in the electricity
transmission system, and implement heating supply and efficiency improvements. The energy sector
dialogue will be continued under SAC III and Energy II project, and it is likely that government will
continue with the reforms already put in place. USAID is financing a program of heating studies in an
effort to develop a viable residential heating program, which may lead to additional investments in the
heating sector.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
During the preparation period, which took almost 3 years from identification in August 1993 to Board
presentation in May 1996, the Bank thoroughly analyzed the energy sector in Moldova. The original
project concept, as conceived in the Initial Executive Project Summary, consisted of a US$35 million
Energy and Environrnent project to be financed by a US$30 million IBRD Loan. Project components were
to include the following investments: construction of oil storage and unloading facilities, electricity
transmission and dispatch upgrades, development of institutional capacity for environmental impact
assessments, financing of energy audits for industrial customers, and possibly a gas metering component.
As a result of this broad scope and the lack of information available on the energy sector in Moldova,
preparation required large missions with numerous technical experts such as petroleum engineers, gas
industry specialists, financial analysts, environmental specialists, and power engineers, as well as
economists. Extensive use was made of consultant trust funds (primarily Canada and the Netherlands) to
finance the specialized expertise. As more and more financial analysis work was completed, it became
evident that the financial condition of the proposed beneficiaries would not permit them to reimburse a
US$30 million loan, and the loan was decreased to US$10 million between the yellow and green cover
SARs. Because the Borrower was a relatively new Borrower and not experienced in implementing
investment projects, a considerable amount of resources were also devoted to explaining the role of the
World Bank, the role of the implementing agencies, the Bank's procurement and disbursements procedures,
etc.
The main failing of the Bank during this phase was the lack of continuity of Task Team Leaders. There
were two Task Team Leaders between identification and appraisal, an acting Task Team Leader between
negotiations and Board, and a new Task Team Leader was appointed at the beginning of the supervision
phase.
The physical project performance indicators were appropriate for measuring implementation progress, but
could have been better planned (much of the baseline data was to be collected during the project launch
workshop, but in actuality, it was extremely difficult to obtain such data from the beneficiaries, and the
task team was still requesting it later). The financial performance objectives were part of the Financial
Action Plan and were the correct indicators to measure financial performance of the sector and of the
beneficiaries. However, in retrospect, the difficulties to improve the sectoi's financial performance were
- 15 -



underestimated, although they were clearly identified and listed as risks. The financial indicators included
numerous measures that the govemment was unable to implement simultaneously (increase tariffs, improve
collections and cash collections, develop legal and regulatory framework, stop future growth of energy
debts, develop a debt management plan for the sector), or within the short timeframe of one to two years
specified in the Financial Action Plan.
The Bank adequately planned the implementation arrangements. Specific arrangements to create
implementing teams at Moldovagas and at Chisinau CHP2, under the overall coordination of a Project
Coordinator (who was also the Director of the Department of Energy), were put into place during project
preparation, and technical teams at each implementing agency were designated before effectiveness. An
intemational consultant was appointed to provide project implementation assistance to the implementing
teams.
The Bank initiated major structural and institutional reforms during project preparation, with the aim of
improving energy sector management, its financial performance and technical efficiency. These reforms
were expanded and continued during project implementation and after project completion, supported by the
Bank's adjustment operations, the proposed Energy II Project, and other donors.
Overall, the Bank's performance during the lending stage is rated as satisfactory.
7.2 Superviszon.
Project implementation progress was adequately reported. Implementation problems were, in general,
timely identified and addressed pro-actively. The performance ratings given in the PSRs were realistic,
with sufficient attention being paid to likely development impact. The Resident Mission played a vital role
in providing assistance to the Borrower during project implementation, helping the implementation teams at
Moldovagas and Chisinau CHP2 Plant and the new PIU to complete withdrawal applications, providing
copies of bidding documents, and serving as a liaison between the PIU and Washington (especially in the
early stage, when PIU staff were uncomfortable speaking English). The Resident Representative invited
PIU directors to monthly project implementation meetings, where they became acquainted with other PIU
directors and exchanged information about their projects.
During project implementation, it became clear that it was impossible to significantly improve the financial
position of the sector and of Moldovagas and Chisinau CHP2 while the companies remained under state
ownership, and that the only viable option was privatization. It also became evident that a USS 10 million
investment project was not the most appropriate vehicle to address energy sector reforms, and this dialogue
was instead pursued under the various structural adjustment loans and credits. In 1998/1999, the Financial
Action Plan agreed during project preparation was only partially being fulfilled (legislation had been
approved, tariffs had been increased, a debt management plan had been prepared, but was not being
implemented, and collections were not improving significantly). The adjustment energy dialogue focus
shifted to privatization as the most credible and efficient way to improve financial performance of the
sector and of Moldovagas and Chisinau CHP2. With the privatization of three of the five distribution
companies to a Spanish investor, electricity collections improved significantly for the three privatized
companies and also for the two state-owned companies. The majority of shares in Moldovagas were sold
to Russia's Gazprom, in exchange for a portion of the debt. Moldovagas' external debt is being reduced.
More significantly, given the change in Moldovagas' ownership structure, the government of Moldova is no
longer liable for Moldovagas' debts.
7.3 Overall Ban,kpeiforniance:
Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.
- 16 -



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Several Government agencies participated in the lengthy project preparation period, namely: Ministry of
Economy, Ministry of Finance, Department of Energy (there was no Ministry of Energy during project
preparation), State Production and Fuels Agency (SPFA), Moldovagas and Moldenergo. The key contact
during project preparation was the Department of Energy, which demonstrated strong ownership of the
Project. Government met 2 of the 3 conditions of negotiations (but was unable to increase collections to
80% during the winter months of January and February 1996), so this was moved to an effectiveness
condition. Prior to Board presentation, Government increased tariffs to fulfill the Board condition.
The performance of the Borrower at the preparation stage was satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation peiformance:
The Government's implementation performance is rated as satisfactory, particularly since this was the first
project financed by the Bank in the energy sector. The Ministry of Finance developed a system whereby
internationally financed projects listed in the annual central budget were exempt from VAT, customs and
other taxes, so that this worked in most cases without problems when goods and services were procured
under the project. For several months the Ministry of Finance was unable to pay local taxes and social
charges for PIU staff (which meant that PIU staff could not receive their salaries from the loan since taxes
were still owed), but this was resolved by a cofinancing grant from the Netherlands. The Ministry of
Finance proposed the establishment of the PIU with 3 full time staff, so that it would have a designated
contact point for record keeping, and reporting. This greatly facilitated project implementation and respect
of the Bank's fiduciary requirements. Initially, the Department of Energy and subsequently the Ministry of
Energy played a vital role in collecting and providing to the Bank information on losses, tariffs, collections,
etc., and in supporting energy sector reforms. In retrospect, although at times progress in implementing
energy sector reforms seemed maddeningly slow, by the end of the project the Government had completed
legal, institutional, and structural reforms of the energy sector, and taken many difficult steps necessary to
improve the financial condition of energy sector agencies. Government developed and implemented a legal
and regulatory framework, established an independent regulator (ANRE), increased electricity and gas
tariffs to cost recovery levels, phased out the cross-subsidies in electricity and gas tariffs between industries
and households, and gradually increased collections (including cash collections).
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agencies (Moldovagas, Chisinau CHP2 and the PIU) is rated as
satisfactory. Both beneficiaries (Moldovagas and Chisinau CHP2 Plant) were unfamiliar with Bank
procurement and disbursement procedures, but made efforts to comply with the unfamiliar procedures.
Moldovagas financed from its own funds training in procurement of goods at ILO for one of its staff, who
subsequently was competitively selected as the Procurement Specialist in the PIU. Before the PIU was
established in 1998, both Moldovagas and Chisinau CHP2 Plant had created project implementation teams
of technical and financial specialists, headed by a Deputy Director. Implementation of the Project during
1997/1998 was done by the teams at Moldovagas and Chisinau CHP2, who handled this responsibility in
addition to their regular workload. In 1998 the Ministry of Finance expressed a need for a full time unit to
coordinate the project and the Bank agreed to set up a Project Implementation Unit. The PIU was excellent
and performed satisfactorily throughout the project. All of the audits of the project accounts (managed by
the PIU) were unqualified. The Bank carried out an Independent Procurement Audit in 2001, which
indicated that, for the most part, procurement had been done in accordance with Bank procedures. No
instances were found that necessitated follow-up action by the Bank. The Procurement Auditor indicated
that procurement processing and filing had improved noticeably since the establishment of the PIU in April
- 17 -



1998, and that the PIU was among the most competent she had audited. Moldovagas and Chisinau CHP2
moved quickly to adopt the mandatory Moldovan National Accounting Standards, and made the necessary
investments in computers, software, training and staff, to transition to the new accounting system beginning
January 1, 1998.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The project offers the following lessons, ranging from sector policies, to general country issues, to project
implementation.
Sector Policy:
o   The most important lesson is that metering is important for commercialization and leads to significant
benefits.
*   Interventions should start at the point of interaction with end-customers: distribution (electricity, gas,
heat)
*   A small investment project is not the appropriate vehicle to implement major energy sector reforms, but
needs to be supported (as in this case) by adjustment operations with significant energy sector reform
components.
General Country Issues:
*   During the country financial management assessment, there is a need to consider whether the use of an
IDF grant, combined with funding with other donors, could facilitate the adoption of national
accounting standards based on Intemrational Accounting Standards. In the case of Moldova, a
multi-year IDF for accounting reform, coupled with assistance from USAID, encouraged the
govemment to prepare and adopt national accounting standards based on IAS. Training was provided
on the national level, and because the adoption of the new national accounting standards was
mandatory, there did not seem to be the resistance by energy companies to adopt IAS or similar
standards that seems prevalent in many other countries. The new standards were the law, and as such
companies made every effort to adopt them, in order to be in compliance with the law. A recent
financial assessment done during the preparation of Energy II indicated that the Moldovan National
Standards are no longer completely consistent with IAS, as changes have been made in iAS since the
Moldovan National Standards were adopted in 1998. Funding should perhaps be provided from a
regional or country source to continue the dialogue with government on iAS and ensure that the
national standards are updated.
Implementation:
*   It is essential to have a competent, full time PIU (paid from the loan or credit) in place from the
beginning of the project. The PIU itself came to this conclusion (elaborated in Annex 8). The PIU
was the only entity in the project whose staffing remained constant. The Directors, Deputy Directors,
Chief Accountants and Chief Engineers of Moldovagas and Chisinau CHP2 changed during
implementation of the project. The Department of Energy (which initially played a coordinating role)
was reorganized, and staff working on the project (in addition to their regular duties) left for better
paying jobs in the private sector. Some records disappeared with each change of staff when
- 18-



procurement was handled by the beneficiary companies. The PIU also indicated the need for the Bank
to develop a standard project accounting software, or at least provide a shortlist of software providers
with systems that comply with World Bank requirements. Each of the World Bank financed projects
in Moldova uses a different accounting software, which makes it impossible for the PIUs to leam by
exchanging experiences with other PIUs, requires each PIU to pay for additional training, and
considerably increases time and expense for new project preparation.
* As a result of the extreme reluctance of the Moldovan government to borrow from the Loan for
technical assistance, an attitude common to many borrowing countries in the FSU, the technical
assistance component of the project had to be scaled down or funded through grants from other donors.
It would be extremely useful to develop some sort of grant facility that could be used for technical
assistance to assist low income borrowers in day-to-day project implementation, developing technical
specifications, and managing the procurement process.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/inmplementing agency:
The complete, unedited ICR prepared by the Borrower is in Annex 8.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partzrers (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
Not applicable.
19-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
iF- :,, ':--:' * Idic  atr  -i  -.Pr Jectrdin.d l t'PSR  .  .          ActuaUlLatest Estimate
Strengthen the accounting systems of  Moldovan govemment provided training in  Moldovan government provided training in
Moldovagas and Chisinau CHP2 in order to  new accounting standards when they were  new accounting standards when they were
improve billing of customers, tracking of  introduced. Additional training was provided introduced Additional training was provided
payments and operabing costs, and facilitate by USAID and by Financial Managment  by USAID and by Financial Managment
financial decision making.           Consultant financed by the Project.  Consultant financed by the Project.
(i) training of the staff in the new accounting
standards;
(ii) adoption of the new accounting standards prepare financial statements in accordance  All audits beginning in 1999 have confirmed
by Moldovagas and Chisinau CHP2;     with NAS.                           that financial statements are prepared in
accordance with National Accounting
Standards (NAS).
(iii) full audit of the underlying accounting  Chisinau CHP2 2000 audit.  Chisinau CHP2 2000 audit received 8/28/01.
data including a comprehensive management Chisinau-gaz 2000 audit.        Chisinau-gaz 2000 audit received 8/28101.
letter highlighting any further weaknesses in Audit of project accounts for 2000  Audit of project accounts for 2000 received
the accounting system;                                                    6/30/01
(iv) preparation of financial statements on an Financial statements prepared in accordance Financial statements prepared in accordance
on-going basis according to the new  with NAS.                            with NAS, beginning in January 1998.
accounting standards.
% increase in metered & billed monthly gas  About 92% of households and 98% of  About 92% of household customers and 98%
consumption.                         apartment dwellers are billed via gas meters. of apartment dwellers are billed via gas
meters
The logframe matrix was not used at appraisal. This information migrated to the PSR with the advent of
SAP.
Output Indicators:
|       .  Indicator/Matrix*              -   Projected in last PSR               Aclual/Latest Estimate
Meters Installed                     88,942 (total from Loan), of which 38,421  236,521 (total) (about 127,417 financed
Household                            households; 49,449 apartments; and 1072  from Loan, about 89,000 installed); of the
Apartment                            commercialVindustnal/social.         total 236,521: 135,082 households; 6,825
apartment risers; 91,385 individual
apartments, 621 industrial, and 2608 social
objects.
No. of customers billed with meters  373,399                              373,399 (this number differs from no. of
meters installed, as apartments are often
metered with a meter at the nser, which could
meter 10-15 tenants/customers)
Metered and billed monthly gas consumption 92% of household customers and 98% of  92% of household customers and 98% of
apartment dwellers are billed via gas meters apartment dwellers are billed via gas meters
% of Rehabilitation Completed at Chisinau  98%                            98% (some installation to be completed in
CHP2                                                                      summers 2002 & 2003)
Reduction in fuel consumption        CHP2 has not been operating in a normal  CHP2 has not been operating in a normal
regime during 2000, 2001 and was frequently regime during 2000, 2001 and was frequently
shut down due to arrears/lack of fuel. Thus, it shut down due to arrears/lack of fuel. Thus, it
is impossible to make an accurate    is impossible to make an accurate
assessment.                          assessment
End of project
- 20 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
-  .*i-* .~~~~~~~~  ~ ~       = ~-Aprila sai   ' Actuial/Ld fteet"'f'
Proje6ctCost:By.Cofi on                 Sntillion .   ; .WS$ miion - - - - ;   -
Industrial Meters                                     2.70
Commercial Meters                                     0.80
Residential and Riser Meters                          6.90
Subtotal Metering Program                                            9.17           0.86
Repair of Gas Distribution Points                     0.90           0.79           1.15
Chisinau CHP2 Rehabilitation                          1.10           1.99           1.81
Accounting/Billing Systems                            2.10           0.17           0.08
Implementation Services                               0.60           0.38           0.63
Incremental Operating Costs of PIU                    0.00           0.13
Total Baseline Cost                                  15.10          12.63
Physical Contingencies                               1.20
Price Contingencies                                  1.20
Total Project Costs             17.50           12.63
Total Financing Required              17.50          12.63
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
: . . , - - -  .  i   g Procuiernent?Method' .-F
Expenditure Category  - , ,       /      ,- 2. .                          . Total.Cost
B .  .'B        .theC
1. Works                      0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                      8.70         0.00          1.10         5.70         15.50
(8.70)       (0.00)        (1.10)       (0.00)        (9.80)
3. Services                   0.00         0.00          0.20          1.80        2.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.20)       (0.00)        (0.20)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                      8.70          0.00         1.30          7.50         17.50
(8.70)       (0.00)        (1.30)        (0.00)      (10.00)
- 21 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category-.C.                    Procurement Method
.:- ExpernditureCategory       ICB             NCB.                          N-B.F.       Total Cost
1. Works                           0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                           6.98            0.00            1.79           3.35           12.12
(6.98)          (0.00)          (1.79)         (0.00)         (8.77)
3. Services                        0.00            0.00            0.20           0.18            0.38
(0.00)          (0.00)          (0.20)         (0.00)         (0.20)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00            0.00            0.11           0.02            0.13
(0.00)          (0.00)          (0. I 1)       (0.00)         (0. I 1)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                           6.98            0.00            2.10           3.55           12.63
(6.98)          (0.00)          (2.10)         (0.00)         (9.08)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
D Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
3/ Miscellaneous represents incremental operating costs of the PIU.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
: ~ - [                            ........ > . - . ] Percentage of Appraisal
Component         [      Appraisal Estimate             ActualULatest.Estimate     |
Bank       Govt.      CoF.       Bank       Govt.     .CoF.     Bank    Govt.   CoF.
Industrial Meters           0.00      3.20                                                  0.0     0.0
Commercial Meters           0.00       1.00                                                 0.0     0.0
Residential Meters          7.10       1.10                                                 0.0     0.0
Subtotal Metering          7.10       5.30                  6.42       2.75                90.4    51.9
Repair of Gas Distribution  1.00       0.10                 0.54        0.25                54.0   250.0
Points
Chisinau CHP2               1.20       0.20                  1.81       0.18               150.8    90.0
Rehabilitation
Accounting/Billing Systems  0.50      0.10       1.40       0.00        0.17                0.0    170.0    0.0
Implementation Services    0.20                  0.40       0.20                  0.18     100.0           45.0
Incremental Operating                                       0.11        0.02
Costs
TOTAL                      10.00      5.70       1.80       9.08        3.37      0.18      90.8    59.1    10.0
Local financing for metering program and repair of gas distribution points was providcd by Moldovagas, Chisinau-gaz and by
gas customers; Local financing for Chisinau CHP2 was provided by Chisinau CHP2; and local financing for accounting/billing
systems was provided by Moldovagas, Chisinau-gaz and Chisinau CHP2, although it is shown in the table in the "Govt."
column. Govemment provided counterpart funds for social charges of PIU staff (using grant funds provided by the Kingdom of
the Netherlands). Cofinancing (project implementation assistance) was from the Dutch Consultant Trust Fund.
- 22 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Moldova Enegy I Poject
Ecoonomi Anaysts - Gas Corponent
(US$ o00)
Unit           1997     1996    1999     2000        2001     2002     2003     2004     2005       2006      2007     2008     2009
In-stmett Cost
IBRD Fianced Meters A Equipment      $000           -       3,209   3,209      -           -
Repair of Gas Distution Pmts         $000           539       -                -
Installation Costs                   MDL000         -       1.616   1.616    1,616       1.616
Custo-rr-Finaocd Industnal Meters    MDLOOO          -      2,740   Z740       -
ModovaGaslChsinau-gaz Costs          $000                    811      414     130         125
Customer-F,oaned Household Meters    0000            -       374      374     374         374
Totai Investment Cost                $000           539     4,394   3,997     504         499
Benefits - Loss RadaUile
Gas Losses w ihout pqed                                         -
Total Tensport                        min m3      19,519   19,373  19,999   21,843      21,843   21,843   21,943    21,843  21,943     21,843    21.843   21,843   21,843
Domestic Consumption                  min m3       3,679    3,052   2,857    2,478       2,478    2.478    2.478     2,478   2.478      2,478     2,478    2,478    2,478
Losses /o prded                                     0 8%    0 80%   0 80%    0 80%       0 80%    0 80%    0 80%     0 80%   0 80%      0 80%     0 80%    0 80%    0 80%
Losse-sthprlect                                     08%     025%    019%     018%        018%     018%     018%      018%    018%       018%      018%     018%     018%
Savngs                                %                     055%    061%     062%        062%     062%     062%      062%    062%       062%      062%     062%     062%
Sannrgs                               minm3                10655   12199    13543       13543    13543    13543     13543    13543     13543     13543    13543    13543
Value - Economic(000)                   $   6500              6,926   7,930    8.803       8,803    8.803    8,803     8,803   8,803      8,803    8,803     8.503    8,803
E1ctency R-epons to Mattrlng
Cumulative Redu.con in Consumption      mIn m3                 (624)   (819)  (1.198)     (1,198)  (1,198)  (1,198)   (1,198)  (1.198)   (1.198)   (1,198)  (1,198)  (1,198)
Percent Response                              -              -17 0%  -22.3%   -2 6%       -32 6%
Sav-g in Gas Purchases                 S    65 00            40.560  53.235   77,870      77,870   77,870   77,870    77,870  77.870     77,870    77,870   77,870   77.870
Lost Consumer Su,Odus (@50% of ta-if)  S    4244            (26.485) (34,762) (50.848)   (50.848)  (50,848)  (50.848)  (50.848) (50.848)  (50,848)  (50.848)  (50,848)  (50 940)
Total Benefits                                        -      21,001  26,403   35,825      35,825   35,825   35,825    35,825  35,825     35,925    35.825   35,825   35,825
Net Cash Flow                                        (539)   16,607  22,406   35,321      35,326   35,825   35,825    35,825  35.825     35.825    35.825   35,825   3F,825
3117% EIRR
S194.800 NPV @        10%
- 23 -



.  A   E .  *! S   S f
~~I*         o S 
"3    8  .!.  o 
,,~~~ _  ,_~ ,. ,^ 
X  |  ;   .   2 ,   E8 . 8   ro   Q 
*~~53 ~       o o    -          _gN 
&    :   *O ,,             N z 
o o W zq



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
1/1994                      1    Petroleum Engineer (C)
3/1994                      1    Task Manager
I   Senior Energy Specialist;
Operations Analyst
2    Petroleum Engineers
I   Environmental Specialist;
Economist
2    Financial Analysts
I   Procurement Specialist; Natural
Gas Specialist
12/1994                     7    Task Manager, Power Engineer,
Financial Analyst, Natural Gas
Specialists (2), Petroleum
Engineer, Financial Consultant
Appraisal/Negotiation
2/1995                      7    Task Manager, Power
Engineer, Natural Resource
Management Specialist,
Financial Analyst, Natural
Gas Specialist, Operations
Analyst, Financial
Consultant
4/1995                      1    Task Manager
9/1995                      2    Task Manager, Gas Metering
Consultant
Supervision
7/1996                       1   Task Manager (Economist)           S             S
I   Power Engineer
I   Gas Metering Consultant
I   Operations Analyst
I   Procurement Analyst
10/1996                      1   Operations Analyst                U              S
I   Principal Economist
3/1997                       1   Senior Economist                   S             U
I   Operations Analyst
10/1997                      1   Task Team Leader                   S            U
6/1998                       1   Operations Analyst                 S             U
2/1999                       1   Task Team Leader
7/1999                       1   Task Team Leader                   S             S
6/2000                       1   Task Team Leader                   S             S
- 25 -



I   Energy Financial Specialist
10/2000                      1   Task Team Leader
I   Pipeline Specialist
5/2001                       3   Task Team Leader, Sr. Financial
Analyst, Projects Assistant
ICR
Note: The first mission for which information is available in the files was in 1/1994; however some of the
other
documentation refers to identification in Augst 1993, which presumably included a mission.
(4) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation                                              677.2
Supervision                                                        333.1
ICR
Total                                                             1,010.3
Note: SAP does not provide a breakdown of staff time by weeks spent. It does not
distinguish between Identification/Preparation and AppraisaUlNegotiation, or between
Supervision and ICR; therefore all costs related to project preparation are shown under the
Appraisal/Negotiation entry above, and all costs related to ICR are included in the entry for
Supervision. SPN figures do not include US$85,583 from Consultant Trust Funds.
- 26 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
El Macro policies                        O H  OSU*M       O N  O NA
O Sector Policies                        O H  * SU O M    O N  O NA
O Physical                               O H  *SUOM       O N  O NA
E Financial                              O H  *SUOM       O N   O NA
O Institutional Development              0 H  0 SU * M    0 N  0 NA
LI Environmental                         O H  OSU*M       O N  O NA
Social
OI Poverty Reduction              O H   OSU*M      O N   O NA
O Gender                          O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
O Other (Please specify)          O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
O Private sector development             0 H   * SU 0 M   0 N   0 NA
El Public sector management              0 H  0 SU 0 M    0 N   0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                 0 H  O SU O M    0 N   * NA
- 27 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
F Lending                                           OHS OS       OU    OHU
S Supervision                                       OHS OS       OU    O HU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS       OU    O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
X Preparation                                       OHS OS       O U   O HU
X Government implementation performance             O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       OU    O HU
M Overall                                           OHS OS       0 U   O HU
- 28 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Staff Appraisal Report - Moldova: Energy Project - Report No. 14892-MD, May 2, 1996.
Agreed Minutes of Negotiations, dated between the World Bank and the Government of Moldova, March
22, 1996.
Loan Agreement - Moldova: Energy Project (Loan No. 4020-MD), dated July 23, 1996.
Project Agreements - Moldova: Energy Project, between World Bank and Chisinau CHP2 and
Moldovagas, dated July 23, 1996.
Mid-Term Review Report, including Fourth Quarter 1998 Progress Report and Mid-Term Review
Back-to-Office Report dated June 25, 1999.
Audited Financial Statements for the Project, for years ending December 31, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000 and
2001.
Audited Financial Statements for Moldova-gaz for years ending December 31, 1998, and for
Chisinau-gaz for the years ending December 31, 1999, and 2000.
Audited Financial Statements for Chisinau CHP2 for years ending December 31, 1998, 1999, and 2000.
Procurement Audit Report - Energy Project - Final - June 2001.
Quarterly and Semi-Annual Progress Reports from June 1997- December 2001.
- 29 -



Additional Annex 8. Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective - IBRD Loan
4020-MD
Moldova First Energy Project
Completion Report, 2001
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
FIRST ENERGY
PROJECT
PROJECT RE VIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
IBRD LOAN No 4020-MD
- 30 -



The present report is prepared by
Moldova Energy Projects
Implementation Unit staff:
Consultant                      V.Bosneaga
Financial Officer               O.Serenco
Procurement Specialist          D.Cebotari
Office Assistant/ Translator    A. Melenciuc
Abbreviations used
AS               Accounting system
CHP-2            Combined Heat and Power Plant-2, Chisinau
DC               Direct Contracting
FMR              Financial Management Reports
GDP              Gas Distribution Points
GMP              Gas metering point
GMS              Gas metering station
IAS              International Accounting Standards
ICB              Intemational Competitive Bidding
IS               International Shopping
L/C               Letter of Credit
LA               Loan Agreement
MDL              Moldova lei (local currency)
MG               Moldovagaz
MoE              Ministry of Energy
MoEc             Ministry of Economy
MoF              Ministry of Finance
NAS              National Accounting Standards
OT JSC           Open Type Joint Stock Company
PIU              Project Implementation Unit
SA               Special Account
SAR              Staff Appraisal Report
TOR             Terms of Reference
VAT              Value Added Tax
- 31 -



CONTENTS
Introduction
Statement/Evaluation Of Objectives
Implementation Course and Main Factors Affecting The Project
Initial Phase of Project Implementation
Organizational Aspects
Accounting And Financial Management System
Project Sustainability
Project Implementation - Achievement Of Objectives
Procurements Realized For Moldovagaz
Procurements Realized For CHP-2
Equipment Installation At Moldovagaz
Equipment Installation at Chisinau Combined
Heat And Power Plant #2
Delays During Project Implementation
Bank's Effect
Borrower's Effect
Outcome Evaluation
Annexes: Tables 1-15
Introduction
The situation in the energy sector in Moldova before 1996 (as it was also described in Staff
Appraisal Report), when the first energy project was launched, was characterized by the foliowing main
issues:
Sector Financial Crisis. There has been a persistent failure, since 1991, to place Moldova's
energy resources consumption on an economic basis, as a result of energy price distortions, inadequate
metering and invoicing of consumed volumes with increasing levels of theft and, in some instances. even
reluctance or technical inability to terminate deliveries to customers who do not pay. These problems
have delayed the structural reform in the energy sector, have led to the growth of external trade debts.
Import Dependence. Moldova is almost completely dependent (99%) upon imported sources of
- 32 -



primary energy. The situation is further complicated by the fact that Moldova has landlocked position,
rather limited prospects for supply diversification and due to the fact that the large Moldavskaya thermal
power station, with 85% of Moldova's available generating capacity, is located on the left bank. In these
conditions it became of crucial importance to use rationally all energy resources, including electrical,
thermal energy and natural gas.
Assets Deterioration. Moldova's energy infrastructure has been poorly maintained since
independence, and there is a need for long-term re-scaling of this infrastructure to rationalize the costs of
upkeep and ensure maximum production efficiency.
Low Energy Efficiency. Despite its relatively low concentration of heavy industry, the
economy of Moldova exhibits high energy-intensity characteristic of former-Soviet nations, though to a
slightly lesser degree. The problem reflects previously low energy prices, inefficient methods of energy
production and use, high losses, obsolete equipment, and inadequate maintenance of facilities.
Decline in Energy Consumption. Energy consumption has declined markedly from its peak in
1989-90, including natural gas and electricity consumption. These declines in demand have been
concentrated on the right bank, where progress in raising tariffs to cost-recovery levels, although far
from complete, has been much more rapid than on the left bank.
In these circumstances the implementation of the first energy project, which has to contribute to
the process of Moldova energy sector renewal, became very important. The choice of CHP-2 and
Moldovagaz, as the beneficiaries of the first energy project was justified and well founded (this is
investigated in Staff Appraisal Report, which present a detailed study of energy sector issues, made in
May 1996).
CHP-2 was (and is still now) the main sufficient source of both electrical and thermal energy for
Chisinau. Moldovagaz with its natural gas transportation and distribution systems (which supplies also
CHP-2) all the more represents very important part of Moldova energy sector. Thus, the first energy
project has two beneficiaries - Moldovagaz and Chisinau Combined Heat Power Plant -2 (CHP-2).
Loan Agreement was signed in July 1996, became effective in January 1997, the closing date
initially was established as June 2000, first extension was made till June 2001, and last - till 31 of
December 2001.
First procurements were made in December 1997, each beneficiary has its own team for project
implementation, and coordination was performed by the Chief of the Department of Energy who later
was officially appointed as coordinator of the project by the Government Decision in February 1998.
Later on, due to the World Bank recommendation and in accordance with the mutual agreement
between the Ministry of Finance and Department of Energy in February 1998, a Government decision
was adopted to establish a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) for coordination and monitoring of all
project activities and maintaining project's Accounting and Financial management system.
In accordance with the Order of the Department of Energy of April 10, year 1998 Moldova
Energy Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was created, PIU staff (consisting of 3 persons - a deputy
coordinator, a procurement specialist and a financial/accounting specialist) was hired through
competition and after a period of preparation (initial PIU set up, opening of Special Account with PIU
as Beneficiary, office selection and repair, office equipment procurement, AS installation) in August
1998 PIU became fully operational.
Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
The main objectives of the Project were:
"to strengthen the accounting systems of Moldovagaz and Chisinau CHP-2 in order to improve
the billing of customers, tracking of payments and operating costs, and facilitate financial decision
- 33 -



making."
"to improve the measurement of consurned energy and the efficiency of electricity production in
order to reduce losses and waste of costly imported fuels".
It is worth to mention, that during project implementation Loan Agreement was amended several
times for properly aligning of these development objectives with the project concept and scope
(reallocations of Loan means between categories for new procurements realization, defining more
exactly project objectives etc. ).
The achieving of the first Project objective was facilitate due to introducing by the Government
decision as Dbligatory of new National Accounting Standards (NAS), elaborated with the help of
international organizations and based on the International Accounting Standards (IAS). Moldovagaz and
Chisinau CHP-2 took all necessary actions for transition of all Beneficiaries records, accounts and
financial procedures to the new National Accounting Standards. Training for their accounting staff on
NAS was also performed. All financial statements, starting with the Ist January, 1998, are prepared in
accordance with NAS. So, the beneficiaries, taking into account all these realizations, asked the WB to
reallocate the initially planned for part D project means to other components.
The second project objective was planned to be achieved by procurement and installation of
different types of industrial, household and apartments gas meters, gas pressure regulators, Flow
computers for MG and respectively by procurement and installation of different technological equipment
for CHP-2. This equipment includes generators spare parts, computers, copy machines, pumps,
chemicals, measuring devices, valves, water retainers, generator excitations systems, busbars and
cables.
Thus, the Project consisted of the following components, which were planned to be financed
from the Loan MD-4020:
Part A: overhaul of the Chisinau No. 2 Combined Heat and Power Plant.
The scope was to reduce fuel consumption and restore operating efficiency of
Chisinau 2 through repair of existing and installing of newly procured equipment.
Here it needs to be mentioned that during project implementation some changes were
introduced from time to time in the initial procurement plan due to changing in
priorities or due to savings appeared after some procurement (see initial variant in
SAR, p] 1). So, the last variant of equipment list to be procured for CHP-2 included
measuring  devices for chemical composition  identification, spare parts for
turbo-generators, water retainers for cooling towers, condensations pumps, motor
operated valves, chemicals for water demineralizing system, computers, copiers and
technological computers and network devices, excitation systems with cables and
busbars for connection to turbo-generators.
Part B: repair of Gas Distribution Points.
The goal was to reduce gas leakage, operating inefficiencies of Moldovagaz Gas
Distribution Points (GDP) and unscheduled outages through the procurement and
installation of different types of gas meters, gas pressure regulators and Flow
computers.
Part C: Industrial and Household Gas Meters Installation.
The main results expected were reduced losses, improved accuracy of existing meters
and commencing the introduction of universal metering through installing household
and apartment riser meters for consumers, who currently did not have meters. Also it
was planned to replace existing meters with more accurate metering system for
commercial and large industrial customers.
Part D: Upgrade of Accounting and Billing Systems and Financial Management systems at
CHP-2 and Moldovagaz.
- 34 -



Improve internal collection and handling of operational data and billing and financial
management at CHP-2 and Moldovagaz through provision of computer-system
upgrades, technical assistance and training in administrative procedures (see SAR,
p.12).
Note: This component of the project was later financed and implemented by
beneficiaries from their own means because they had to upgrade their accounting and
financial management systems during conversion to new National Standards of
Accounting (based on IAS), which was imposed by the Government decision by the end
of 1999. So, Loan means were not usedfor this part of the project.
At the stage of the Project preparation (see SAR, p. 12) one more part was included:
Part E: Project Management and Implementation Services:
Provision of technical assistance to CHP-2 and Moldovagaz in project management,
preparation of bidding documents and carrying out WB procurement procedures.
This part of the project was financed from a grant administrated by IBRD, not from
Loan means.
In accordance with prepared project documents, the Loan Agreement (LA) was signed, where
the Schedule 1 Withdrawal of the proceeds of the Loan envisaged (after several LA amendments) 4
categories of expenditures as follows:
Category 1- Goods
Goods under part A: overhaul of the Chisinau No. 2 Combined Heat and Power Plant.
Goods under part B: repair of Gas Distribution Points.
Goods under Part C: Industrial and Household Gas Meters Installation.
Goods under Part D: Upgrade of Accounting and Billing Systems and Financial Management
systems at CHP-2 and Moldovagaz.
Category 2 - Consultants services and training under parts D and E of the project.
Category 3 - Unallocated. At the beginning of the project it was a sum of USD1,500,000 in this
category, later it was completely reallocated between other categories of the project.
Category 4 - Incremental Operating Costs of Project Implementation Unit (PIU). This new category
was introduced after PIU establishing in 1998.
Implementation Course and Main Factors Affecting the Project
Initial Phase of Project Implementation
CHP-2 and MG project implementation teams started working separately in January 1997 (after
the project became effective) under coordination of Department of Energy. In February 1998 in order to
accelerate project implementation, based on agreement between WB, Ministry of Finance, Department
of Energy and Beneficiaries, the Government decision was issued for creating Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) and designating the General Director of the Department of Energy as Project coordinator.
Department of Energy issued the respective order on April 10, 1998 and carried out competition for
hiring PIU staff, which consists of three persons - deputy coordinator, financial management/accounting
specialist and procurements specialist.
Thus, after some organizational work (opening of Special Account and local accounts in the
name of PIU, office space preparing and office equipment procurement, financial and accounting
management system installing etc.) in August 1998 PIU became fully operational and undertaken all the
activities on project coordination, monitoring, reporting etc. As subsequent experience showed, it is very
- 35 -



important and even necessary to establish a PIU at the stage of project preparation in order to avoid
difficulties in future project management, monitoring and implementation.
Organizational Aspects
Both beneficiaries of the project underwent some organizational changes during the period of
project implementation, however these once did not affect in negative sense the project implementation.
CHP-2 was at the time of Loan Agreement (LA) signing a part of State enterprise
"Moldenergo", but later was moved out from its structure and transformed in a separate State
enterprise, which later in its turn was converted from State enterprise into JSC CHP-2 Chisinau.
It is necessary to mention that the second beneficiary - State Concem Moldovagaz underwent
some reorganization too, the last one was made in accordance with Government decision and imposed by
the situation created in gas sector due to large debts to Russian Gazprom. The State Concem
Moldovagaz was converted into a mixed Moldo-Russian venture of open type JSC Moldovagaz. Later
an associated company Chisinaugaz Ltd. was created by MG and it became a legal successor of
Moldovagaz in connection with the obligations, referring to Loan 4020-MD. Nevertheless, the
equipment procured under the loan was distributed to all MG associated companies over the whole
republic (except left bank region) and taking into account that MG was the founder of all these
enterprises, MG reserved the right to determine the technical policy in gas sector of the republic.
In compliance with the changes appeared in Beneficiaries' legal status, project objectives
formulation, procurement plan and respective Project documents (including LA, Subsidiary Loan
Agreements and also the Project Agreements) have been amended correspondingly.
Accounting and Financial Management Systems
In order to provide assistance in establishing accounting and financial management system,
reporting and procurement upon implementation of the Project, the consulting firm - "Management
Strategies" was hired under the contract approved with the WB. Results of the above consultant's
services are in conformity with TOR and other provisions of the contract. The "American Fundware7.0"
software based accounting system, was provided with additional spreadsheets reporting system "F9" for
automatic creation of financial management reports.
Financial Management Reports were settled up. Taking into account that PIU was created when
the project was already ongoing, it was necessary to restore the previously made transactions in PIU
accounting system from the very beginning. Simultaneously all project related documents were copied
from beneficiaries files in order to form PIU files, starting from the very beginning of the project.
Utilized AS made it possible to generate automatically all necessary FMR reports for every accounting
period and is rather flexible (see annex, FMR Reports). So, AS used permit to have a clear view on
funds spent from different categories and for all project entities.
Following the experience accumulated a conclusion could be drawn that it would be desirable to
have a standard accounting software, adjusted expressly for WB projects and reporting, in order to
facilitate future projects financial management and accounting. For example, almost every WB project
implemented or ongoing in Moldova has different accounting software. This makes impossible the
exchange of experience accumulated between PIUs, complicates staff training and considerably
increases time and spending for new projects preparation. If it is not possible to establish a single
standard software, may be WB consultants could recommend a short list of appropriate software for AS
or formulate the minimum requirements which such systems have to comply with, so as the clients could
choose the most suitable AS software for their specific needs.
Here it could be mentioned that in accordance with WB regulations the annual audits of PIU and
beneficiaries accounts (for years 1998, 1999, 2000) and year 2001 only for Project accounts (as it was
- 36 -



agreed with the WB) were performed. For all audited periods auditors expressed their unqualified
opinion.
Project sustainability
Moldovagaz components
The essential part of the present Project was gas distribution system rehabilitation, based on installation
of modem metering and regulation equipment on GDP and at the customers. This put the start of further
development and created conditions for better operation and maintenance using modem metering
equipment. The next step could be the creation of a National System of gas flow measuring at the
borders of the republic on main pipelines in order to have a clear view on the quantities of gas imported,
consumed in the republic and transited. In present one such gas metering station is under construction,
financing provided from TACIS program.
One of the main directions of the project was to put gas selling on a commercial basis. This was
impossible without consumed gas measuring. The particular feature of gas distribution systems in
Moldova was that only industrial and big social consumers had gas meters, the rest of households and
multi story buildings consumers practically did not have gas meters and paid for consumed gas
according to the norms established by MG. Now, at the end of the project the considerable progress in
metering of gas supplied, especially at the level of individual consumers (the initial state was zero
installed at individual consumers) is evident. More than 94% of gas supplied to population is paid in
accordance to gas meters indications, collections increased considerably, especially from population,
which in present pays practically entirely current consumption.
Certainly this result is achieved also due to the severe measures taken by MG to nonpaying
consumers, one of such measures is to cut them off gas supply. Additional measures undertaken were
creating of a special subdivision for gas meters indications read-out at household and industrial
consumers, timely billing and cutting off the non-paying consumers. This resulted in instant better
collection from individual consumers.
Gas supply interruption risk in present is eased due to recent long-term agreement between the
Govemments of Moldova and Russia.
CHP-2 components
In spite of the fact that the total sum disbursed from the Loan by CHP-2 is rather small,
comparing, for example, with its fixed assets value, procured goods have a considerable influence on
station performance. Materials, spare parts and technological equipment procured (together with other
measures undertaken) made it possible to undertake normal maintenance to keep the plant in a reliable
operating condition, to renew the obsolete and outmoded facilities, for which lifetime was expired and
prevent further deterioration. Due to all these measures the number of unscheduled downtimes has
decreased.
It has to be mentioned, that since the privatization of part of electrical distribution networks by
the Spanish Company "Union Fenosa" (which together with other distribution networks operators is the
main electrical energy consumer for CHP-2) collections for electricity considerably improved and for 9
months 2001 reached 93%. Unfortunately the situation with thermal energy is quite opposite. The main
thermal energy consumer is the heat distribution company "Termocom" (in present the company is under
the procedure of bankruptcy) with rather low efficiency, so here collections did not exceed 10% during
the same period of 2001.
- 37 -



Project implementation - Achievement of objectives
Procurements realized for MG
In accordance with the initially agreed (see SAR) Project procurement plan (which was updated
annually to include the most priority issues) were conducted 3 International Competitive Biddings (ICB)
and 5 Intemational Shopping (IS). ICB procedures were conducted and contracts signed for procurement
of Gas meters & Gas pressure regulators, Household & apartment meters, Gas meters for Households
&Apartment risers. IS procedures was used for procurement of Gas meters type G-10, Gas meters type
G-16 & gas pressure regulators, Gas flow measuring computers, Turbine type gas meters and the
Industrial Gas meters calibration facility (see annex, FMR, table 15). It is worth to mention that due to
considerable savings remained after initial planned procurement, additional procurement of gas meters
of different types was done.
All deliveries of goods were made in proper time in accordance with the contracts signed. For
big contracts with Elster and Schlumberger, where partial deliveries were stipulated all deliveries were
made in accordance with agreed schedule (see annex, tables 1,2).
The total sum disbursed for MG procurements of equipment and consultants services by June
30 2001 is app. USD7,027,000 (see annex, FMR, table 14). Thus, MG succeeds to use app. 93% of
initially specified sum.
Procurements realized for CHP-2
In accordance with the agreed Project procurement plan (which for CHP-2 also was updated
annually to include the most priority issues) were conducted 2 International Competitive Biddings (ICB)
and 8 International Shopping procedures (IS). Besides, procedure of Direct Contracting was applied for
procurement of generators spare parts from unique supplier. ICB procedures were conducted and
contracts signed for procurement of Measuring devices and Generator Excitation Systems. IS
procedures were used and respective contracts were signed for procurement of Chemicals for water
treating (Cationic and anionic resins), Water retainers for cooling towers #1 and #2, Computers,
Photocopy machines, Condensation pumps, Motor operated gate valves, Busbars and Power cables for
thyristor excitation systems connection (see annex, table 15).
The total sum disbursed for CHP-2 procurements of materials, equipment and consultants'
services by June 30 2001 is USD1,850,000 (see annex, FMR , table 14). Some goods procurement,
initially included in the procurement plan (such as circuit breakers, load switches, electrical energy
meters) was not fulfilled due to changing of priorities and forthcoming privatization of CHP-2.
Thus, CHP-2 succeeded to use app. 71% of initially specified sum.
Equipment installation at Moldovagaz
Installation of procured equipment was financed by Moldovagaz from its own funds, except
installation of meters at enterprises, households and apartment gas meters, paid by consumers.
All received (142 pieces) Gas pressure regulators are also completely installed (see table 3 in the
Annex) in different regional gas distribution networks of Moldova. Installed instead of previously used
obsolete gas regulators, the new ones are operating stably, their adjusting is suitable and simple. This
equipment provides reliable gas supply for consumers, especially in fall-winter season, when the
pressure in the distribution network is mostly unstable and decreases gas losses at GDP due to absence
of gas ejections in atmosphere. Reconstruction of GDP by replacing of old gas pressure regulators
completely eliminated the problems with very low gas pressure at the customers.
- 38 -



All of the total of 20 Flow Computers, procured for measuring gas flow on GDP are completely
installed (see table 4 in the Annex) in seven republic's gas distribution networks. This permitted to
create a much more precise system of supplied gas measuring, taking into account gas temperature,
pressure and other parameters. All installed Flow Computers are working properly without any failures
or claims, as a result commercial losses were reduced.
The installation of gas meters of different types, including those procured from Loan means,
started as they were received and is continuing in present (see tables 5,6,7). Tables 6,7 show the number
of gas meters of different types procured from Loan, distributed to subdivisions of MG and installed
respectively by October the 1st and November the 1st 2001. As it could be seen from these tables, the
total number of installed from Loan meters is 89000, which constitutes 68 % of all procured from Loan
gas meters.
Here it should be mentioned that in addition to gas meters, procured and installed from Loan,
MG has installed also a considerable number of gas meters, procured by population from the market.
Thus the total number of gas meters installed for population (including ones procured from Loan means)
is considerably higher and by October the 1st 2001 was about 134000, which amounts to 92% of all
household consumers. So, above 92% of all gas consumers are billed via gas meters, thus we consider
one of the main objectives of the project was reached.
It is necessary to underline that MG in addition to mentioned technical measures undertook
organizational ones in order to stimulate gas meters installation and improve collections. Among such
measures was providing gas meters for population in installments, introduction of new gas consumption
norms for the consumers without meters and cutting off the consumers, which were not paying their
bills.
Installation of calibration line was performed in accordance with the supplier's technical
requirements, specifically in a separate accommodation, well equipped with all necessary equipment,
such as air condition, additional doors etc. for ensuring necessary temperature conditions, was built. The
mentioned calibration line is the first and the only computerized and automatic installation for gas
meters types G16-G1600 calibration in Moldova. The calibration line is provided with a computerized
system and permits to organize a data base on gas meters verified, which contains all needed
information, such as the types of gas meters, their individual numbers, terms of verifying, etc. During
the first 4 months of operation (July 2001- October 2001) about 260 big industrial meters have been
verified at the newly installed calibration line without transportation of meters outside of Moldova. This
leads to reducing with 20% the expenses and by 50% the time period needed for gas meters calibration
and provides its better quality.
All installed at MG equipment within exploitation period was functioning properly, without
failures and downtimes.
As a result of implementation of all scheduled measures for rehabilitation of gas distribution
system, gas consumption and gas losses during last years decreased considerably (especially at industrial
consumers), more precise registration of consumption was established, main gas losses were localized
and necessary measures were undertaken to eliminate them. For comparison, in 1996 gas losses were
app. 111,8 million cubic meters, in 1998 - 106,5 million cubic meters, in 2000 - 80,4 million cubic
meters and for 9 months of 2001- 41,1 million cubic meters.
Collections for supplied gas improved significantly during last years, in average on the republic
during 9 months of 2001 they reached 72%, the best results were achieved in private sector (the
population paid all 100% of current gas consumption), the worst (58%) is the situation at large energy
sector consumers, such as CHP-1, CHP-2, Termocom.
- 39 -



Equipment Installation at Chisinau Combined Heat AND Power Plant #2
The installation and utilization of materials and equipment procured started immediately after
goods receiving. Further the status of the equipment installation and utilization is shortly described.
Chemicals procured were used for water treatment during 1998-99 winter season peak load and
contributes to reliable CHiP-2 main equipment operation, especially important it was during winter
period.
Measuring devices (pH-meters, salt-meters, balances and others), procured under ICB
procedure were installed and used in Chemical and Boiler Turbine Workshops for adjusting
technological processes. The remaining uninstalled measuring equipment (app. 34%) represents the
component parts of technological automated measuring system. The evaluation of economic efficiency
due to installation of automatic chemical control devices in these two CHP-2 subdivisions was made.
After installation of these devices in Chemical Workshop the reduction was registered of chemical
reagents consumption for producing of chemically purified and desalted water of app. 90 000 MDL per
year. Installation of such devices in the Boiler Turbine Workshop led to salt sedimentation slowdown on
the surface of the heat-exchange apparatus and power-generating boilers. This led to the reduction of the
effluent gas temperature and resulted in saving fuel, app. 290 tons conventional fuel per year. Besides,
the cost of equipment chemical cleaning, chemical reagent consumption and labor expenses decreased,
whereas the equipment operation reliability increased. All mentioned led to annual efficiency from
launching devices in operation about 219 000 MDL and payback period equal app. to 4 years.
Turbo-generators spare parts were already partially used in the cases of necessity for generators
repair, the rest of the spare parts are in stock and planned to be used during next scheduled
turbo-generators repairs and on as needed base. So, these spare parts ensured maintaining of generators
in operational status.
One of the two procured water retainers for water-cooling towers was installed and is in operation
now. The second one should be installed during 2001 summer repair period when the complete stoppage
of station was planned, but due to the fact that the stoppage was not permitted and ,besides, owing to
insufficient amount of own funds for additional materials needed for installation was not installed in
2001 and is planned to be installed in 2002. The calculations of economic efficiency of water retainer,
based on its passport data and real water consumption were made by CHP-2 specialists. Installed water
retainer contributes to essential decreasing up to existing standards of the amount of the evaporated
water (which constitutes app. 0,006% of the water added in cooling system), this fact in addition leads
to reducing of thermal pollution in station region. Thus, estimated efficiency in 1998 was about 100 000
MDL/per month and pay back period equal app. 7 months.
Condensation pumps were installed instead old ones with their lifetime exhausted and in present
are working without claims, contributing to reliable operation of CHP-2 main equipment. In 1999 one
condensation pump was repaired in accordance to warranty obligations of manufacture.
Computers and copy machines are in use, except a part of technological computers and spare
parts for them (app. 19% of total cost), which are partially under installation and the rest is on stock.
Received computers and copy machines were used in different CHP-2 subdivisions, particularly in
accounts department, planned-economic department, automated control systems department for
improving CHP-2 accounting and financial management.
Regarding Motor operated gate valves - 4 large valves with diameters 800 mm were installed on
different water pipelines at CHP-2 instead old equipment, the rest of the valves, most of them with small
diameters, are in stock for replacement of existing one in dependence of their current condition on as
needed base.
One of three procured thyristor excitation systems for generators, received in January 2001 was
installed on unit #3, adjusted and starting from November 11, year 2001 is in operation. Old
electromechanical exciters are worked out completely and need to be substituted in any case. Besides,
- 40 -



they have some disadvantages, the main of thern are: the increased vibration of longer generator shaft
and need to be oiled, the latter one leads to additional service costs and increases fire risk. The common
advantages of thyristor excitation systems are well known, conceming this instance case the installed
system has been working successfully from November 11, providing more reliable and stable generator
operation in connection with electrical network (especially in the cases of network failure), more flexible
automatic generator output active and reactive power control. After the replacement of the old
electromechanical exciter and generator #3 repair its operation lifetime is now in accordance with the
norms - 4 calendar years till next scheduled repair.
The part of the busbars and cables for thyristor excitation systems connections are installed on
generator #3, the rest of cables and busbars are in CHP-2 warehouse waiting for installation of
remaining excitation systems. Remaining two excitation systems are planned to be installed respectively
during 2002 and 2003 years repair periods.
As a result of all measures attempted during project implementation the operation reliability,
unscheduled downtimes ratio and fuel specific consumption of CHP-2 were brought closely to the level
of initially designed for this station and corresponding to good condition of main equipment (see table 8).
CHP-2 available capacity after generator #3 repair and thyristor excitation systems installation is close
to full station installed capacity.
More reliable and uninterrupted electrical and heat supply of the industrial plants and residential
districts in Chisinau is provided. Moreover, the availability of the own local source of energy such as
CHP-2 creates more favorable conditions for negotiations on energy market for import of electrical
energy from other suppliers.
Delays during project implementation
Due to the fact, that at the initial stage of the project some delays occurred and, besides, some
additional equipment was included in procurement plan, the project closing date was extended, last time
till 31 December 2001. So, it would be naturally to complete all installations (except spare parts or other
equipment, which have to be in stock until it become necessary and equipment, which was procured
closely to closing date and, besides, could be installed only during summer repair period) till 31
December 2001. But, due to different factors the procured equipment was not completely installed by
this date. One of the reasons for this was additional quantity of procured equipment (gas meters of
different types, excitation systems), others are explained below.
Delays during the project implementation most often took place due to lack of own
beneficiaries' means, restrictions imposed by the schedule of CHP-2 operation or main equipment
repairs or in cases of additional procurement, when the time remaining till project closing date does not
permit to install all procured equipment. Besides, some spare parts cannot be installed immediately after
receiving and have to be in stock for future repairs.
The following delays took place during project implementation:
*   PIU was established in April 1998, by that time a considerable part of contracts at CHP-2 and MG
has been signed and even transactions made. So, it takes some time for PIU to establish the accounting
and financial management system, create own files for the whole project and assume all the activities
under the project;
At CHP-2
*    Installation of the second water retainer was delayed due to the fact that it was not permitted
complete stoppage of CHP-2 during 2001 summer repair period. The second water retainer in
accordance with the information provided by CHP-2 will be installed in 2002.
- 41 -



*    Installation of technological computers and spare parts for them was delayed also due to absence of
some components and lack of an experienced specialist in the domain at CHP-2 to implement this
technological system. In accordance with the information provided by CHP-2 this equipment will be
installed in 2003.
a    Installation of two remaining excitation systems for units #1, 2 is planned to be done respectively
in 2002 and 2003 during scheduled capital repairs of generator units #1 and 2. The installation of all
three excitation systems (received in January 2001) during 2001 summer repair period was impossible
due to operational restrictions of CHP-2.
At Moldovagaz
Considerable part (app. 26% of all procured, which constitutes app. 34000 items as per November
1 st, 2001) of gas meters for small consumers remains in stock at MG. According to MG information the
rate of their installation decreased considerably during the last year because of the fact that MG was
forced to levy meters by VAT at the selling to population, this increases their price by 20 % and so
makes them uncompetitive on the internal market. So the population prefers to buy and install cheaper
(although in some cases less qualitative) meters from the internal market. MG directed appropriate
requests through Ministry of Energy to the Ministry of Finance to solve this issue, which is now under
examination. Nevertheless, as it could be seen from tables 6,7, monthly more than 1200 meters are
installed. So, if the rate of installation will keep at this level, the remaining meters will be installed in
app. 3 years, which of course is unsatisfactory.
Bank's effect
The World Bank completely satisfied the requirements of the situation in which Moldovagaz
and CHP-2 found itself in the post soviet period, starting from the needs of PIU establishing, providing
with necessary information, assistance in the preparation of documents and approvals (including
professionals and experts visits) during all the Project phases and right up to adequate monitoring,
contributed to the efficient implementation of the Project.
Beside very competent individuals in the function of the Task Manager, Program Leader and gas and
electricity consultants, the World Bank staff demonstrated the competence to recognize special features
of the client and flexibility in upgrading the procurement plan to be adjusted to the changing priorities of
beneficiaries.
It particularly manifested competence in understanding the current needs and condition related
to the local situation through the assistance with preparation and timely decisions conceming each
demand (here as an example could be mentioned the assistance in solving problems with Social Funds
payments, updating and adjustment of procurement plan in accordance with results obtained in
procurement and changing priorities during implementation, careful study of newly appeared
beneficiaries proposals on most effective use of loan funds or additional procurements, gas meters
excessive taxation on population selling etc.).
Our evaluation of the Bank's effects in this Project as excellent is supported by the fact that WB
exceptionally contributed to solving of the problems, which appeared during the project implementation
and initiating solutions and all possible assistance (including through Resident WB mission).
Borrower's effect
Besides the technical ability of beneficiaries to implement this Project, they succeeded in
manifesting their ability to define clearly the priority needs, being ready to adopt the world's best
- 42 -



practice in the domain. Beneficiaries also proved their readiness to take on and execute the tasks in the
agreed manner.
Because this project have two beneficiaries, it is better to speak separately about every of them,
especially that the specific features in relations with their consumers are rather different. Moldovagaz
have a lot of large (such as CHP-2, CHP-1, Termocom, other industrial enterprises) and small (private
firms, households, apartments) consumers. CHP-2 on the contrary, has few main consumers -
Termocom for thermal energy and Distribution companies (Union Fenosa, Nord and
Nord-West-distribution network operators) for electrical energy.
MG demonstrated the ability to develop, operate and maintain the gas system, which was its
major role. Despite its growth, MG has had losses in financial operations, the reasons for which lie in
depressed sales gas prices, industry decline, national currency instability (especially during 1998-1999)
and low paying ability of the citizens as gas consumers.
MG has taken all measures to improve the billing and collection system expecting further improvement.
The basic expectations are in the application of the solutions find and experiences gathered during
implementation of the first project.
Further considerable improvement of MG performance is expected after construction of Border
Gas Metering stations, which will pernit to obtain more precise data referring to gas imported in the
republic, consumed and also transited through its territory.
CHP-2 also demonstrated the ability to operate and maintain in relatively good condition the
station equipment. Major financial losses in financial operations were just as in MG case due to
depressed energy tariffs, industry decline, national currency instability and low paying ability of the
consumers. But in this particular case the main losses were generated due to Termocom, who
accumulated large debts for thermal energy, supplied by CHP-2. Electrical energy collections are
relatively much better, especially after privatization of the part of distribution networks by Union
Fenosa.
Referred to the lessons leamed it could be mentioned that it is very important to create and
maintain a stable project coordination teams at beneficiaries, including the persons responsible for filing
and storing project related documents in appropriate order and ensuring transferring of all these
documents in case if another responsible person is appointed. This issue was especially important for
CHP-2, where 2 Directors-managers have been changed during project implementation.
Outcome evaluation
The activities carried out under this Project raised the reliability of the gas distribution system
(including GDP), significantly improved gas metering at a different levels, create conditions for further
decreasing of technical and commercial losses and improving collections for supplied gas to a
satisfactory level, thus preventing further gas distribution system decay and contributing to its
development. As a result of project implementation almost all natural gas supplied is paid in accordance
with gas meters indications. To maximize the results achieved, the construction of Gas Metering
Stations (GMS) at the border of the republic was initiated for measuring the amounts of gas imported,
consumed inside and transited through republic's territory. This project is carried out at MG under
TACIS financial support.
Rehabilitation of CHP-2 also had positive influence on electrical and heating energy supply. The
activities carried out under this Project raised the reliability and efficiency of CHP-2 main equipment to
a satisfactory level thus preventing its further deterioration and decreasing the fuel specific consumption
closely to designed values. Besides, due to water retainer installation the ecological situation in station
area has improved. More over, three procured modem thyristor excitation systems for CHP-2
turbogenerators will enable to increase the stability and reliability of parallel operation of generators
- 43 -



with electrical network.
CcroW n CM                                                               Taj*  1.
Cas nwtms dskwWs
fDr=f/bWm"C1W
by Ssby 1 km  GmW
d&-Yd.b                                                                 mdv,.m uc          I=d".     IGMIg'.                dw-Ift
I       1                         -T-
2                                 -7                                                     T3                  15       16       17     1  18
PAM P."t CM     SIM    mm    imw   =001 MO      7M
TMXGMI,dA._     MU4    2W     M       = I w     MD
15M    2MO                            szmco     lffi=M                                           258M               18fbGE   034.1a
12ngmgW 2-rdp.Ms1-.            33CO                                     ZM=()D                                           273200,00  --I4 124A.EE    03-
M Pm $1          440    WO    4m    600                26,18DDO  ZMOD     432MOD   16MOU                         2572MOD    02"a   I "A.,R  OM"
llqm..X,  -M IODID 1 -IM-0c.  MAUD                                           94-4: MR961
4 MR S", C.-Y r-                 r. m w     F-M-N -r-M          19 - S   F.: 11
m    44,p.,Wdip..     M40    zw                             851MOO    16=00                                            2510MM     ZPI"    25M.0   C3,k,,R
.Nmom  5*, M90         IEM           zo   MO    MO     45    W=OD               21mooo     84=OD    174=00    3Z4MOD    4N=CD      27W*   02A   MUla
mm     ML     'U.   3m.  xr,   IC     lb-,m -T,  ,LMOC-   ax.-M                                            T
=PQC 1Q. MT, X-M .1 NM I "R- Onum iz6-1 !El                                               g,-) ri--,                                    '!7-,
43   6P.WdV..%       2=     m                    I         '36moo    iomm                                             312BMOO    24-Apr438 o   av
&2919M  7 I'P-W 1*-"                 409   I'll  "      15                       4320000   IOBDMDD             54Doaoo   2662MODOPA.-W      1-mwa   m,,-4
"P.Mg".          1700  20M                            101,15300  iffi=ou                                          267,150CO  15MWa  25MWa
-n    I a.   dx:.  iou         ZyLma.    3YOOD.J.  43x1---X-  Iffma.              Olf, - x
=1                     332      43"mr-                                                    O-A
xm                                        M=OD                                             8=CO      13A.1%  mAga     W
#4   10hpulv-t       zn    In                              119jxooo  83=00                                            20=(1)     A     U7-5.1a  Seda
g"gm   11pudlp       2XD    20M                           I19=00     iw=Co                                           285=00     11-s'pae Z2--.pa  XA)R
12-tl P.W 0*..1                                       119=00    166=0                                             2%=00      I&SIA   M-S,14  XCU49
134, "   gw-t                 4M    MO   MD     m                         432MOO   Iffi=00   174=00    54=CO      la=co     -,-4     C2 O
im          Tr Lu. -X-          43ALX-    IdUml.      -an.x.    50-JX--M
!r- F
2DOO   zco                            119=00    166=OD                                           295=00     O&M.'M    isw4E  on w,
AS   154,p.W.I,.-     23M   20M                            119JOWOD   166=00                                           295DMOD    1 1*i.-GO 19#A4E  00,byg
Y"9m                    20M    20M                           119=CG     le=00                                            2W=00      194A. W -   A   O"i-t%
mm   -=       MO    MO   3m    60     119=00    M=LO     3Z40000   169,OMOD  174JC=    432MM     619moco    OSApl99 Z4AW4   -A-A
g..    .        mm      n     ix.   qx.  Im    Ilu               %IJU.01-  r,.X..X.  "ELLCEal  ". 00CL.X,  -rlaxa-  -.dx-X-
r                    77-Q 7
Ps Y.
3874                310              230=00                         84MICO                       314-51CM   17,S.PW   Z7-qpR  DIN"
gmiggg 194, P.M ft-".          4239                                    3K734DO   21BMOD             146=CO     18=00     541.334 00  2,-,4          0144.1E
GM .kw     2EE74         W)   mm      W    29D
GM         2Z74   299%  1900  3XO   145D   2EO
.&dA GM          0      0      0    0     0     0
k,"pj OEM                    2052M MDM 841=    miBq
TM,%-p.K CEN
T.W GM -kd      GM     jMgft1.M-Jt.C-.d           I
44



Table 2.
Gas mfW      devrJes for JSC Moldovaa
by Sdiluollr Rulnbach GnibH.
d.1_     df      N..bor dparW   d Nr=O-f   G-   N__                      To3loso       C-t  - S    _-Cd ._                 .*   n_     b d WB   -pd Wl
I    1   2             3               4             5           S           7           8          9    I   10        11   1    12          13         14 
Pd.., per u., USS      34 00        -46 00                                          0.         M       G.           4         GA          G
be dellwed           45,000      t9200   I1,530.0003 0  883200 0  2,413.200.0
_    1         It plAsd $Srwo         72D0                   244,800 0                          254Sp.98            12-0098                16 FbA99-3
30 Setp 96 I la Dc 68 2-nd parll rhipmrnd              320                   147,200 0                        0196N9              Dnc 25 98              1 SFr-99
7   12        3-rd prs  gtp r rn-    7200                    244.8 00                           27-N98             03-D-98                16-Frb.99
ON-o ga8  25 Jr 9S 441h Pf_  OddM. -                  2400                  110,400 0                 =      14    9     =         284)c-91             16-Fb-99
S 3        54h p.W   rhip.o -     720                    244,8Do 0                          26S4r93              9 Doc 98    _        12-Mny-98     =
30Jsn 993   30, Ffb 99 Sh prutd sh4pnl -               2350                  10S,560 O                        2S4Jnn 9             0441rx-99            12-MnY-93
7th p&n  shipmrt -                   i0                    75,440 0                         274nn49               23Wr-99               12-Mny48
Mans me         r    r 72DO        4000      244,8qEO_    1894,000 0  42B,d990 S
04         ST   rf shl,mrS        7mn                    244.800 o                          24-M4-s3             02Ap,-99               12-My-W
30 M.r 99  30 Ibr 99 94h P-S 4hmn-M                    3200                  147Rno o                         24-M.-s               02-Apr99              12-May 98
Wm  bnnl''  '  7ion  -   32no     ~~244,890n.~                                                    au     =-no fton           9   t
tS 7101h pWrs shOMo                   71000                      46.ooD o                         16Ap^,99-            1 Ap,99               02-Apr-99
30 Jurs93130 Jun 91 11C1hparl*hWnh4m     72D0                    244,8000                           284un-93           a JU1 99                  08S4.S99
tm hn_ 720~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6                         0 _    8 000 a6oo * 6 00    00      Wam                              94    Al
#6         1 2t dWru  htpMrD                   3200                  147.200 o                         29-My-99    =      1 J.n 99      12-.bn99   1 1-Ju-99
I          pr, prW h4mr n  7mn                                 244,800 o              2as39-9             03--p99
30 ,o 99 |0SeP 99 14(h p.nrt hk4mrmt    IBDO                                S1,2C0                28 Aue9      =       04S,99
ISMh P.A.l Ihtd                      2                      101.2DO0 o4asa                                          ,                   so sa9
m     rnw              sooo          6400 . .....
.ulh"   GM rdul        45000        19200
=      =     nu~~~bbl, GM .smd        O            O 
=      =     ~~~A-rmu  P.A. US$   1.530.O0O 00  8833.2W00 o 
=  =    TOTALWi.USS        ~~~2,41300O    0 O% C-lhl: pr
=       =    7rS1 Gd nbdow          647S      All Cm .mr unrbr th. C.&                                      =         =d
-45 -



Table 3.
Total gas pressure regulators distribution
and installation by JSC "Moldovagaz9
________________________T     yp..fG. P s~xm  wg6k'   &'  - W
Drmiaf roflp-nr  l  12 P, D-50    12P,D-100       4712, D-0        4712 D-It       F; DU-'0        loTl
ano   rr.wl   rUaI   ff  Fcl   Irtl   .14,c   t:ls  ntal _   ec Irl] --aDI  reca rall W d1   reI c v1  -Ir
ChLir,n. R        28    28    2S   16   16   16    4    4    4                                    48    46    48
hIdo. eigaz        2     2    2    2    2    2    21    21   21    13   13    13    2    2    2   40    40    40
Aneri-N.           2     2    2    2    2    2     Is   is   I           2    12 1       2    2    36   36    36
KW=                      =    =    =    =          3    3    3     _    _     _                    4     4    4
Edinel gao                                         7    7    7                      1    I    1    X    8     a
BnroLi            _                _               4    4    4                                     4    4     4
Dc-M                                               2    2    2                                     2     2    2
Ci1n                               _                   _     _                               -     2     2     2
Gr.gZv..'z        =     =     =    =    =3               13  13     9     9                   s927      2    27
Cad,r- Lo_p                                       IS _C      1 0   7     7    7     4    4    4    21   21    21
Conw'I                                             3    3    3     2     2    2     1    I    I    6     6    6
ChimMfhl. ga1                                                1 _         i    I                    2     2    I
CFhr1 Ku ga             =     =    =   =2               2    2     _                     1 _       3    3     3
Slafan-V ~~~~~~~~~~~~ao              1~~~~  4    4                     3    3    3    7     7     7
2 _        2                     3    3    3     5 =  -
2    2     2
(J,6d gao                                                          3     3    3                    3     3     3
Tar.C. gaz                                         4    4    4                                     4     4     4
ITOTAL            30     30   30   16   1 8 i     56    56   46    26   26    26    12   12  22    142  142   142
Note: The names of distribution companies are indicated by bold letters, their subdivisions by ordinary ones. Bold
figures refer to total equipment in distribution company, ordinary to subdivisions.
- 46 -



Table 4.
Installation on GDP of Flow computers for orifice type gas meters
(completed by 31 st December, 2000)
Nr | Plaecof installation  |     rofei'td     Number of units installed      Installation completed by
I ]           22      1           3                    3           1                   4
-      Balti                         2                    2                    Ivano-Frankovsk (Ukraine)
2      Vulcanesti                    I                    I                        Moldovatransgaz
3      Anenii Noi                    2                    2                        Moldovatransgaz
4      Ceadir-Lunga                  5                    5                    Ivano-Frankovsk (Ukraine)
5      Comrat                        I                    I                    Ivano-Frankovsk (Ukraine)
6      Chisinau                      8                    8                          Fluxtex LTD
7      Falesti                       I                    I                    Ivano-Frankovsk (Ukraine)
8      Total                        20                   20
-47 -



60   K     M     8    M    w M9         a      r 0)E             g  0     -/Ml  109   TV;
CO0        00    0031       0)00         000   (101   1I   I0      1                                 0199
0)0        00    0)0        CT    a      is     000   IO   ti              l 
0)1         (0E  OD[  19I   9 1          WI      I6                        l   9I     El
OD 1        00   0))  101   N I   IL     AO R01  I          DIE0   C       I)   I     D
DM1  0z     o    OI   VI   I91    R      s I                Of 6          )I 
500)00i            ll 0      ti 6)1  0)0  9016 Oi                 I'-0                00 t 
001  Zs]  z00  (01  ml01) I           (i    a      IN0  ff9            0    St     SE
OM1  LK)   OK0   ODI  99    we     pc    it     MROfm              i       I  ST0   I0
ml1  C9     0)   (00  )9     L            I    ZZI     6    10t   (O      ml          0
001    69        0)ml1 (    RE I  00  Im 0691               000I               61     El
ml  000     000  VOl  az    r     160    1000  M       Ia   06            m    Cc     C
OM1  as          00L  RV    00    If           ei           1OZ   gz      n 
ODI )       00    SR  IfZ         0                   (L S6  I    9l      X I  I  I I  II
0)0         0 9090ml)        Is I                     61 I                Ml          I
10I  Of     (f    f   '9 I  ulz 00 1     I I   100           I     I9      I   fl     00
ml)        0.0   906  &I    iOf   91     WIl   SD                 ff00     i   X
GN1  I I   000    lb9)X           60                                           V      i
ml          n0    0               I                          1     1I          It     It
Got         (6i  9016  )    00ii   9     I      090                            a
/0))  0z   00    06  100                00     009           I     I      I0                   10) -q SL 
ml1         0          D                              7I                 I0    I      I              - *
0)1         6Z   (0) 1   01  90   Si      I    0900   M I                 0 
0)1         90    0)       P`9            0 cs  0000   006  0)           0M          (0tz-
am0  I     000   66  0z     99    XE                  6     % .2         0ro   if    It
DI   I      RI   000  016  0p           1I,    06     01   P (  I El0          El     I I
0)0         00  060   00 0           I  Ell    GI000 01 0l ED                  I      I0
ml1        0c    0(01  i    !LI   1     9 I    f I    lo    R9    1191   0)    0      I
0)0  06  060    .1    0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  0  0096  040)~~~~~~~~~~(Td    -d Ri.
()0  AL    01    0 1 I  Ill  DI11   I          000m i  16    0i  0101i    0          0 S
ml0  iI   (601   00)0  Nit "II           g I   Rai     6 Lb  900  as      01  01      0 
%11 0 6     101   00) I 000  06Z         Z 00         IS    090)         'D           0.. V
OD) I   I I 00    ID 0000Ef                   fI      Il    000i  000     01   ?
0)0  I      LI   O`( 010)0010            0I    0E     DI    L0IZ  0000   ri
0)0  DI     9     wl X 000)0  0    0            M      0l  eI     000     ml   I
D00 9       to   966   0O              0S00                       00 I         IuM P  IC
90    00   90    (0    00    I0I    00     6      0     0    9       0     9 
IT-
%Vf)               M--w-                       ppd  /.,M1 M10
'M -Wqoppj ~ ioad se~pft-Wnj,,  Aqk UOpuMM siJaw Sefi g!D Sa
00-



e9      iq   10(              4431          263     i4                    14    O      47          930Y
24  }   1    ia       MI                     II            9      1174         L [OD  1S      97  97J'.
4       4    JOE      35     3529   9       1Y     1252     7      166   125   143    24       2.   O
I1      P    IM       33      310    9      13    101      7      13     1017  124    24       21  [O
13      1                     461    9      19      I   .      1864  19(17SOD          33       3   [
a                IW    I 101   14,   14               12          10      2         _
C -     1                      121J       121      13                    2      .     W
561 0&p-     -4                             --UJ,4          -4     -A--49 -4
-49-



Table&
? HP-2 penfaee Indlats
during 1-3 quartenf the Year 2001.
Nr.                    1d,x8                         M mswsed   I0qrt 2e01 2)dq2DDI     3.dqu2Do    T ea     d
1                      Elz.l a-aW Pu&nd            nh k M            33814      106         12143        65043
2                                                  nh kWn            291         163A        104S         5072
kcm am& 94*d %Dauaea eai b
3                         E                        mh L.     *        123-M       68 9744.41              236.8
4                 COBawb= f  *er  y (pd -  a-&1 )  mh L *             95 0        6725        58           . 220 85
6                       Th mnma- poiELd d               GaC          451         E 191 0      373(        68018
7                                                     i Gmm          445         17852        19          643.5
Tlhnmi a=&      T    Ow,n a=da adil ltd
8                                                  mhi L,            78     x     25.41        4           10838
9                     Cdoisb'm k , Th=W            mh La, *                        2.9        2.61         7.25
11I                                            .ean BE, iui  8*1    149,125.1   82363       51,995 11    283,45660
12                                            re=amgo,rhm            13111        723         45.a        24919
13                                              b.k e            8,,  m 9v Fud  Z9057.70  0 o e 78 1      2,985 84
14       bl_k oil ws                                                 2,13 10       0 0        61 002,19410
15                    Ekma a& fsdf-V                 kV%b             407         2482        15.0         80ff
16                   TeaL  f zwesc&y a 1d-          mbal a                                    -1232        11701
17                      Fue q qb"                                     321 k       351 9       3891         35445
18                        V -&                                        128 9       u8-9        128M9.       128
* The indicated sum in Moldovan lei include VAT.
** Negaftve nunber for 3rd quarter indicates that in this period consumers paid more han consumed, covering
peviouslv accumulated debts. This is mosdv due to prnvatisation of distlrbution networks bv Union Fenosa
- 50 -



Table 9.Balance Sheet
Government of Moldova
Moldova Energy Project
as of December 31, 2001
United States Dollars
ASSETS                                           LIABILITIES & FUNDS
ASSETS:                                                LIABILITIES:
Cash                                                    Accounts Payable - Vendors
Cash - Petty Cash                      2.99
Cash - Special Account             87,527.85       TOTAL LIABILITIES
Cash - Local Account                  13.83
Total Cash                              87,544.67
FUNDS: (d)
Accounts Receivable
A/R - IBRD (a)                          -          Financing - IBRD                    9,165,498.79
A/R - Advances to Employees
A/R - Advances to Contractors           -          TOTAL FUNDS                         9,165,498.79
Total Accounts Receivable
Project Expenditures (c)             9,077,954.12
TOTAL ASSETS                         9,165,498.79       TOTAL LIABILITIES & FUNDS           9,165,498.79
Notes:
(a) For in-transit items awaiting IBRD/IDA payment (e. G. SOEreimbursements);
(b) For cases where IBRD/IDA funds have paid government's share of costs and project is awaiting reimbursement.
(c) These amounts will tie to total cumulative project expenditures (see FARAH model page 104).
(d) These amounts will tie to total cumulativve project financing (see FARAH model page 104).
Moldova Energy Project, LN4020, 3rd QT 2000 Report
- 51 -



I              I
Iii  jiji
w >
A
________                        J
II I                   liii -
Cal
I
A                A  A
I I Ii     ____
I
I
it        auu   di   



Tadl lL Cst Vam  =Rqxwt                             Repcst 1.B
asdD31,2001
Utgd SMos Dob
A.W                      Bo*                     Vffb=                LA
R*tldMW        cmhut  YMTo     Ouum.e   omu    YaTo    Cmie     Qu.u    YlTo      _U           mar
Q..w    Dtk      To4~  <         Da       Tofe    QNW     Dae      ToI 
tNl2FrbwPt                   SW=        w1(7l    _     .7 4 I  117%3-                     570
G=h-WW A                      55412C6  I47       .    55941206  1.759348D9  .57,D                    255D0E
p4mkGfwuAwwF- ftSW213I                             -      sw~um                       09 -A
Goid *PWIB             .921340 .        53213            -      S.392125D  -       .9                 5392131D
CN         -ld  h      _      197911   W479a3    _      M14    4379      _     (I1U7114   37119      6,4147S7DD
(CS -  rPMlq9                 1979331  64172(39  .    323,t614  6,M39193D  .   (1a241)1   37411O9    6,41AS7197
t~u dA=UnnF    9S -l             -         .     _                                 _ 
GmkuxtPl D             .         .         .       .               .        .-
QOhCHPfs2             .        .         .
(Smbs&TGwnB       
IS= i     . Wf72   3fisLs         WM       467.40  15$=    aP7i  (337  s(I3
C,,,9h&Tg              .      473S413    33      .    473s4m 19  303,mm9  -
0.mCHPW2                     KO3M       W      -     144M      A2g321            .
Vih.~,                -     219l 13   3267719  .     2191319   3677m D
s  .    911|3911  927119  .     11.39D   9371 .D
ALzk                           --                                                -
b--  O   Go          153721   1681|72   l37291l  .     I839m    26414538  1572D  (20281  (133,7724    1MM=
SF&atdPW            392(3   l1Q90L    6651212  .     (03M1    72s4s2s 1,4M2(3  40812    (7,371
Tmpatom&wmu~                 ZD 2304  11,7R49  .      29a23  32(2743   .(11,1171
T,        -i,J        .       lE3     l(356.            -      4*DW69   .       If Dm   (4492E
-E  .  253799 204s8.            33312m   45sM9    .      (11.      (.2371
Ad                                                      .      46(231   .        .       (49419
O   m&       m       7938    1,4(10    839219  .     2m1       1IJ8ZW  7939    (1.10 41
TdY*l3u_ _=9__               s7        s       -      S=23     sJK2    -7     (U730142     8   .
- 53 -



~~~~.     . .   .   .   . .   .   . .   .   .   .   .   . l'
I~~~~    W __
il8b^RX~I ,,,  .  9i 
I   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _E__ _ _ _ _ _i__ _
ii  I     I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L



Table 13. Special Account Statement
Government of Moldova
Moldova Energy Project
for period October 1 - December 31, 2001
United States Dollars
Opening Balance at October 1, 2001                                           89,079.85
(excluding Adjustment items)
Advance from Bank 1/
Balance per World Bank Statement of December 31, 2001
World Bank replenishments
Subtotal                                                                      89,079.85
Deduct:
Payment for Eligible Project Expenditures 2/                              1,572.00
Subtotal                                                                      87,507.85
Deduct: Amount recovered by World Bank
(recovery process, normally begins towards the
end of the project)
Subtotal                                                                      87,507.85
Adjustment items /3
Local Account Opening Balance at October 1, 2001               20.75
Local Account Closing Balance at December 31, 2001             13.83
Petty Cash Opening Balance at October 1, 2001                  16.07
Petty Cash Closing Balance at December 31, 2001                 2.99
Subtotal                                                         20.00
Closing Balance at 4/ December 31, 2001                                      87,527.85
Reconciliation With Wold Bank at Year End
Balance, as per above Closing Balance above
World Bank Replenishments inTransit
Balance per World Bank Statement of December 31, 2001
- 55 -



_~~~               _
* I ~ ig1  -' '                      '08 0 8 s 0 | 
l i i_  0                          CD g , , , 8 
S i-  #S IS I X  tj 



Table 15. Contract Expenditure Report                                      Report 3-A
Goods and Works (for contracts above prior review threshold) /1
Government of Moldova
Moldova Energy Project
as of December 31, 2001
United States Dollars
Contract                  Contract         Supplier/        Nationality     Cumency                             Amount
Descriptionil               Number          Contractor                        of contract        Value              Paid
to date
Geods                                                                                                        8,723,641.65      8,716,105.21
It.rg -             r :,               . r- -.             ,,r 4.,.                              -
Gasmetnrs & regulatoro (pflot)           GD009      Schlumberger       Gemany                USD               303,851.00        303,850 90
Household & apartment teters             GDO10      Elster              Germany               DM             3,372,206.86      3,429.159 64
Meas-ng devices                          GD011      Mettler Toledo      Swtlz.tRom           USD               260,12400         260,12400
Gas metes ra H&A nGDs G0014                         Schlumberger        Germany              USD             2,413,200.00       2.413,200 00
Generator Excitatron Systems             GD015      ABB                 Svwtz                CHF               635,783 43        569,045 59
Iertg__ .;.~,loualSho,ppa  -, .-             __-      ..                   .L~           ..-      ;      . i.e,M?2        .i _.4.7_
Geometes G-10                            GDO01      Eister              Germany               DM                63.955 41         63.955 41
Geometes G-16 & reguhltors               GD002      Schlumberger        Germany              USD               187.719 00        187,719 00
Camtooe end uDiotc resi                  G0003      Atat                Mddoya               USD                74,600 00         74,861 10
Wate retu-ners                           GD004      Broter-Eco          Moddova              USD               161,000 00        161,000.00
Computer indast-l network               G0O05       Revel               Moldova              US0               106,954 00        106,953 90
Photocopy machmes                        GD006      Revel               Moldova              USD                26.644 00         26.644 00
Codemation pumps                         GD008      Moldovahidromas     Moldova              USD               265,050 00        265.050 00
Gas pesusre, now computers               GD012      Flow Automaton      UK                   USD               235,362 50        235.362 50
Motor operted gate vatves                G0013      Noton (Auma)        Netherlands          NLG               194,185 31        196,172 83
Turbine type gam meters                  GD016      Elster              Gemany                DM               125,073.14        125,073 14
Gas metes calmbra1non oacl               GD017      Schlumberger        Germany              USD               197,933 00        197,933 00
Busbar for gneretors                     GD018     Zaporojtransformator  Ukrain              USD                31,600 00         31,600 00
Power cables                             GD019     Moldavcabel          Moldova              USD                16,596 00         16,596 00
Din-                                  t                                                                        10-,0go -.00
Drere Crt ~.eaae._ .           .1         -            . . _.                                    - .,                            10X.00000  tO.t
Turbogenentor spore ports                GD007      Electrosila         Russia               USD               100,000 00        100.000 00
Other (T. br Dremrined)
/1- Amendments that are subtecled to Bank no oblection should he included as an addibonal line with the same contract number and amendment number,
Requests for modifying the report for new contracts should be sent to Management Strategies, Inc
- 57 -









IMAGING
Report No.:  24446
Type'.: C



