Report No. PIC3059
Project Name              Moldova-Energy Project
Region                    Europe and Central Asia
Sector                    Energy/Environment
Project ID                MDPA8555
Borrower                  Republic of Moldova
Implementing Agencies     The Department of Energy and Energy Resources
Mr. Mihai Cebotari, General Director
Eminescu Street, No. 50
277012 Chisinau, Moldova
Tel. (3732) 22-10-10/22-22-70/22-40-30
Fax 22-22-64/23-40-64
Moldovagas
Mr. Valeriu Semion Miron
Vice Director-General
str. Albisoara, 38
277005, Chisinau, Moldova
Tel. 3732-21-22-31 or -62-59
The State Company "Moldenergo"
Mr. Guenady M. Verin, Chief Engineer
Hynchesht Str. 78
277012 Chisinau, Moldova
Tel. 3732-22-93-24, Fax -31-42
Date the Initial
PID Prepared              February 15, 1994
Date this PID prepared    April 16, 1996
Project Appraisal
Date                      February 7, 1995; October 1995 (redesign)
Projected Board Date      May 21, 1996
1.        Background.   The Moldovan economy has achieved a macroeconomic
stabilization. Structural reforms continue to move in a positive
direction, though at a more measured pace. With high intensity of
energy use and 99t import dependence, Moldova's costs of importing
energy exceeded 75t of its estimated export earnings for 1994. Tariff
distortions and difficulties in collecting payments have placed
Moldova's energy agencies under severe financial pressure. As a result,
maintenance of key facilities has been deferred. The sector is at
present characterized by poorly-maintained and unsafe, infrastructure
and prompt intervention is needed to address these problems.
2.        Project Description.   The proposed project includes:
(i) Overhaul of the Chisinau No. 2 combined heat and power (CHP)
plant. The project will reduce fuel consumption and restore
operating efficiency, which has deteriorated due to deferred
maintenance. The work will include repair of air preheaters,



boiler tubing replacement, condenser cleaning, repair of the
water demineralizing system, maintenance of the circulating
and main feeding pumps, fitting and piping for the district
heating system and miscellaneous parts for the plant;
(ii) Repair of approximately 180 leaky gas distribution points.
Gas leakage, operating inefficiencies, and unscheduled outages
will be reduced by replacing obsolete pressure transmitters
and indicators, installing safety devices, and replacing
leaking distribution lines at roughly 180 of the 800 points
(consumer stations) where imported gas enters the domestic
distribution network. The component could be easily expanded
to repair more distribution points in the event that grant
funding is available for technical assistance components,
allowing loan proceeds to be reallocated;
(iii)     Gas Meter Installation.   A pilot program of gas meter
installation will be carried out for all consumer groups
in order to begin the process of universal metering,
improve the accuracy where meters already exist, and
reduce losses. The program will include the installation
of about 30,000 household meters and 7,000 apartment
riser meters (multiple households) for consumers who do
not currently have any meters. In addition, meters will
be replaced or introduced for 60 large industrial
customers and 2,100 commercial consumers;
(iv) Upgrade of Accounting and Billing Systems and Financial
Management. Moldenergo and Moldovagas will receive computer-
system upgrades, consultant services and training in
administrative procedures in order to improve internal
collection and handling of operational data, to improve
billing and financial management. These upgrades are needed
in order to reduce non-technical energy losses, facilitate
better financial decision-making and to support implementation
of subsequent sector reforms;
(v) Project Management and Implementation Services. As this is
the first investment project in the Moldovan energy sector,
technical services will be provided to Moldovagas and
Moldenergo in project management and in preparing bidding
documents and carrying out World Bank procurement procedures.
Technical services will also be required in order to finalize
the metering designs and specifications.
3.        Project Costs and Financing.    The total project cost
including physical and price contingencies is estimated at US$20.5
million of which US$10.0 million, or about 74w, is the foreign exchange
cost. Most energy equipment imported under the project is not subject to
import duties according to existing legislation. Moldovagas and
Moldenergo will pay any applicable import taxes from their own revenues.
The total cost of the Project (before value added taxes and import
taxes) is US$17.5 million.   Physical contingencies were estimated at 10t
of the base cost on all items except the technical services component of
accounting/billing systems and implementation services where no physical
-2 -



or price contingencies have been applied. Price contingencies were
estimated using the standard MUV index and the average price contingency
is about 10%.  Value Added Tax and import duties have been excluded from
the project costs to be financed by the Bank and will be covered by the
energy agencies as part of   their contribution.    Schedule A presents
the project cost table.
4.        Project Implementation.   The project would be implemented over
a period of 4 years and is expected to be completed by December 31,
1999. Implementation of the energy components will be the
responsibility of Moldovagas and Moldenergo and the Department of Energy
and Energy Resources (DOE), to which they report. A Project Management
Unit (PMU) will be formed in the DOE, with a Project Manager responsible
for coordinating implementation activities and related technical
services and supervising two Deputy Project Managers appointed by
Moldovagas and Moldenergo. Installation of equipment will be the
responsibility of the energy agencies, who will use their force account
and specialized in-house construction and installation divisions, under
the guidance of the suppliers with additional assistance from the
project implementation consultants.
5.        Retroactive Financing.    In order to begin project
implementation during the 1996 construction season, retroactive
financing of up to US$1.0 million (10% of the Bank loan), for
expenditures incurred after March 31, 1996, would be permitted to cover
the cost of early procurement of spare parts for Chisinau No. 2 and
materials needed for repair of gas distribution points.
6.        Project Sustainability.    The conditionality of the project
will be centered on an Action Plan for Financial Rehabilitation of the
Energy Sector which will reduce energy price distortions by bringing
tariffs to a full-cost recovery level, eliminate special discounts and
phase out cross-subsidies. Under this Plan, actions are underway to
improve payment discipline prospectively, and to reschedule and
otherwise settle, over a period of several years, the massive energy
debts that accumulated during 1991-1995. The Plan includes a program to
reduce energy theft, which will be bolstered by several project
components: (i) installation of gas meters; (ii) upgrade of the energy
agencies' accounting and billing systems; and (iii) technical assistance
to refine long-term theft- and loss-reduction programs for Moldovagas
and Moldenergo. Accounting upgrades will also pave the way for improved
tariff administration and implementation of life-line tariff structures
as a future alternative to cross subsidies, and they will create a
framework for rational restructuring and sound financial management of
sector assets. Industrial environmental and energy audits to be
performed under the environmental component will provide, for the first
time, a comprehensive base of data for use in rationalizing Moldova's
industrial energy consumption.
7.        Lessons Learned from Past Bank Experience.    A review of
several decades of the Bank's worldwide lending in the power sector
recommended focusing on countries with a clear commitment to improve
sector performance through commercialization, corporatization and the
establishment of a transparent regulatory framework. The proposed
project, takes only the first step to set the stage for more
-3 -



comprehensive reforms. This pre-reform effort is necessary in view of
the fact that Moldova's energy agencies lack strong headquarters
administrative functions, due to their former consolidation in all-Union
structures.    Earlier this year, the Bank began implementing a Power
Loss Reduction Project in Albania (Ln. 2677-AL) that addresses energy
theft and excessive volumetric losses on a scale comparable to what is
encountered in Moldova. Though premature to assess ultimate results,
several approaches developed in this project were incorporated in
Moldova's Action Plan.
8.        Poverty Category.   The proposed operation is not part of the
Bank's Program of Targeted Interventions. However, the project
establishes minimum lifeline tariffs which will benefit vulnerable
segments of the population.
9.        Environmental Aspects.    The project is classified as Category
B, requiring limited analysis under the Bank's Operational Directive
4.01: Environmental Assessment. Project components are expected to
offer concrete environmental and safety benefits as described below:
-    Moldovagas.  The program of consumer station rehabilitation
will help substantially reduce gas leaks and improve safety
for operating personnel and for the nearby communities. The
metering subcomponent is also expected to promote conservation
of gas, thus lowering the overall impact of energy use on the
environment. No negative environmental impacts have been
identified in connection with the Moldovagas components.
-    Moldenergo.  It is projected that the rehabilitation of
boilers at Chisinau #2 will reduce consumption of imported
fuel oil and gas, by replacing deteriorated equipment that has
lost its efficiency. Heat rates would be improved, thus
reducing emissions per kWh of produced electricity. The
reduced air emissions would also reduce the ground level
concentrations of these pollutants around the plant. Worker
safety will be improved by reducing the risk of ruptures in
pipes carrying lethal, high-pressure steam. Accidents
involving such pipes in Moldova have been responsible for
worker injuries and death during the past two years.
10.       Program Objective Categories.    The project meets two program
objectives: environmentally sustainable development and economic
management. By improving efficiency and safety and reducing waste at
facilities consuming non-renewable fuel resources, this project is
consistent with the objective of environmentally sustainable
development. The financial management and accounting upgrade component,
including the Financial Action Plan, will pave the way for improved
tariff administration and implementation of life-line tariff structures
as an alternative to cross subsidies, thus creating a framework for
national restructuring and sound financial management of sector assets.
11.       Project Benefits.    Quantified project benefits are derived
from the following investment components: (i) gas distribution points:
reduced consumption of gas for operation of stations and increased
availability (lower downtime); (ii) industrial, commercial and
- 4 -



residential gas metering (three subprojects): installation and
replacement of inaccurate gas meters to reduce unmetered gas
consumption; and (iii) Chisinau #2 rehabilitation: reduced consumption
of fuel at the power plant.    Other benefits expected to be derived from
the project which are not easily quantified for the purpose of economic
and financial analysis include:
-    Critical maintenance work at the gas distribution points and
at Chisinau #2 would reduce noxious emissions through reduced
fuel use; the maintenance would also improve worker safety and
reduce noise pollution from the facilities;
-    The metering of gas consumption would: (i) facilitate the
commercialization of the gas sub-sector; (ii) enable demand
and consumption efficiency to respond to price changes as
cross-subsidies are eliminated, and tariffs raised to their
full cost-recovery levels for each consumer segment; (iii)
reduce external debt through improved means to enforce payment
discipline; and (iv) reduce economic losses through more
timely and accurate detection of gas leaks;
-    The accounting and financial management services will increase
Moldovagas and Moldenergo's ability to monitor financial
performance, improve internal controls, and provide critical
information for management decision-making; accounting
upgrades are also expected to be a critical element in
improving tariff design and collection systems, thus moving
Moldova toward better economic use of energy resources
-    Given that this is the first Bank-financed project in
Moldova's energy sector, project management and implementation
services will help the companies to expedite project
completion and early realization of project benefits, and to
complete the metering design for large users according to
accepted international standards.
12.       Risks.  Successful implementation of the Government's
Financial Action Plan for the Energy Sector will require substantial
commitment by Government and the energy companies over a period of
several years, and this is subject to political risk. Formalization of
a dated implementation schedule, and a requirement that initial steps be
completed as conditions of negotiations, have reduced this risk but not
eliminated it. Should implementation falter, the energy agencies face
continuing financial difficulties that could jeopardize project
implementation. In order for Moldenergo and Moldovagas to be viable
borrowers, refinancing of these agencies will be required. Should
Moldova fail to develop a plan for debt repayment, this could jeopardize
energy supplies to the entire country. This risk is mitigated by the
requirement under the project that such a plan is developed during the
first year of project implementation. A related concern is that the
December 1994 reduction in the border price of gas from US$80 per tcm to
US$58 is not under a long-term contractual arrangement but under year-
to-year arrangements. Moldova's gas, heat and power tariffs need to
provide for periodic adjustments to reflect changes in input prices, and
the general tariff reforms undertaken in connection with the Financial
- 5 -



Action Plan will provide for such adjustments. The beneficiaries'
inexperience in implementation of Bank projects poses an additional
risk. This risk has been addressed through careful planning of
activities that are on the critical path, and by providing technical
services to the PMU. The technical risks associated with this project
are minimal, given the nature of the components, which primarily involve
repair and rehabilitation of assets currently in use. Based on
feasibility studies conducted by qualified international consultants
provided under bilateral trust-funding arrangements, commercial risks
associated with the existence of excess capacity in Moldova's energy
sector have been minimized by narrowly restricting the project to a
select group of assets deemed to have ongoing commercial usefulness even
under a scenario of major asset rescaling.
Contact Point:
Public Information Center (PIC)
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Acting Task Manager:
Jann Masterson, EC4IN
Telephone No: (202) 473 5005
Fax No: (202) 522 0078
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 6 -



