Page  1
June   12, 1998
His Excellency
Anatol Arapu 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance
Cosmonaut Street, 7 277005 Chisinau 
Republic of Moldova
Excellency:
Re:
Loan No. 4020 MD (Energy Project)
Amendment to the Project Agreement
1.
We refer to a Project Agreement (Energy Project) dated July 23, 1996, between 
the Republic of Moldova and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
(the Bank).
2.
We are pleased to inform you that we hereby confirm Bank’s agreement to the 
amended and restated text of the Project Agreement as set forth in the Annex to this 
Letter.
3.
Please confirm your agreement with the following by signing, dating and 
returning to us the enclosed copy of this letter.  Upon receipt by the Bank of the 
copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, the amendment to the Project 
Agreement will become effective as of the date of countersignature.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Roger Grawe 
Country Director  
Czech Republic, Hungary, Moldova, Slovak Republic, 
   Slovenia 
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
By /s/ 
Authorized Representative
Date: ____________________
ANNEX
TEXT OF AMENDED AND RESTATED PROJECT AGREEMENT
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Republic of 
Moldova (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount equal to ten million dollars ($10,000,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Chisinau CHP 2 
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement;
(B) 
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and Chisinau CHP 2, a portion of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan 
Agreement will be relent to Chisinau CHP 2 on the terms and conditions set forth in 
said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS Chisinau CHP 2, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth and the term “its Part of 
the Project” means Parts A, D (i) and E (i) of the Project. 
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Chisinau CHP 2 declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out its Part of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, public utility and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for its Part of 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, Chisinau CHP 2 shall 
carry out in a timely manner the actions set forth in the Financial Action Plan.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for its Part of the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the 
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Chisinau CHP 2 shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and its Part of the Project.
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, Chisinau CHP 2 shall provide information to the Borrower to enable 
the Borrower to comply with Section 3.05 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. Chisinau CHP 2 shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about September 15, 1997, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by October 31, 1997, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
Section 2.05. Chisinau CHP 2 shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Chisinau CHP 2 Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
Chisinau CHP 2 shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of 
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Chisinau CHP 2 Subsidiary Loan 
Page  3
Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 2.06. (a) Chisinau CHP 2 shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange 
views with the Bank with regard to the progress of its Part of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Chisinau CHP 2 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan; and
(b) 
Chisinau CHP 2 shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its Part of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by Chisinau CHP 2 of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Chisinau CHP 2 Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of Chisinau CHP 2
Section 3.01. Chisinau CHP 2 shall carry on its operations and conduct its 
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, public utility, 
engineering and environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and 
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. Chisinau CHP 2 shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial, public utility and environmental practices.
Section 3.03. Chisinau CHP 2 shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) Chisinau CHP 2 shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition.
(b) 
Chisinau CHP 2 shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. Chisinau CHP 2 shall:
(a)
until December 31, 1996, maintain cash collections for electricity of not 
less than 30% of total collections and, thereafter, maintain such level as may be 
agreed with the Bank under the Financial Action Plan; and
(b)
by October 15, 1996, submit to the Bank a debt repayment plan including, 
without limitation, a schedule for: (i) collection of overdue accounts; and (ii) 
repayment of short and long term debt and accounts payable, satisfactory to the Bank 
Page  4
and implement the said plan, taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon.
Section 4.03. Chisinau CHP 2 shall take all action required on its part to 
ensure that its electricity tariffs are set and maintained at levels established by 
the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.02 (b) of the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Chisinau CHP 
2 thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Chisinau CHP 2 
thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For Chisinau CHP 2:
Centrala Electrica cu Termoficare nr. 2 din Chisinau
Str. Mesterul Manole, 3
277036, or. Chisinau
Republic of Moldova
Telegraph:
Chisinau, tel. (373-2) 222-92-02
Teletype:
163315
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
Page  5
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Chisinau CHP 
2, or by Chisinau CHP 2 on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be 
taken or executed by the  Director of Chisinau CHP 2 or such other person or persons 
as the Director of Chisinau CHP 2 shall designate in writing, and Chisinau CHP 2 shall 
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ 
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia 
CHISINAU CHP 2
By /s/ 
Authorized Representative
