Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4020 MD
                              Loan Agreement
                             (Energy Project)
                                 between
                            REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
                                   and
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                             Dated July 23, 1996
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4020 MD
                               LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July 23, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
     (B)  Parts A, D (i) and E (i) of the Project will be carried out
by Moldenergo (as such term is defined in Section 1.02 (c) of this
Agreement) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to Moldenergo a portion
of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement;
     (C)  Parts B, C, D (ii) and E (ii) of the Project will be carried
out by Moldovagas (as such term is defined in Section 1.02 (f) of this
Agreement) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to Moldovagas a portion
of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement;
     (D)  The Borrower intends to contract from other donor sources
a grant or grants (the Additional Grants) in an amount equivalent to
about $2 million to assist in financing Parts D and E of the Project;
and
Page  2
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to theBorrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreements
of even date herewith between the Bank and Moldenergo and the Bank
and Moldovagas;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
                   General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated
May 30, 1995 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part
of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "DOE" means the Borrower's Department of Energy and Energy
Resources and any successor thereto;
     (b)  "Financial Action Plan" means the Borrower's plan for
actions for the financial rehabilitation of the energy sector agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank and referred to in Section 3.02 of
this Agreement and Section 2.01 (b) of the Moldenergo Project
Agreement and Section 2.01(b) of the Moldovagas Project Agreement;
     (c)  "Moldenergo" means the state-owned enterprise "Moldenergo"
established by the Borrower pursuant to Decree No. 201 dated June 15,
1994, with its Charter (the Moldenergo Charter) re-registered with
the Borrower's Ministry of Justice on July 20, 1993;
     (d)  "Moldenergo Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Bank and Moldenergo of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (e)  "Moldenergo Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and Moldenergo pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, and the term "Moldenergo Subsidiary Loan" means the
loan provided to Moldenergo under the Moldenergo Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
     (f)  "Moldovagas" means the state-owned enterprise "Moldovagas"
established by the Borrower pursuant to Decree No. 126 dated November
24, 1995, with its Charter (the Moldovagas Charter) re-registered
with the Borrower's Ministry of Justice on January 19, 1996;
     (g)  "Moldovagas Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Bank and Moldovagas of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (h)  "Moldovagas Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and Moldovagas pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, and the term "Moldovagas Subsidiary Loan" means the
loan provided to Moldovagas under the Moldovagas Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
     (i)  "PMU" means the Project Management Unit established within
the DOE and referred to in Section 3.01(a)(ii) of this Agreement;
     (j)  "Project Agreements" means, collectively, the Moldenergo
Project Agreement and Moldovagas Project Agreement; and "Project
Page  3
Agreement" means each and any one of such agreements;
     (k)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (l)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means, collectively, the
Moldenergo Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Moldovagas Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and "Subsidiary Loans" means the Moldenergo
Subsidiary Loan and the Moldovagas Subsidiary Loan.
                              ARTICLE II
                               The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
an amount equal to ten million Dollars ($10,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial
bank acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base
Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
               including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding,
               the first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter,
               and after the initial period, each period from and
               including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding
               the next following Interest Payment Date.
          (ii) "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
               Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
         (iii) "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period,
               the London interbank offered rate for six-month
               deposits in dollars currency for value the first
               day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the
               Initial Interest Period, for value the Interest
               Payment Date occurring on or next preceding the
               first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably
               determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage
               per annum.
          (iv) "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:
               (A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus
               (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such
Page  4
               Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank
               offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month
               deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrow-
               ings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund
               single currency loans or portions thereof made by it
               that include the Loan.
     (c)  The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the
determination thereof.
     (d)  Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section
2.05, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers
as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the
interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest
rates applicable to amounts of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not
less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis.
The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply
to the Loan.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable April
15 and October 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.08. The DOE, or any other person designated by the DOE,
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE III
                       Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end:
          (i)  without limitation or restriction upon any of its
               other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
               Borrower shall cause Moldenergo and Moldovagas to
               perform all the obligations set forth in the
               Moldenergo Project Agreement and the Moldovagas
               Project Agreement, respectively, shall take or
               cause to be taken all action, including the
               provision of funds, facilities, services and
               other resources, necessary or appropriate to
               enable Moldenergo and Moldovagas to perform such
               obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
               taken any action which would prevent or interfere
               with such performance; and
          (ii) maintain until the completion of the Project the PMU
               responsible for overall Project oversight, coordina-
               tion of procurement activities under the Project and
               preparation of quarterly procurement status reports
               for submission to the Bank, with staff that shall
               include, except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
               otherwise agree, a project manager and two deputy
               project managers with qualifications, experience and
               terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
     (b)  The Borrower shall relend a portion of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to: (i) Categories 1(a), 1(d) and 2
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to Moldenergo under a subsidiary loan
Page  5
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and Moldenergo
(the Moldenergo Subsidiary Loan Agreement); and (ii) Categories 1(b),
1(c), 1(d) and 2 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to Moldovagas under
a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and Moldovagas (the Moldovagas Subsidiary Loan Agreement).
     (c)  Each Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall contain terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and which
shall include the following principal terms and conditions: (i)
the Subsidiary Loan to Moldenergo and Moldovagas, respectively,
shall be denominated in Dollars and shall be repayable in twenty
years, including a five-year grace period; (ii) Moldenergo and
Moldovagas shall pay interest on the principal amount of the
Subsidiary Loan, at a rate per annum equal to the rate specified
in Section 2.05 of this Agreement, plus a margin not exceeding
three-quarters of one percent (3/4 of 1%); and (iii) the principal
of the Subsidiary Loan repayable by Moldenergo and Moldovagas,
respectively, shall be equivalent, in Dollars, to the value of
currency or currencies withdrawn from the Loan Account on account
of expenditures for Moldenergo's and Moldovagas' respective Parts
of the Project, such equivalent to be determined as of the date
or respective dates of repayment.
     (d)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
any Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 3.01 and, except as the Borrower and the Bank shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall, and shall cause Moldenergo and
Moldovagas to, take all action necessary to carry out the Financial
Action Plan in a timely manner, and achieve progress, satisfactory
to the Bank, in carrying out the Financial Action Plan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall: (i) on or about March 15, 1997, review
with the Bank the progress achieved by the Borrower, Moldenergo and
Moldovagas in carrying out the Financial Action Plan, and shall set
agreed targets for implementation of the steps set out in the
Financial Action Plan; (ii) take, and shall cause Moldenergo and
Moldovagas to take, all necessary action to carry out the Financial
Action Plan in accordance with the timetable agreed in sub-paragraph
(i) of this Section; and (iii) annually thereafter, review with the
Bank the progress achieved in implementing the Financial Action Plan
in accordance with the agreed timetable.
     Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procure-
ment of the goods and consultants' services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  maintain and cause Moldenergo and Moldovagas to maintain,
policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to
the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof;
     (b)  prepare and cause Moldenergo and Moldovagas to prepare,
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to
the Bank, on or about September 15, 1997, a report integrating the
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pur-
suant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achieve-
ment of the objectives thereof during the period following such
date; and
Page  6
     (c)  review with the Bank and cause Moldenergo and Moldovagas
to review with the Bank, by October 31, 1997, or such later date as
the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of
the said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
     Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future
operation of the Project; and
     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said plan.
     Section 3.06. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project
shall be carried out by Moldenergo and Moldovagas pursuant to
Section 2.03 of the respective Project Agreements.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
               with sound accounting practices, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or
               payment out of the Special Account was made, all
               records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
               receipts and other documents) evidencing such
               expenditures; and
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records.
     (c)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this Section including those for the
               Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
               accordance with appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
          (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
               any case not later than six (6) months after the
               end of each such year, the report of such audit
               by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
               as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
Page  7
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records and accounts and the audit thereof
               as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
               request.
     Section 4.02. (a)  The Borrower and the Bank shall, from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views with regard to
the Borrower's gas and electricity  pricing policies and its plans in
respect of the overall development of the energy sector.
     (b)  The Borrower agrees, as long as it exercises control over
the setting of prices of energy companies, including Moldenergo and
Moldovagas, to establish prices for gas, heat and electricity sold
by such companies which would allow Moldenergo and Moldovagas to
comply with the Financial Action Plan.
                               ARTICLE V
                          Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  Moldenergo or Moldovagas shall have failed to perform any
of its obligations under its respective Project Agreement or
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that Moldenergo or Moldovagas will
be able to perform its obligations under its respective Project
Agreement or Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     (c)  The Moldenergo Charter or Moldovagas Charter shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the ability of Moldenergo or
Moldovagas to perform any of its obligations under its respective
Project Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of Moldenergo or Moldovagas or for the suspension of its operations.
     (e)  The Additional Grant shall have failed to become effective
by the date six (6) months after the date of effectiveness of this
Loan Agreement, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided,
however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if
the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obliga-
tions of the Borrower under this Agreement; and
     (f)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
               proceeds of any grant or loan made to the Borrower
               for the financing of the Project shall have been
               suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in
               part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement
               providing therefor, or
               (B)  any such loan shall have become due and payable
               prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
          (ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if
               the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
               Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
               termination or prematuring is not caused by the
               failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
               obligations under the agreement referred to in
               paragraph f(i)(A) of this Section; and (B) adequate
Page  8
               funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
               from other sources on terms and conditions con-
               sistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
               this Agreement.
     Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Bank to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d), (e) (subject
to the proviso thereto), and (f) (subject to the proviso of sub-
paragraph (f) (ii) thereof), of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                   Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely that
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and Moldovagas, and the Borrower and Moldenergo,
respectively.
     Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions,
to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that the Project Agreements have been duly authorized or
ratified by Moldenergo and Moldovagas, respectively, and are legally
binding upon Moldenergo and Moldovagas in accordance with their
terms; and
     (b)  that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly
authorized or ratified by the parties thereto and are legally binding
upon the said parties in accordance with their terms.
     Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                           ARTICLE VII
              Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          277005 Chisinau
          Cosmonaut Street, 7
          Republic of Moldova
                                        Telex:
                                        (3732) 228610
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
Page  9
           Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD            248423 (RCA)
               Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC)
                                         64145 (WUI) or
                                        197688 (TRT)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
                    REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
                    By /s/ Nicolae Tau
                                            Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Basil G. Kavalsky
                                        Acting Regional Vice President
                                               Europe and Central Asia
                              SCHEDULE 1
               Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the           % of
                            Loan Allocated        Expenditures
                            (Expressed in            to be
     Category                  Dollars              Financed
(1)  Goods                                        100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures,
     (a) Goods under Part A  1,000,000            100% of local
         of the Project                           expenditures
                                                  (ex-factory
     (b)  Goods under Part B   800,000            cost) and 80%
          of the Project                          of local
                                                  expenditures for
     (c)  Goods under Part   6,000,000            other items
          C (1) of the Project                    procured locally
     (d)  Goods under Part D   500,000
          of the Project
(2)  Consultants' services     200,000            100%
     and training under
     Parts D and E
     of the Project
(3)  Unallocated             1,500,000
                             _________
          TOTAL             10,000,000
                            ==========
Page  10
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding $1,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after March 31, 1996; and
     (b)  payments made for expenditures under Category 1(c) until
the Borrower has presented to the Bank a program satisfactory to the
Bank for installation of metering in residential buildings,
improvement of metering for industrial and commercial customers and
for the introduction of universal metering at international standards.
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:
(a) goods under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent; and
(b) consultants' services under contracts costing less than: (i)
$100,000 equivalent for firms; and (ii) $50,000 equivalent for
individuals under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.
                               SCHEDULE 2
                       Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to: (i) strengthen the
financial management and accounting systems of Moldovagas and
Moldenergo in order to place gas and electricity sales on a
commercial basis and establish Moldovagas and Moldenergo as
financially viable energy enterprises, and (ii) improve the
measurement of consumed energy and the efficiency of electricity
production in order to reduce losses and waste of costly imported
fuels.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Overhaul of the Chisinau No. 2 Combined Heat and
          Power Plant of Moldenergo (Chisinau 2)
     Reduce fuel consumption and restore operating efficiency of
Chisinau 2 through repair of air preheaters and water demineralizing
system, replacement of boiler tubing, maintenance of the circulating
and main feeding pumps, fitting and piping for the district heating
system and miscellaneous parts of the plant and condenser cleaning.
Part B:   Repair of Leaky Gas Distribution Points
     Reduce gas leakage, operating inefficiencies of Moldovagas gas
distribution points and unscheduled outages through the replacement
of obsolete pressure transmitters and indicators, installation of
safety devices and replacing leaking distribution lines in at least
180 points (consumer stations) where natural gas enters the domestic
distribution network.
Part C:   Gas Meter Installation
     Reduce losses, improving accuracy of existing meters and
Page  11
commencing the introduction of universal metering through (i)
installing about 30,000 household and about 7,000 apartment
riser meters for consumers who currently do not have meters
and (ii) replacing existing meters with more accurate metering
system for about 2,100 commercial consumers and about 60 large
industrial customers.
Part D:   Upgrade of Accounting and Billing Systems and Financial
          Management at Moldenergo and Moldovagas
     Improve internal collection and handling of operational data
and billing and financial management at: (i) Moldenergo; and (ii)
Moldovagas through provision of computer-system upgrades, technical
assistance and training in administrative procedures.
Part E:   Project Management and Implementation Services
     Provision of technical assistance to (i) Moldenergo and (ii)
Moldovagas in project management and procurement procedures.
                               *****
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
                               SCHEDULE 3
                          Amortization Schedule
                               Payment of Principle
Payment Due Date              (Expressed in Dollars)*
October 15, 2001                        215,000
April 15, 2002                          220,000
October 15, 2002                        230,000
April 15, 2003                          235,000
October 15, 2003                        240,000
April 15, 2004                          250,000
October 15, 2004                        255,000
April 15, 2005                          260,000
October 15, 2005                        270,000
April 15, 2006                          275,000
October 15, 2006                        285,000
April 15, 2007                          295,000
October 15, 2007                        300,000
April 15, 2008                          310,000
October 15, 2008                        320,000
April 15, 2009                          330,000
October 15, 2009                        340,000
April 15, 2010                          345,000
October 15, 2010                        355,000
April 15, 2011                          365,000
October 15, 2011                        380,000
April 15, 2012                          390,000
October 15, 2012                        400,000
April 15, 2013                          410,000
October 15, 2013                        425,000
April 15, 2014                          435,000
October 15, 2014                        445,000
April 15, 2015                          460,000
October 15, 2015                        475,000
April 15, 2016                          485,000
___________________
*    The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be
     repaid, except  as provided in Section 4.04(d) of the General
     Conditions.
                              SCHEDULE 4
                 Procurement and Consultants' Services
Page  12
Section I.     Procurement of Goods
Part A:   General
     Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section
I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in January 1995 as modified in January 1996 (the
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:  International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.   The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
this Part B.
     (a)  Grouping of contracts
     To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into
bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more each.
     (b)  Preference for domestically manufactured goods
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower.
Part C:  Other Procurement Procedures
     (a)  International Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.
     (b)  Direct Contracting
     Goods under Part A of the Project which must be purchased from the
original supplier to be compatible with existing equipment and costing
$100,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to: (i) each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more; and (ii) each contract awarded in
accordance with paragraph (b) of Part C of Section I of this Schedule 4,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Page  13
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by The Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank,
with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other
standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply
to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to:
(a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source
selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment
of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000
equivalent or above.
                              SCHEDULE 5
                           Special Account
 1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time
to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided,
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $200,000 until
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or
exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
Page  14
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
               Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
               specify.
          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
               other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
               of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
               each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
               into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid
               out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
or
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commit-ment entered 
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further
deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as
Page  15
the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank
all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
