Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4020 MD
                       Moldenergo Project Agreement
                             (Energy Project)
                                  between
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                                   and
                                MOLDENERGO
                          Dated July 23, 1996
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4020 MD
                          PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July 23, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and MOLDENERGO (Moldenergo).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Republic of Moldova (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed
to make available to the Borrower an amount equal to ten million dollars
($10,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that Moldenergo agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and Moldenergo, a portion of the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be relent to Moldenergo
on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
and
     WHEREAS Moldenergo, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
                             Definitions
     Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement
Page  2
and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the term "its Part of the Project" means Parts
A, D (i) and E (i) of the Project.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) Moldenergo declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out its Part of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering, public utility and environ-
mental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for its Part of the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, Moldenergo shall carry out in a timely manner the actions set
forth in the Financial Action Plan.
     Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procure-
ment of the goods and consultants' services required for its Part of
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.03. (a) Moldenergo shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and its Part of the
Project.
     (b)  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions
and without limitation thereto, Moldenergo shall provide information
to the Borrower to enable the Borrower to comply with Section 3.05 of
the Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.04. Moldenergo shall:
     (a)  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators
satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof;
     (b)  prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank, on or about September 15, 1997, a report
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement
of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
     (c)  review with the Bank, by October 31, 1997, or such later date
as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the
said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
     Section 2.05. Moldenergo shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Moldenergo Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, Moldenergo shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning
or waiving the Moldenergo Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
     Section 2.06. (a) Moldenergo shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of its Part
of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
Page  3
and under the Moldenergo Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan; and
     (b)  Moldenergo shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its
Part of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan,
or the performance by Moldenergo of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Moldenergo Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                              ARTICLE III
                  Management and Operations of Moldenergo
     Section 3.01. Moldenergo shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, public
utility, engineering and environmental practices under the supervision
of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02. Moldenergo shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial, public
utility and environmental practices.
     Section 3.03. Moldenergo shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.
                             ARTICLE IV
                         Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) Moldenergo shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
     (b)  Moldenergo shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
               and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
          (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six (6) months after the end of
               each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
               statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
               report of such audit by said auditors of such scope
               and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and
         (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records, accounts and financial statements as well
               as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to
               time reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. Moldenergo shall:
     (a)  until December 31, 1996, maintain cash collections for
electricity of not less than 30% of total collections and, thereafter,
maintain such level as may be agreed with the Bank under the
Financial Action Plan; and
     (b)  by October 15, 1996, submit to the Bank a debt repayment
plan including, without limitation, a schedule for: (i) collection
of overdue accounts; and (ii) repayment of short and long term debt
and accounts payable, satisfactory to the Bank and implement the said
plan, taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
Page  4
     Section 4.03. Moldenergo shall take all action required on its
part to ensure that its electricity tariffs are set and maintained
at levels established by the Borrower in accordance with Section
4.02 (b) of the Loan Agreement.
                              ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and
of Moldenergo thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank
shall promptly notify Moldenergo thereof.
     Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension
under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                      Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall
be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram
to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made
at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address
as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving
such notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD           248423 (RCA)
               Washington, D.C.     82987 (FTCC)
                                    64145 (WUI) or
                                   197688 (TRT)
     For Moldenergo:
          Moldenergo
          78 Hincesti Street
          Chisinau
          Republic of Moldova
     Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
any document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement
on behalf of Moldenergo, or by Moldenergo on behalf of the Borrower
under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by the General
Director of Moldenergo or such other person or persons as the General
Director of Moldenergo shall designate in writing, and Moldenergo shall
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but
one instrument.
Page  5
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/ Basil G. Kavalsky
                                        Acting Regional Vice President
                                               Europe and Central Asia
                         MOLDENERGO
                         By /s/ Nicolae Tau
                                            Authorized Representative
