Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15341-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
NwFP COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE AND NHA STRENGTHENING PROJECT
FEBRUARY 13, 1996
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(January 1995)
Pakistan Rupee = 100 paisa
Currency Unit = Rupee (Rs)
Rs 1.00 = US$ 0.03
US$1.00  =  Rs31
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
mm   =    millimeter (0.039 inches)
m     =    meter (3.28 feet)
km    =    kilometer (0.62 miles)
km2  =    I square km (0.386 square miles)
mgd  =    million gallons per day (I mgd - 4,546 m3/day)
I     =    liter (0.22 Imperial gallons or 0.264 US gallons)
lcd   =    liters per capita per day
m3   =    cubic meters (220 Imperial gallons or 264.2 US gallons)
ml   =    million liters
gpcd  =    Imperial gallons per capita per day
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBO        -    Community-Based Organizations
GONWFP  -    Government of NWFP
GOP        -    Government of Pakistan
LGERDD   -    Local Government, Elections and Rural Development Department
NGO        -     Non-Governmental Organization
NWFP       -    North-West Frontier Province
O&M        -    Operation and Maintenance
UNICEF    -    United Nations International Children's Educational Fund
GOP FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30



PAKISTAN
NWFP COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE AND NRA STRENGTHENING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page Ng,
CREDIT AND  PROJECT  SUMMARY  ..............................  i -
I. THE SECTOR ........................................... -1-
A. Country Background ................................... 1 -
B. Infrastructure Sector Organization ........................... 2 -
C. Sector Constraints ..................................... 4 -
D. Bank Group's Experience in Infrastructure and Upgrading   ............                         - 4 -
H. THE PROJECT .......................................... -6-
A. Project Origin and Ownership .............................. 6 -
B. Objectives .......................................... 6 -
C. Policy Framework ..................................... 7 -
D. Rationale for IDA  Involvement ............................. 7 -
E. Description ......................................... 8 -
F. Project Costs ....................................... 11 -
G.  Financing Plan  .....................................- 13 -
IM. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                                 ..- 14-
A. Implementing Agencies                                       ..- 14 -
B. Implementation Strategy                                     ..- 17 -
C. Status of Preparation                                     ..- 18 -
D. Implementation Modalities for Community Infrastructure  ....                      ........   19 -
E. Operation & Maintenance (O&M)                                     ..- 21 -
F. Procurement ....................................... 22 -
G. Land Acquisition .................................... 24 -
H. Disbursements ...................................... 24 -
I. Accounts and Audit ................................... 27 -
J. Monitoring, Supervision, and Evaluation   ...................... 27 -
This report is based on findings of an appraisal mission to Pakistan in January 1994. Project team
members included: Mr. G. Lee (Municipal Financial Specialist, SA1IN), Task Manager and Mission Leader;
Ms. J. Viloria (Institutional/Community Development Specialist, ASTTP); Mr. B. Assimakopoulos
(Implementation Coordinator, SAlIN); Mr. C. Banes (Municipal Engineer, Consultant); Mr. L. Holstein (Land
Management Specialist, Consultant); Mr. H. Katsura (Shelter Specialist, Consultant); and Mr. A. Wight
(Institutional Specialist, Consultant) from the International Development Association; Mr. B. Girardin
(Development Secretary) and Mr. P. Schubeler (Community Development Specialist, Consultant) from the
Swiss Development Cooperation; and Mr. A. Ahad from UNICEF. Staff from the Pakistan Resident Mission
included: Messrs. A. Malik (Disbursements), K. Minnatullah (Community Participation) and N. Qureshi
(Project Officer and Procurement). The project is endorsed by Ms. M. Nishimizu, Director, Country
Department I, South Asia Region, and Ms. M. Garcia-Zamor, Chief, Infrastructure Operations Division. The
Peer Review team comprised Messrs. S. Choi, E. Rotner (project scope, design and implementation), and D.
Williams (upgrading). Ms. Janice Palenzuela (SAlEF), Ms. Betty White (SAlEF), and Ms. Bina Duggal
(SAlIN) assisted in the production of this report.



IV. PROJECT FINANCING AND COST RECOVERY  .......                             ........... 29 -
A. Present Arrangements ................................. 29 -
B. Cost Recovery and Capital Contributions ......................- 29 -
C. Beneficiary Affordability ................................- 30 -
D. Government Affordability  ...............................- 31 -
V. PROJECT JUSTIFCATION AND RISKS ........................ -32-
A. Poverty Impact and Other Benefits ..........................- 32 -
B. Environmental Impact .................................. 33 -
C. Economic Analysis  ...................................- 34 -
D. Risks ............................................  35-
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   .............                                - 36-
ANNEXES
1. Community Infrastructure Detailed Description
2. Project Cost Details
3. Implementing Agencies
4. Project Development Process - Detailed Procedures
5. Implementation Schedule
6. Funds Flow Chart
7. Planning, Design and Construction Standards
8. Operations and Maintenance
9. Procurement of Civil Works
10. Disbursement Schedule
11. Monitoring and Evaluation
12. Supervision Plan
13. Economic Analysis
14. Documents in Project File
Map           IBBRD No. 26129



- i -
ISLaAMIC REPUBLIC OF P.AKISIAN
Credit and Project Summ=y
Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Imp eing  Agencies:    National Housing Authority and Local Government, Elections
and Rural Development Department
Beneficianes:            National Housing Authority, Government of Pakistan, the
Province of North-West Frontier (NWFP) and its respective
Executing Agencies, and low-income communities in NWFP
Bovety:                  Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:                  SDR 13.7 million (US$21.5 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard, with 35 years maturity.
Commitment Fee:          0.50% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waivers
EinancingPlan:           See Para. 2.18
Economic Rate
of Return:             About 31%
Ma:                      IBRD No. 26129
Prject   tification
Number:                PK-PA-10478






- 1 -
PAKISTAN
NWFP COMMU1NITY INFRASTRUCTURE AND NHA STRENGTHENING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE SECTOR
A. Country Background
1.1       Pakistan is a low income country with GNP per capita estimated at US$416 per year
in 1992. Its population is 110 millionY' and is growing rapidly at a rate of over 3% per annum.
Urbanization has been proceeding at a fast pace and by 1992 the share of urban population had
increased to almost one third. Projections are that by the turn of the century the population will
increase by over 30 million, with half the increase occurring in urban areas. Pakistan's economic
growth performance has been fairly impressive during the last decade when the GDP growth rate
averaged 6%. Recent economic growth, however, has been accompanied by large and growing
macroeconomic imbalances which could seriously affect future growth. Pakistan also performs
very poorly in its human development indicators, which could prove to be an important long-
term constraint.
1.2       The North-West Frontier Province (NWFP) had a population of about 16 million
in 1991, making it the third largest province in Pakistan. Nearly 84% of the population is rural,
although urban areas grew faster than rural areas (4.6% versus 3.5%) between 1981 and 1991.
Urban population growth has resulted from natural growth, migration, and the reclassification
of large rural settlements as urban areas. As of the 1981 census, only two cities (Peshawar and
Mardan) exceeded 100,000 persons. Six other localities had populations between 50,000 and
100,000. In physical terms, NWFP is Pakistan's smallest province, occupying less than a tenth
of Pakistan's total area. It has a diverse topology ranging from scenic mountains and valleys
in the north and west to lowlands converging on the Indus River in the east. The Khyber Pass,
which links NWFP to Afghanistan near Peshawar, has in recent times served as a major conduit
for refugees. In 1992, about 2.5 million of the estimated 3.3 million refugees living in Pakistan
resided in NWFP or the adjacent Federally Administered Tribal Areas.
1.3       The distribution of shelter-related infrastructure facilities in NWFP differs
substantially from that of the rest of the country2'. Over a third of all households in NWFP
rely on wells as a primary source of drinking water, about three times the national average of
11.5%. In addition, nearly 22% of NWFP households rely on sources such as ponds, rivers,
streams and springs, compared to only 9.5% of the country as a whole. Almost all urban and
two-thirds of rural housing units have access to electricity. Only 4% of all households have
access to gas, about half the national rate of 9%. Compared to other provinces, dwellings in
1990 estimate. The estimated population in 1993 was approximately 120 million.
Based upon 1989 Sample Housing Survey.



rural areas are much more likely to have private kitchens, bathrooms, and latrines. Half of rural
units have separate latrines -- over twice the national average. This is consistent with cultural
values that emphasize privacy and is evidence of the high demand for such facilities. About
87% of urban dwellings in NWFP have separate latrines -- a figure comparable to the national
average of 84% -- but only 42% of these have flush capability as opposed to 70% nationally.
This indicates a lack of well developed urban sanitation systems. Informal surveys have
documented major problems with access, drainage, sewerage, and solid waste disposal. For
example, even in areas where flush latrines are connected to sewers, the local networks often
empty into neighboring fields without treatment. Filthy ponds and solid waste accumulating in
streets and vacant lots are familiar sights in many communities. Unsurfaced roads and footpaths
that become impassable during the rainy season are common.
1.4       Throughout Palistan, home ownership rates are high by international standards, and
about 89% of all units are owned. In NWFP, the rural home ownership rate is around 90%,
about the national average, but the urban home ownership rate is only about 66%, the lowest
of any province. Urban renters, who occupy 28% of urban dwellings, are more likely than
owners to draw their drinking water from a piped source outside the unit, to use kerosene for
cooking, and to lack a kitchen. The additional 6% of urban households who occupy their units
rent-free are far more likely than owner households to rely on wells outside their units for
drinking water (22% versus 4%), to use dung-cake, wood, and other (non-gas, non-kerosene)
sources for cooking, and to lack kitchens, bathrooms, and latrines.
B. Infrastructure Sector Organization
1.5       There are many institutions directly and indirectly involved in infrastructure
development including federal and provincial government agencies, non-governmental
organizations (NGOs), community-based organizations (CBOs), the informal private sector and
individuals.
1.6       Federal government, through the Planning Commission, is responsible for five year
plans and annual allocations for the physical planning and housing sector. The Ministry for
Housing and Works is responsible for sector policy formulation, although preparation of
particular policy statements may be undertaken by its specialist agencies, such as the National
Housing Authority (NHA) which was instrumental in the recent revision of the National Housing
Policy. NHA is also responsible for preparation of plans and programs for low cost housing.
Utilities such as the Water and Power Development Authority (responsible for electricity
generation and distribution) and Sui Gas are national entities.
1.7       Provincial agencies involved in the infrastructure sector in NWFP include the Local
Govemment, Elections and Rural Development Department (LGERDD), the Planning,
Environment and Development Department, the Finance Department, the Public Health
Engineering Department (PHED), and the Provincial Urban Development Board (PUDB). The
Planning, Environment and Development Department coordinates development activities,
finalizes annual development programs and approves projects. LGERDD supervises the working
of local councils. It also executes a rural development program mostly consisting of small
infrastructure schemes. PHED is responsible for development of water supply and sewerage



- 3 -
schemes and, due largely to difficulties in handing over schemes to local councils or
communities, has increasingly taken on operation and maintenance functions. The PUDB heads
the six Development Authorities in the province, and has been assigned the tasks of integrated
urban planning. Development Authorities execute provincially-funded development projects,
undertake works on behalf of other entities, and construct sites and services schemes. There are
48 urban local councils and 19 rural district councils in NWFP. The local councils are
autonomous bodies that operate under the 1979 Local Government Ordinance, managed by an
elected mayor and council members. Local councils, especially in smaller cities, have poor
administrative, managerial, and technical skills, and are presently being run by appointed
administrators rather than elected council members.
1.8       Working at the community level, UNICEF3' has been active in developing small-
scale infrastructure schemes (e.g., hand pumps) and in providing health and sanitation education.
NGOs and CBOs have also contributed directly and indirectly to infrastructure development.
Pakistan is home to several successful community approaches to infrastructure provision. In
Northern Areas, the Agha Khan Rural Support Program (AKRSP) has demonstrated techniques
for developing infrastructure through community approaches. Although the objective of AKRSP
is to increase per capita income of beneficiaries, its methodologies which include village
organization, partnership agreements, regular savings with collective banking, and creation of
women's organizations have broader application. Spin-off organizations in NWFP have been
active in disseminating lessons based on the AKRSP experience with community-based
development. The Orangi Pilot Project (OPP), located in Karachi, Sindh, is based in the
country's largest squatter colony where 900,000 people live. OPP's major activities include
housing, water and sanitation, and these programs have been undertaken independently of
government. The sanitation program, which now covers about two-thirds of the area, has
developed community mobilization techniques, appropriate technologies, and full beneficiary
financing of on-site capital and operation and maintenance costs. It has also been used as an
entry point for various other programs. Some of the benefits of OPP have been restricted by
the limited cooperation between OPP and government agencies, but recently this aspect is being
better addressed. Through its outreach efforts, OPP has strongly influenced decision makers
throughout the country and is recognized as one of the world's best examples of successful
community-based infrastructure development.
1.9       The private sector, particularly the informal sector, has been the primary driving
force behind housing development. Housing is usually built incrementally, by hired labor, as
finances permit and as needs change, and the majority of low-income housing in NWFP has been
developed in this way. Unlike other provinces, squatter settlements and katchi abadis are rarely
found in NWFP, due in part to strong traditional ties to land, and development has typically
been through sub-division and sale of private land. The process is dynamic, and despite high
population growth, the number of persons per room fell during the 1980s, from 3.6 to 3.4. This
reflected the substantial growth in housing units with more than one room, which increased as
a percentage of the total from 50% to 67% during the period.
2/  United Nations Intemational Children's Educational Fund.



- 4 -
C. Sector Constraints
1.10      Although a dynamic source of new housing, informal private sector development is
usually undertaken without reference to official planning and building regulations, and services
are rarely provided at the time of development. As a result, basic infrastructure provision in
low-income community areas is typically very inadequate.
1.11      Government's response to this shortcoming has been limited by a number of factors
including:
(a)  institutional arrangements in which responsibilities overlap, and which do not
encourage inter-agency cooperation;
(b)  financial constraints, and lack of a clear policy framework for dealing with such
issues as cost recovery, infrastructure standards, subsidies, and targeting of
beneficiaries;
(c)  failure to effectively operate and maintain existing infrastructure, partly due to
financial constraints, partly due to institutional weaknesses, and partly due to an
unwillingness to accept operation and maintenance responsibility for works
completed by other government entities; and
(d)  lack of provisions for directly involving communities in infrastructure projects.
1.12      The international donor community has sometimes compounded problems by poorly
coordinating its efforts and by adopting inconsistent policies, although the development of IDA's
Social Action Program Project (Credit 2593-PAK) should help to address some of these
shortcomings.
D. Bank Group's Experience in Infrastructure and Upgrading
1.13      The International Development Association (IDA) has financed nine infrastructure
projects in Palistan, four in Lahore, four in Sindh (of which three in Karachi), and a rural water
supply and sanitation project in Azad Jammu & Kashmir, Sindh, and Balochistan. This would
be the first infrastructure project in NWFP involving IDA.
1.14      Following two earlier water and sanitation projects, the multi-sector Lahore Urban
Development Project (Credit 1348-PAK) included a component for infrastructure upgrading
which was completed successfully. The ongoing Punjab Urban Development Project (Credit
1895-PAK) contains further upgrading components. The components in Lahore are proceeding
satisfactorily and are 75 % complete. The upgrading has improved access to basic infrastructure
for a substantial number of Lahore's poorer citizens, has leveraged additional private investment
to further improve living conditions, and has demonstrated several innovative designs which are
now being replicated in other projects throughout Pakistan. Nevertheless, cost recovery, and



the transfer of completed assets for operation and maintenance have proved difficult, and the
lack of a structured form of community participation may have contributed to these problems.
1.15      Four credits have been made in Sindh, two for water supply and sewerage and two
for urban development. The Karachi Special Development project (Credit 1652-PAK) included
a component for infrastructure upgrading in low-income areas, but implementation, particularly
with regard to cost recovery, was uneven due to poor organization and weak management.
Appropriate infrastructure standards, however, are beginning to be adopted by the concerned
government agencies.
1.16      The Sindh Special Development Project (Cr. 2558-PAK) is underway in Sindh. This
project includes environmental and transport upgrading, environmental impact assessment of
Korangi industrial area, a series of policy and administrative reforms including adoption of
adequate environmental standards, and preparation of engineering studies for future infrastructure
improvements and environmental upgrading in the province through community involvement.
The project has been in implementation for the last 16 months and shows that it would improve
the environmental and health conditions of the low-income urban population, land values in the
upgraded areas, and establish communal treatment facilities for effluent streams of different
industrial areas.
1.17      The Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project (Credit 2228-PAK) is underway in
Azad Jammu and Kashmir, Sindh, and Balochistan. This project includes the construction of
new, community-managed, water supply and sanitation schemes supported by a program of
institutional strengthening, policy reform, and innovative resource mobilization. This project
has experienced delays and is demonstrating the difficulties of government working effectively
with communities. In particular, re-orienting the traditional engineering focus of provincial line
departments towards recognition of the role of communities is proving difficult.
1.18      The main lessons learned from Bank Group experience, from analysis of Project
Completion Reports and from OED evaluations of infrastructure upgrading in other countries
are: (a) upgrading programs that can readily adapt to unforeseen needs or circumstances fare
better than one-size-fits-all programs; (b) community participation can facilitate project
implementation especially with regard to identifying needs and mobilizing resources; (c) reducing
infrastructure standards is a direct means of improving project affordability; (d) cost recovery
and satisfactory operation and maintenance present major challenges; and (e) successful projects
build upon the strengths of existing institutions.



-6 -
HI. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Ownership
2.1       The Bank's Shelter Sector Review (Report 7214-PAK, June 1989), and subsequent
sector analysis and project identification by the National Housing Authority (assisted by
consultants financed by the Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC) and the Japanese Policy and
Human Resource Development Fund and administered by the World Bank) has prompted a
rethinking of approaches to solving shelter problems of low-income communities in Pakistan.
The focus has shifted away from the government's earlier approach of constructing and financing
serviced plots and new homes, towards improving basic infrastructure in low-income areas.
2.2       Past investments in serviced plots have not tended, despite substantial subsidies, to
serve low-income groups, and plots have also frequently remained unutilized for many years
after completion, further diminishing the effectiveness of this approach. The analysis of sector
constraints has highlighted the need to upgrade the infrastructure in low-income areas, but
illustrates that this needs to be in a manner which creates affordable and sustainable investment
programs, and establishes effective operation and maintenance (O&M) arrangements.
2.3       In seeking to address the infrastructure needs of low-income communities, NHA and
GONWFP have examined the approaches to infrastructure development and upgrading adopted
by NGOs and the informal sector. Earlier experience in NWFP of upgrading projects without
community involvement in scheme planning and design has demonstrated the difficulties which
can arise with transfer of completed infrastructure for O&M. GONWFP has therefore attempted
to identify ways to actively work with and facilitate communities. Following project preparation
studies, managed by its Project Management Unit (PMU), new policies and approaches have
been tested in two pilot projects, with works financed by GONWFP and executed by community
self-help. Early results indicate an improved level of beneficiary satisfaction, with increased
"ownership" of the infrastructure created. These efforts have culminated in the formulation by
government of a radically different policy framework for infrastructure upgrading (para. 2.5),
which it proposes to implement through this project, and which demonstrates a commitment by
government to changing past practices.
B. Objectives
2.4       The project's objective would be to increase the productivity and well being of low-
income groups in NWFP through improving their living conditions by provision of basic
infrastructure and community development. This would be achieved by: (a) infrastructure
upgrading and community development in existing urban and rural low-income settlements; (b)
promoting the use of demand-driven, participatory design procedures and affordable standards
for infrastructure; (c) strengthening the ability of provincial and local governments to collaborate
with communities to implement low-income infrastructure programs; and (d) promoting
sustainable arrangements for O&M of basic services.



- 7 -
C. Policy Framework
2.5       GONWFP has formulated a project policy framework to achieve these objectives as
follows:
(a)  the project would provide integrated physical, social and economic
infrastructure to low-income communities in selected urban and rural areas of
NWFP;
(b)  the project would give priority to those communities which demonstrate
commitment through their capacity for social organization and financial
contributions;
(c)  communities, organized into CBOs or user committees, would participate in
and be jointly responsible for the design, preparation, and implementation of
infrastructure services and would be fully responsible for subsequent O&M;
(d)  infrastructure would be developed according to planning, design and
construction standards suited to and affordable by the communities concerned,
and local infrastructure would be supported by primary infrastructure as
necessary to ensure its efficient and effective operation;
(e)  communities would contribute any land required and at least a 20% share of
the capital cost of infrastructure (other than primary infrastructure), plus
100% of O&M costs; and
(f)  local councils would contribute a 10%  share of the capital cost of
infrastructure (other than primary infrastructure).
2.6       The project would provide integrated physical, social and economic upgrading in
accordance with this policy framework whereby Project schemes would be selected through
demand-driven participatory procedures.
2.7       Consistent with this policy framework, schemes would be prepared through a
process featuring collaboration between government and communities which would comprise:
(a) community mobilization, awareness training and project identification; (b) community
participation in project preparation and design, with engineering design assistance from
government; (c) contribution of cost shares; (d) implementation of infrastructure and community
development activities; and (e) handover of completed assets and O&M.
D. Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.8       This project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed on
December 19, 1995. A primary objective of the CAS for Pakistan is poverty reduction. The
focus of this project upon low-income communities would directly assist achievement of this
objective by increasing the coverage and quality of basic infrastructure which, together with



-8-
community development programs, would improve living conditions and alleviate some of the
acute symptoms of poverty. Community development and participation are anticipated to
improve the selection, design, implementation and O&M of schemes, and thereby improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of public-sector infrastructure investments, which is a further CAS
objective. IDA's experience in Pakistan demonstrates that infrastructure upgrading is one of the
most effective ways of providing basic services to low-income groups. The Bank's urban policy
and housing policy papers both support upgrading as a strategy to increase the access of the poor
to infrastructure and housing to meet their basic needs.
2.9       IDA has administered trust funds (para. 2.1) which, inter alia, led to the
identification of this project, and has financed a Project Preparation Facility (PPF 761-0 PAK)
to complete its preparation, including the refinement of community participation mechanisms and
the monitoring of the two pilot projects. IDA's continued involvement would allow the
possibility of retroactive financing for further community mobilization work, to keep up the
momentum achieved during preparation and to reduce delays after project effectiveness. IDA's
contribution would include its wide international experience of community infrastructure
upgrading, the knowledge gained from its previous upgrading work in Pakistan, and the
continuation of effective working relationships built up during project preparation. IDA's sector
experience, reflected in the project design, would encourage local council and community
participation, affordable infrastructure standards, flexible planning and "learning by doing"
through phased schemes with repeat, follow-up operations. IDA's involvement would also
facilitate maintaining an emphasis on obtaining cost recovery contributions.
E. Description
2.10      The project would comprise two components in support of low income communities.
The major component is community infrastructure, which is about 90% of project costs, and
consists of three sub-components: infrastructure upgrading, community development, and design
and implementation assistance. The other component is institutional development, including sub-
components for LGERDD and NHA. The project would cost about Rs 1,332 million (US$38.8
million equivalent).
2.11      A detailed description of the community infrastructure (CI) project components is
given in Annex 1. The various components of the project are summarized below.
2.12      Community Infrastructure (US$28.7 million base costs)
(a)  Infrastructure Upgrading (US$21.5 million base costs).  Upgrading of basic
infrastructure would be carried out in approximately 55 urban and rural communities
covering a total of about 3,500 hectares with a total population of approximately
420,000. Infrastructure priorities would be established in consultation with the
communities through their CBOs. Communities would participate in the design and
implementation process, financing and subsequent O&M of the infrastructure
provided. Together with the physical investments, training of communities would
be carried out, to include health, hygiene and sanitation programs incorporating
continuing integrated support by UNICEF. Infrastructure to be provided would



-9-
include water supply, stormwater drainage, flood protection, streets and footpaths,
sanitation and solid waste management. Other types of infrastructure, for example
community facilities or economically productive infrastructure such as markets could
be considered if identified as a community priority. In addition to the basic local
(secondary and tertiary) infrastructure, trunk infrastructure required to ensure that
community infrastructure functions efficiently would also be included. Improvement
of land registration facilities and documentation would be provided when requested
by the community. The range of project-financed options from which communities
may choose would depend on their level of need as determined by community and
engineering surveys, standards would be subject to minimum and maximum limits,
and cost ceilings would apply (para. 3.16). Individual schemes would be likely to
take up to three years to implement but could be implemented more quickly
dependent on annual levels of contribution from the communities. Implementation
of the component would be phased over five years based on a conservative
assessment of the annual affordability of the respective communities. Based upon
the pilot communities that have been upgraded so far, and the further 12
communities in Phase 1A that have been designed in detail in consultation with local
residents, the main initial priorities for infrastructure are likely to be access and
drainage, with water supply and solid waste management also requested. In view
of the poor "sanitation" conditions prevailing in almost all sites, and with the
proposed emphasis on health and hygiene education during the project, on-plot
sanitation is anticipated to become a high priority component in later phases of the
project, which would provide about 25 % of the approved cost of a facility as an
incentive grant to the beneficiary.
(b)  Community Development (US$1.5 million base costs) This would include: (i)
community mobilization/capacity building including information campaigns, CBO
formation, orientation and training activities for community action planning, and for
government line departments, NGOs and project staff in participatory planning and
implementation; (ii) health and hygiene awareness campaigns including orientation
and training of health and volunteer workers using participatory approaches, and
support to hygiene and sanitation education in schools; and (iii) support to women
and children which would include action research and demonstration activities to
enhance participation of women and young children in project activities in three
selected communities before wide-scale implementation. Services would be provided
by UNICEF, NGOs and direct contracting.
(c)  Design and Implementation Assistance (US$5.7 million base costs) Rather than
substantially increasing its staff to implement the project, government would engage
consultants, contract staff and NGOs in addition to appointing incremental staff.
The component comprises:
(i) the establishment or strengthening, equipping and operation of CI Directorates
within PMU in Peshawar, and Project Implementation Units (PIUs), mostly
located at divisional headquarters. All costs are being treated as project
investment costs (i.e. salaries and allowances of government staff, recurrent
operating costs and equipment); however only staff and operating costs in an



- 10-
amount equivalent to approximately the first two years expenditure, vehicles
and equipment would be eligible for IDA Credit financing;
(ii) consultants' services for: (a) assistance with community mobilization,
infrastructure planning and design; (b) assistance in establishing systems and
procedures for, inter alia, project management, procurement, construction
supervision, contract management, project monitoring and reporting,
documentation, project accounting, and management of project finances; and
(c) training of Government staff, NGOs and communities as appropriate; and
(iii) the contracting, through the consultants team, of locally based NGOs/social
organizers as extension teams to assist the CBOs at the community level.
Social organizers' (SO) teams comprising one male and one female SO would
assist the government's 14 social organizer coordinators.  Expenses of
community motivators would also be paid.
2.13      Institutional Development and Project Preparation (US$3.2 million base costs). This
would include studies and technical assistance for provincial and federal government sector
institutions, and makes allowance to refinance the project preparation facility (PPF).
(a)  LGERDD Study (US$0.5 million base costs)  This study would review  the
department's role, functions, responsibilities, and legal mandate; structure and
staffing; systems and procedures; and strengthening needs. It would examine
related functions and responsibilities of other departments to identify possible areas
of overlap, identify options for reassignment of functions and make
recommendations for government's consideration.  It would also recommend
arrangements for institutionalizing the PMU's community infrastructure functions.
The study would consider measures and arrangements required to strengthen District
Councils, to complement various recent works on strengthening municipal local
government, and would determine a development strategy and implementation plan
for strengthening local councils.
(b)  NHA Technical Assistance (US$1.3 million base costs) Institutional development
which would comprise technical assistance for: (i) data analysis and sector
monitoring; (ii) shelter program monitoring; (iii) program evaluation and
dissemination; (iv) building technology evaluation and dissemination; (v)
information exchange; (vi) organizational support; and (through the Ministry of
Housing and Works or NHA, as appropriate) (vii) policy development.
(c) Project Preparation (US$ 1.3 million) This sub-component would finance the current
PPF being implemented by NHA.



- 11 -
2.14      Key project implementation and outcome/impact monitoring indicators that would
form the basis for review, supervision and evaluation are:
Implementation Indicators
(a)  number of CBOs formed and registered;
(b)  infrastructure layout plans agreed;
(c)  community development programs agreed;
(d)  availability of beneficiary contributions and counterpart funds;
(e)  community training undertaken; and
(f)  user group/household participation in O&M.
Outcome/Impact Indicators
(g)  proportion of households having access to infrastructure services;
(h)  adoption of affordable standards for infrastructure upgrading;
(i)  unit cost of infrastructure schemes completed;
(j)  proportion of facilities in working condition;
(k) new/alternative development activities initiated by communities; and
(1) changes in Governments' attitude to collaboration with communities.
F. Project Costs
2.15      The total cost of the proposed project, including physical and price contingencies,
is estimated at US$38.8 million equivalent, of which taxes and duties amount to US$1.6 million
equivalent. Summary estimates are given in Table 2.1 and detailed estimates are given in Annex
2. Full details are contained in the project file. The foreign exchange component is estimated
at US$14.9 million equivalent or 38% of total project costs.
2.16      The base cost estimates reflect price levels in January 1995. The infrastructure cost
estimates have been based on detailed engineering designs for 14 communities in Phase LA,
extrapolated on an areal basis to include the remaining communities assuming a balanced
package of improvements. Unit costs are based on market rates of labor and material for civil
works carried out in NWFP. Estimates for materials, equipment, vehicles and technical
assistance have been based on recent quotations from suppliers, market surveys of
manufacturers, and contracts.  Physical contingencies of 15% on civil works, 10%  on
equipment, materials and services, and 5% on vehicles and technical assistance have been
allowed, the contingency for civil works reflecting that estimates are based on detailed designs
for 14 of the 55 communities.
2.17      Price contingencies and foreign exchange conversions have been calculated in
accordance with Bank guidelines, using World Bank estimates prevailing at the time of appraisal.
Foreign inflation rates are estimated as 2.8% for the calendar year 1995, and about 3.3%
annually thereafter. Domestic annual inflation is estimated to be 6% for calendar year 1995 and
annually thereafter. For the purposes of converting January 1994 base costs to January 1995
values, the Bank's projected increase in domestic retail prices of 13.2% has been used. Price
contingencies amount to 18% of the total estimated project rupee cost. Estimated exchange rate
parities between US dollars and Pakistan Rupees result in an average Rs. 34.5 per US dollar.



- 12 -
Table 2.1: SUMMARY COST ESTIMATES
Pak RuDees Million                US S MillIon
%    % Tot
Local     Foreign      Total      Local    Foreign     Total      Fores    Base
Cost
A. CI Prairy Infrastructure
1. Land                                      S.7         0.0        8.7        0.3        0.0       0.3          0       1
2. Trunk Infrastiwture                     137.2        112.2     249.4        4.3        3.5       7.8         45      25
Sub-Total                                           145.9        112.2     258.2        4.6        3.5       8.1         43      25
B. Cl Locl Infrastructure
1.Acceu andCtrculaton                      100.9        67.3      168.1        3.2        2.1       5.3         40      17
2. Water Supply                             22.8         18.7      41.5        0.7        0.6       1.3         45       4
3. Drainage                                 79.9        43.0      123.0        2.5        1.4       3.9         35      12
4. SanItation                               56.8        30.6       87.4        1.8        1.0       2.7         35       9
S. Soltd Wa5te Mangement                     5.8         2.0        7.8        0.2        0.1       0.2         25       1
Sub-Total                                           266.3        161.5     427.8        8.4        5.1      13.4         38      42
C. CI Comnunimty Development
1. ComnL MobdCapacnty Bldg.                 10.7         3.1       13.8        0.3        0.1       0.4        22        1
2. Health & Hygene Awarenes                 19.7          4.7      24.3        0.6        0.1       0.8         19       2
3. Women & Child Support                     7.4         0.8        8.3        0.2        0.0       0.3         10       1
Sub-Total                                            37.8          8.6      46.4        1.2        0.3       1.5         18       5
D. Cl Desin & Technical Asstance
1. Technidcal Asistance                     57.9        19.3       77.2        1.8        0.6       2.4        25       8
2. Other Inplementation Support             88.4        17.1      105.6        2.8        0.5       3.3         16      10
Sub-Total                                           146.3         36.5     182.8        4.6        1.1       5.7         20      1S
L Institutional Development
1. Local Government Dept                    4.2         12.7       17.0        0.1        0.4      0.5         75       2
2. National Housin Authority                13.3        28.7       42.0        0.4        0.9       1.3        68       4
Sub-Total                                            17.6         41.4      59.0        0.6        1.3       1.9         70       6
F. Project PreparmtIon
1. Project Preparaton Facilty              10.1         31.7       41.7       0.3         1.0      1.3         76       4
Sub-Total                                            10.1         31.7      41.7        0.3        1.0       1.3         76      4
iTotal BASELINE COSTS                                624.1        391.8   1,015.9        19.6       12.3     31.9         39      100
Physical Contingencies                     73.2         46.1      119.3        2.3        1.4      3.7         39       12
Price Contlngendes                         125.0        71.6      196.6        2.0        1.1      3.1         37       10
Total PROJECT COSTS a]                               822.2        509.6   1,331.8       23.9        14.9     38.8         38      121
a/ Including taxes and duties of USS1.6 million equivalent
Note: Some items may not add up to totais due to rounding.



- 13 -
G. Flnancinf Plan
2.18      The proposed IDA credit of US$21.5 million equivalent would finance about 55%
of project costs, covering 93% of foreign exchange and 32% of local currency requirements.
Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC) co-financing of US$3.4 million equivalent4' would
finance 9% of project costs, and UNICEF would provide parallel financing of about US$0.5
million (1%). Federal government (1%), provincial government (16%), beneficiary communities
(8%), households participating in on-plot sanitation schemes (7%) and local councils (3 %) would
finance the balance. The project financing plan is summarized in Table 2.2 below.
Table 2.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
Local    Foreign    Total       %
---------(US$ Million)---------
GoPakistan                              0.3                  0.3       1
GoNWFP                                  6.1                  6. 1     16
Beneficiary Communities                 3.0                  3.0       8
Households (on-plot sanitation)         2.6                  2.6       7
Local Councils                          1.4                  1.4       4
SDC                                     2.4        1.0       3.4       9
UNICEF                                  0.5                  0.5       1
IDA                                     7.6       13.9     21.5       55
Total                                  23.9       14.9      38.8     100
2.19      The proposed flow of funds is shown in Annex 6. The IDA credit would be made
available to GOP on standard terms. Of the US$2.0 million equivalent for the PPF and federal
component, US$0.7 million would be passed to NHA through normal budgetary procedures. The
balance of the credit, US$19.5 million equivalent, would be provided to GONWFP by GOP in
accordance with its standard procedures, and credit proceeds and counterpart funds would be made
available to the implementing agencies through budgetary allocations using existing procedures.
2.20      A condition of Credit effectiveness would be that all conditions for effectiveness of the
Swiss Contribution agreement, other than those related to Credit effectiveness, had been fulfilled
(para. 6.2). UNICEF's contribution would be provided partly through its Urban Services allocation
and partly through other programs being implemented by GONWFP counter parts. As these
programs are ongoing, the availability of UNICEF's financing would not be a condition of Credit
effectiveness.
SDC has made an initial commitment of US$3.45 million equivalent for the first 3 years of the project. It would
consider providing further funding after 3 years if required, subject to satisfactory progress.



- 14 -
m. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Implementingl Agencies
Implementing Agencies and Responsibilities
3.1       The institutional responsibilities for project implementation are shown below:
COMPONENT                                           AGENCIES
Community Infrastructure
Overall responsibility                         LGERDD
Policy guidance and inter-agency coordination  Steering Committee
Infrastructure Upgrading                       PMU/PIUs/CBOs
Community Development                          PMU/PIUs/UNICEF
Design and Implementation Assistance           PMU
Institutional Development
LGERDD Study                                   LGERDD
NHA Technical Assistance                       NHA
Top Level Project Oversight
National aspects                               NHA
Provincial aspects                             Project Review Board
3.2       Institutional relationships are shown in Figure 1. At federal level, NHA, an arm of
the Ministry of Housing and Works, is responsible for national sector policy advice, and would be
involved in project evaluation. At provincial level, GONWFP would create a Project Review
Board, under the Additional Chief Secretary, Development, for top-level project oversight and
coordination, and a Steering Committee for CI policy guidance and inter-agency coordination.
LGERDD, which would be responsible for CI, is the provincial government department responsible
for coordinating and supervising the local government system. Its functions include administrative
oversight of local councils, provision of senior grade officers and training for councils (through the
Local Council Board), implementation of infrastructure development schemes in rural areas, and
management of provincial and local elections. PMU, which would assist LGERDD with CI, was
established in 1989 to design and implement the Asian Development Bank's Second Urban
Development Project, and also has responsibilities for infrastructure project preparation (including
for this project).



- 15 -
Figure 1: Implementation Arrangements
XFe eralGvrTet
National
Housing
Authority
Institutional           Government of           Project
Development TA             NV                   Review Board
|    LGERDD   )       Steering
Committee
Institutional
Development Study
P                   Working
|  PIUs    J        Commnittee
Community
Infrastructure
3.3       Owing to LGERDD's close links to local councils, GONWFP has proposed that it
would be the appropriate department within provincial government to be responsible for CI,
reflecting the localized nature of CI investments, the need for involvement by local councils, and
the possible continuing role of local councils in O&M. LGERDD however has a very limited
technical capacity, and has little previous experience of donor-funded projects. Furthermore,
LGERDD would need additional powers to address the inter-departmental aspects of CI.
Accordingly, LGERDD would be assisted with its responsibility for CI as follows:
(a)  policy direction for CI would be provided by a multi-sectoral Steering Committee,
chaired by the Secretary LGERDD, reporting to a Project Review Board under the
Additional Chief Secretary, Development; and
(b)  PMU would provide the technical resources and capacity for planning, design,
implementation and day-to-day project management of the CI component.
3.4       The planning, finance, public health, and physical planning departments would each
be represented on the Steering Committee, and PMU would be a member and Secretary. In
addition to policy guidance, the committee would be responsible for approval of individual



- 16 -
community schemes, inter-agency coordination and monitoring of progress.   The Steering
Committee would be assisted by a Working Committee. GOP confirmed at the negotiations that
GONWFP would establish by September 30, 1996 and thereafter maintain with membership,
responsibilities and resources satisfactory to the Association, a Project Review Board, a Project
Steering Committee, and a Project Working Committee (para. 6.1).
3.5         GONWFP has selected PMU to provide CI technical support primarily due to PMU's
demonstrated project planning and implementation capacity, and due to PMU's lead role in
preparation of the CI component5'. Although initially established under the Provincial Urban
Development Board, it has been agreed that PMU would report to LGERDD on Cl matters.
PMU's existing structure comprises a central organization based in Peshawar, and decentralized
PIUs located at divisional headquarters. This would be augmented for the purposes of the project
by establishing within PMU a Planning and Community Development Directorate, a Design and
Implementation Directorate, a Deputy Director Monitoring and Evaluation and a Finance Wing,
reporting to the Director General (DG). The DG would have responsibility for Cl in addition to
his existing responsibilities for the Second Urban Development Project. Both Directorates would
work with and through the existing PIUs for day to day implementation, and these would be
strengthened to include Social Organizer Coordinators and an Assistant Director Implementation
for CI. GOP confirmed at negotiations that GONWFP would, exclusively for the purpose of
undertaking the Project: (a) establish and thereafter maintain with staff, responsibilities and
resources satisfactory to the Association, Directorates of the Project Management Unit for Planning
and Community Development, Design and Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation and a
Finance Wing; and (b) strengthen Project Implementation Units and thereafter maintain them with
staff, responsibilities and resources satisfactory to the Association (para. 6.1).
3.6         Implementation of individual schemes would be undertaken with active participation
of communities. Contact with community groups, and assistance to them, would be channelled
through locally-based social organizer teams provided by NGOs or by appropriately qualified local
individuals engaged as contract staff. CBOs would be responsible for assisting in the planning,
design and implementation of schemes. This would include having a role in procurement of civil
works (which would be mostly undertaken by private contractors--although provision is made for
an element of community-executed work), contract supervision and contract management.
Communities would be responsible for O&M.
3.7         With a view to institutionalizing procedures for future replication, consideration would
be given, for the longer term, to full incorporation of PMU's CI functions within LGERDD,
together with transfer of experienced staff. Options would be reviewed as part of the project-
PMU was established in 1989 as the key agency for preparation and implementation of the Asian Development Bank's
Second Urban Development Project (SUDP), which includes an upgrading component. Under the project, PMU has
demonstrated a capacity for project management, planning and design, engineering, finance, accounting and
administration. It has also shown flexibility and interest in involving communities in project implementation, based in
part upon its experiences in implementing the SUDP upgrading component. It has been the lead agency in NWFP for
project preparation, and has been instrumental in proposing increased community participation to include involvement
in planning, design and O&M. In addition to developing an in-house capacity for project management, PMU has
demonstrated its ability to make effective use of consultant services for project preparation, studies and implementation
assistance.



- 17 -
financed LGERDD institutional development study, with the intention of commencing
implementation of an action plan about mid-1998.
3.8       In conjunction with the infrastructure upgrading, UNICEF would provide integrated
training in community liaison techniques, health and sanitation education, and linkages to on-going
UNICEF-assisted programs, through its NWFP office in Peshawar.
3.9       Project agencies are reviewed in detail in Annex 3.
B. Implementation Strategy
3.10      The CI component would be implemented in three phases over five years. This phasing
would be in order to gradually develop project management, community mobilization and
implementation capacities, and in order to provide, at the end of each phase, further opportunity
for review and adjustment of modalities with the benefit of experience, prior to the next phase.
Phase 1 would include 20 communities located in 7 urban and 13 rural areas. Phase 2 would
comprise 27 communities, anticipated to be 12 urban and 15 rural, and Phase 3 would
accommodate about 8 additional communities. GOP confirmed at negotiations that: (a) GONWFP
would implement the Project in accordance with an implementation plan satisfactory to the
Association; and (b) GONWFP would by January 31, 1997 and by each January 31 thereafter
review and update the implementation plan in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association (para. 6. 1).
3.11      The initial stage of implementation would focus upon: (a) strengthening PMU's and
LGERDD's institutional capacity; (b) monitoring and building upon the experience of the
community infrastructure schemes already underway in NWFP (two pilot schemes would be
complete, plus schemes in up to 6 sites would be started using retroactive finance); and (c) a
gradual implementation of the remaining Phase 1 sites in a staged sequence of 6 to 8 sites each.
Preparation of Phase 2 sites, in two batches, would start in the second year of the project. To
facilitate the timely development of institutional capacity, the design and implementation assistance
consultants for community infrastructure have been selected. It was agreed at negotiations that a
condition of effectiveness would be the appointment of the Director Planning and Community
Development, Director Design and Implementation, Deputy Director Monitoring and Evaluation,
Deputy Director Finance, Assistant Directors PIU and the design and implementation consultants
for community infrastructure (para. 6.2). Other staff, including staff at PIUs, would be assigned
in accordance with the requirements of the implementation schedule. The initial period of Cl
implementation would include further training and orientation of project staff on project concepts
and participatory approaches. A detailed implementation schedule is shown in Annex 5.
3.12       It is expected that infrastructure development in most communities would be phased
over a number of years, reflecting a gradual development of CBOs' capacity, communities'
priorities, and affordability constraints. Furthermore, each scheme would have a development cycle
of identification, preparation, implementation, and operation (See Annex 4). As a result, it is
expected that to complete the upgrading of a locality could take two to three years. Activities to
be undertaken at the various stages of the development cycle include:



- 18 -
(a)  Identification (3 months) for (i) identification and selection of sites according to project
criteria and preliminary data; (ii) confirmation visits to sites; and (iii) initial visits to
communities and contacts with local leaders. The output of this stage is a list of
eligible sites and a written request from the community to participate in the project.
(b)  Preparation (6-9 months) for (i) promotion of project activities within the selected
communities, including information and dissemination, orientation workshops and visits
to other communities; (ii) mobilization and capacity building of CBOs including entry
point activities such as health, hygiene and participatory education, and registration of
the CB0 under the Social Welfare Act; (iii) socio-economic surveys, jointly with the
community, to establish needs, priorities and affordability; (iv) contacts with the local
council and line departments concerned; (v) engineering visits and topographical
survey; (vi) preliminary infrastructure design, assessment of O&M implications,
costing, review with communities and confirmation of compliance with project criteria,
adjustment of standards, phasing and prioritization; (vi) agreement of community
development needs and priorities; and (vii) determination of implementation and O&M
arrangements. The final output is a Community Action Plan (CAP) prepared with
involvement of both the CB0 members and PMU/PIU staff, comprising priority
infrastructure improvements and community development programs, together with
financing and O&M arrangements including commitments from the local council and,
as appropriate, line departments.
(c)  Implementation (up to three stages of 6-12 months each) which, following approval of
the CAP, would involve implementation of community development programs, health
and hygiene education, and infrastructure schemes. Initial activities would include skill
and management training, resource mobilization by the CB0, and detailed engineering
design by PMU. Implementation of civil works schemes would include procurement,
construction by contractors or through community contract arrangements, supervision,
contract administration, and O&M training. Final outputs for this phase are completed
community development and hygiene education programs, completed infrastructure
schemes and established arrangements for O&M, including community financing and
responsibilities.
(d)  Qpation (3-6 months, with intermittent follow-up) for consolidation and adoption of
assets/handover for O&M, further training, collection of user charges, continued health
and hygiene and other community development activities, and monitoring and
evaluation.
C. Status of Preparation
3.13      The major part of Phase 1A and lB (18 communities) have been designed in detail
following the establishment of CBOs and their participation in the planning and design process
carried out by PMU and its-consultants. The detailed engineering designs would be implemented
over the first three years of the project. The project has been presented to each of the local councils
involved in Phase 1, and they have indicated their support and willingness to participate which was
confirmed at negotiations. Given the innovative nature of the project, pilot schemes have been



- 19 -
implemented, assisted by consultants, and preliminary work would be extended, through retroactive
financing, to include up to six of the Phase 1 sites. Terms of Reference for major institutional
strengthening consultancy assignments are finalized and the community infrastructure design and
implementation consultants are selected. The Project PC-1 is approved by the Executive Committee
of the National Economic Council (ECNEC).
D. Implementation Modalities for Community Infrastructure
3.14       Selection Criteria. Communities for Phase 1, and an indicative list of communities for
Phase 2, have been pre-selected according to the following criteriaO'.  Eligibility of each
community would be confirmed by LGERDD during the initial community mobilization process:
(a)  low income;
(b)  lack of basic infrastructure or GONWFP identified slum area;
(c)  size of settlements above 3,000 persons;
(d)  geographic spread across Province and urban/rural balance; and
(e)  potential for community participation.
3.15       Sites where land tenure is found to be in serious dispute will be avoided. In addition,
areas with a large number of renters or unstable tenant-landlord relationships will initially be
avoided, until a better understanding is gained of the probability of renter displacement.
3.16       To be eligible for the project, schemes proposed by communities would need to satisfy
the following requirements to demonstrate they are technically sound, ready for implementation,
and economically and financially viable:
(a)  Community and Local Council Participation and Contribution. The community must
be prepared to organize themselves into CBOs or user committees, which are officially
registered, broadly based and include representation of women in order to participate
in the selection, design, and implementation of the infrastructure and, in particular, to
contribute at least 20% up-front to the capital costs of the community infrastructure
(excluding primary infrastructure costs) and to undertake all O&M. The local council
must be prepared to contribute at least 10% to community infrastructure capital costs
(excluding primary infrastructure costs).
(b)  Resource Availability. Primary infrastructure must be available, or would be provided
by the project. This provision would be subject to a separate technical and economic
justification and feasibility analysis, prepared for review by IDA prior to scheme
approval, if the primary infrastructure costs of any scheme exceed 50% of the gross
cost limit per household (see below). Any land required must be in public or common
ownership and available for use.
Data limitations prevent systematically ranking settlements according to relative need. Accordingly, selection criteria
concern minimum eligibility criteria instead of rankings.



- 20 -
(c)  Environmental Sustainability.  The environmental impact of schemes must be
acceptable, and mitigating measures included where possible. Areas unsuitable for
upgrading because of, for example, natural or environmental hazards, irregular terrain
or difficult soil conditions would not be eligible. Resettlement, if any, must be in
accordance with IDA's standard requirements (para. 5.10).
(d)  Technical Viability. Schemes must demonstrate improvements benefitting the majority
of households lacking service, endeavor to provide a balanced package of infrastructure
elements, as costed at appraisal, conform with planning, design and construction
standards suited to and affordable by communities, as agreed at appraisal, and have
implementation arrangements consistent with proven capacities. Infrastructure sub-
components would be designed as completely functioning systems.
(e)  Economic Viability. Excluding the cost of primary infrastructure, the cost of schemes
must fall below a cost limit2' of Rs 7,200' per household net of community
contribution (equivalent to a gross cost of Rs 9,000 per household), although
communities would still be able to select a higher cost scheme by contributing full
incremental c6sts. If gross costs exceed Rs 12,000 per household then data should be
provided: (i) to indicate the source of incremental financing; and (ii) to reconfirm that
the site conforms with the agreed selection criteria.
(f)  Sustainability. The community must be aware of O&M consequences of schemes, and
prior agreements should be in place for adopting completed infrastructure, for
provision of O&M, and for O&M financing. Continuing O&M of earlier phases of
project infrastructure must be satisfactory.
3.17      GOP confirmed at negotiations that GONWFP would cause PMU to ensure that
infrastructure and community development schemes to be included in the project would be selected
on the basis of criteria, and designed, financed, implemented and maintained through processes
satisfactory to the Association (paras. 3.14-3.16).
3.18      Model Project Agreements. The key modalities for implementing the component would
be documented in the following: (a) a CAP, which each community would prepare with assistance
from PMU/PIUs, to provide the basis for scheme assessment and approval, and which would
include a statement of the CBO's status, a justification of the need for a scheme, preliminary design
of the proposed infrastructure and community development activities, environmental assessment,
investment and O&M costs, a financing plan, a description of arrangements for collection and
safekeeping of community contributions, and an implementation plan; and (b) a Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU), which would detail the responsibilities for scheme implementation,
management, financing and O&M, and which, following CAP approval, would be signed by the
CBO, PMU and local council. Draft model agreements are available in the project file. GOP
confirmed at negotiations that GONWFP would cause LGERDD/PMU, for each community
21 Assuming a balanced package of infrastructure elements - if fewer types of infrastructure are proposed, then cost limits
would be reduced pro rata based on the average shares of various kinds of infrastructure.
All cost limits are expressed in January 1, 1995 prices, and would be updated annuaUy.



- 21 -
development scheme, to enter into an agreement with the concerned CBO and local council for
financing, implementing and maintaining the scheme, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association (para. 6.1).
3.19      Responsibility for Procurement and Supervision of CI Civil Works. Management of
procurement would be decentralized, according to responsibility for type of contract, and would
involve CBOs, local council representatives and consultant technical advisers directly in contract
award and in contract management. Supervision of non-primary infrastructure contracts would be
undertaken jointly by the PIU consultant technical adviser, through contract sub-engineers, and by
CBO representatives. Further details appear in Section F below and Annex 9.
3.20      Financial Flows. The arrangements for CI component financing would similarly be
decentralized to PIUs, consistent with infrastructure contracting and payment responsibilities.
Government's contribution would be funded through the LGERDD's Annual Development Program,
which would be released annually in advance to PMU. PMU would transfer funds to project
accounts at each PIU for PIU operating costs and contract services for Community Development.
Payments relating to the Government's share of non-primary infrastructure (including, if agreed
between the parties, the local council's share) would be disbursed by PlUs into scheme accounts,
maintained in a commercial bank, and operated jointly with CBO co-signatories. Timely cashflow
would be arranged by requiring PMU to release two months average requirements in advance to
PIUs, and PIU/CBO/local councils to advance equivalent to four months' average requirements to
scheme accounts, with monthly replenishment. In addition, prior to contract award, a CBO would
be required to show a fund balance equivalent to its share of the total contract.
3.21      Women's Involvement.  The pilot project has revealed potential problems with
involving women fully in the project. For example, in some instances women are not allowed to
meet outside the home with community workers. Special outreach efforts would therefore be
necessary to ensure that women's views are reflected in project design and that project benefits
reach women and children. Initial actions would include: employment of a female social organizer
in each community social organization team; incorporation of women's support programs (e.g.
savings schemes, women's non-formal education) within community development programs; health
and hygiene awareness training directed towards women; and a requirement for women's
representation on CBOs. In addition, in close coordination with the Women Division, in each of
three sites, female officers would undertake action research and would implement pilot schemes for
women groups' formation, capacity building, special education and training, including development
of linkages to other existing programs.
E. Operation & Maintenance (O&M)
3.22      It is a fundamental objective of the project to involve the communities more in O&M
of the local infrastructure which serves their neighborhoods. Nevertheless, the "maintenance
culture" is not well developed in Pakistan, and accordingly special attention would be made to
attempt to develop satisfactory mechanisms to involve communities in this process. Actions would
be taken as follows:



- 22 -
(a)  organization of community user groups for O&M of solid waste collection, cleaning
of existing drains, and other community facilities (if any) would be undertaken at an
early stage of the community mobilization process, and communities would specifically
commit to undertake scheme O&M as part of the process of selecting infrastructure;
(b)  satisfactory O&M of infrastructure would be considered as a factor when seeking to
prioritize between communities, and satisfactory O&M of any project-funded
infrastructure would be a prerequisite for further project infrastructure; and
(c)  establishment of satisfactory O&M arrangements would be stressed as an important
output from the component for design and implementation assistance.
3.23      Activities which have potential of community involvement have been identified and
further details appear in Annex 8.
F. Procurement
3.24      Procurement of goods and civil works would be carried out in accordance with World
Bank Procurement Guidelines. Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.1 below, and
details of civil works procurement arrangements appear in Annex 9.
3.25      Works. The estimated cost of civil works is US$25.9 million equivalent inclusive of
contingencies, taxes and duties, with contracts generally under US$ 100,000 equivalent. The small,
scattered nature of the work would limit the interest of foreign bidders. Civil works for primary
infrastructure and larger secondary infrastructure would therefore generally be procured through
national competitive bidding (NCB) procedures which do not preclude international participation.
Existing procurement procedures of the implementing agencies have been reviewed and suitable
modifications agreed to ensure adequate competition and encourage economy and efficiency. Model
bid documents, satisfactory to IDA, and community agreements have been agreed. Procurement
procedures have been strengthened, principally by involving CBO representatives and independent
technical advisers at appropriate stages in the contract award and implementation process.
3.26      The project's civil works can be broadly classified into three types. Type A works
would comprise principally of primary infrastructure would be grouped and bid as single contracts
(of about US$150,000 equivalent) at divisional level as far as possible, to attract experienced local
contractors and minimize administrative overheads. These works would be executed through A/B
class contractors registered with LGERRD/Local Councils/PUDP/PHED/Communications and
Works Departments. There would be about 60 contracts of this type. Type B works, consisting
of typical secondary and more complex tertiary services would be contracted out, in integrated
annual packages for each community of up to US$50,000. NCB or, in case of poor response, local
shopping procedures (at least three priced quotations), using simplified percentage rate bid
documents, would be adopted. Very simple and small-scale project-financed civil works (Type C
works) estimated to cost up to US$20,000 per contract, in total not exceeding US$5 million
equivalent, would be procured through direct contracting to communities, using documentation
acceptable to IDA.



- 23 -
Table 3.1: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMIENTS
(US$ Million)
Procurement Method                 Total
Project Element                                ICB         NCB    Other'!   NIF         Costs
Land'k                                                                        0.3        0.3
(0.0)      (0.0)
Works                                                     14.1      11.8                25.9
(9.8)    (6.5)               (16.3)
Grants for on-plot sanitary facilities                               0.9                 0.9
(0.9)               (0.9)
Goods                                           0.3        0.4       0.2                 0.9
(0.2)     (0.3)     (0.2)                (0.7)
Consultancies
Service Contracts                                             1.5                  1.5
(0.2)               (0.2)
Design and Implementation TA                                  2.7                 2.7
(0.1)               (0.1)
Institutional Development TA                                  1.8                  1.8
(1. 1)              (1. 1)
Incremental Staff Costs                                              3.5                 3.5
(0.9)               (0.9)
Miscellaneous's
Refinancing PPF                                                    1.3                 1.3
(1.3)               (1.3)
TOTAL                                       0.3       14.5     23.7       0.3       38.8
(0.2)    (10.1)   (11.2)    (0.0)    (21.5)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are respective amounts financed by IDA Credit.
NIF = Not IDA Financed
/a   Including community works, incentive grants and shopping, small purchases, incremental staff costs, service contracts
and consultants.
/b   Land acquisition to be funded by government, or the community as their contribution.
I_   Services procured under PPF 761-0 PAK
3.27        Goods.  The estimated cost of goods (mainly site vehicles and office equipment) is
US$0.9 million inclusive of contingencies, taxes and duties. Contracts over US$100,000 equivalent
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB), including the
procurement of vehicles and equipment. Local suppliers and manufacturers competing for the
supply of goods under ICB would be granted a margin of preference of 15% of the CIF bid price



- 24 -
for locally manufactured goods or the applicable custom duties and taxes--whichever is lower--
during bid evaluation. Other procurement of vehicles and equipment in contracts of less than
US$100,000 equivalent would generally be carried out under NCB procedures aggregating not more
than US$0.4 million. Minor items including office furniture and equipment, personal computers,
vehicles and items in small quantities which would not attract the interest of foreign suppliers,
would be procured through local shopping obtaining price quotations from not less than three
suppliers, in packages not exceeding US$50,000 equivalent, and not exceeding US$0.2 million
equivalent in aggregate (including taxes).
3.28      Grants. The project would fmance incentive grants up to US$40 equivalent each, in
total not exceeding US$900,000 equivalent, to meet 25 % of the cost of approved on-plot sanitary
facilities, using documentation acceptable to IDA.
3.29      Consultancies and Incremental Staff.  The estimated cost of service contracts,
consultants, training and incremental staff is $9.5 million equivalent.  Service contracts and
consulting services would be procured in accordance with The World Bank Guidelines for Use of
Consultants. About US$0.9 million inclusive of contingencies would be provided to finance a
declining proportion of PMU/PIU staff costs.
3.30      Contract Review. GOP confirmed at negotiations that the first Type A (primary
infrastructure) and Type B (secondary or tertiary infrastructure) contracts issued by PMU and by
each PIU, and all individual contracts for civil works and goods estimated to cost the equivalent
of US$150,000 or more would be subject to IDA's prior review and approval (para. 6. 1). About
20% of the total estimated civil works and goods procurement would be subject to IDA's prior
review. Post review would be undertaken of the remainder.
G. Land Acquisition
3.31      Only small areas of land would be required for the construction of infrastructure, which
would mostly be provided within existing rights of way. Land is available for the first 2 years'
construction program. The minor land acquisition anticipated would not be expected to create
adverse impacts, and if any resettlement is required it would be in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to IDA (para. 5.10). The cost of land to be provided or acquired has been estimated
at US$0.3 million equivalent.
H. Disbursements
3.32      On the basis of the proposed implementation schedule (Annex 5 and para. 3.10),
disbursements would continue for six years. The proceeds of the credit, and the SDC funds, would
be disbursed as indicated in Table 3.2 below. SDC funds would be disbursed for service contracts,
consultancy, technical assistance and training for Community Infrastructure and for the National
Housing Authority components. SDC's funds would be disbursed before disbursing IDA funds for
these components. The estimated disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 10.



- 25 -
3.33      GOP confirmed during negotiations that disbursements would be fully documented
except those for: (a) civil works contracts under US$150,000 each; (b) contracts for imported and
locally procured goods under US$150,000 each; (c) contracts for consulting firms less than
US$100,000 equivalent and individual consultants less than US$50,000 equivalent; (d) local
training; and (e) incremental staff costs. Such disbursements would be made against Statements
of Expenditure (SOE), the documentation for which would not be submitted to IDA but retained
by PMU in Peshawar and made available during the course of project supervision. It is estimated
that about US$10 million equivalent would be disbursed through SOEs.
3.34      Special Accounts. To facilitate disbursement, GOP confirmed at negotiations that two
Special Accounts would be opened by PMU, one for IDA and another for the Swiss Contribution
with an initial deposit of US$1.0 million and US$200,000 respectively, and by NHA, with an initial
deposit of US$40,000, in the National Bank of Pakistan on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA
(para. 6.1). The Special Accounts would be operated by PMU and NHA, used to finance all
eligible expenditures, and would be replenished from time to time on receipt and approval of
withdrawal applications, supported by required documentation.



- 26 -
Table 3.2: DISBURSEMENT BY CATEGORY
Amount of Credit     Amount of Swiss         % of Expenditures
CalgQy                   Allocation          Contribution              to be Financed
(US$ million)         (US$ million)
1. Civil Works                 14.7                              70% of expenditures
2. Goods and Equipment                                           100% of foreign
a) NHA                       0.1                              expenditures, or 100%
b) Other                     0.5                              of local expenditures
(ex-factory) and 80%
of local expenditures
for  other  items
procured locally.
3. Grants for on-plot sanitary
facilities                   0.8                              100% of amounts
disbursed
4. Service Contracts,                                            100% of expenditures
Consultancy,
Technical Assistance
and Training.
(a) NHA Component            0.6                0.45
(b) Other                    0.7                3.0
5. Incremental Staff Costs      0.8                              60%  of expenditures
in  FY95  through
FY97,  55%    of
expenditures in FY98
and FY99, and 40%
of  expenditures
thereafter.
6. Refinancing of Project       1.3
Preparation Facility
7. Unallocated                  2.0
TOTAL                       21.5                3.45



- 27 -
3.35      Most procurement and payment would be through the district-level PlUs, generally by
the Assistant Director or equivalent, using district level procedures. Efficient project management
would necessitate this decentralized approach. Existing legal agreements between GOP and the
World Bank on the operation of Special Accounts prohibit the establishment of subsidiary accounts,
therefore the Special Account funds cannot be made directly available for use by field offices.
Project expenditures incurred by district-level field offices would be paid for with Government
funds from Personal Ledger Accounts or equivalent, for subsequent reimbursement from the Special
Account.
3.36      Retroactive Financing. Retroactive financing would be provided to cover eligible
foreign and local expenditures on civil works, materials, incremental staff, vehicles and equipment,
consultancy services and training up to US$900,000 equivalent, incurred after October 15, 1994
and before credit signing, needed in order to maintain the momentum achieved during project
preparation and to prevent delays in implementation of critical project activities.
I. Accounts and Audit
3.37      Each project entity would maintain accounts capable of reporting all receipts and
payments in respect of the project including SOEs and any special account. The accounts would:
(a) record the progressive and the annual cost of the project by component and by infrastructure
upgrading scheme; (b) account for all project funds (including IDA's) by category of expenditure;
(c) provide the basis for disbursements of funds (including IDA's); and (d) illustrate the extent of
compliance with credit agreements. GOP confirmed at negotiations that the executing agencies
would prepare and submit to IDA within six months after the close of each fiscal year fully audited
project accounts including an auditor's opinion and report for the project, SOEs and Special
Accounts, undertaken by auditors satisfactory to IDA (para. 6.1). Under the Social Welfare Act,
CBO accounts would be audited annually by local commercial audit firms. PMU would obtain
annually cepies of CBO's audited accounts and would retain these for review by IDA.
J. Monitoring. Supervision. and Evaluation
3.38           As the project would incorporate significant innovations with regard to
community involvement in infrastructure development, a high level and quality of monitoring and
evaluation would be demanded. The project would be implemented in a phased manner to permit
a "learning approach" and would include provision for review and adaptation. GONWFP, SDC
and IDA would jointly conduct regular formal reviews of the efficiency and effectiveness of project
policies, criteria and implementation progress. GOP confirmed at negotiations that GONWFP
would prepare, by March 31, 1998, a report evaluating progress to date, including
recommendations to enhance implementation of the project, which would form the basis for a mid-
term review by June 30, 1998 (para. 6.1). NHA would take part in these reviews, for the purpose
of refining national policies.
3.39           Monitoring and evaluation indicators have been developed to measure: (a) the
efficiency of project implementation; (b) the effect of infrastructure provision on the environment,



- 28 -
public health and living conditions; (c) the impact on the community's management capacities and
skills; and (d) the impact on government's capacity to provide facilities and services (Annex 11).
For the CI component, the primary focus would be on the community level, where monitoring data
would be generated by the community based planning and development activities. Attention would
be given to monitoring and review of the efficiency of the implementation assistance, and assessing
environmental impacts.
3.40      The disbursed nature of the project, the involvement of different departments, tiers of
govemment and communities, and the large number of small contracts would necessitate
development of computerized project management systems for control and monitoring. Outline
software-based project planning and management tools are in place (for example, see Annex 5), and
would be further developed and implemented in the initial phase of the project. The PMU's
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would operate and maintain satisfactory project management
systems, and would prepare quarterly activity reports, summarizing the activities of the past period,
emerging problems and issues, required actions and the outlook for the next phase. The reports
would also provide summary data on the identified set of core monitoring indicators. GOP
confirmed at negotiations that GONWFP would cause PMU to maintain policies and procedures
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate the project on an ongoing basis, in accordance with
indicators satisfactory to the Association (para. 6.1).
3.41      The project is expected to require, on average, about 14 staff weeks per year of
supervision, or about 72 weeks over the five year implementation period, but in earlier years some
16 to 17 weeks would be required. This reflects the innovative nature of the project; the logistical
challenges of the dispersed investments proposed; and that this is IDA's first project in the sector
in NWFP. A supervision plan, including the project launch workshop, formal reviews, and regular
supervision mission objectives is shown in Annex 12.



- 29 -
IV. PROJECT FINANCING AND COST RECOVERY
A. Present Arrangements
4.1       Publicly provided community infrastructure is mainly financed from  general
government revenues.  The majority of investment is through the Provincial government's
development budget, which is financed from development loans, recurrent budget surplus and donor
assistance. These sources are supplemented by programs such as the members of the national and
provincial assemblies' programs and by local councils' development budgets. There is presently no
attempt to recover the capital costs of infrastructure through direct charges. In urban water supply,
a program exists to finance local councils' development by equal combinations of council
contribution, provincial loan and provincial grant. But in practice the local council's direct
contribution is often not forthcoming, and loan repayments can only be collected if recovered at
source from provincial transfers to the council.
4.2       O&M costs of infrastructure are typically only partially recovered from user charges,
although recently GONWFP has initiated revisions in urban water tariffs, and improvements to the
administration of collection are being attempted through involvement of the private sector. In rural
areas, government has a policy of handing over O&M responsibilities for rural water schemes to
communities, under the umbrella of District Councils. Nevertheless, O&M remains under-funded
as provincial government is limiting the growth of its recurrent expenditures and is therefore
unwilling to take on extensive O&M responsibilities, and local councils are financially weak. In
addition, as frequently neither local councils nor communities are involved in investment planning
and implementation, there is a reluctance on their part to take over or finance O&M of completed
schemes. This reluctance may be reinforced by scheme designs which are costly and complex to
operate.  As a consequence, financing for O&M  is likely to remain inadequate, thereby
undermining the sustainability of infrastructure investments.
B. Cost Recovery and Capital Contributions
4.3       In addition to growing pressures on government budgets, the urgent requirement for
ensuring operational sustainability of infrastructure is the main rationale for the cost recovery
structure which would be introduced through the project, and which would form an important,
integral part of the broad-based community participation process. GONWFP's policy framework
would require: (a) communities to contribute at least 20% of CI capital costs, excluding primary
infrastructure, and to be fully responsible for O&M; and (b) for local councils to contribute at least
10% of non-primary infrastructure capital costs.
4.4       A principal reason for requiring communities' and local councils' capital contributions
would be in order to ensure that both have a voice in design and implementation. The communities'
contribution, combined with procedures which allow a choice of types of infrastructure, would also
provide an element of rationing in investment decisions, and both contributions would assist
financing. For the contribution to be effective in achieving these objectives, it needs to be
collected, and hence the community contribution would be required up-front.



- 30 -
4.5.      Making communities responsible for O&M costs would address the under-funding of
O&M which undermines infrastructure sustainability. Encouraging community ownership of the
infrastructure through involvement in development, making communities financial stakeholders, and
awareness of O&M liabilities prior to investment would each facilitate subsequent community
involvement in O&M. As appropriate, advice and assistance would be provided to communities
through technical and financial training to help them discharge their O&M responsibilities.
Making satisfactory O&M of existing CI investments a criteria for future CI schemes would provide
an incentive to establish good practices.
4.6       Particularly in urban areas, local councils may need to play a stronger role in
maintaining the primary and secondary infrastructure required to serve community areas.
Community willingness to pay user charges would not necessarily improve the performance of these
institutions. This would be addressed in the project as part of the study of LGERDD. Local
councils would, however, as a result of project procedures be made aware of O&M responsibilities
arising from schemes prior to signing MOUs, and PMU/PIU and CBO linkages to these institutions
would be strengthened through project interventions. Community O&M contributions to CBOs
would also allow the consideration of the private sector as an alternative supplier where feasible.
C. Beneficiary Affordability
4.7       Beneficiary contributions to a scheme's capital cost would amount up to Rs 1,500 per
household on average. This payment, although required up-front, would be payable in advance of
each stage of implementation of a scheme, which could be spread over two to three years. While
savings or other liquid assets would be one source of finance, beneficiaries would also be able to
save up their contribution during mobilization and scheme preparation phases. Where affordability
would be a constraint, selection of lower cost schemes, or extension of the period between
implementing each phase of a scheme, would be possible.
4.8       Sample household surveys (1991) have identified the levels and patterns of asset holding
of low income households. Assets typically include liquid assets in the form of cash balances,
short-term deposits with banks, prize bonds, participation in informal rotating credit schemes
(bisis), etc. of about Rs 2,500 per household in small towns and almost Rs 6,000 in large cities.
As such, it is estimated that over 90% of the beneficiaries in large cities and 70% in small towns
can afford to make contributions of up to Rs 2,000 per household.
4.9       The willingness to make such contributions presupposes a demand for the community
infrastructure being offered; confidence that government would, through the project and in
conjunction with communities, deliver these services; and an expectation that the desired services
could not be obtained through one of various alternative "free" programs. Project preparation
indicates that demand exists, although communities are initially cautious and skeptical. The project
includes measures to advertise and disseminate information about results and successes, in order
to overcome initial doubts, and actions, for example health and hygiene awareness training, to
generate effective demand for balanced packages of infrastructure and community development.
4.10       Given this, there are reasons to believe that the willingness to make significant up-
front cash contributions may be high. First, private returns from such payments are likely to be



- 31 -
substantial. A personal contribution of Rs 2,000 can lead to an increase in value of land owned
which is five to seven times the outlay. Second, studies of the determinants of rent (rent hedonics)
in low income areas in the cities of Paldstan reveal the high premium that is attached by low
income households in squatter and slum areas to service improvements. Estimates of the increase
in rent' from improved water supply is about 18% to 27%. If this increase in rent is capitalized,
then the average increase in property value (assuming a 12-1/2% rate of discount) is almost Rs
5,200. Similarly, the increase in rental value due to an improved access road is about 8% to 10%.
These gains appear to justify significant self-financing of service improvements by low-income
communities in urban areas.
4.11      Affordability for payment of user charges to cover O&M costs of services provided,
appears to be less of a problem. User charges are estimated at between Rs 20 to Rs 25 per month
per household. The median monthly income of urban households in NWFP is about Rs 2,600. As
such, the burden of these payments is likely to be only about 1 % to 2% of income for most of the
beneficiaries.
D. Government Affordability
4.12      In urban areas in NWFP, local council spending averaged Rs 164 per head in 1990/91.
Of this, about Rs 42 was classified as development expenditure, although this classification would
include some expenditures of a recurrent nature. Assuming that a scheme extends for a three year
period, local council development expenditure per household during this period would be on
average more than the 10% contribution required. In rural areas in NWFP, district councils average
expenditure per head in 1990/91 was Rs 19 in total, of which Rs 11 was for development. This
would be somewhat below the equivalent 10% maximum contribution to upgrading costs (estimated
as 10% of Rs 6,000 per household). The expenditure would nevertheless be small within the
context of the whole budget (typically 1% - 2%) and is therefore considered affordable.
4.13      Following the National Finance Commission award, which included for NWFP the
provision of a share of WAPDA's profits, the province has been able to earn a surplus on its
revenue account. In 1992/93, the revenue surplus is budgeted to amount to Rs 1,458 million,
contributing 22% of the total Rs 6,575 million development budget. Within the total development
budget, the allocation for basic infrastructure amounted to some Rs 500 million, excluding Social
Action Program and foreign project assistance. The provincial share of project capital expenditure
would be between 10% and 15% of regular sector allocations in urban areas, and would be about
20% of sector allocations in rural areas.
4.14      Despite increasing debt service liabilities, the province is aiming to retain a revenue
account surplus in the medium term, partly by controls on recurring expenditure levels. Therefore
some flexibility would remain in the province's development budget. The above mentioned levels
of provincial contribution (amounting in total to less than 6% of the current level of revenue
account surplus, based on the size of project proposed) would therefore be sustainable, particularly
given the other financial benefits to the province of community and local council contributions to
capital costs and responsibility for O&M.



- 32 -
V. PROJECT JUSTIfCATION AND RISKS
5.1       The investment program would alleviate some of the acute symptoms of poverty, and
lay the foundation for strengthened procedures to provide improved access to basic services in the
future. The main investment component, infrastructure upgrading, would provide a direct impact
in terms of improving the living conditions of poorer households, especially for women and
children. Experience elsewhere in Pakistan demonstrates that investment in basic infrastructure
brings substantial new private investments by households, particularly in kitchens and bathrooms.
Due to the nature of the investment program, the project is expected to have net positive
environmental consequences.
A. Poverty bnpact and Other Benefits
5.2       Upgrading basic infrastructure is expected to produce high benefit levels for several
reasons. First, households would decide what services they want based on their needs and ability
to pay. This would help to ensure that highly-valued projects are undertaken, and that these
projects would be maintained and operated so as to produce a long stream of benefits. Second,
upgrading would be relatively easy to target on low-income households because the poor are more
likely than higher-income households to occupy inadequately-serviced areas. The impact of
upgrading would be greatest for households with the poorest initial living conditions. Finally, the
stream of benefits would be intensified because of cultural factors which cause women and children
in the province to spend large amounts of time in and around their residences. Complementary
health education programs would improve the utilization of infrastructure and maximize the return
from infrastructure investments.
5.3       Depending on the mix of components (e.g., water supply, drainage, improved access,
sanitation, etc.), upgrading produces a wide range of benefits, some of which are more easily
quantified than others.  Because the community would determine the mix of infrastructure
components, and because the impact of any given investment would depend on a number of key
factors such as the existing level of services and population density, it is difficult to make precise
estimates of benefits. Nevertheless, the nature of the benefits typically associated with the various
physical components that are commonly included in upgrading projects can be described.
5.4       Health improvements would be the primary benefits derived from improved water
supply, drainage, solid waste disposal, and sanitation facilities. Improved health results from both
increased quantity and quality of water, and in rural areas, easier access to water. Drainage
prevents the accumulation of used water, which is a source of disease, groundwater contamination,
and a breeding ground for mosquitos. The collection and disposal of solid waste improves air
quality and the residential environment, and prevents drains and sewers from clogging. Improved
sanitation facilities result in safer disposal of excreta, possibly more frequent use of facilities by
women, and less contamination of drinking water supplies.
5.5       Electricity, gas, and improved access provide indirect health benefits. Electricity can
be used for security lighting and can power water pumps. Gas provides a relatively clean fuel



- 33 -
source for cooking and heating. Access improvements may result in safer roads, footpaths, and
bridges.
5.6       In addition to alleviating some of the symptoms of poverty, upgrading could, to an
extent, directly reduce poverty by increasing productivity and income generation.  Higher
productivity could result from better health and time savings, the latter coming from less time spent
collecting water and less time spent maintaining dwellings (e.g., buildings previously needing
frequent repair due to poor drainage). Improved services could make some types of home-based
businesses possible, and could stimulate investment in the housing stock, which could include space
for home-based businesses and rental units.
5.7       Equity considerations must be taken into account in addition to the health, productivity,
and economic benefits described above. The project would help narrow the gap in services between
the rich and poor. Women and children are the primary beneficiaries of infrastructure upgrading;
these are the groups which are suffering the most from poor living conditions.
B. Environmental Impact
5.8       There are no major environmental problems anticipated for this project, which has
received a B rating under the IDA's Environmental Assessment Operational Guidelines. The
Community Infrastructure component is designed to improve the living environment for urban and
rural low-income communities, and accordingly the overall environmental impact of the proposed
works would be beneficial. Communities would be required when preparing CAPs to choose (with
technical guidance from PIUs) environmentally sound project components or combinations of
components (e.g., on-site sanitation would not be an option if it would degrade ground water used
for drinking). Scheme approval would be contingent upon satisfying environmental and health
criteria meeting IDA's requirements. Environmental Impact Assessments have been prepared for
Phase 1 sites and are available in the project file.
5.9       Improved water supply, although aggravating the wastewater disposal problem, would
provide significant health benefits by rehabilitating distribution lines which are currently old,
leaking and located in drainage channels with a high risk of pollution given the intermittent nature
of supply and low pressure. The quantities of water produced would be such that on-site disposal
through leaching latrines would generally still be acceptable. Improvements in storm water
drainage facilities, by reconstructing or lining channels, would decrease the occurrence of stagnant
water, with resultant improvements in community health. Solid waste management would improve
both collection and disposal, including by providing additional storage (containerization) facilities
and, where appropriate, local transportation (handcarts) for community operation. The incidence
of refuse spreading from uncontrolled heaps through wind and animals would be reduced and there
would be less need to resort to dumping refuse in drains and watercourses. The disposal of sullage
and sewage in storm drains is of particular concern and would be addressed not only by the
establishment of an on-plot sanitation program and health and hygiene education but, in addition,
for two larger communities, pre-treatment ponds would be established on a pilot basis to pre-treat
dry weather flows. It is expected that this will assist GONWFP in framing a coherent wastewater
treatment policy for smaller settlements for the future. The access roads, minor streets and
footpaths components would also have an environmental benefit by reducing the number of potholes



- 34 -
and un-reinstated utility trenches which often result in stagnant pools of dirty water and creation
of mud during the rainy seasons, and clouds of suspended dust in dry seasons. The project would
place a special emphasis on O&M, with communities participating in the agreement of O&M
arrangements, including O&M financing, prior to investments being made.
5.10      No resettlement is required for the 20 schemes for which detailed designs have been
prepared. Resettlement refers to any loss of shelter, land place of work or other major assets upon
which a person's livelihood depends. Due to the relatively small scale of the investments at the site
level, it is not anticipated that any resettlement would be required under the project. In case
resettlement does, however, arise in the sites remaining to be prepared, or as a result of Phase I
scheme design changes, GOP confirmed at negotiations that if there are any persons displaced or
to be displaced as a result of the acquisition of any land required for the purposes of the project or
any scheme included in the project, such persons shall be compensated and/or resettled in
accordance with arrangements satisfactory to the Association, providing, among other things, for:
(a) full consultation with the affected persons; (b) provision of equivalent or better accommodation
at equal or lower cost and maintenance of the standard of living; and (c) assistance in moving (para.
6.1).
5.11      Training provided through the project would include a focus on teaching project staff
how  to increase environmental awareness among the community, and how  to improve
communication between the community, project staff, and environmental agency staff.
Environmental and health awareness would be developed during the early stages of community
mobilization.
5.12      The project would require coordination with ongoing and proposed planning and
environmental initiatives. For example, federal and provincial institutions with environmental
responsibilities such as conducting environmental impact assessments and planning are to be
strengthened through the ongoing Environmental Protection and Resource Conservation Project
(Credit 2383-PAK). Coordination would be effected through the Steering Committee, which
includes the agencies concerned.
C. Economic Analysis
5.13      The economic analysis of the infrastructure upgrading was carried out by estimating
the economic internal rate of return (EIRR) and net present value NPV of the benefit and cost
flows. Costs include the base cost of investment in physical infrastructure with provision for
overhead costs. Economic costs have been estimated by applying a conversion factor to the costs
to capture the divergence between the shadow and market prices of different inputs.
5.14      Society's value of infrastructure upgrading is seen in terms of a "catch-all" measure,
the resulting increase in land values. This measure reflects the benefits arising from environmental
improvements in quality of life as well as consumer welfare gains from enhancements in service
levels. Research conducted during project preparation indicates that infrastructure provision can
increase plot values in Pakistan by as much as 50% to 150%. This research involves comparing
areas with little infrastructure to those with fairly complete infrastructure and may, therefore,
overstate the benefits that would accrue to project communities where rudimentary infrastructure



- 35 -
would exist. Accordingly, the EIRR and NPV of the investment are conservatively estimated
assuming property value increases of 20% to 25%.
5.15      Results of the economic analysis, described in greater detail in Annex 13, reveal that
an increase in plot values of about 21 % will yield an EIRR of approximately 31 %. Net benefits
are negative when plot values only increase by about 15%. Taking the case where plot values
increase by about 21% as the "base case", sensitivity analysis reveals that the NPV remains positive
(using a 30% discount rate) after reducing the average plot value before improvements from Rs
60,000 to Rs 55,000, or increasing the base costs by 10%. The EIRR in these two alternative
scenarios drops to 18.5% and 19.5%, respectively. The NPV remains positive even after
increasing base costs by 20%.
D. Risks
5.16      The main risk concerns the success or failure of the community based approach.
Communities may lack sufficient confidence in government to want to become involved in, and
contribute financially to, the project; or government may lack the skills, motivation and capacity
to involve communities fully in project schemes. A further risk could be that, despite perceiving
the project's benefits, communities would opt to wait for an alternative government infrastructure
scheme offered on a "no cost" basis. Any of these possible outcomes could generate pressures to
revert to more traditional arrangements with limited participation. To alleviate these risks, the
project would incorporate the following measures and actions. First, the project builds on the
experiences gained through pilot operations. Second, these pilot schemes and retroactively-financed
continuation works would be used to demonstrate and publicize the success of the approach.
Development of a community liaison capacity, staff training, involvement of UNICEF, close and
continuous monitoring by the Steering Committee and external supervision would support the
government's attempt to apply the participative approach.  The project would allow new
communities to be selected in place of any which eventually proved unwilling to participate, or
which failed to qualify through, for example, insufficient contribution for the investments or
inadequate O&M of earlier works. Conversely, priority would be given to communities which
were more prepared to contribute financially or were better organized.
5.17      Further risks are that parts of the community may dominate decision-making, or that
other parts (for example, women) may be under-represented. Community liaison staff would be
sensitized to these risks, and female liaison staff would be engaged to ensure women's opinions
were taken into account. The project is specifically designed to address the traditional risk of
failure to sustain the benefits of infrastructure due to inadequate O&M practices, but difficulties are
to be anticipated in introducing the new approach.



- 36 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1       During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following:
(a)  GONWFP would establish and thereafter maintain with membership, responsibilities
and resources satisfactory to the Association, a Project Review Board, a Project
Steering Committee and a Project Working Committee (para. 3.4).
(b)  GONWFP would, exclusively for the purpose of undertaking the Project: (a) establish
and thereafter maintain with staff, responsibilities and resources satisfactory to the
Association, Directorates of the Project Management Unit for Planning and Community
Development, Design and Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation and a Finance
Wing; and (b) strengthen Project Implementation Units and thereafter maintain them
with staff, responsibilities and resources satisfactory to the Association (para. 3.5).
(c)  GONWFP would implement the Project in accordance with an implementation plan
satisfactory to the Association; and would by January 31, 1997 and by each January
31 thereafter review and update the implementation plan in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association (para. 3.10).
(d)  GONWFP would ensure that infrastructure and community development schemes to
be included in the project would be selected on the basis of criteria, and designed,
financed, implemented and maintained through processes satisfactory to the Association
(para. 3.17).
(e)  GONWFP would cause LGERDD/PMU to enter into an agreement with the concerned
CBO and local council for financing, implementing and maintaining the scheme, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association (para. 3.18).
(f)  the first Type A  (primary infrastructure) and Type B (secondary or tertiary
infrastructure) contracts issued by PMU and by each PIU, and all individual contracts
for civil works and goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$150,000 or more
would be subject to IDA's prior review and approval (para. 3.30).
(g)  two Special Accounts would be opened by PMU, one for IDA and another for the
S.wiss Contribution, with an initial deposit of US$1.0 million and US$200,000,
respectively, and by NHA, with an initial deposit of US$40,000, in the National Bank
of Pakistan on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (para. 3.34).
(h)  the executing agencies would prepare and submit to IDA within six months after the
close of each fiscal year fully audited project accounts including an auditor's opinion
and report for the project, SOEs and Special Accounts, undertaken by auditors
satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.37).



- 37 -
(i)   GONWFP would prepare, by March 31, 1998, a report evaluating progress to date,
including recommendations to enhance implementation of the project, which would
form the basis for a mid-term review by June 30, 1998 (para. 3.38).
(j) GONWFP would cause PMU to maintain polices and procedures adequate to enable
it to monitor and evaluate the project on an ongoing basis, in accordance with
indicators satisfactory to the Association (para. 3.40).
(k)  GONWFP would ensure if there are any persons displaced or to be displaced as a
result of the acquisition of any land required for the purposes of the project or any
scheme included in the project, such persons shall be compensated and/or resettled in
accordance with arrangements satisfactory to the Association, providing, among other
things, for: (a) full consultation with the affected persons; (b) provision of equivalent
or better accommodation at equal or lower cost and maintenance of the standard of
living; and (c) assistance in moving (para. 5.10).
6.2       Conditions of credit agreement effectiveness were agreed at negotiations to be:
(a)  all conditions for effectiveness of the Swiss Contribution agreement, other than those
related to Credit effectiveness, would be fulfilled (para. 2.20); and
(b)  the appointment of the Director Planning and Community Development, Director
Design and Implementation, Deputy Director Monitoring and Evaluation, Deputy
Director Finance, Assistant Directors PIU and the design and implementation
consultants for community infrastructure (para. 3.11).
6.3       Recommendation. On the basis of the above agreements, the proposed project is
suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR 13.7 million (US$21.5 million equivalent) to the Islamic
Republic of Pakistan.



- 38 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 8
PAKISTAN
NWFP COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE AND NHA STRENGTHENING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE COMPONENT - DETAILED DESCRIPTION
OVERVIEW
1.         The project would comprise three components in support of low income communities. The
major component is Community Infrastructure, which has a total base cost of about US$28.7 million or
90% of the project total. It includes three sub-components:
(a)  Infrastructure Upgrading;
(b)   Community Development; and
(c)   Design and Implementation Assistance.
2.         The other project component is the Institutional Development, including sub-components
for the Local Government, Elections and Rural Development Department (LGERDD) and the National
Housing Authority (NHA).
A. INFRASTRUCTURE UPGRADING (TOTAL BASE COST US$ 21.5 MILLION - 56%)
3.         The major component of the project is the upgrading of infrastructure in approximately 55
urban and rural communities. This would be implemented in three phases. Detailed design have been
prepared for 18 Phase I communities. An additional 27 communities (approximately 1830 ha, 208,000
population and average density of 114 persons/ha) have been identified for Phase 2 of the project and
limited funding will also be included for additional conmmunities (Phase 3 - approximately 8 sites up to
about 540 ha).
4.         The Community Infrastructure component would be demand driven, with the infrastructure
to be provided according to the priorities of the respective communities. The fundamental concept of the
project is to foster a sense of ownership of the infrastructure on the part of the communities. Giving
communities choice and a voice in what is proposed is intended to encourage communities to contribute
financially to the investments they choose, and to take greater responsibility for their operation and
maintenance.
5.         Appropriate functional standards for planning, design, and construction have been developed
taking cognisance of locally available materials, ease of construction and maintenance, and affordability
(See Annex 7). Affordability and a balanced provision of infrastructure have also been important
objectives in the design process, although the project allows communities to choose from a range of
alternative standards within cost ceilings. Another important objective of the process is to improve
operation and maintenance (O&M), and communities would be required to agree to satisfactory O&M
arrangements prior to selecting any specific infrastructure scheme (See Annex 8).
6.         The final composition of the project would only be known after each community has
prepared its Community Action Plan, and this has been reviewed and modified to conform with technical,



- 39 -                                ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 8
financial and other agreed criteria. This process, following the establishment of CBOs and their
participation in the planning and design process carried out by PMU and its consultants, has been
completed up to detailed engineering design for the 14 Phase IA communities. For purposes of costing
the project, the total base costs1' for each sectoral sub-component have been determined and then
expressed on an areal basis (Rs/ha). The areal costs (Rs.181,000 per ha) of a balanced package of
primary, secondary and tertiary infrastructure (including on-plot sanitation) have then been applied to
Phase IB, Phase 2 and Phase 3 schemes to extrapolate total costs. Average base costs (January 1994
prices) for the whole component are estimated at about Rs 172000 per/ha. A summary of the coverage,
population served, densities and total costs is set out in Table 1 below.
Table 1: SUMMARY OF INFRASTRUCTURE UPGRADING
PHASE      AREA        POPN.       DENSITY        AVERAGE            TOTAL BASE
(HA)                   (PERS/HA)       BASE COST          COST (JAN 94)
(RS/HA)           (RS MILL)
IA          704        94,500      134 P/HA       136,000             95.651
LB          406        57,000      140 P/HA       181,000             73.485
2          1,830       208,000     114 P/HA        181,000           331.042
3           540         61,500     114 P/HA        181,000            98.087
,TOTAL    3,480         421,000    121 P/HA         172,000 AV.        598.3
Note: Costs include trunk, secondary and tertiary infrastructure but exclude land, and total
base costs are equivalent to Rs.677.3 million in estimated January 1995 prices. Numbers
are rounded.
Selection of Priorities
7.         The priorities of the communities surveyed in Phase 1 were generally as follows:
(a)   water supply;
(b)   drainage;
(c)   access; and
(d)   solid waste containerisation.
8.         The order of priority differed amongst these elements from community to community and,
in a few cases, other priorities featured (e.g., flood protection works). Sanitation facilities and practices
in the communities surveyed have been reported as poor, and yet demand for sanitation facilities (e.g.
latrines) has rarely featured in the lists of community priorities. This may imply that the survey process
may have been too limited resulting in a narrow range of community infrastructure demands. During
the implementation of Phase 1 and in designing subsequent project phases, community liaison and
preparation activities will emphasize the possibility of other infrastructure elements being included, and
also fully explain the advantages and opportunities the project offers to improve health and sanitation (s-e
Sanitation below).
!' Cost, at January 1994 prices, excluding contingencies and design and supervision allowances.



- 40 -                               ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 8
9.          Possible further choices of infrastructure facilities could, subject to prior community
agreement to satisfactory O&M arrangements, include:
(a)   infrastructure provision that supports local economic activities (e.g., market stalls, bus
stands);
(b)   provision of SUI gas, where primary facilities are available;
(c)   basic security (street) lighting; and
(d)   provision of community facilities such as community halls.
10.         Primary education and primary health facilities are available through a number of other
programs, and the first consideration would be to seek such facilities from these alternative sources
(principally due to the need to provide for continuing, relatively high, recurrent costs, and to coordinate
with province-wide sector and development policies and plans).
Trunk Infrastructure (Total Base Cost US$ 8.1 million - 21 %)
11.         Trunk infrastructure includes off-site infrastructure and that infrastructure serving the
community at large. It would include, for example:
(a)   tubewells, bulk water transmission, storage and distribution;
(b)   sewage and drainage pumping stations, collector channels, sewage treatment ponds;
(c)   solid waste transfer stations and landfill sites; and
(d)   access roads.
12.         Consistent with Government policies in NWFP (and for virtually all public infrastructure
supply in Pakistan), communities would not contribute directly to trunk infrastructure costs. These would
be financed through general government revenues. Trunk infrastructure required to allow secondary and
tertiary infrastructure to function would need to be in place prior to implementing project-financed
secondary/tertiary investments. The project includes a component for such infrastructure, which is
subject to an assessment of technical and economic feasibility if costs exceed a threshold amount. Subject
to this requirement, once a community has determined a service to be a priority, the development of any
required trunk infrastructure could commence directly, and be undertaken in parallel with community
mobilization, development and resource mobilization activities.
Water Supplv Local Infrastructure (Total Base Cost US$ 1.3 million - 3%)
13.         Water in rural areas is supplied by various means including standposts, handpumps, wells
as well as through individual or shared house connections. In larger communities and urban or peri-urban
areas tubewells and reservoirs, constructed and operated by PHED, serve the distribution systems. In
some cases water is supplied direct from rivers through gravity systems. In urban areas where a piped
supply system exists the distribution systems are often surface laid, routed along and across drainage
channels and often submerged in polluted water. These pipes are prone to damage and with intermittent
supply systems, low pressures and faulty equipment, contamination of the water supply is a risk.
14.          Rehabilitation of distribution systems as well as augmentation, generally to serve house
connections, will thus be a major sub-component of the project which will also improve necessary trunk
facilities (see above) such as tubewell and pump rehabilitation/replacement where critical. Potability of
drinking water, especially when supplied direct from river sources, would be checked and remedial
measures taken as appropriate.



-41-                                 ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 8
Drainage Local Infrastructure (Total Base Cost US$ 3.9 million - 10%)
15.        Few formal stormwater drains (open channels) exist in selected communities and where they
have been constructed they are often in poor condition having lacked any regular cleaning or periodic
maintenance. Invariably the stormwater drains act as sullage and sewage carriers, conveying their
contents either to main watercourses, to open areas or to fields for irrigation. In response to conmmunity
demands, comprehensive open channel stormwater drainage systems to be constructed as trapezoidal or
rectangular channels in either brick or concrete have been designed for all communities. System designs
have allowed for the fact that sullage will continue to be discharged to the drains for the foreseeable
future.
Sanitation Local Infrastructure (Total Base Cost US$ 2.7 million - 7%)
16.        Although sanitation is not an initial community priority, surveys and meetings with women's
community organisations showed that the sector requires urgent intervention. A sanitation component has
therefore been included in the project. The major thrust of the program will be to generate much greater
conmmunity awareness of sanitation and health linkages, and to improve sanitation practices. The
experience of UNICEF sanitation programs in NWFP will be drawn upon, particularly in the education
and training field, and UNICEF will provide partial funding for the software parts of the sub-component.
17.        The physical elements of the sanitation program to be established under the project will have
two main parts - incentives for on-plot sanitation and, on a pilot basis, pre-treatment ponds in two urban
or peri-urban communities where sewerage systems exist. The on-plot sanitation program will generally
be consistent with the UNICEF program, which has shown that incentives are needed to encourage
householders to install appropriate toilet facilities. It is envisaged that, generally, double pit pour-flush
latrines will be installed (most households either already have, or will have during the course of the
project, an adequate water supply), where space is available, to designs approved by or provided by the
PMU. The estimated cost of the sub-structure and slabs for such a facility is estimated at Rs.4000 (US$
133) and it is proposed that 25% of the approved cost of the facility will be granted to the beneficiary
in stages of its completion. The sub-component would aim to cover approximately 30% of households.
The success of the sub-component will be dependent on the effectiveness of the health awareness and
sanitation education sub-component.
18.        Although desirable for health and environmental reasons, providing appropriate treatment
facilities for the dry weather discharges from the storm drainage systems is not considered affordable at
this time, as flows from many communities are small, stormwater discharges at a number of places, and
efforts are being made under the program to reduce the sullage content of such discharges through the
on-plot sanitation component. However it is considered important to begin to focus on sewage treatment,
certainly in larger urban or peri-urban communities, and thus in two of the larger conmmunities where
there are high concentrations of sullage and sewage discharging from the stormwater drains, pre-treatment
ponds would be constructed on a pilot basis to partially treat the polluted wastewater, and a program to
monitor their operation would be established.  This would assist GONWFP in framing a future
wastewater treatment strategy for smaller communities in the Province.
Access and Circulation Local Infrastructure (Total Base Cost US$ 5.3 million - 14%)
19.        In rural areas, access is provided through a network of narrow, generally unpaved paths,
little more than a car's width across, sometimes flanked on one or both sides by open ditches. The main
forms of traffic are hand or animal drawn carts and bicycles, as well as animals. The main access roads
to urban settlements are more integrated with the town's road network and generally paved, although



- 42 -                               ANNEX I
Page 5 of 8
often lacking maintenance. The network of roads and footpaths within urban settlements are similar to
those in rural areas although carrying significantly more traffic.
20.        Improvements within the programme are limited to paving of existing streets and footpaths.
Appropriate functional planning, design and construction standards are to be used (See Annex 7). The
materials proposed in road and footpath construction generally reflect locally used construction material,
such as bricks. Concrete is used in steep slope locations and where storm water flows are significant.
Asphalt or double surface dressing will only be used for access roads and wider streets.
Solid Waste Management Local Infrastructure (Total Base Cost US$ 0.2 million - 1 %)
21.        In rural areas, solid as well as human and animal waste is disposed of in "derans" (for
compost) and, to a much larger extent, dropped or dumped in drains, outside the doors in the streets or
on parcels of open land between houses. The amount of domestic waste generated in urban areas is
significantly more and less suitable for re-use than in rural areas. Only the largest towns have a central
system of solid waste management, with collection from the roadside, but often with inappropriate final
disposal. Low income communities are generally not served in these towns. Under the ADB supported
Second Urban Development Project (SUDP) solid waste management will be extended and improved in
all major towns in NWFP.
22.        Brick-built containers (collection points) primarily intended to reduce the spread of refuse
by wind and animals will be constructed, and coverage has been designed to appropriate and consistent
planning standards. Where sites are not forthcoming from the community, consideration will be given
to the siting of the collection points on footpaths and minor streets, where space permits. Purchase of
land for collection points sites is not likely to be necessary in view of this and the fact that communities
have generally agreed to provide sites (approximately 4 sq.m. each). However, where this proves
unavoidable, land may be purchased. Allowances for land acquisition in the project costs are sufficient
to cover this eventuality. Local transportation (hand or animal drawn carts) needs in urban areas will also
be provided as necessary.
B. COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT (TOTAL BASE COST US$ 1.5 MILLION - 4%)
23.        Community Development would consist of three sub-components as shown below:
(a)   Community Mobilization/Capacity Building (Total Base Cost US$ 0.4 million - 1%). The
project would support the following software activities to mobilize the community and to
build capacity at the community level:
(i)  Awareness/orientation campaigns (media, materials and hand outs). This would
include development of Information Education and Communication (IEC) materials
and mass media campaigns in order to familiarize various Government departments,
local institutions and communities on the objectives of the project, its policy,
approach and implementation strategy. Prospective targets for the campaigns include
the staff of PMU, CLU, PIU, LGERDD, PHED, Local Councils, WAPDA and other
line agencies likely to be involved in the Project, communities, NGOs, consultants,
welfare organizations and CBOs. More than 50% of total population of the project
communities (of which 50% female) would be served by this component.
(ii) Capacity building/meetings/CBO training. This would include mobilization, capacity
building, organization and formation of CBOs which would then prepare, plan,



- 43 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 8
implement and manage their own infrastructure development programs,
complementary non-formal education (with specific reference to women's education)
and women's savings and credit funds.  It would include assistance to help
households access existing home improvement loans schemes. Over 16,000 members
of CBOs (40% female) are to be oriented, trained and assigned various tasks.
(iii)  Documentation (slides, videos, case studies).  As the approach, strategy and
implementation mechanism is innovative, it is necessary to document processes,
analyze successes and bottlenecks, identify remedial actions and disseminate results.
This component will provide resources, equipment, materials, logistics and other
arrangements to monitor, record, analyze and prepare reports on various important
activities; to prepare case studies on the findings including video and slides; and to
arrange for dissemination within the province and outside.
(iv) Needs assessment/CAP meetings. This would include resources, survey materials,
equipment and logistics for carrying out community needs assessment, including
participatory rapid appraisals, household surveys and Community Action Planning
(CAP) meetings.
(v) Cross visits/observation tours. This would include provision for inter community
observation and study tours for members of CBOs, NGOs, PIU and Government
departments. In selected cases, project members may visit similar projects in other
provinces and other countries in the region. About 7,000 participants are expected
to benefit from this activity.
(vi) Action research. This would include research on key topics including development
and testing of participatory monitoring and evaluation systems, setting up a
systematic learning system, and refinement of institutional options for effective,
efficient and sustainable Project implementation.
(b)   Health & Hygiene Awareness Campaign Program (Total Base Cost US$ 0.8 million - 2%).
This component would include provision for information and awareness campaigns to assist
women and communities to organize, identify, and solve existing health and hygiene related
problems. Program delivery would be through participatory (face to face) and promotional
(mass media, social marketing) methods including development of training materials,
modules and hand outs. The program would include orientation and training workshops for
health staff, LHVs, TBAs and PIU staff; youth school programs and cleanliness drives;
production of video films, slides and other materials; and Knowledge Attitude Practice
(KAP) studies.
(c)   Support for Women and Young Children (Total Base Cost US$ 0.3 million - 1 %) . This
component would include action research through gender analysis on community education
and socio economic aspects of women in three selected commnunities, before wider-scale
implementation. It would incorporate detailed planning of activities, pilot implementation,
CBO capacity building, and skill training. Implementation of pilot skill and livelihood
development activities would be monitored and evaluated. The project would work in close
coordination with the Women Division, NWFP office. The project would finance a female
WID officer in each of the three sites for 18-24 months to assist womens groups and
individuals.



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 8
C. DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION ASSISTANCE (US$ 5.7 MILLION - 15%)
24.         For design purposes and to assist with implementing the project, Government would engage
Consultants, contract staff and NGOs in addition to appointing incremental staff. 'The role of government
staff would be primarily management and coordination, with contract/NGO staff c-rrying out most of the
work in the commnunities. This component therefore comprises consultant and contract/NGO services,
and establishing Conimunity Infrastructure sections within the Project Management Unit in Peshawar and
Project Implementation Units.
Technical Assistance (Total Base Cost US$ 2.4 million - 6%)
25.         Consultants' services for: a) assistance with community mobilization, community
development, and infrastructure planning, including liaison with UNICEF, creating awareness within
comnnunities of health and hygeine, and advancing the role of women in local development; b) detailed
engineering design including engineering drawings, technical specifications and tender documentation;
c) implementation support including participation in contract award, administration and supervision,
overall management and engineering guidance, quality control, defining and establishing satisfactory
O&M procedures; d) assistance in establishing systems and procedures for, inter alia, project
management, procurement, reporting, project accounting, management of project finances, project
evaluation; and e) training of PMU staff and communities as appropriate. The consultants will also
provide social organizers (to supplement the 14 government social organizers) and will meet the expenses
of community motivators.
Other Implementation Support (Total Cost US$ 3.3 million - 9%)
26.         The establishment, equipping and operation of Community Infrastructure sections within the
Project Management Unit in Peshawar and Project Implementation Units, mostly located at Divisional
Headquarters. All costs are being treated as project investment costs (i.e. salaries and allowances of
Government staff, recurrent operating costs and equipment); however only staff costs, vehicles,
equipment and training would be eligible for IDA Credit financing equivalent to approximately the first
two years total expenditure. Staff (Grade 16 and above) are allowed for the followinge:
Table 2: Senior Staff Posts
Item     Grade of Post                    Staff # - PMU    Staff # - PIU
a)      Director General - Grade 20           1
b)      Director - Grade 19                  2               -
c)      Deputy Director - Grade 18           4               3
d)      Assistant Director - Grade 17        10              7
e)      Supervisors - Grade 16               2               14
2  Certain posts are only funded for part of the period (e.g. Director General, Deputy Directors PlUs) as other financing
provision exists.



Phase 1 A Communities - Basic Data
ATTACHMENT
Dhamtour             Abbottabad    Hazara           r        5,670        189    60%       5,560      27        206      1,020       210
Ghalegay             Swat          Malekand         r        7,293        243    80%       7,245      80         91      1,007         91
Gujar Ghari          Mardan        Mardan           r       14,333        478   15%      16,318      100        163        878        143
Hazar Khawani        Peshawar      Peshawar         u        3,051        102    3%       7,190       40        180        424         76
Jabbi, Nizampur      Nowshera      Nowshera          r       3,209        107    3%        3,460      18        192        927        178
Kass Karoona         Mardan        Mardan           u        5,335        178    6%      11,840       61        194        451         87
Kot                  Kohat         Kohat            r        9,626        321   10%        3,197      50         64      3,011        193
Munjai               Dir           Malakand         r        3,313        110    3%        2,690      30         90      1,232        110
Muryali              D.I.Khan      D.I.Khan         r        9,402        313   10%        7,125      58        123      1,320        162
Narian               Abbottabad    Hazara           u        8,027        268    8%       3,626       41         89      2,214        198
Oghi                 Mansehra      Mansehra         r        2,984         99    3%        3,509      15        234        850        199
Tehkal Bala          Peshawar      Peshawar         u        8,345        278    9%      12,132       85        142        688         98
Titer Khel           Lakki Marwat   Bannu           r        8,869        296    9%       7,212       69        104      1,230        128
Wanda Khan Mhd       DIKhan        DIKhan           r        6,194        206    6%       3,394       30        113      1,825        206
average:                                                     6,832        228             6,750    50.3         142      1,220        149
standard deviation:                                          3,132        104              3,965    25.3         51        682         48
median:                                                      6,743        225             6,343    45.3         132      1,013        153
oq z
00 Z



Annex 2
Page 1 of 3
Pakistan
NWFP Community Infrastructure and NHA Strengthening Project
Project Components by Financial Year
Total Including Contingencies
Pak Rupees Million
1996      1997       1998      1999      2000       2001            Total
A. CI Primary Infrastructure
1. Land                                                             0.4        1.5       3.1        3.5       2.0        0.4             11.0
2. Trunk Inrrastructure                                            20.2       52.1      116.1     111.9       36.4       0.0           336.7
Sub-Total                                                              20.6       53.5     119.2      115.5      38.5        0.4           347.7
B. CI Local Infrastructure
I. Access and Circulation                                          15.9       35.9      58.9       63.0      44.6       11.6           230.0
2. Water Supply                                                     2.3        5.0       13.8      18.3       14.8       3.8             57.9
3. Drainage                                                         10.5      25.6      44.7       46.5       32.6       8.5            168.4
4. Sanitation                                                        5.2      19.1       33.9      32.4      23.2        6.0            119.9
5. Solid Waste Management                                           0.5        1.5        2.9       3.1       2.2        0.6             10.7
Sub-Total                                                              34.4       87.0      154.1     163.4      117.5      30.6           587.0
C. CI Community Development
1. Comm. Mobilisation/Capacity Building                             3.8        4.4       2.5        2.6       2.8        1.5             17.4
2. Health & Hygiene Awareness                                        6.0       7.0        4.8       5.1        5.4       2.5             30.9
3. Women & Child Support                                             2.0       2.6        2.5       1.3        1.4       0.7             10.5
Sub-Total                                                               11.7      14.0        9.7       9.0       9.6        4.7             58.7
D. CI Design & Technical Assistance
1. Technical Assistance                                             0.0       55.9      34.6        0.0       0.0        0.0             90.5
2. Other Implementation Support                                      7.7      22.1       27.7      25.4       25.7      26.7            135.3
Sub-Total                                                               7.7       77.9      62.3       25.4      25.7       26.7           225.8
E. Institutional Development
1. Local Government Department                                      0.0        9.7       10.3       0.0       0.0        0.0             20.1
2. National Housing Authority                                        6.4      16.6       13.5      13.8        0.0       0.0             50.3
Sub-Total                                                               6.4       26.4      23.8       13.8       0.0        0.0             70.4
F. Project Preparation
1. Project Preparation Facility                                    42.2        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0             42.2
Sub-Total                                                              42.2        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0             42.2
|TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                                    123.1      258.8     369.2      327.1     191.2       62.5          1,331.81
Note: Some items may not add up to totals due to rounding.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
PAKISTAN
NWFP COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE AND NHA STRENGTHENING PROJECT
PROJECT COMPONENTS BY FINANCIAL YEAR
Total Including Contingencies
Dollars '000
1996      1997      1998      1999       2000      2001         Total
A. Cl Primary Infrastructure
1. Land                                                                13        44        91       101         57        11          317
2. Trunk Infrastructure                                               625     1,565     3,402      3,195     1,014         0        9,801
Sub-Total                                                                 638     1,609     3,493      3,296     1,071         11      10,118
B. CI Local Infrastructure
1. Access and Circulation                                            490      1,080      1,727     1,800     1,242       316        6,655
2. Water Supply                                                        70       149       404       523        411       104        1,661
3. Drainage                                                           325       769      1,308     1,329       908       231        4,870
4. Sanitation                                                         162       574       993       925        646       164        3,464
5. Solid Waste Management                                              16        44        84         88        62        16          310
Sub-Total                                                               1,063     2,616     4,516      4,665     3,269       831       16,960
C. CI Community Development
1. Community Mobilisation/Capacity Building                           116       131        72        74         77        40          510
2. Health & Hygiene Awareness                                         186       212       141        146       150        68          903
3. Women & Child Support                                               61        78        72         38        39        20          308
Sub-Total                                                                 363       421       285       258        266       128        1,721
D. Cl Design & Technical Assistance
l. Technical Assistance                                                 0     1,680      1,014         0         0         0        2,694
2. Other Implementation Support                                       238       663       812       725        714       725        3,877
Sub-Total                                                                 238     2,343      1,826       725       714       725        6,571
E. Institutional Development
1. Local Government Dept.                                               0       293       302          0         0         0          595
2. National Housing Authority                                         197       500       395        394         0         0        1,486
Sub-Total                                                                 197       793       697        394         0         0        2,081
F. Project Preparation
1. Project Prepation Facility                                       1,306         0         0          0         0         0        1,306
Sub-Total                                                               1,306         0          0         0         0          0       1,306
ITOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                                      3,805     7,782    10,817      9,338     5,320     1,695       38,757
Nde  Sam ke_n_ may mt add upto ttal du to rtmding



Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
Pakistan
NWFP Community Infrastructure and NHA Strengthening Project
Summary Accounts Cost Summary
Pak Rupees MiDlion                          US S Milion
% Foreign       % Total
Local      Foreign       Total           Local    Foreign      Total       Exchange       Base Costs
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Land                              8.7          0.0         8.7             0.3          0.0       0.3          0              1
B. CivilWorks                     403.5         273.8       677.2            12.7         8.6      21.3          40             67
C. Goods& Vehidcles                  9.1         15.4        24.5             0.3         0.5       0.8          63              2
D. Services                         35.9          4.0        39.8              1.1        0.1        1.3         10              4
E. T.A. and Training                70.6         57.5       128.2             2.2          1.8       4.0         45              13
F. Staff Costs                      86.1          9.6        95.7             2.7         0.3        3.0         10              9
G. Project Prep. Facility           10.1         31.7        41.7             0.3          1.0       1.3         76              4
Total BASELINE COSTS               624.1        391.8      1,015.9            19.6        12.3      31.9         39             100
PhysicalContingencies             73.2         46.1        119.3             2.3         1.4       3.7         39              12                             0
Price Contingencies              125.0         71.6       196.6              2.0         1.1       3.1          37             10
|TOTAL PROJECT COSTS               822.2        509.6      1,331.8            23.9        14.9      38.8          38             121
Note: Some items may not add up to totals due to rounding.



- 49 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
PAKISTAN
NWFP COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE AND NHA STRENGTHENING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
1.           The Community Infrastructure Project (CIP) upgrading component will be
implemented by the Local Government Elections & Rural Development Department (LGERDD) with
the assistance of the Project Management Unit (PMU) of the Provincial Urban Development Board
(PUDB). The National Housing Authority (NHA) will implement its institutional development
technical assistance. The PMU will be responsible for the day-to-day activities of the infrastructure
upgrading project component, and for this purpose the Director General of the PMU will report
directly to the Secretary LGERDD. Figure 1 shows the organizational structure for the upgrading
component.
2.           Project Steering and Working Committees. Overall policy guidance, approval of
individual community schemes, inter-agency coordination and monitoring of progress would be the
responsibility of a project Steering Committee. The Secretary LGERDD will chair the Committee,
which will meet at least quarterly, and will comprise the following membership:
Secretary LGERDD - Chairman; Secretary Public Health Engineering Department (PHED);
Secretary Physical Planning and Housing Department (PP&H); Additional Secretary Finance;
Additional Secretary LGERDD; Additional Secretary Planning, Environment and
Development Department; and Director General PMU - Secretary.
3.           The Steering Committee will appoint a Working Committee for day-to-day
coordination and monitoring. This will include coordination within PMU, especially between
community mobilization, engineering and community development activities, liaison with line
departments and local councils, monitoring implementation performance, identification of actions to
address implementation bottlenecks, etc. The Additional Secretary LGERDD will chair the
Committee, which will meet at least once in two weeks, and will comprise the following membership:
Additional Secretary LGERDD - Chairman; Director Design and Implementation (CIP);
Director Planning and Community Development (PMU); Deputy Director Monitoring and
Evaluation; and Deputy Director Finance (PMU) - Secretary.
4.           Local Government Elections & Rural Development Department. The Local
Government Elections & Rural Development Department (LGERDD) has the overall responsibility for
implementing the community infrastructure component of the investment. LGERDD has implemented
various provincial infrastructure development projects under its rural development programmes, but
has limited prior experience of donor-funded projects. LGERDD is the coordinating and supervising
agency for the local government system. It is responsible, inter alia, for coordinating with local
councils which, through their own resources, are responsible for the development, operation and



- 50 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
maintenance of infrastructure facilities within their respective areas. The Department implements a
number of schemes on behalf of members of the National and Provincial Assemblies (MNA/MPA
programmes). Its Local Government and Rural Development Department looks after special projects
and the working of Union Councils in the province. Within the jurisdiction of LGERDD, the Local
Council Board (LCB) was established in 1984 to serve as facilitator for the human resources and
training functions for district councils, and for municipal and town committees in NWFP. Over the
years, there has been a gradual transformation in the role of LCB and it has, in the last two years,
begun to act as the principal regulatory arm of the LGERDD in respect of affairs of self-financed
local government institutions in the Province. The organisation chart of LGERDD is presented in
Figure 2.
5.           Provincial Urban Development Board. The Provincial Urban Development Board
(PUDB) is a corporate body that controls the province's Development Authorities. The Government
of NWFP instructed the Physical Planning and Housing Department (PP&H) to create PUDB in 1974,
and assigned PUDB the task of: (1) establishing a system of urban planning; (2) integrating physical,
economic, and social planning at all government levels; and (3) creating an institutional framework
capable of sustaining these activities.
6.           Proiect Management Unit. An existing Project Management Unit (PMU) within
PUDB will be the organizational unit responsible for planning, designing and implementing the
upgrading component. The PMU was established in 1989 for the Asian Development Bank's Second
Urban Development Project (SUDP), which is currently underway in seven major NWFP cities. The
PMU staff consists of employees drawn from PUDB, the LGERDD, and the Public Health
Engineering Department (PHED). The PMU is responsible for undertaking and coordinating projects
that exceed the jurisdictions of individual Development Authorities. The PMU has seven Division
level Project Implementation Units (PIUs), each headed by a Deputy Director, and within these PIUs
a cell would be created for CIP. The staff responsible for the CIP in each PIU would include: an
Assistant Director, an accountant, a sub-engineer, a draftsman and a Social Organizer Coordinator.
Several key PMU personnel, including the DG, the Personnel and Administration Superintendent,
PIU Deputy Directors, and PIU accountants will be responsible for both the CIP and the SUDP. All
other CIP staff will not have dual responsibilities to ensure that they will be able to devote their full
attention to the CIP.
7.           Although the PMU is created under the Physical Planning and Housing Department,
the Government of NWFP has directed the PMU to report to the Secretary LGERDD for the purposes
of this project. The DG PMU oversees the day-to-day operations of the program and is responsible
for coordinating the actions of the Director Planning and Community Development, Director Design
and Implementation, Deputy Director Finance, Deputy Director Monitoring and Evaluation, and
Personnel and Administration Superintendent.
8.           The Planning and Community Development Director has the overall responsibility for
community involvement in identifying infrastructure and community development needs and priorities.
This will include building up community organizations, creating awareness within communities of
health, hygiene and environment, site selection, socio-economic and topographical surveys, needs
assessment and conceptual design, initial costing and assessment of affordability of infrastructure.
The Director is also responsible for advancing the role of women in the project-assisted development,



- 51 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
and for coordination with UNICEF. He is assisted by a Community Development Deputy Director
and a Planning Deputy Director. Planning and Community Development staff will work with Social
Organizer Coordinators and Implementation Assistant Directors at the Division PIU level as
appropriate. The Design and Implementation Director has overall responsibility for preparation of
engineering designs, bills of quantities, cost estimates, and basic procurement documentation.
Through PIUs, the Director will be involved in procuring works, contract management and
administration, supervising construction, and helping communities to plan and prepare for operation
and maintenance. His two Deputy Directors for Implementation Coordination will work with
Implementation Assistant Directors and Sub-Engineers at the PIU level.
9.           The Finance Deputy Director, assisted by the Accounts Assistant Director and Audit
Assistant Director, is responsible for all project accounting and internal auditing, and will manage the
special account. The Finance staff will work with the PIU accountants and the community to develop
accounting systems at the community and divisional level, and to establish procedures for paying
contractors, managing community project accounts, and budgeting. Government accounts will be
audited by the Auditor General Pakistan. Commercial auditors will audit communities' accounts.
10.          The Deputy Director, Monitoring and Evaluation will be responsible for preparing
routine monitoring reports, including monitoring key performance indicators. He will also be
responsible for initiating and managing community-based evaluation and impact assessments.
11.          Social Welfare Department and Women's Division. PMU, through the Directorate of
Planning and Community Development, will maintain close liaison with the Social Welfare
Department and the Women's Division. The Social Welfare Department's responsibilities include:
training and rehabilitation of the handicapped, orphans, widows, and the destitute; women's welfare;
and relief during natural calamities. The department sponsors projects such as community centers and
industrial homes, and is responsible for promoting the formation of community organizations and for
registering NGOs. The Women's Division's activities have focused on basic studies and programme
formulation in the areas of adult education, literacy, health, nutrition, agricultural extension, and skill
training. The Division, which is totally dependent on federal funding, has helped establish a number
of NGOs, social welfare organizations, and multi-purpose community centers.
12.          National Housing Authority. The National Housing Authority (NHA) was created as
an arm of the Ministry of Housing and Works in 1987 to address the growing housing shortage in
Pakistan. A major purpose of NHA is to advise on policy matters. It is regulated by a Board of
Governors, headed by the Prime Minister, and has an Executive Committee chaired by the Minister
Housing and Works. NHA has a Director General, supported by a Deputy Director General,
Directors and Deputy Directors. The main functions of NHA include: preparing policies and policy
guidelines; coordinating programs between provinces; research, monitoring and evaluation related to
the housing sector; mobilizing resources (including from donors); arranging land for housing;
dissemination of information; and emphasizing the shelter needs of low-income groups.



- 52 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 5
PAKISTAN
NWFP COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE AND NHA STRENGTHENING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PROJECT DEVELOPMENT PROCESS - DETAILED PROCEDURES
1.    PRE-PREPARATION PHASE (3 months)
1.    Identification. Selection of Project areas: The first stage would be the preparation by the
PMU through the Directorate Planning and Community Development (P&CD) staff and PIU
social organizers of the indicative plan to identify potential areas for improvement. This
would be generally done through a reconnaissance and desk studies of primary and secondary
information, physical resource data necessary for technical planning and design, socio-
economic data, etc. The indicative plan would thus define general locations where: (i)
depressed and low income areas including poverty pockets are located; (ii) physical resources
are available (land, building space, etc); (iii) there is an apparent need for basic infrastructure
services, health and hygiene education, and socio-economic programs. The indicative concept
plan would be the basis to guide the P&CD to organize the formation of the Project
Committee, and prepare the Community Action Plan (CAP) for funding support.
2.    Project Initiation. Information to Communities and Local Government Officials: The
P&CD/PIU would contact the local officials which would be involved in area prioritization
and establishing initial contact with the comnmnunity to ascertain likely conmnunity response and
participation. The local authorities together with the community leaders and representatives
of various community based organizations (CBO) would confirm with the members in their
areas that upgrading development through government intervention is required and that the
community and users would be willing, in principle, to accept the responsibilities and costs
that they would incur if their community was to be served. The indicative plan or tentative
program would be presented at this stage to the community. A cross-check of likely
community response would be made by P&CD through review of the operational performance
of any existing government and private financed facilities (water supply, drainage, toilet,
cooperatives, savings groups) in the vicinity of the selected areas. During this stage initial
orientation and motivational activities would be undertaken, with the final output of a written
request from the community agreeing in principle on responsibilities and a commitment to be
involved in project planning, implementation and 0 & M responsibilities.



- 53 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 5
II.    PARTICIPATORY PLANNING            (6-9 months)
3.    Needs Assessment. Preparation of Community Action Plan (CAP): This stage starts with a
needs assessment including: community self survey, affordability analysis, and preparation of
the community through continuous motivation and leadership training. During this stage the
community would be required to agree a representative organization and to participate in CBO
formation efforts. Also the various technology, service level-options and community
development programs would be presented for choice. This would be followed by the
preparation of a CAP by the community, with assistance from the P&CD/PIU. The CAP
would include a package of physical, social, health and hygiene education, and economic skill
training programs, including an environmental impact assessment. It would cover: (i) CBOs
organizational structure, project related committees, membership, responsibilities, women's
groups, registration; (ii) assessment and the locations of areas to be upgraded and
communities proposed to be developed and assisted; (iii) selected physical (type of
infrastructure and facility), community development program (socio-economic, healtr .nd
hygiene education and training) and priorities under which the program would be
implemented; (iv) an investment plan including costs, showing government and commnunity
contributions and a time table for resource mobilization; (v) arrangements for collection,
safekeeping and accounting for the community's contribution; and (vi) an implementation plan
including arrangements on timing and scheduling for procurement, supervision and monitoring
and evaluation. The CAP in each community would be developed in two steps:
Step 1: Confirmation of Community Programs
A sketch map and a full description would be prepared for each community or
group of communities showing: (i) the locations of areas and
housing/structural conditions; (ii) the locations of existing government
facilities (public water and sanitation facilities, markets, etc); (iii) the locations
of areas including poverty pockets proposed by local leaders and communities
for development; and (iv) major population centers and roads. Other
information required includes the technical and design characteristics of
existing government facilities, a description of the health situation, socio-
economic development opportunities, and an affordability analysis for both the
community and the concerned local councils. Compilation of information
together with field checking of the community's proposal would permit
confirmation or modification of an improvement program and definition of the
type(s) of basic services, infrastructure facilities and other community
development programs (software activities) to be provided. For developing a
confirmed program, special attention would be given to use of appropriate
planning criteria and design standards (e.g., water supply and sanitation
facilities, footpaths, etc.,).



- 54 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 5
Step 2: Development of Local Programs
Once the community improvement program confirmation process is
completed, these can be assembled, as appropriate, to form a number of sub-
projects or areas which together form the local program. It will then be
necessary to decide the priority of developing the sub-project areas, taking
into account: (i) preparedness and commitment of the community; (ii) the
location and contracting constraints; and (iii) the necessity to coordinate with
the other line agencies regarding their programs. The outcome of the
discussions would be an annual work program for the locality, subject to some
modifications during the planning and design process for the finally selected
sub-project areas.
4.    Detailed Preparation and Planning: Each CAP is further developed to specific physical
infrastructure, and community development programs. For physical infrastructure, the
PMU/PIU administers the preparation of the detailed designs, specifications and engineering
designs including presentation to conmmunity on final designs, confirmation of priorities and
phasing of infrastructure components for implementation. For community development
programs (socio-economic health and hygiene education programs), the P&CD/PIU prepares
the final and detailed programs and arranges the funds. Following the signing of the
Memorandum of Understanding agreement (MOU) with the community, the technical work on
design and procurement is prepared.
5.    The MOU would require the community to: (i) identify specific user groups or associations,
and their responsibilities including registration; (ii) arrange and provide land or building space
for a specific purpose (individual/group toilets, water supply, market, income-generating
activities) as indicated in the CAP; (iii) provide cost shares, including cash contributions to
capital costs; (iv) provide resources for contract supervision and administration; and (v)
assume responsibility for O&M management and payments. Similarly, the project agency
would undertake to: (i) provide its share of finance for the capital costs of basic services and
programs identified in the CAP; (ii) implement the agreed CAP together with the community;
(iii) involve the CBO/Project Committee in the design of the specific components; (iv) arrange
construction of physical infrastructure by private contractor, including as appropriate
community resources and labor; (v) provide training and technical advice to community
groups on O&M, management and financing, skill training; (vi) assist establishing appropriate
arrangements O&M for specific infrastructure (eg., piped water supply), including contractor
support for a limited period (within one year) prior to handing over of completed facilities;
and (vii) for line agencies to accept responsibility for major repairs on an exceptional basis
(major roads, water supply system).
6.    Community Organization and Development: The organization of the community and the
different user groups would build on other successful formal and informal user groups,
supported by local councils and any existing CBOs. The P&CD/PIU would assist the
community to establish a CBO Project Committee and user groups. The CBO in each
community (representing the user groups) would make a written request for their
improvement and agree to form user groups, contribute to construction and take over



- 55 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 5
responsibility for O&M. The PIU would coordinate with the P&CD and would be primarily
responsible in assisting the CBO in the formation of the user groups.
7.    During the preparation phase, orientation and participatory training would be carried out by
P&CD/PIU focussing on: (i) identifying the roles and responsibilities of the CBO and user
group members with particular focus on women in the development process; (ii) organization
and registration of the users/associations; (iii) management of the user organizations, finances
and O&M activities, including operator training for water supply and sanitation facilities; and
(iv) hygiene and sanitation education and other entry level activities (e.g., skill training, NFE,
group savings).
III.   IMPLEMENTATION STAGE (three phases of up to 6-12 months each)
8.    Implementation of Works: The fourth stage would involve implementation of the CAP in
each community comprising a package of physical as well as community development
programs for phased implementation. The implementation of various community development
programs is at fullest at this stage including O&M training. While the procurement and
construction rhanagement of the type A (primary infrastructure) and type B (typical secondary
and tertiary infrastructure) will be the primary responsibility of the project agency,
involvement of the CBO would be sought during the construction, supervision and
certification of completion of work phases. For civil works, the PIU prepares the tender
documents and bidding. A procurement team, including a CBO representative, administers
the procurement process and awards the contract. The CBO, with technical assistance from
PIU, supervises the execution works. For type C (simple and small tertiary infrastructure)
works to be implemented by through community self-help, similar interaction would take
place including provision of technical advice from PlUs.
IV.   HANDOVER, O&M, MONITORING STAGE (6-12 months)
9.     Commissioning of Public Facilities for Handover to User Groups: A rigorous procedure
would be applied by the PIU together with the concerned government agency for testing the
operational capability of all completed infrastructure facilities against intended design
standards before they are handed over to their respective user groups/associations. Any faults
detected during the testing procedure will be corrected before the handover is made.
Representatives of the local government units and the CBO will observe the tests.
10.   Initial O&M Support, Monitoring: After the completion of the facilities, the project staff
would remain associated with the community for a period of six months to one year to train
user associations on their management and O&M activities, assist rectify structural works, and
coordinate community development inputs and support activities being carried by other
sectoral agencies. The handover period would also involve regular monitoring of the various
community development programs, functioning of facilities and review of the need for
modifications or repairs to major structures as requested by the CBO/user groups.
11.   Long Term O&M Support: After the initial O&M support phase, support to the user groups/
association would be carried out through the regular local government/line agencies who



- 56 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 5
would continue to monitor functioning and management of the facilities and programs, and
provide technical guidance on a needs basis.
12.   Community Development Programs: During this period other socio-economic, health and
hygiene education activities would continue to take place. These might include, according to
circumstances and the types of programs offered by other agencies: (i) institutional and other
incentive schemes which the project, in coordination with the banks, other sectoral agencies,
NGOs including Unicef may make available; (ii) management and skill training/job
placement; (iii) arrangements for product marketing, credit programs for home improvements,
sanitation, productive enterprises, etc; (iv) advice on the advantages and initiatives needed for
the user groups to avail of group or individual credit; and (v) advice and participation on
various NFE, business and income-generating skills.



ANNEX 5
Page I of 3
PAKISTAN
NWFP COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE AND NHA STRENGTHENING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
JIMPLEMENTATI N SCHEDUL                             _                                             _
1996             1997             1998            1999   _000                       2001
ID    Name                                          Duration  04 Q1  Q2 Q3 Q4 01 Q2 Q3 Q4 01  Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1  Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1  Q2 03 |4 Q1 012 Q3
1    Credit Negotdations                                  Sd
2    Board submission                                     Od       i
3    Credit Effectiveness                                 Od _
4
5    Community Infrastructure                          1826d
6        Implementation Pilot Projects (2) - Completed  107d _
7        Training CLU, CBOs, LCs: Initial Programme     456d
8        Training, Follow-up Programme                  522d
10       Implementation Phase I                         945d  WE
11           Implementation Phase I - 1 (6 sites)        544d
12           Implementation Phase I - 2 (8 sites)        782d
13           Implementation Phase I - 3 (6 sites)        782d
14        Preparation Phase II - A (113 sites)           22
15            Community Mobilisation                     173d
1 6           Project prep and designs                   130d
1 7
18        Project Implementation Phase 11 - A           522d
19
20        Preparadon Phase II - 8 (11 4 sites            2i1d
21            Community Mobillbation                     175d
22            Project prep and designs                   130d
23
24        Project Implementation Phase II - B            719d
Project: CIP - NWFP                  Critical                       Progress                       Summary
Date: 217/9|  Noncritical                                           Milestono  *                   Rolled Up  <>



ANNOC S
Page 2 of 3
_   _   1996             1997            1993            199        '    2000             2001
ID    Name                                        Duratlon  04 01  02 03 0401  02 03  401  02  03 c040   1 02al02  14 Q1 Q2 03 04 |                      C12 03
25_    _______T_________                                                 _ _                                                  04 01  02 03  04 01  02 03 1 _ I
25
26       Preparadon Pheas III - A (8 site)            261d_
27           Commurity Mobilisedon                    173d
28           ProJect prep and designs                 132d
29
30       Project Imnplemantatdon Phase Ill - A        651d
3 1
32       Design & Imrplementadon Assistance           470d
33       Conmunity Participation Programme           1 370d
34
35   Institutiona Development                         7e1 d _        ___
36       LGERRD Study                                  4di
37           Appoint Consultants                       20d
38           Prepare Study                            216d
39       NHA Technical Assistance                     761d
40           Appoint Consultants                      183d
41           Provide TA                               544d
42
43   Formal Reviews                                   677d
44       Bienidal Review                               10d
45       MId Term Review                               21d
46        8iennial Review                               1Od
ProJect: CIP- NWFP                 Citical                       Progress                      Sumrnary
Date; 27/79|  Noncridcal                                         Milestone  *                  Rolled Up  O



ANNEX S
Page 3 of 3
UPGRADING COMPONENT - OVERALL EXPENDITURE SCHEDULE CIP - NWFP
Phse. IA:                 PrImary:    27.047 RsI 000.                   Phase IA              14
s clTolt    66,603 lRe 000.                  Phase IB               6
Tolta IA    S3.650 Rs e0005                  Pto  s    It          27
Phase Ill        I    8
Total                s5
EXPENDITURE PArrERLN Phaes IS, n rd Ill
Basis for oxtrepotdon
Sites,      41  .site.    Pdienr       4,658 ResOOO/ilrit
Ave seit:   67.7  he      |SeTrrwt     7,e03 Rs OOililts
Phase IA    3 yr          Primary       50%      50%                                       100%          14  Pilmeoy        13.524    13.524                                            27,04
S.crr/ot      20%     40%      40%                              100%          14  SocTort        13.721    27.441    27.441                                  6t.01        I
Phe.. la    3 yr          Prirary       30%      70%                                       100%          6   PrilmrY         8,38S    19.664                                            27.345      t A
S.c/eort      10%     40%      50%                              100%           6   s.cfTort       4.S62    18.246    22.800                                  45.10        I
Phae IIA    3 yr          Prdmery                20%      80%                              100%          13  Primary                  12.111    43.445                                  60.5!r
S.c/Trtt               10%     40%      60%                     100%          13  SrefTrrt                  3.383   39.534   49.417                          98.835
Phase tlB    3 yr         PrImrary                        20%      90%                     100%          14  Prlmery                            13.043   52.171                         05,214
S.ctTort                       10%      40%      50%            100%          14  S.c/Tort                           10.844    42.575    53.213             106.437
Plies IIl   3 yr          Pdmary                                   30%      70%            100%           8   PrImary                                     11,18 eo    26.006            37,206
Sec/Tort                                10%      40%      50%   100%           8   S.cIonrt                                     0.082   24.329   30.411    600821
06tS ~i~fl  ___   -  -  ~ -  !    ~           iiR Thiw~iiS                                                          i  t                      i"  -    -1W4
7%       17%       27%      -27%       17%       8%    I 100%
600.000                                   ~.200.000
500.000                                                                           150,000
&    400.000                                                                              0
o    300.000                                                                     J100.00
C. 200,000                                                                      1r
pC   100,000                                                                             50,00
o O  Z         1      2        3       4        5       6                                                 2          35 
Year of  yowm.ntston                                                                   Year of tnornontax80n



PAKISTAN
NWFP COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE AND NHA STRENGTHENING PROJECT
FUNDS FLOW CHART
IDA                                                         |       USS3.4tn 
USSO.3m
(USS25.7m)
cUSSI.5m)                                                            (USS1.3m)
(USS22.9m)                       I
| NHA  1|I                                               . Proicet Preparation Facility
MA i nsfitfonil                      G -o
Development TA                        USS6.m                                                                                                          0
(US279.Om)
FLG-ER
(USSO.6n)
(USS 2.4m)                       LGFRDD
|Institutional
Dev-elopmient Study
(USS6.&6) -   Desipn & Inzpietenlation
Assistane
(USS21.Sm)
(US$9.4m)                                       (USS9.1m)                                          (Us5o.9m)
(U5S1.4m)             5    2.7m)  Coaimitia    (US$0.3m)                                                                                                     O   X
. SS 4m                      USIn :J
(US$13.5m)                                      (USS1o.1m)                        (USS1.7m)         (US$3Jm)
Cantu,nit                                        Trunk                           CofusutniIv        On-dot
tnf,afeseCtpme Infrar ure                                                        Dewlooweni         .anitidn



- 61 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 8
PAKISTAN
NWFP COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE AND NHA STRENGTHENING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PLANNING. DESIGN. AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
General
1.         Infrastructure standards and service levels used to plan, design and cost the Project have
been developed in consultation with selected Phase 1 communities. In developing the standards the
need to provide effective infrastructure which is affordable, simple and which, for secondary and
tertiary elements, is able to be easily constructed and subsequently operated and maintained by the
communities, has been of paramount consideration. The standards and service levels are as follows:
A. Water Supply
2.         The source of supply will be springs or tubewells with or without surface or overhead
reservoirs. All water supplied will be to WHO guidelines for drinking water quality (as adopted by
PHED). The minimum terminal pressure head will be 8.0 m (rural) and 10 m (urban); maximum
height of any overhead reservoir will not be more than 20 m.
3.         Supply standards will be:
(a)   Minimum supply from public standposts or community tanks/minimum supply level for
rural settlements.
Maximum walking distance:    100 m
Design per capita consumption: 25 lcd
Storage:                     20% of average daily consumption
Design peak factor:          1.0 (i.e. no allowance)
(b)  Improved supply from public standposts or community tanks/target supply level for rural
settlements and minimum supply level for urban communities.
Maximum walking distance:    100 m
Design consumption:          25 lcd (rural), 35 lcd (urban)
Storage:                     35% of average daily consumption
Design peak factor:          1.0 (i.e. no allowance)
(c)  Intermediate level service through yard connections (13 mmn dia pipe from street
distibutor main); target supply level for urban communities.
Design consumption:          60 lcd (rural), 75 lcd (urban)
Storage:                     35% of average daily consumption
Design peak factor:          1.5
(d)   Full house connections (13 mm dia pipe from street distibutor main); ideal supply level.



- 62 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 8
Design consumption:          60 lcd (rural), 75 lcd (urban)
Storage:                     35% of average daily consumption
Design Peak factor:           1.5
4.         Tubewells, trunk lines and reservoirs are considered as primary infrastructure.
Tubewells will be constructed to regular PHED standards. The main pipeline from the tubewell or
spring to the reservoir or direct to the community will be constructed with galvanised iron pipes up to
150mm diameter laid with a cover of between 0.5 and 1.0 metre. The distribution system within
commuinities will generally be constructed from galvanised iron (25mm to 100 mm dia) pipes
depending on capacity required with a cover to the top of pipes of generally 0.75 metre.
B. Sanitation
5.         The sanitation component will comprise three main elements: (a) a health and sanitation
awareness program, established with the assistance and cooperation of UNICEF, and concentrating on
training and health and sanitation education; (b) the establishment of an on-plot sanitation program
with incentives (equivalent to a 25% matching grant) for households who are prepared to construct an
oni-plot, pour flush latrine; (c) provision of simple primary treatment facilities (oxidation ponds) in
areas where there are large concentrations of sewage discharging to watercourses via the stormwater
drainage network. Particular focus will be given to on-plot sanitation programs where land,
topography, accepting watercourse and climatic constraints prohibit the provision of a suitable and
affordable commnunal disposal/treatment facility. Details of the respective elements are set out below.
6.          Double-pit household pour-flush latrines will be encouraged in all communities provided
that there is a low groundwater level (at least 2 metres below the underside of the leaching pit), that
underlying rock is at sufficient depth and tests determine that leaching can take place. The leaching
pits will be approx 1.0 rnetre dia x 1.4 metre deep as may be determined as a result of tests. In the
event that there is a poor response to household latrines, community public 4-cubicle dry pit latrines
will be tested, again provided that there is a low groundwater level and that underlying rock is at
sufficienit depth. Ownership will be offered to determine acceptability.
7.         Provision for sullage or grey water will be via the stormdrainage system with acceptable
outfall arrangements (see D below). Uncontrolled contamination of sullage water by human waste
should be reduced by the encouragement of on-plot sanitation through improved latrines (see above).
Sewerage will only be considered in urban areas with high water consumption (> 120 lcd) and high
population density (> 150 persons/ha). The present level of funding (and community affordability) is
not likely to allow for sewerage components within the project unless primary infrastructure such as a
trunk sewer (and associated sewage treatment plant) with adequate spare capacity is available locally
or if there is a perennial large-flow outfall available. Designs for sewers will provide adequate slope
to ensure a self-cleansing velocity of 0.6 m/sec once per day and adequate facility for system flushing
once per week. Any sewerage system augmentation will be constructed with concrete pipes made
with sulphate resisting cement. Treatment would be considered if land is available for a local area
stabilisation/oxidation pond or septic tank.



- 63 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 8
C. Solid Waste
8.          Improved solid waste management will be achieved by improved operation and
maintenance through community-based arrangements. Investment in facilities will likely be small and
limited to: (a) the construction of open, brick built, collection containers of approximately 7 cubic
meters capacity; and (b) in rural areas, advice on the location of disposal sites. In rural communities,
in view of the limited volumes of solid waste remaining to be disposed of (the majority of rural waste
is recycled), bulk transport will not be necessary. If communities do require periodic haulage they
will mobilise agricultural tractors and trailers. However, for permanent disposal from urban
communities, linkage will be made with the city-wide waste collection and disposal systems. (Other
projects provide solid waste management systems in most of the major towns in NWFP.) Where the
current disposal arrangements are inadequate, provision of additional waste containerisation facilities
will be provided. For design purposes, the volumes of solid waste generated in urban areas is based
on 1.2 litres per person per day and in rural areas, 1.0 litre per day.
D. Stormwater Drainage
9.          The minimum requirement is for adequate drainage, in flat or plain areas, to access
roads, minor streets and footpaths. In general, drains will be provided in the centre of footpaths, and
on one side or on both sides of roads dependent on need and space availability.
10.         Design capacity for all channels will take into account a sullage volume equivalent to
80% of the amount of the potable water supplied and, in addition, for tertiary drains, local rainfall
run-off. For larger areas, the capacity of primary and secondary drains will be calculated from the
catchment area and rainfall intensity. Run-off will generally be calculated using a maximum storm
intensity of 50 mm/hour (for smaller areas) representing a 1-year return period, plus an allowance for
sullage (diy weather flow).
11.         Drainage channels will consist of either concrete semi-circular or "V" shaped chalnels
or rectangular channels of plastered brick on a concrete base and cunette. Where such channels are
liable to carry sullage water including significant volumes of raw sewage, sulphate resistant cement
shall be used in the construction. Where possible, drainage gradients will be such as to ensure a self-
cleansing velocity of 0.6 m/sec at peak flows. Connections from houses will be via small concrete
surface channels or 75mnm or 100mm pipes. One of four sizes of drains will be constructed (lepending
on anticipated flow volumes.
12.         The provision of flood protection works to divert stormwater away from or around a
community, or, where neither solution is practical, to channel and control flood flows through a
community, may be included where considered a community priority. Designs will be prepared on a
case-by-case basis and are expected to involve stone masonry and concrete work.
E. Roads and Footpaths
13.         The planned service level target for access and circulation is to provide for all weather
access to 100% of houses within the communities. Three typologies have been considered, vehicular
access roads, minor streets and footpaths. The geometric standards for each typology are as follows:



- 64 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 8
Type A- Vehicular Access Roads: 2.5m width or over;
Type B- Minor Streets: between 1.5m and 2.5 m width; and
Type C- Footpaths: less than 1.5m width.
14.         Alternative construction standards are to be allowed to give the communities a choice.
In hilly areas where there are steep slopes, concrete surface treatment will be adopted rather than
brick. Also where soils are found to be weak, a sub-base will be constructed.
15.        The construction of roads and footpaths within communities will be closely integrated
with existing drainage or constructed together with proposed drainage.
G. Street lighting
16.        In principle the provision of street lighting will only be considered in urban areas and it
is unlikely to be a component chosen by respective communities (none of the 14 Phase IA
commuunities chose streetlighting). However, in rural communities, community preference for street
lighting, based on a perceived priority for reasons of security, may be considered.
17.         Lighting will be pole-mounted, wall-mounted or mounted on existing power lines at
strategic points and will not necessarily give full coverage. Lamps will be fluorescent bulbed. Cabling
between lights will be via ducts set in concrete or overhead.
Attachment:
Design and Construction Standard Details



- 65 -
N.W.F.P. Community Infrastructure Project Design and
Construction Standard Pavement                                                                     ANNEX7
Attachment
Vehicular Access Routes                                                                Page 5 of 8
Typically 2.5 m<w<3.Sm
In Plain Areas
Type A-1 -a                             Double surface dressing
2.5% slope                                   2.5% slope       as per specifications
DraiaDai
Subgrsde leveted/dressed                       [
and  ompcte  tOspeciricatlons    
1 10 mm pit run gravel sub-base
as per specirication
I1I5 mm cnushed stone base cour5e
as per speciAicaton
40 mm AsphaltJc concrete
2.5% slope                                    2.5% slope      as per specifcatiorLs
Subgrade leveled/dressed
and com pacted to specification               9
150 mm pit run grave 5sub-bascs
as per specificatnon
I1I5 mmr crushed stone base course
as per specification
3 5 xO.5xQ.6 m
2~n  In Hilly Areas                   Double surface dressing
\  0.6 m                                                     Type A-2-a                          as per specificadons|
100 mm                                                                                           2.5  slope         |Dain
Stone masonry
in 12:4 concrete                                                                                              I
Exisling rocky forma don subgrace
e  levelled/dressed to profile
a                                        II ~~~~~~~~~~15mrnm crushed stone base courso
lOOmrn|  1- -  :   4 :S |   _ >                        as per specification
Variable
0.5 X0.Sx0.6 m
P.C.C. 1:3:6 Stock at
\   2m interva's                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40mm Asphaltic concrele   ;
1 0.6 m                       I                         Type A-2-b                        as  per spcikication     r
100mm | li-.S ............. r,: ._1 ~~~~~~~~2.5% slope                                          |Drain 
Stonerrasonry*-,tt!  tr-^,* R+b@*tw- 
levellecdressed to profile
115 mm crusheC stone base course
>e I                                                     \ as per specirication
P.C.C. 1:3:6          Q          9
GO mm |r.                ....
Variable



- 66 -
N.W.F.P. Community Infrastructure Project Design and                                              ANNEX 7
Construction Standard Pavement                                                  Attachment
Page 6 of 8
Minor Streets                                                            Footpaths
Typically 1.5 m<w<2.5m                                                     Typically w1 .Sm
In Plain Areas                                                         In Plain Areas
Typo B-1-a                                                            Type C-1-a
1:9 Cement sand mix                           Flat bricks
Drain   1:9 cement sand mix               Brick on Edge               brushed In to joints
slurry bnushed into   2.5% slope                                          2.5% slope               2.5% slope
joints r-
t Existng subgrade levelled/dressed                                   .t
and compacted to specifications                                     L  Existing subgrade levelled/dressed
100 mm pit run gravel sub-base laid to                                      and compacted to specificabons
profile and compacted to specifications                                  100 mm Pit run gravel sub-base
50 mm 1:16 cement sand bedding                                          25 mm 1:16 cement sand bedding
Type B-1-b                                                            Type C-1-b
Drain                                                   co 2 l                     2.5% slope  Drain        2.5% slope        c
~~~~~~~~~25  sLop                                C          _ O
'a-C
Exsig subgrade compacted to    CL
stincabons                                                         L  Existing subgrade levelled/dressed
_  0   mpt run gravel sub-base laid to                                 and compacted to speciricabons
profile and compacted to specifications                               75 mm Pit run gravel sub-base
100 mm P.C.C. 1:3:6                                                     100 mm P.C.C. 1:3:6
lr Hilly Areas                                                       In Hilly Areas
Type B-2                                                             Type C-2
2.5'% slope               c          _i             2.5% slope  Ds
X =-.~. -                     e                  0                                    .        *Je..-7 ~r--*~'----    a 2
-. Eisg Rocky Formation Subgrade   a-a                                 xsig okn  omainsbrd
levelled/dressed to profile                                                     kixsin  ohng formaton subgrade
leeld'rssed to profile
-50 mm 1: 16 cement sand bedding                                    -5      m11  eent sand bedding
100 mm P.C.C. 1:3:6                                                     100 mm P.C.C. 1:3:6
Brick on            Bricks in        Flatbricks             Bricks in            2.5% slope  150            2.5% slope  150
Edge                1:4 CSM          Fabrcs1:4 CSM                                .-4-.-4--*
27%slp                            2.5% slope                                     -                 - '?  
258slope      .Y.   + -              120                                 300 >.r3 0                4,300
T10                       ..- 
T/,r..~~~~~.:%  60        F1t~~~~~~c C 1:2:4                       P.C.C  1:24
F7.-                                   80                    100 mm P.C.C. 1:3:6         50mm 1:16 cement
75                           ~~~~~~~~~75
230                                    230    P.C.C. 1:3:6         100 mm Pit Run Gravel           sand bedding
P.C.C. 1:3:6                                                                            100 mm P.C.C. 1:3:6
Brick on Edge                       Flat Brick Pavement                          Type C-1-b                    Type C-2
Pavement
Edge Details of Street



N.W.F.P. Community Infrastructure Project Design and Construction Standard Storm Water Drains
50    ISO    50                       150          300           150                               150             350                150
l~~~ ~ l, I                             llll,                        
q;   12mm P-laster                ~..  ,-                           12 mm Plaster      i2'"?
50 mrn SandCM    laycr                                                                     n n
P.C.CT 112                                                                                                                      50rnmSandlaye
T~~~~~~~~~
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Type 0                                                                                                              2
(Scalo 1:20)                P.C.C. 1:3:6      /                                                     3* *             *-
230                300                230
1P.C. 1:3 : 
I I I   12 mm Plasterm  Sad lyer. jZ 
Type~~~~~~~Tp A                                                                                0mSn ae
Type  ~     yp  2
In 1:3 CSM
Brick Masonary  I                                                                                                       'a111           
C                                    I I A  I              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Brick >aorr
SM                                                           L          In 1:4 C'S m~~~~~~~'C
51~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
8               *',~~~~.~~'~~*a"~~~--.*.   ' 6;rZ~~~~fI4T  I   
P.C.C.         TpeA1.CC.1:48P.8C 12:
Type B



N.W.F.P. CornrnLinity Infrastructure Project Desigrn and Construction Standard Storm Water Drains
215                    750                     215
12 mm Plaster                    
16C              550               160                                            J.tsX                             y;'.;4,; 
50 mm Padlaster                                                                    5   mSn  ae
P.C.C.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                            12rr1lat3 
230        4~~~50          230 San lae                                                                 mm San laye
Type         3                                                                         Type   4



- 69 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3
PAKISTAN
NWFP COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE AND NHA STRENGTHENING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE
1.           It is a fundamental objective of the project to involve the communities more in the
operation and maintenance (O&M) of the local infrastructure which serves their respective
communities. This is a thrust of government policy which has recently agreed that rural water supply
schemes should become a responsibility of the communities to operate and maintain under the
guidance of the respective District Council.
2.            Operation and maintenance is presently the responsibility of the local council,
although in most rural areas little or no maintenance exists other than for water supply schemes
operated by PHED. Fees and connection charges, where an attempt is made to collect them, do not
result in revenues sufficient to cover O&M costs.
3.            Community participation will vary from scheme to scheme and between urban and
rural areas. O&M activities considered to have potential for community involvement have been
established for individual infrastructure sub-components and are set out in the attached Table.
Community cost sharing of the following activities is proposed: a) provision of free labor (to clean
out drains regularly and keep them clear of blockage); b) payment of tariffs and/or rates which
adequately cover the costs of system operation (eg electricity supply costs for a tubewell pump); c)
building up a fund to cover future equipment repair or replacement; and d) collection, banking,
accounting, and disbursement of O&M funds. To begin with community contributions equate to
approximately 3 % of household incomes. On completion of the works households in the community
will continue to make contributions to the CBO for O&M equivalent to an annual payment of 3 % of
the capital cost of the works provided under the project.
4.            The "maintenance culture" is not well developed in Pakistan, and accordingly special
attention is being made to attempt to develop satisfactory mechanisms to involve commnunities in this
process. Actions would be taken as follows:
a.     organisation of community user groups for O&M of solid waste collection, cleaning
of existing drains, and other community facilities (if any) would be undertaken at an
early stage of the community mobilization process, and communities would
specifically commit to undertake O&M as part of the process of selecting
infrastructure;
b.     satisfactory O&M of infrastructure would be considered as a factor when seeking to
prioritize between communities, and satisfactory O&M of any project-funded
infrastructure would be a prerequisite for further project infrastructure; and
c.     establishment of satisfactory O&M arrangements would be stressed as an important
output from the Design and Implementation Technical Assistance.



- 70 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
Proposals for community involvement in infrastructure provision
Infrastructure     Description of Sub-component  Responsibilities for 0 & M of sub-
Component                                       component
A. WATER SUPPLY
Primary             SOURCE:                     PHED or District Council
Groundwater                 for Primary systems
Surface water
TRANSMISSION
STORAGE:
DISTRIBUTION:
Secondary          Local storage                CBO-unskilled maintenance: cleaning valve
Secondary mains             chambers, reservoir guards etc under
supervision
Tertiary -          Tertiary network            CBO-Operators, cleaners, keepers
on plot             Delivery pipes
House connections
Public standposts
Non-piped supplies  Individual wells and springs    CBO-Full operation responsibility
B. SANITATION
Primary            Pre-treatment ponds          CBO-Unskilled maintenance: cleaning,
Collector sewers            grass cutting, scum removal, screen
Pump stations               cleaning, unblocking
Desludging vehicles         CBO-Provide manual alternative
Sludge disposal areas       CBO-Provide unskilled maintenance
Secondary           Secondary network           CBO-Cleaning, screen cleaning,
Communal latrines including
desludging septic tanks
Tertiary            House connections           CBO-Full operational responsibility
On-plot sanitation    Septic tanks              Householder responsible
Latrines



- 71 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
Infrastructure      Description of Sub-component  Responsibilities for 0 & M of sub-
Component                                        component
C. SOLID WASTE
Final Disposal and   Landfill site               Local Council or Corporation, through
transfer, for urban   Landfill equipment         direct labor or contractor
systems             Major transfer stations
Collection trucks
Transfer            Local transfer stations      CBO-Provide collection from local
Handcarts                    collection points to local disposal and
street sweeping service;
Local collection    Collection Points            Householders deposit SW to points
D. DRAINAGE
Primary             Main outfalls                Local Council or Corporation generally but
Main channels                CBO assistance in periodic cleaning by
Pumping stations             manual labor
Secondary           Secondary network            CBO-Major role in periodic cleaning
Tertiary            Area drainage system         CBO-Major role in continuous cleaning
Road side drains             and upkeep
E. ROADS
Primary             National & provincial        Road Authority
networks
Main arteries
Secondary           Access roads                 Local Council or Corporation for periodic
maintenance
CBO- Routine maintenance such as
sweeping & filling potholes
Tertiary            Footpaths                    CBO- Sweeping,
Minor streets                repair of brick, stone or concrete streets
and paths



ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
NWFP COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE AND NHA STRENGTHENING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PROCUREMENT OF CIVIL WORKS
Type A - Works                                 Type B - Works                                  Type C - Works
Community Tendered Schemes                    Community Contracted Schemes
Item                        Primary/trunk infrastructure with             Typical secondary and tertiary works grouped into    Small and relatively simple secondary and
elements of secondary works where required for   packages of water supply, drainage and street  tertiary works carried out directly by the
practical purposes.                           paving works as applicable.                     community. Such works may include
brick/concrete paved streets, drains, stone
masonry pitching and brickwork - works not
requiring the use of substantial construction
__________________________   ___________________________________________  plant  or   equipm ent.
Value                       Packaged into contracts for communities within    Up to the PIU Deputy Director's authorized level  About Rs 600,000 (at any time).
the same phase and PIU/Division so as to      of delegated powers (currently up to Rs 1.5 m).
encourage qualified contractors and to make
procedures manageable and easily understood.
Likely value Rs. 3 million to Rs. 5 million.
Procurement                 Local Competitive Bid (21 days clear notice).  Local Competitive Bidding. Altematively prudent    Direct 'contracting' by community self help.
Advertise in at least one English and one Urdu    local shopping (3 quotations) if poor response to  Payment based on the principle of the agreed
paper of national circulation.                bidding. 14 days clear notice in at least I English    Engineer's estimate reduced by the amount of
and I Urdu newspaper of provincial circulation,  contractor's profit and income tax.
and posted on local council notice boards and in
other relevant locations.
Bid Documents               Similar to 1992 Flood Damage Relief Project   Simple percentage rate document modelled on      Proposed Community Financing Agreement and
small works documents (for works up to Rs 15    concept of existing PDA documentation with    scheme drawings and specifications, including
million). Item rate tender. Shall include     suitable amendments to suit CIP. Shall include  standard engineering details and documentation
scheme drawings, specifications and standard  standard engineering details and other          to be prepared by PMU but modified as
engineering details and other procurement     documentation to be prepared by PMU but          necessary to suit individual packages as agreed
documentation to be prepared by PMU.          modified as necessary for individual bid packages.    with the CBO.
Contractor Pool             Registered A/B class contractors listed with   Class 'C' contractors registered with PUDB,     CBO (which may subcontract items to local
PUDB, PHED, LGERDD, C&W or Local              PHED LGERDD, C&W, Local Council etc. as         traders in consultation with
Council etc. as appropriate for similar types of    appropriate for similar works or post qualification  Procurement/Contract Award Committee
work.                                        in accordance with criteria detailed in the       representative).
I questionnaire attached to the form of tender.



ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
Type A - Works                                 Type B - Works                                  Type C - Works
Community Tendered Schemes                    Community Contracted.Schemes
Procurement/Contract        Director for Design and Implementation (CIP),    Deputy Director (PIU), CBO Representative,    Assistant Director (PIU), Local Council
Award Committee             Local Council Representative(s), CBO          Leader of Technical Advisors Team, Local Council   Representative. Technical Advisor.
Representative(s), Leader of the Technical    Representative, Representative of PMU Finance.
Advisors Team, Representative of PMU
Finance.
Employer                    Director for Design and Implementation (CIP).    Directorate for Design and Implementation (CIP)  Directorate for Design and Implementation (CIP)
and CBO Jointly.                                and CBO Jointly.
Engineer-in-Charge          Director for Design and Implementation (CIP).   Implementation Committee Comprising:           Not Applicable
- Assistant Director CIP cell (PIU)
- CBO Representative
- Technical Advisor
Engineer's Representative   Technical Advisor.                            Technical Advisor                                Not Applicable.
Payment through             Standard monthly invoices for work completed.    Monthly bills on simplified, one page format.  Agreed stages based on:
-  Mobilization
-  % progress
with reconciliation on completion of work.
Payment based on            Certification to be issued by Technical Advisor    Joint certification to be issued by the     Certification by Assistant Director (PIU).
and endorsed by the Director for Design and   Implementation Committee within one week
Implementation (CIP).                         otherwise payment triggered automatically unless a
member of the Committee records a written
objection. All written objections to be referred to
and dealt with by the Appeals Committee before
next monthly payment is due.
Final Acceptance/completion    Directorate for Design and Implementation  Implementation Committee plus Local Council      Assistant Director (PIU)l
Certificate Committee       (CIP) plus representative of relevant agency  Representative.                                  Technical Advisor
which will take over to operate and maintain the
works.
Time required for           Advertise for Bids 21 days                    Advertise for Bids 14 days                       Negotiations      14 days
Procurement                 Evaluate Bids     14 days                     Evaluate Bids     14 days                        Sign CFA          7 days
Award and Sign    7                           Award and Sign    7                             Mobilize           7 days
Mobilize         14 days                      Mobilize         14 days                                     -_.



- 74 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 1
PAKISTAN
NWFP COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE AND NHA STRENGTHENING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
IDA DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
IDA      Cumulative
Fiscal Year   Disbursement    Disbursement        Percent
(US$ million)   (US$ million)
Semester ending:
FY96  June 1996'             2.8            2.8            13
FY97  December 1996          1.2            4.0           19
June 1997             1.7            5.7           27
FY98  December 1997          1.7            7.4           34
June 1998            2.7            10.1           47
FY99  December 1998          2.7           12.8           57
June 1999            2.6            15.4           72
FY00  December 1999          2.6           18.0           84
June 2000             1.2           19.2           89
FY01  December 2000          1.2           20.4           95
June 2001             1.1           21.5           100
I/ Including PPF refinancing and retroactively financed expenditure.



- 75 -
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 4
PAKISTAN
NWFP COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE AND NHA STRENGTHENING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
INTRODUCTION
1.           Any project with a strong element of community participation requires close
monitoring. The pilot experience have confirmed that communities have varying abilities to organize
and manage complex projects. Because it is difficult to anticipate outcomes in this environment, the
project has been deliberately designed to encourage learning through experience. Feedback obtained
through monitoring facility performance, community capacity development, and effective facility use
will be used to improve the system of delivering infrastructure as the project progresses.
2.           The PMU would establish and maintain project management systems, and undertake
project monitoring and evaluation covering the design of baseline information to be gathered in each
CIP site before detailed preparation, and an MIS for project management and performance
monitoring. The project would have two types of M&E which would be closely coordinated in all
phases of the development cycle. This include: (i) performance and process monitoring, and (ii)
impact evaluations. Workshops and sample studies carried out with the assistance of specialists would
recommend changes in the type, quantity and frequency of data collected, improved information
gathering and reporting formats, and procedures for data gathering, processing, analysis and
reporting. Formal biennial reviews, plus a mid-term review, will complement the ongoing monitoring
and evaluation activities. Impact studies and special process monitoring research would be contracted
to outside agencies such as NGO/private, Universities, and training institutions, etc. Analysis of
performance and process indicators will be an essential component of these reviews.
COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE
3.           The project will employ participatory evaluation techniques in addition to more
traditional evaluation methods. Because the community plays an important role in planning,
implementing, and using the infrastructure, its input can be valuable in modifying the indicators
shown below or in identifying additional indicators. Indicators are developed to analyze whether the
CIP objectives are being achieved, costs, efficiency of organizational procedures and inter-agency
coordination, quality of project processes and outputs, accessibility to beneficiaries, and replicability.
The following list is therefore neither exhaustive nor final, but presents model monitoring indicators
covering key aspects of the project's implementation and outcomes.
CIP Performance and Process Indicators
4.           These indicators focus on the adequacy of inputs and outputs at all levels in terms of
human, financial, implementation and monitoring of sub-projects. It would regularly assess the
adequacy of functions and services of the different groups of participants involved in terms of their



- 76 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 4
performance within their agreed obligations and terms of reference. Finally, it will provide feedback
to the management through process monitoring of the efficiency and effectiveness of methods use in
project planning, implementation, and O&M.
a.    Community/CBO Level
Mobilization/Capacity Building
- number/and type of CBO formed/registered
- share of population represented by CBOs
- role of men/women in CBO
- nature of female representation
Participatory Planning
- CBO trained in CAP
- No. and type of community training
- No and CAP sessions undertaken/frequency of meetings
- types of decisions taken by CBO/women
- share of households participating in CAPs
- M&E impact information collected
- Infrastructure layout plan prepared and agreed
- Capital cost contribution in cash/amount of time collected
- Contribution for O&M
- Community Development programs proposed/agreed
- Women's participation in health KAP/other social programs
Implementation
- No. and type of infrastructure scheme completed in time
- Quantity/capacity of works completed
- Share of works executed by community/local contractors
- timely procurement of necessary equipments/tools
- Process of user group formation
- CBO/user group member trained in O&M
- No. and type of classes/training sessions undertaken for community
development programs (HSE, NFE, skill training)
- No. and type of people attending classes
- Communication/education materials developed
- Women support programs undertaken
O&M/Monitoring Stage
- No. and type of schemes in working condition
- CBO/User Group trained in follow up O&M
- No. and type of repairs undertaken
- Availability of O&M tools and spare parts
- User group/households participation in O&M collection



- 77 -
ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 4
- No. and type of community development training undertaken
- User Group/Households participating in M&E activities
b.     Agency (PMU/PIU) Level
- No. and types of communities visited/rejected
- No. and type of infrastructure schemes selected for funding
- % of community sites failed on different criteria
- Average processing time at each phase/development cycle
- timely staff recruited
- staff trained in CIP planning and implementation
- No. and type of training and supervision support to staff
- staff performance evaluated
- linkages and level of support to CBO/User groups
- No. and types of NGOs that participated
- level of inter-agency coordination and feed-back
- quality and timeliness of progress reports/monitoring
- effectiveness of TA
CIP Impact Indicators
5.            These indicators focus on measuring the net impact of the project on the beneficiary
communities and the agencies by comparing the conditions, quantity, and quality of infrastructure
facilities and services, hygiene and environmental sanitation practices before and after the CIP
interventions.
a.     Reliability of Systems
- number of facilities in working condition
- maintenance performed adequately
b.     Human Capacity Development
- timely allocation of staff
- incremental staff added and trained
- CBO/User group organized and trained
- Changes in staff/CBO members attitude
c.     Cost-sharing
- community contribution
- agency/local government contribution
- mechanism to collect O%M fees
d.     Collaboration Arnong Organizations
- nature and frequency of meetings
- frequency in reporting and feedback
e.     Effective Use of Facilities
- number and characteristics of users
- quantity consumed



- 78 -
ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 4
- time taken to use facilities
- quantity wasted
- water handling and use
- home use practices (food handling, environmental sanitation)
- personal hygiene
f.    Community Ability to Expand Services
- additional facilities built
- new development activities initiated
g.    Transferability of Agency Strategies
- established institutional framework
- working administrative and implementation procedures
- timely allocation/release of budget



- 79 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 3
PAKISTAN
NWFP COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE AND NHA STRENGTHENING PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
Approx.               Activity                         Skill Needs                   Staff
Dates                                                                                Weeks
March           Proiect Launch Workshop:                                              8
1996
project management;              - Project manager
procurement;                    - Municipal Engineer
disbursement;                   - Community Development
accounting & audit; and         - Procurement Specialist
monitoring & reporting.         - Disbursement Specialist
- MIS Specialist
- Financial Analyst
November         Routine Supervision plus Review:                                     6
1996
procurement of primary           - Municipal Engineer
infrastructure;                 - Community Dev. Specialist
conmnunity contracting          - Financial Analyst
arrangements;
funds flow and scheme account
procedures
February         1st Biennial Review                                                  8
1997
Review implementation of:         - Municipal Engineer
training program;               - Community Development
Phase I site works;             - Financial Analyst
community mobilization; and
NHA Technical Assistance.
Review Design & Implementation
Consultants Work Plan.



- 80 -
ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 3
September       Routine Supervision plus Review:                                   6
1997
completion of priority civil works   - Municipal Engineer
for quality and timeliness;    - Community Development
cost sharing arrangements;     - Financial Analyst
mobilization of Phase 2
communities;
development of the future
training program; and
use of appropriate planning and
design standards for Phase 2.
February        Routine Supervision plus Review:                                    6
1998
quality, cost, timeliness of civil    - Municipal Engineer
works; and                     - Institutional Development
LGERDD Institutional
Development Study.
June            Mid Term Review:                                                   9
1998
evaluate progress to date;     - Municipal Engineer
review processes & procedures,    - Community Development
and amend as necessary prior to    - Financial Analyst
preparation of Phase 2B sites;  - Sector Implementation
establish amended plans and      Coordinator
targets;
identify Phase 3 sites; and
revise monitoring indicators.
September       Routine Supervision plus Review:                                    4
1998
an interim evaluation of       - Municipal Engineer
community participation in     - Community Development
planning, design & construction;    - Financial Analyst
and
O&M performance and CBO
sustainability.
February        Routine Supervision plus Review:                                   6
1999
civil works; and               - Municipal Engineer
evaluate training program.     - Community Development
- Financial Analyst



- 81 -
ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 3
September        2nd Biennial Review:                                                 7
1999
review implementation of Phase   - Municipal Engineer
1.1 sites;                      - Community Development
review O&M arrangements;         - Financial Analyst
evaluate community development
sub-component;
assess the effectiveness of efforts
to involve women; and
discuss implementation of
LGERDD Study.
February         Routine Supervision and Review:                                     6
2000
civil works and O&M;            - Municipal Engineer
impact of NHA Technical         - Community Development
Assistance; and                 - Financial Analyst
draft final report for future
project.
February         Routine Supervision, initiate                                       6
2001             preparation of ICR plus Review:
- Municipal Engineer
implementation of Phase 2 and   - Community Development
sustainability of Phase I schemes.   - Financial Analyst



- 82 -
ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 4
PAKISTAN
NWFP COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE AND NHA STRENGTHENING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT
1.     Under conservative assumptions about the increase in property values that will result from
upgrading, the community infrastructure component will yield an economic internal rate of return
(EIRR) of approximately 31 %. The component will generate positive net present values with discount
rates exceeding 30% under a variety of plausible scenarios. These results are modestly sensitive to
assumptions about base costs and initial property values.
2.     Water, drainage, sanitation, solid waste, and access improvements are expected to provide
benefits that will be reflected in property values. A project preparation study suggests that, after
allowing for other factors, infrastructure provision can increase plot values by as much as 50 to 150%.
Table 1, which is based on data from this study, presents a simple comparison of the prices of serviced
and unserviced plots for eight cities; the differences range from 20 to 141%, with an average value of
about 87%. These results should be interpreted cautiously because the study compares areas with little
or no infrastructure to those with complete infrastructure built to standards that likely exceed those that
will be used in the proposed program. Table 1 thus overstates the benefits that would accrue to CI
communities.
Table I
Differences Between Serviced and Unserviced Land Prices
in Eight Cities: 1990
(Rs. per square yard)
City           Without Services              With Services        Difference (%)
Hyderabad             300.7                       524.5                 74
Lahore                794.8                     1,913.6                141
Faisalabad            580.2                       925.0                 59
Bahawalpur            395.2                       804.1                103
Sahiwal               435.3                       523.2                 20
Gujranwala            316.4                       605.8                 91
Quetta                692.2                     1,190.6                 72
Mirpur                515.8                     1,220.3                137
Source: T. P. O'Sullivan and Partners, et al., 'Land Accessibility Study (City Profiles, Developer and Broker Studies): Final
Report," July 1991, p. 17. Price data was also collected for Mardan and Muzaffarabad; however, the samples were too
small (less than 30 observations) to be considered reliable.



- 83 -
ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 4
3.    Additional research from around Pakistan supports the theory that upgrading should produce
higher property values. For example, in a property tax study of Lahore, Slingsby compared changes in
the dwelling characteristics of an upgraded area to those occurring in an adjacent area that was
scheduled for upgrading and discovered a sharp increase in the number of kitchens and bathrooms in
the upgraded area. He attributed this incremental investment, in part, to better access to services (i.e.,
water supply, sewerage, street surfacing, drainage, solid waste management) [Ernest Slingsby, "Reform
of Property Taxes," memorandum, no date. p. 4].
4.    Several researchers have used hedonic analysis to assess the contribution of specific dwelling
features to rents and dwelling values. Lodhi and Pasha used hedonic analysis to demonstrate, among
other things, that piped water supply and electricity were positively correlated with rents in katchi
abadis in Karachi [Akhtar Lodhi and Hafiz Pasha, "Housing Demand in Developing Countries: A Case-
study of Karachi in Pakistan," Urban Studies, Vol. 28, No. 4, 1991, pp. 623-634]. Similar analyses
based on data from more cities were carried out by Akbar, who found piped water and piped gas to be
important contributors to rent. He also found access to a pucca road to be a strong contributor to home
values (Mohammad Akbar, "Rate of Return to Investment in Housing Attributes," Applied Economics
Research Centre, University of Karachi, research paper, no date].
5.    Property values can indicate a willingness to pay for improved health and living conditions;
however, they may not do a good job of capturing potential indirect benefits such as higher
productivity from improved health and greater economic activity in the form of home-based businesses.
No attempt is made here to measure these indirect benefits.
6.    To obtain a more precise estimate of property values increases, the Table 1 data must be
adjusted to take into account that Cl communities will: (1) already have an existing level of services;
(2) use infrastructure standards that are lower than those used in typical sites; and (3) demand slightly
less than a full package of services. In calculating the EIRR, we assume that plot values in Cl
communities will increase by not more than 25% of the 87% average increase (i.e., 21.8%) after
making a 50% allowance for the value of existing services and a 25% allowance for utilization of
modest standards. We also assume that CI communities will demand on average about 95 % of a full
upgrading packages. We know that a complete upgrading package utilizing modest standards costs
about Rs. 181,000 per hectare. We expect communities on average will request investments costing
about Rs. 172,000 per hectare, or about 95% of the complete package cost. Taking 95% of the
maximum possible plot value increase of 21.8% yields 20.7%.
7.    In the following analysis, the EIRR is estimated assuming a land value increase of 20.7%. In
addition, a sensitivity analysis is presented in which the net present value (NPV) of the investment is
estimated while varying base costs, initial plot values, and plot value increases.
8.    A number of assumptions apply to both the EIRR and NPV calculations: (a) the
implementation period is six years; (b) the total investment is distributed as follows: 25.5 % water
supply; 25.8% drainage; 13.8% sanitation; 1.2% solid waste; and 33.8% access; (c) the average plot
value before improvements is Rs. 60,000 (d) administrative costs are 20% of base investment costs;
and (e) the economic conversion factor is 0.8. All figures are in 1994 Rupees.
9.    Table 2 shows the number of households benefitting from the program each year and the



- 84 -
ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 4
benefits accruing to them expressed as an increase in plot values. It also shows the net benefits under
various assumptions about plot value increases. Changing the plot value increase from 20 to 25%
causes net benefits to more than double over the project's life. Net benefits are negative when plot
values only increase by 15 %.
Table 2
Number of Beneficiaries and Net Benefits
for the Community Infrastructure Component: 1996 to 2001
(thousands of Rupees except where noted)
1996          1997          1998         1999         2000         2001
Benefits
households
served
(number)             4,208         10,220       16,232        16,232       10,220         3006
plot value
increase
15.0%             37,874        91,979       146,084       146,084       91,979       27,053
20.0%             50,498        122,639      194,779       194,779       122,639      36,070
20.7%             52,266        126,931      201,596       201,596       126,931      37,333
25.0%             63,123        153,298      243,474       243,474       153,298      45,088
Costs               38,582        96,739       155,438       154,968       99,488       29,195
Net Benefits
Assuming
Different Plot
Value Increases
15.0%              (709)       (4,760)       (9,354)      (8,884)       (7,509)       (2,142)
20.0%             11,916       25,899        39,341        39,811       23,151         6,876
20.7%             13,683        30,192       46,158        46,628       27,443         8,138
25.0%             24,540        56,559       88,035        88,506       53,811        15,893
10.   Using the benefit and cost data in Table 2 associated with a 20.7% plot value increase, one can
calculate an EIRR of about 31 %. The EIRR is sensitive to changes in plot value increases. For example, a
19% plot value increase would yield an EIRR of about 20% while a 23% rise in plot value would result in an
EIRR of around 45%.
11.   The NPV calculations offer an alternative to the more volatile EIRR for gaining insight into the
economic viability of the infrastructure component under a variety of situations. As one would expect based
on the EIRR analysis, the NPV is not very sensitive to the discount rate, but is somewhat sensitive to the
assumed plot value increase. Table 3 shows that with a 20% increase in plot values the NPV remains



- 85 -
ANNEX 13
Page 4 of 4
positive with discount rates ranging from 10 to 50%. A fivefold increase in the discount rate (from 10 to
50%) reduces the NPV by less than two-thirds. On the other hand, raising the plot value increase by 5
percentage points (from 20% to 25%) more than doubles the NPV, everything else equal.
Table 3
Net Present Value Under Various Scenarios
Assumptions
plot value increase    discount rate      net present value
20%                   10%                 107,242
20%                   20%                  81,488
20%                   30%                  63,966
20%                   50%                  42,628
25%                   10%                 238,029
25%                   20%                 180,304
25%                   30%                 141,189
25%                   50%                  93,546
Note: Monetary values are expressed in thousands of 1994 Rupees.
12.   Taking the case where plot values increase by 20.7% as the "base case," sensitivity analysis
(not shown) reveals that the NPV remains positive (using a 30% discount rate) after reducing the
average plot value before improvements from Rs. 60,000 to Rs. 55,000, or increasing the base costs
by 10%. The EIRR in these two alternative scenarios drops to 19.5 % and 18.5%, respectively. The
NPV remains positive even after increasing base costs by 20%.



- 86 -
ANNEX 14
Page I of 1
PAKISTAN
NWFP COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE AND NHA STRENGTHENING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
1.    First Year Assessments of the Pilot Project in Sindh and NWFP.
2.     Pilot Project on Community Mechanisms in NWFP, Final Report
3.     Government of the North-West Frontier Province, Rules of Business 1985.
4.     Government of NWFP Finance Department - Delegation of Powers under the Finance Rules
and the Powers of Re-Appropriation Rules 1981 (As Revised in 1992).
5.     Government of NWFP, Hand Book of Instructions, Laws, Bye-Laws, Rules, Etc., Local
Government and Rural Development Department. (Includes the Nort-West Frontier Province
Local Government Ordinance 1979.)
6.     Typical Tender Documents -  Type A Works;
Type B Works;
Technical Specifications -  Volume 1, General Civil Engineering Works;
Volume 2, Community Works.
7.     Draft Standard Agreements -  InterAgency Coordination Agreement;
Memorandum of Understanding;
Community Action Plan;
Community Financing Agreement.
8.     Design and Implementation Consultants - Draft Terms of Reference.
9.     Engineering Reports, Volumes 1 & 2 (Sites 1 to 14).
10.   Environmental Assessment (Sites I to 14).
11.   National Housing Authority Documents -     National Housing Policy;
NHA/Executive Committee;
National Action Plan;
Land Allotment Boards.



F. FKMtE N'SI   t &UZBEF 2AI  J      fOJIpjl',CAtI FAN Q            /         .'N 72                      /                              IBRD 26129
Ei<-  ~~~ --- \_    ,E                  72 7-64/>3
1050                 \~7~   r                                  TAJIKISTAN               .
35
C.   AFGHANISTAN
-36                                                                                      36
BALOCHIS IAN                        N
SL15 A.                           rr-          N D IA.                          
5 " IN>H                                                                              ( ,
Arobior  Sea         T----hlMALAKAND                                                                       /              joso
_          \a       Dlr                     ,         jy OD,  0
The boundaries colors denom-not,nns and an n'tie ii'    on                   /                                \
shown on this nap do not imply on FIe grit ol FIr Wniof n Gsur'          !             Mun;ai !- G-(
any .ud-met on the ieqoI sat-s mf in: tnriirui . csris-'';/uic,e',i                                                                              I
on acceptance af such hnursdurnie                                      I-' TmntgOtn                              t       MANSEHRA
0
0    20    40   60    80   l 00 KPLOM1ETEPS                       K  0                                                            (
r ' .        O ,  O .  O MILE'                                                           Ghalegay                                          ......
o   10  20   30  40   50 MILES)                     f                ,'               * / -              Ogh, 
(     G_     i Mcla^Od,,       
\..<   F - n^aiono-  r,                              a Onsehra ,(
34                                                                                        *Gar            A         r--  _--DhaAstoo,   ,             34-
.Kotol'   fe  at Nomsheo n  Karoona Koth/o            U Narian
~~~-    '~~~~~ ~Peshovwar goI    Kato                                   HAZARA         3
0                        11 (4    MAz~~~~~an  K           -          Kt NrbApnmui
Parachina;            '/-f" A zol K/se!                               /                   J /        Firm otOontrol
St                                          0 <*   OKoIya  J )Khowaoi  BJajl                 I      P ~K                 (        <
C)              Ls              f~ ~~< --_ -- hOl        ,- ,grt 
A  ~ ~~-                                      PUNJ/AB 
jC                    \KOHAT   K/                           P
_.->0lkWi PAKISTAN -
j   or 3aonl                 ,             NWFP COMMUNITY  -
)                           a BANNU                                   INFRASTRUCTURE AND
(.                                   \               -- 9.-31    NHA STRENGHTENING
)  OWono               /        - T Klej .                                        PROJECT
-32                                 /    *Dark,                       ,                                                                                32-
3Z            Wanda Khn        4               * J,PHASE I SITES
(                                     W)  .   muham.ad cKc  /                                  PROVINCE CAPITAL
D. IKHAN            ,0f                                     0     SELECTED CITIES
.>     t          Dlu,y   Khml0 i/!
M u/yo!.*    |;fi   tj               a- - -                  DIV ISIO N   BO U N DA RIES
'  ---- PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
(.                         4                                        . ---INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
\                    25 \,   ;9; z                           |        | TRIBAL AREA
B A L O C H I S TA N
70                       u '                               72                                                           74
FEBRUARY 1996









IMAGING
Report No:        15341 PAK
Type: SAR



