                                  Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                            Report No: 27496

                    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                       (IDA-28290 COFN-03700 PPFI-P7610)

                                    ON AN

                                  IDA CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 21.50 MILLION

                                   TO THE

                         GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN

                                    FOR A


       NWFP COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE and NHA STRENGHTENING PROJECT




                              DECEMBER 31, 2003




Rural Development
South Asia Region

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                 (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                 Currency Unit = Pak Rupee
                                Pak Rupee 100 = US$ 1.77
                                         US$ 1 = Pak Rupee 56.40

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1 - December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADP    Annual Development Plan                     M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
AJK    Azad Jammu & Kashmir                        NWFP         North West Frontier Province
APMO   Assistant Process Monitoring Officer        NHA          National Housing Authority
BR     Block Representative                        NRB          National Reconstruction Bureau
B/C    Cost Benefit Ratio                          NPV          Net Present Value
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy                 OED          Operation Evaluation Department
CBO    Community Based Organization                OPCV         Overseas Project Corporation of Victoria
CDC    Community Development Committee             PDWP         Provincial Development Working Party
CCB    Citizen's Community Board                   PE&D         Planning, Evaluation and Development
CD     Community Development                       P&CD         Planning & Community Development
CFA    Community Financial Agreement               PHED         Public Health Engineering Department
CIP    Community Infrastructure Project            PRB          Project Review Board
CBWO   Community Based Women's                     PCSB         Provincial Consultant Selection Board
         Organization                              PSC          Project Steering Committee
CSS    Community Self Survey                       PPF          Project Preparation Facility
GOP    Government of Pakistan                      PM           Process Monitoring
DC     District Council                            PMO          Process Monitoring Officer
D&I    Design and Implementation                   PMU          Project Management Unit
GoNWFP Government of North West                    PIU          Project Implementation Unit
         Frontier Province                         PCSU         Project Coordination & Supervisory Unit
EIRR   Economic Internal Rate of Return            RNA          Rapid Need Assessment
FMS    Financial Management Specialist             Rs           Pakistan Currency - Pak Rupees
FSO    Female Social Organizer                     SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
ICB    International Competitive Bidding           SDC          Swiss Agency for Development Corporation
IDA    International Development Agency            SO           Social Organizer
ISP    Institutional Strengthening Program         SSO          Senior Social Organizer
LGE&RD Local Govt. Election & Rural                TMA          Tehsil Municipal Administration
         Development                               O&M          Operation and Maintenance
LGO    Local Government Ordinance                  UNICEF       UN Fund for Children & Education
LFA    Logical Frame Analysis                      UC           Union Council
MOU    Memorandum of Understanding                 WSP          Water and Sanitation Program
NGO    Non Government Organization



                               Vice President:    Praful Patel
                            Country Director:     John W. Wall
                     Sector Manager/Director:     Constance Bernard
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Julie G. Viloria-Williams

                                          PAKISTAN
   NWFP COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE AND STRENGTHENING PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            17
6. Sustainability                                                                20
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 22
8. Lessons Learned                                                               26
9. Partner Comments                                                              28
10. Additional Information                                                       30
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             31
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             32
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             34
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             36
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             39
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                40
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            41

Project ID: P010478                                                  Project Name: NWFP COMMUNITY INFRA
Team Leader: Julie G. Viloria-Williams                               TL Unit: SASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 31, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: NWFP COMMUNITY INFRA                                     L/C/TF Number: IDA-28290;
                                                                                                     COFN-03700;
                                                                                                     PPFI-P7610
   Country/Department: PAKISTAN                                                           Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (36%);
                            Sub-national government administration (34%); Roads and
                            highways (22%); Central government administration (6%); Other
                            social services (2%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Access to urban services for the
                            poor (P); Civic engagement, participation and community driven
                            development (S); Municipal governance and institution building (S);
                            Rural policies and institutions (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/16/1993                                     Effective: 06/30/1996                07/17/1996
     Appraisal: 06/30/1995                                         MTR: 12/31/1998                  05/30/1999
      Approval: 03/14/1996                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of Pakistan/GoNWFP/LG&RDD
                      Other Partners:      Swiss Development Corporation (SDC); UNICEF, District Councils, Community
                                           Based Organizations (CBOs) and selected NGOs

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                D. Joseph Wood
Country Director:               John W. Wall                                   Sadiq Ahmed
Sector Manager/Director:        Constance A. Bernard                           M. Garcia Zamor
Team Leader at ICR:             Julie G. Viloria-Williams                      Anthony Graeme Lee
ICR Primary Author:             Michael Gould; Tayyaba Samina;
                                Julie Viloria-Williams


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR

                              Quality at Entry:                          S
                   Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes


3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
         The Original Development Objective of the project was to increase the productivity and
well being of low-income groups in NWFP through improving their living conditions by provision
of basic infrastructure and community development. This would be achieved by: (a) infrastructure
upgrading and community development in existing urban and rural low-income settlements;
(b) promoting the use of demand-driven, participatory design procedures and affordable standards
for infrastructure; (c) strengthening the ability of provincial and local governments to collaborate
with communities to implement low-income infrastructure programs; and (d) promoting
sustainable arrangements for O&M of basic services.

3.2 Revised Objective:
         The main objective of the project has remained unchanged. Nevertheless, some shift in
emphasis towards institutional strengthening took place, once the GOP passed the Local
Government Ordinance in 2001. It led to more local government capacity building and rapid
institutional change for financial sustainability. In May 2001, the Development Credit and Project
Agreements (DCA and PA), were amended and the scope of a number of activities were changed.
Pakistan National Housing Authority (NHA) was replaced by the Ministry of Environment, Local
Government and Rural Development (MELG&RD) for implementing the Federal component of
capacity building and policy formulation. There was reallocation from "Civil Works" and
unallocated portion of the proceeds. There was also increase in the financial contribution to the
project by the Swiss Agency for Development Cooperation (SDC).

         To support and achieve the above objectives, the GoNWFP formulated a policy
framework which was included in the legal agreements. The key aspects of the policy framework
were: provision of integrated physical, social and economic infrastructure; ensuring ownership
through a financial commitment by the communities; community contracting of localized
infrastructure would be developed according to planning, design and implementation standards;
and community management of their infrastructure and community development programs
including responsibility for Operation and Maintenance (O&M).

3.3 Original Components:
         As per original Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) of February 13, 1996 (Report No.
15341-PAK), the project would have the following two major components and 6
sub-components:

I. Community Infrastructure (US$28.7 million base costs)
    (a) Infrastructure Upgrading (US$21.5 million base costs). Upgrading of basic
    infrastructure would be carried out in approximately 55 urban and rural communities.
    Infrastructure priorities would be established in consultation with the communities through
    their Community Based Organization (CBOs). Communities would participate in the design
    and implementation process, financing and subsequent O&M of the infrastructure provided.
    Together with the physical investments, training of communities would be carried out, to


                                                   - 2 -

    include health, hygiene and sanitation programs incorporating continuing integrated support
    by UNICEF. Infrastructure to be provided would include water supply, stormwater drainage,
    flood protection, streets and footpaths, sanitation and solid waste management. Improvement
    of land registration facilities would be provided when requested by the community. The range
    of project-financed options from which communities might choose would depend on their
    level of need as determined by community and engineering surveys, standards would be
    subject to minimum and maximum limits and cost ceilings would apply. Individual schemes
    would likely take up to three years to implement. Implementation of the component would be
    phased over five years based on a conservative assessment of the annual affordability of the
    respective communities.
    (b) Community Development (US$1.5 million base costs): This component included:
    (i) community mobilization/capacity building including information campaigns, CBO
    formation, orientation and training activities for community action planning, and for
    government line departments, NGOs and project staffing in participatory planning and
    implementation; (ii) health and hygiene awareness campaigns including orientation and
    training of health and volunteer workers using participatory approaches, and support to
    hygiene and sanitation education in schools; and (iii) support to women and children which
    would include action research and demonstration activities to enhance participation of women
    and young children in project activities in three selected communities before wide-scale
    implementation. UNICEF, and NGOs would provide direct contracting services.
    (c) Design and Implementation Assistance (US$5.7 million base costs). Rather than
    substantially increasing its staff to implement the project, government would engage
    consultants, contract staff and NGOs in addition to appointing incremental staff. The
    component comprised: (i) the establishment and strengthening of PMU and PIUs;
    (ii) consultants' services for: (a) assistance with community mobilization, infrastructure
    planning and design; (b) assistance in establishing systems and procedures for, inter alia,
    project management, procurement, construction supervision, contract management, project
    monitoring and reporting, documentation, project accounting, and management of project
    finances; and (c) training of government staff, NGOs, and communities as appropriate; and
    (iii) contracting, through the consultants team, of locally based NGOs/social organizers as
    extension teams to assist the CBOs at the community level. Social Organizers (SO) teams
    comprising one male and one female SO would assist the government's 14 social organizer
    coordinators. Expenses of community motivators would also be paid.

II. Institutional and Project Preparation ( US$3.2 million base costs). This would include
studies and technical assistance for provincial and federal government sector institutions, and the
refinancing of the project preparation facility.

    (a) Local Government Election and Rural Development (LGE&RD) Study (US$0.5
    million base costs). This study would review the department's role, functions,
    responsibilities, and legal mandate; structure and staffing; systems and procedures; and
    strengthening needs. It would examine related functions and responsibilities of other
    departments to identify possible areas of overlap, identify options for reassignment of
    functions and make recommendations for government's consideration. It would also
    recommend arrangements for institutionalizing the PMU's community infrastructure functions.



                                                   - 3 -

    The study would consider measures and arrangements required to strengthen District
    Councils, to complement various recent works on strengthening municipal local governments,
    and would determine a development strategy and implementation plan for strengthening local
    councils.
    (b) National Housing Authority (NHA) Technical Assistance (US$1.3 million base costs)
    Institutional development which would comprise technical assistance for: (i) data analysis and
    sector monitoring; (ii) shelter program monitoring; (iii) program evaluation and dissemination;
    (iv) building technology evaluation and dissemination; (v) information exchange;
    (vi) organizational support; and (vii) policy development (through the Ministry of Housing
    and Works or NHA, as appropriate).
    (c) Project Preparation (US$1.3 million) This sub-component would finance the Project
    Preparation Facility implemented by NHA

3.4 Revised Components:
Community Infrastructure:
    (a) Infrastructure Upgrading: There were substantial cost savings, primarily because of the
    devaluation of the Pakistan rupee, but also because the size of communities served was
    smaller than anticipated, resulting in lower costs per community. Slower progress on some
    other components also freed up resources. After the mid-term review, the Association agreed
    to add 35 new sites to the project. Of the 35 sites, 8 were pilot sites in which the
    newly-elected local councils (TMAs) were to assume the major responsibility for
    implementation. In addition, second phase "deepening" projects, which included neighboring
    community blocks, were undertaken in 27 of the original sites.
    (b) Community Development (CD). Funding for the CD activities was increased slightly
    and focused on the mobilization and organization of CBOs and additional activities for the
    support to women and children program. UNICEF was not able to provide the full amount
    agreed at negotiations because of the change in policy in supporting projects during the
    second year of project implementation. Instead, it provided training and some logistical
    support including vehicles for the social organizers.
    (c) Design and implementation assistance. The GoNWFP terminated the foreign
    consultant's team after two and a half years of implementation. Funding for the
    sub-component was increased to engage local consultants and local NGOs for specific
    activities and also in devolving project staff to lower level units to be more accessible to the
    community and local councils participating in the project.

Institutional Development and Project Preparation:
    (a) The LGE&RD study was delayed until the mid-term review and then transformed into an
    Institutional Strengthening Program (ISP), to support the devolution plan of the GoP. SDC
    increased its contribution by $1 million to support the ISP.
    (b) Technical Assistance to the NHA: The NHA was unable to come up with a satisfactory
    work proposal because its mandate shifted from coordination and policy formulation for
    housing and low income settlements to that of direct builders of completed high and medium
    rise housing units. After the mid-term review, the NHA component was shifted to the federal
    Ministry of Environment, Local Government, and Rural Development (MELG&RD), which
    has taken an active role of policy, coordination and support agency for local governments.



                                                  - 4 -

    The Pakistan Government, in particular the National Reconstruction Bureau (NRB), the
    architect of the Devolution Plan, took a keen interest in the project in support of the
    devolution strategy together with MELG&RD. The Bank agreed to broaden the component
    and included a nationwide information and training program on participatory approaches in
    support of newly elected local government officials. The component was renamed, "Federal
    Facilitation Program (FFP) for Community Infrastructure and Participation".
    (c) Project Preparation: There was no revision in the project preparation activities.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
         Formal Quality at Entry Criteria were not in effect at the time the CIP project was
prepared, but nonetheless the project design anticipated some of the criteria now in place. The
association-administered trust funds led to the identification of a new community-based
partnership project. The use of trust funds and of a Project Preparation Facility (PPF 761-0 PAK)
led to the refinement of the project concept and the undertaking and monitoring of two pilot
projects. Project preparation focused on the development of a community model suitable for
replication and the risks listed in the SAR/PAD all refer to questions about the adequacy of the
communities' response. The appraisal does not appear to have recognized sufficiently the issues
of highly centralized administrative and financial systems of the government and the need for
further delegation to manage a highly decentralized CIP program. Also, the ownership of the CIP
concept was also not fully established throughout the provincial government, which subsequently
led to long delays in getting necessary implementation decisions and budget approvals from a still
highly centralized administrative system. Having said this, it is also true that many of the
problems that subsequently emerged were perhaps inherent to introducing an innovative approach
that could only be worked out through trial and error over a number of years.

         The main lessons learned from Bank Group experience, from analysis of Project
Completion Reports and from OED evaluations of infrastructure upgrading in other countries
were applied to the project design such as: (a) programs that can accommodate unforeseen needs
or circumstances are far better than one-size-fits-all programs; (b) community participation can
facilitate project implementation through need identification and resource mobilization;
(c) reducing infrastructure standards in line with communities' capacity is a direct means of
improving project affordability and ownership; (d) cost recovery and satisfactory operation and
maintenance present major challenges and need to be addressed up front; and (e) successful
projects build upon the strengths of existing institutions.

         Another strength of this project's quality at entry is the monitoring indicators that were
agreed from the very start of the project implementation phase. The indicators are practical and
can be translated into work program/project milestones. Having monitoring indicators in place at
the project appraisal stage was not a Bank requirement at the time the project was prepared.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
         Regarding the main objective of the project (to improve the living conditions of people of
 NWFP by provision of basic infrastructure and community development) the achievements of
 the project is rated satisfactory. It is apparent from the following table that the overall



                                                   - 5 -

achievements of the project have exceeded the original as well as the revised targets of the
project.

          Coverage         Original       Revised        Achievements at the end of
                            Target         Target                  project
       Communities             55            80       90
       Population          421,000        520,000     550,000 (direct)
                                                      Over 600,000 (direct & indirect)

       This is documented in the Evaluation Report, where a representative sample of
respondents from the communities reported the following improvement of productivity, well
being and living conditions:

Time savings due to road construction:      Mean: 83%      (Low: 41 % - high 100%)
Overall look of community improved:         Mean: 80 %     (Low: 17 % - high 98 %)
Improved environmental conditions:          Mean: 77%      (Low: 8 % - high 96 %)
Quality of life improved:                   Mean: 73 %     (Low: 8 % - high 100 %)
Land value increase:                        Mean: 70 %     (Low: 8 % - high 92 %)
Illness cases reduced:                      Mean: 50 %     (Low: 8 % - high 69 %)
Conflict reduced:                           Mean: 51 %     (Low: 25 % - high 74 %)
Income level improved:                      Mean: 32 %     (Low: 8 % - high 57 %)

       CIP began implementation in 1997 and by the time of the closing on June 30, 2003 it had
delivered services directly to over 550,000 people in 90 communities and benefited another 50
neighboring communities with more than 100,000 residents by implementing their own program
in partnership with NGOs and local councils with support from the CBOs organized through the
CIP. The original, revised and actual cost of each component is given in the table below. The
total amount cancelled was US$4.49 m.

             Project Components            Original cost Revised cost      Actual cost      Actual in
                                                              US $             US $          % of
                                               US $                                         revised
      Infrastructure Upgrading                 22.5           27.10            26.45        97.6%
     Community Development                      1.50           1.70             1.39        81.7%
     Design & Implementation Assistance         5.7            6.6              6.28        95.3 %
     Institutional                              1.9            2.10             0.45        21.4 %
     Preparation/Strengthening
      Project Preparation                       1.3            1.3              0.38        28.9 %




                                              - 6 -

              Component                                            Performance Rating
        1      Community Infrastructure
                § InfrastructureUpgrading                          Satisfactory
                    o Primary Infrastructure
                    o Local Infrastructure
                §     Community Development                         Satisfactory
                    o Community mobilization
                    o Health & Hygiene
                    o Support to Women and Children
                §     Design and Implementation Assistance         Satisfactory
                    o Establishment and operation of
                        Directorate within CIP
                    o Consultant Services
                    o Contracting of NGO/Social organizers
        2      Institutional Development
                §     Institutional Strengthening Program (formerly Modest
                      LGE&RD Study
                §     Federal Facilitation Component (formerly      Not Satisfactory
                      NHA Technical Assistance).
                §     Project Preparation:                         Satisfactory
               Overall Rating                                      Satisfactory


      Achievement of project objectives took longer than originally anticipated, because of
serious bureaucratic and administrative problems in the early years. After the mid-term review in
1999 and the National Workshop on Community Based Initiatives in May 2000, an overhaul of
the administrative structure and strengthening capacity of implementation staff led to more
transparency, accountability and efficiency. However, because of these initial delays,
compounded by the more recent events created by the Afghan war after September 11, 2001, the
closing date has been postponed twice from December 31, 2001 to December 31, 2002 and then
to June 30, 2003.

      After the initial problems in the implementation, the CIP streamlined the procedures
through community participation and demand driven initiatives. As a result, the demand from
communities has been very high, which has led to a decision by the GoP, the GoNWFP and the
World Bank to implement a repeater project in the NWFP, where similar approaches will be
taken to more communities.

      Most of the work on the 55 original sites was completed by end of December 2002.
However, 12 uncompleted sites were re-opened for completion for 10% proposed physical
works on account of TMAs share. The additional 35 new sites including 8 pilot sites
implemented by TMAs, demonstrated the linkages with newly elected local councils TMAs and
served as the basis for the design of the follow on project.

      The volume of work under the Community Infrastructure Component was larger than
anticipated due to two main reasons: firstly, the increase in resources caused by the devaluation
of Pakistani Rupee. Secondly, the cost for the various schemes under CIP was actually lower


                                                  - 7 -

than the norms used during project design as implemented by local government. In addition,
resources were transferred to the Infrastructure Component from other components after some
activities were cancelled and adjusted.

       The achievement in the Infrastructure Upgrading Component is rated satisfactory for the
following reasons:

       (a) Exceeded the targets, completed more schemes and reached more people than
           planned
       (b) Cost of the schemes is 35 % lower than local government norms (Evaluation Report)
       (c) According to the Evaluation Report and CIP data the overall quality on completed
           schemes is per specification

        Equally important as implementing the physical work was the way the infrastructure
services were planned and delivered. The implementation of the physical scheme on the ground
take place in a context of community engagement and community development. These other
project components reflect the wider and longer term institutional goals of the project, which
point to the sustainability of the partnership between local government and communities in
working together for development activities. The most important of these institutional and
community development goals were:

      l To enable communities to take part in the prioritization of schemes,
      l Demand driven selection of communities for participation in the project and
           community selection of services from a range of menu,
      l Support to communities in establishing and/or strengthening CBOs, and registration of
           CBOs after evaluation of their performance and membership composition,
      l Community responsibility for O&M of local infrastructure and other services,
      l Overall guidance and management by a PMU, and PIU in all districts,
      l To ensure ownership, engagement and motivation for prioritization, overseeing
           building activities, taking part in some of the building activities and being motivated
           for O&M through an up front cash contribution from the communities of 20 % of the
           expenses of the physical works,
      l To enable the communities to be partners with the local government in future
           development activities in their area, through the formation, organization and
           developed capacity of the CCBs as representative bodies of the communities, and
      l To enable the local government to engage and work effectively with communities as
           partners in local development activities

       In the latter phase of the project, the partnership between communities and local
government had to be developed in the context of the devolution of authority from the provincial
government to local governments as prescribed in the Local Government ordinance of 2001. This
represented an extra challenge for the project, since the roles and responsibilities of key
stakeholders were changing.




                                                 - 8 -

       In light of this, the CIP has been successful in terms of introducing a new decentralized
and demand driven approach. The project has demonstrated its capacity to provide infrastructure
and services at relatively low cost at the local level. It has also provided a model that has
significantly influenced the Government's more recently adopted nation wide policies of
decentralization.

       In the evaluation report, 75% of a representative sample of respondents from the
communities confirmed that the CBOs covered the whole community. The Community
Development Component is rated satisfactory, based on the overview of the achievements shown
in the table below.

Output Indicators:
                     Indicator/Matrix                                      Achievements
a. number of CBOs formed and registered;                       90 (100%)
b. infrastructure layout plans agreed;                         Over 90 (100%)
c. community development programs agreed;                      80% actual programs implemented
d. availability of beneficiary contributions & counterpart 100% available, and in some
   funds;                                                      communities exceeded contribution by
e. community training undertaken; and                          30-40%.
f. user group/household participation in O&M.



Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                 Indicator/Matrix                                     Achievements
a. Proportion of project households having access to adequate infrastructure                90
   services (by type of services);
b. Lowering project infrastructure capital and operating costs relative to the          40 (37%)
   cost of traditional government schemes;
c. Proportion of project households practicing improved hygiene;                            70
d. Evidence of increased community participation in government development                 75%
   activities; and
e. Proportion of project infrastructure facilities being maintained in working             65%
   condition one year after completion.




                                                 - 9 -

                     TRANSFORMATION




                                                After




4.2 Outputs by components:
PRIMARY and LOCAL INFRASTRUCTURE:

        The performance of this component was satisfactory and it was completed at savings
between 35-40% compared to the cost of centrally implemented government projects. There are
some technical issues affecting some classes of infrastructure. Water supply has received less
attention due to technical difficulties such as lack of data on existing systems, issues of water
quality and costly O&M that is often involved for the existing systems. Further comprehensive
planning for drainage and solid waste management are also needed. Stronger technical inputs
from the relevant government agencies would be helpful in this regard.

       Effective O&M was recognized from the outset as being of crucial importance to the
success of the project and the communities have accepted responsibility for this. While many of
the projects have just been completed, the initial results are promising. The communities are
taking responsibility for O&M, many have set up sub-committees for this purpose and a majority
have created maintenance funds with contributions from members. Water supply projects have
more complex O&M requirements and special attention will need to be given to this in the future.
Careful monitoring of these aspects would be important for the proposed CIP-II project in
NWFP, with attention given to the development of community O&M plans and incorporation of
these plans in the regular project monitoring system.

        For repeater project there is greater need of integrated drainage systems instead of smaller
networks of drainage-master system. Moreover, solid waste management needs to be planned
from start to the end of the disposal process. Sanitation was limited to health and hygiene



                                                 - 10 -

education. Neither the "incentives for on-plot sanitation" nor pre-treatment ponds, envisioned in
the SAR, were implemented due to change in government policy of providing household grants.

COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT:

        The performance of the CD component is satisfactory. Community participation in social
and physical infrastructure has resulted in savings as well as good quality of the works. The
evaluation indicated that this is due to the good mobilization and performance of the Community
Development Committees (CDCs) and other committees formed by the CBOs. The estimated
time (24 to 36 months) taken in the completion of the projects from identification, selection,
preparation, confirmation, implementation to transfer for O&M were sufficient to allow both for
quality and community capacity building.

        Intensive and transparent community mobilization processes i.e. CBO formation, CAP
preparation etc. were crucial for the success of the CIP.

        Creating better awareness of health and hygiene was a central objective of this component
and considerable effort has been given to this during the implementation phase. Evaluation data
indicates that more than 80% of the beneficiary communities were aware of health and hygiene
campaigns and 20% felt that CIP had contributed to a reduction in illness in their community.

        The mid-term review identified environmental sanitation as one of the weak points in
community development and suggested that higher priority and better planning of this aspect of
the program was warranted. Despite the obvious challenges involved, the community
development work has had major successes, stemming largely from the good progress in
organizing local communities and implementing their projects. Evaluation data in sample
communities indicates that about two-thirds of the people are aware of the formation of CBOs
and more than half of the community was aware of the CIP and the community involvement in the
project cycle. A review of the community development activities has revealed the following:

  l In most cases, the income level of various groups has increased compared with the
        baseline socioeconomic survey.
  l The response regarding the overall community awareness, 20% community share, 3%
        contribution for O&M and the level of interaction by project staff was satisfactory.
  l On various CD trainings, and campaigns, the performance rating was mixed.


Female Participation:

        It should be recognized at the outset, that the GoNWFP was initially resistant to the whole
idea of community development, and especially, women's involvement. The approach required
much discussion, time and efforts. Gradually, the government became very supportive, but it was
achieved only by following a sensitive approach, which would have failed if an "in your face"
mode had been adopted.




                                                - 11 -

         In the NWFP sub-cultures, women can only be included in project discussions through the
agreement of the male head of household. It was thus essential that the understanding and support
of the male was solicited, and this was actively undertaken in all communities. In almost all the
communities, it was agreed that a separate women's CBO should be formed, which was as active
as, if not more than that of the men's CBO. Most of the project components benefited women
and children more than men (water supply, sanitation, access ways, TBA, health education,
micro-credit training and referrals etc).

         In general, gender-related matters were well-promoted and implemented. They were also
monitored and recorded, but mainly through field implementation and process monitoring reports,
and less so in the formal M&E reports, which mainly dealt with highlighting implementation
problems to upper-level management. Most of the day-today problems, including gender matters,
were resolved through discussions between the process monitoring staff and the field operations
staff.

TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE & DESIGN SERVICES:

         Performance rating for this component is satisfactory. During the early years of the
project, the financing of incremental salary costs, training and selective support from consultants
was crucial to the development of the PMU and the PIUs. A consortium of foreign and local
consultants assisted the PMU during July 1996-December 1998 to: (i) design community
development and infrastructure in 43 communities; (ii) provide a range of training and advisory
services on project management, procurement, contract management and supervision, monitoring
and reporting, accounting and financial management; (iii) develop training plans and modules and
training CIP staff, community staff members and NGOs; and (iv) contract local staff to provide
teams to assist the CBOs at the local level. More recently, the ISP has focused on the
institutionalization of community mobilization and capacity building of TMAs to undertake
community-based development activities.

M&E & Process Monitoring

         Under the CIP, an M&E wing was organized at the office of Director General, CIP. It was
headed by Deputy Director M&E and supported by an Assistant Director Management
Information System (MIS), a computer operator and an office assistant. However, the size of the
M&E/MIS unit proved too small and could not keep up with the large CBO pool and its wide
geographic spread and diversity. In later stages, the project hired the services of a local M&E
Specialist (since October 2001) to assist and strengthen the M&E/MIS system of CIP. The
routine monitoring was facilitated by the cadre of Social Organizer (SO), Senior Social
Organizers (SSOs), Female Social Organizers (FSOs) and the respective PIU staff, and any
related issues were reported to the PMU. Additionally, a Process Monitoring (PM) Unit,
administered by World Bank - Water & Sanitation Program (WSP), was set up to generate
information learning for project processes which were innovative in nature. The PM function was
particularly effective in raising issues related to institutional processes.




                                                  - 12 -

         Despite the fact that the M&E unit has been under-staffed and assigned with a number of
forward planning/programming and coordination functions, it has been able to effectively
contribute and support project management. The routine monitoring reports at various levels have
been generated and shared within the respective levels i.e. PMU/PIUs and Government /Donors
for their information and decision-making. The M&E outputs were also used by
LGE&RDD/P&DD during the monthly/quarterly review meetings by the Project Review Board
(PRB) for overall project review and policy making. In addition, the M&E unit also became a
knowledge bank for community approaches. Information, processes and procedures were shared
with other organizations including the NRB. Information kits and video documentation became
the basis for CCBs evolution and partnership with local level of governments under the LGO.

INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT:

         (a) Institutional Strengthening Program (formerly LGE&RD Study): The performance
of the ISP was mixed. The capacity building activities of the ISP was extended up to December
31, 2003, mainly funded under the SDC assistance. The new Devolution Plan of the Government
has introduced a new development paradigm that is a quantum shift from the traditional, centrally
driven supply-side development approaches to a decentralized and participatory demand driven
development process for improved public service delivery. This shift would certainly require a
wide range of capabilities in the newly structured and empowered Districts, Tehsils and lower
tiers of local government in order to enable them to effectively manage and make the new system
functional. To assist the government in implementing the above strategy, the CIP has initiated an
ISP which primarily focus on awareness, capacity building and sensitization, skill development
and system development of the local government institutions mainly the TMA focusing on CDD.

         The ISP was a key step to address decentralization in NWFP and was aimed at the
institutionalization of community mobilization and development processes, and capacity building
of TMAs to effectively undertake community based development activities. It thus supported the
spirit of the devolution plan by strengthening the TMAs, key institutions of municipal service
provision, in sustainable participatory development. The expected outcome of the ISP are:
(i) role definition and clarification takes place at the sub-district levels of the new local
government structures; (ii) operating and supporting system are re-activated where dormant, and
new systems are developed and operationalized where needed, for an effective municipal service
organization and delivery at the sub-district levels; (iii) appropriate modalities of participatory
infrastructure development and operation have been chosen and institutionalized at the sub district
level in NWFP; and (iv) CIP has a strong resource developed and available to it, in the form of a
cohesive network of institution developers and capacity builders to be relied upon for future
institutional strengthening and capacity building initiatives.

         Work on this component was initially slow because of difficulties in adjusting to the new
framework, but progressed very well during the last six months and has been providing valuable
support to the newly elected local governments enabling to carry out their new mandate of
partnership with community groups in the delivery of basic infrastructure and services. To date it
has assisted almost all of the Districts, TMAs, and their Union Councils on participatory tools,
processes and procedures, learning exchange, visits and exposure between officials and



                                                  - 13 -

community groups within Pakistan and other countries with similar programs, and has helped
create more than 400 CCBs under the new LGO.

Beneficiaries of ISP component
    Program Activities                                              Male      Female         Total
    Training Needs Assessment workshops (2)                            65        15            80
    Orientation workshops (6)                                          270       46           316
    Workshop on planning & Quality Control (2)                         48                      48
    Workshop on CCB formation & registration                           25         2            27
    In country Study Tour to development programs (5)                  83        21           104
    International Study tours (2)                                      20                      20
    Consultation workshop for capacity building coordination           32         8            40

        (b) Federal Facilitation Component (formerly NHA Technical Assistance). This
component is rated unsatisfactory. It was originally intended to assist the NHA in a number of
areas to develop its institutional capacity. However, NHA didn't take the steps necessary to use
the available funds. In the year 2000, after the National Government embarked on a program for
holding local elections throughout the country in 2001, it realized that there was a tremendous
need to train the would be elected local officials on their new roles and responsibilities. An
orientation and training program was designed for this purpose, and, at the request of the GoP,
the Association agreed to reallocate funds for a nationwide awareness and training program for
the recently elected local government officials.

        The Bank agreed to re-allocate US$2.95 million for this component. The Government's
CDWP approved this in October 2001. An amount of Rs. 34.421 million was provided in the
PSDP for the year 2001-2002 and Rs. 88.480 million were allocated for FY 2002-2003. The
project was extended up to June 2003. During phase 1, the following have been trained: 120,000
union councilors; through 25 master trainers who trained 1300 trainers in all the provinces. Phase
2 was partially completed with the training of 30 master trainers for Zila Nazims and Naib Nazims
(locally elected mayors and deputies), and District Coordinating Officers; 151 master trainers for
Zila/Tehsil councilors who further trained 691 trainers. The training program could not be
completed. First, it was too soon after the local officials had been elected, and many
representatives were too preoccupied with transition issues to focus on the training. Second,
many of the trainers did not have the requisite expertise to deliver the content effectively. It was
decided not to extend this component since a number of capacity building program sponsored by
other organizations were already in place at the time of project closing.

        (c) Project Preparation:
        This was done satisfactorily and the studies were used to identify ways to actively work
with and facilitate communities. The studies led to new policies and approaches after testing two
pilot projects with works financed by GoNWFP and executed by community self help. Results
indicated improved level of beneficiary satisfaction and ownership of the infrastructure. These
efforts have culminated in the formation by the government's radically different policy for
infrastructure upgrading. The Project Preparation Facility ( PPF 761-0 PAK) has been used to
complete preparation, including the refinement of community participation mechanism and


                                                - 14 -

monitoring of two pilot projects. Project preparation activities made it possible for IDA to
continue its involvement and allowed the possibility of retroactive financing for further community
mobilization work, so as to keep up the momentum achieved during preparation and to reduce the
delays after project effectiveness.

                   Disbursement Status of IDA           Amount in US$
                                credit                      Million
                        (as of Dec 28, 2003)
                Original Principal                               21.5
                Disbursed                                        14.2
                % Disbursed                                      77.5
                 Cancelled                                       4.49
                Undisbursed balance                              00.0


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
        The appraisal report contained a general analysis of the costs and benefits of the
infrastructure component of the project (slightly more than half of total project costs), based on
conservative assumptions about the increase in property values resulting from the infrastructure
provided under the project. On this basis, the internal economic rate of return on infrastructure
investments was estimated at 31%. An independent consultant study recently made an economic
evaluation of a sample of six infrastructure projects completed under the project based increase in
property values and savings in medical costs. In the six communities sampled, the internal
economic rate of return varied between 18% and 28%. A consultant for the preparation of the
CIP II project using the same sample and a slightly more elaborate methodology estimated the
economic returns to vary between 25% and 75%. Risk analysis indicates that the economic
returns of these projects remain highly positive even under a range of more pessimistic
assumptions about costs and benefits.

        These findings complement the findings of an updated TMA capacity assessment. The
economic costs and benefits were assessed for a stratified random sample of 10 communities, out
of the total number of 90 schemes and communities of CIP-1.

        The post project assessment shows that the recorded benefits from completed schemes
 were: Higher economic activity, reduced depreciation of vehicles, fuel saving, increased value of
 houses, reduced transportation cost for inbound/outbound farm commodities, due to improved
 roads and linkages. Provision of drains or street pavement resulted in better hygiene conditions,
 improved health, higher work-efficiency and reduced medical bills. Except gastroenteritis, most
 waterborne diseases such as typhoid, dysentery, cholera, hepatitis and malaria have been reduced
 where water supply schemes were implemented.

        On the basis of the assumptions used for the post project economic assessment, the sample
 of completed sites and a very conservative approach to quantify benefits of increased value of
 agricultural land of the areas benefited, assuming an average farm size, appreciation in value of
 residential houses and reduced medical bills, EIRRs were calculated for six completed



                                                - 15 -

 community projects and found to range from 25% to 75% (See Annex 3). The B/C ratio is
 positive for all communities at the cut-off rate of 15% that is used by the Planning Commission.
 EIRR for the urban localities (Kanju, Tehkal Bala) is calculated at 75% and 71% respectively.
 The high return in these localities is attributed to the relatively higher appreciation in the value of
 farm land and residential houses.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Please see above.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
        With the new move towards devolution and the pro-poor public works program of the
GoP, the CIP is now well placed to demonstrate how these principles can be effectively meshed
with the new systems of elected local government. At present, the Government is poised to scale
up the CIP principles at the provincial and even national levels. An active dissemination and
advocacy program will now focus on ensuring that these principles are incorporated in the
Government policy.

        The core of the institutional strategy was to develop a PMU with subordinate PIUs in the
Department of Local Government able to manage a very large and decentralized program of
community development and project support to local communities. In the early years of the
project, the PMU was very heavily dependent on the use of outside consultants (including foreign
ones) and suffered from numerous problems including a tradition of highly centralized
government, lack of competent staff, high staff turnover and inadequate management and financial
systems to run a program of this size and complexity. Moreover, there was a lack of consistent
support from the GoNWFP and delays in routine budgetary and other approvals caused serious
implementation problems and lags in disbursement. After the mid-term review, the PMU was
reorganized so as to better integrate community and infrastructure development and to
decentralize responsibility to the PIUs. The reorganization and the years of technical support have
led to a steady improvement in the capacity of the PMU. However, high staff turnover continued
to be a serious problem. Concurrent with this improvement in PMU's capacity, the Go NWFP has
clearly recognized the importance of the CIP and taken the steps necessary to eliminate the delays
in budget and other approvals that plagued the project in the earlier years.

        During a brief phase, the CIP suffered tremendously because of high turnover of staff,
especially at the PMU level, including project managers. Things improved considerably later
when the project got the support of the highest leadership of the provincial government. Lack of
continuity of staff had been mainly due to GoNWFP posting procedures and lack of proper
economic incentives. To correct this imbalance, the staff designated at the CIP by the
Government were given a higher salary rate or an equivalent incentive package in order to keep
the team together and provide continuity of staff and retention of institutional memory. It is
interesting to note that many of the staff who were given higher rates are the CD specialists and
social organizers, many of whom are female.




                                                  - 16 -

Institutionalization of CBOs under the Local Government Ordinance

        The CIP has been used as the model for the creation of Citizen's Community Board
(CCBs) under LG Ordinance 2001. The National Reconstruction Bureau (NRB), has adopted the
CIP model of mobilizing, organizing and empowering CBOs to undertake community activities in
partnership with the newly devolved local governments, hence the birth of the CCBs. CCBs are
voluntary bodies to share the responsibly of development activities at the local level. The
formation of CCB is a new phenomenon within the local government, and it is a forum for
communities to share responsibility, resources and participate in planning and development at the
local level. Every local area may have one or more voluntary, nonprofit CCBs. These bodies will
be formally registered, represent interests in the community, help improve service by a public
facility, manage a new public facility, mobilize resources and form stakeholder organizations.
Specifically, they can raise local contributions and receive project-based cost sharing support from
any local government up to 80% of an approved development project. Specific guidelines have
been promulgated for the formation of CCBs along the line developed for the CIP.

        The future CIPs should fit with the broader National Devolution Plan (NDP) arrangements
which are being developed. A key matter for the implementation of CIP is the role of the Citizen
Community Boards (CCBs), and the relationship of the CBOs to them. The relationship of both
these groups to the Teshils (which have responsibility for water and sanitation), and to the
Districts (responsibilities for education and security), will be important. The financial incentive
mechanism of CIP's community contribution of 20% in cash should be retained, and can fit with
existing arrangements. The CIPs would help to develop practical mechanisms for these working
relationships, operationalize citizen involvement and strengthen the influence and capabilities of
the poorest social groups and of women.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
        The devaluation of the Pakistan rupee increased the availability of IDA funds when
expressed in rupees and thus size of the CIP program. The fact that the average size of
communities applying to participate in CIP was smaller than expected also meant that there were
more communities to support, thus further increasing the administrative burden. There were two
major factors that affected implementation which were outside the control of the local
government: Firstly, devolution process, which became effective in August 2001, and the
subsequent nationwide transfer of responsibilities contributed to a significant slow down of
project implementation. The decentralization affected the preparation and implementation of the
8 pilot sites in partnership with the newly elected local government bodies. This affected the
social and physical infrastructure and ISP components assisting the government's devolution
process, which had to be redesigned. Secondly, for about six to seven months following
September 11, 2001, working with NWFP became difficult given that it borders Afghanistan and
was deeply affected by the conflict.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
        While the CIP model worked well at the community level at the outset, project
implementation suffered seriously during the first three years from the lack of capacity of the



                                                     - 17 -

Government of NWFP to administer the program effectively and deliver the necessary support to
the PMU and their partner communities. There were a number of factors underlying this problem,
which were clearly identified by the Mid-Term Review Mission in 1999:

    (a) Wavering Government ownership: There was significant turnover at the top levels of
        Government and there were periods where the top leadership (particularly of the
        implementing agency) had little understanding of and commitment to the CIP, which led to
        serious delays in approval of budgets and other necessary administrative decisions,
        including appointment of key implementing officers;
    (b) Appointees to the Directorship of the PMU were often not well experienced during the
        earlier project phases;
    (c) Highly centralized administrative and budgetary procedures that made it difficult for the
        PMU to proceed with key aspects of the program;
    (d) Government policies restricting engagement of NGOs made it difficult to outsource in the
        early years of the project;
    (e) Frequent turnover of government employees due to the Government's reassignment
        policies have made it difficult to retain staff and continuity; and
    (f) Low salaries and incentives for local Social Organizers has make it difficult to motivate
        and retain qualified staff.

        With respect to (a) and (b), since the mid-term review in 1999, the Government of NWFP
has come to recognize the importance of the CIP, strongly supports it, and makes necessary
decisions quickly. More recently, the overall shift in the national government's priorities toward
government decentralization has led both the National and Provincial Governments to adopt the
CIP as a model for their broader decentralization plan and to use it as a mechanism for supporting
the newly-elected local governments. This has enhanced the standing of the CIP and contributed
to positive adjustments in project design and support for project implementation. It also ensured
that highly qualified officials have been appointed to head the Department of Local Government
and the PMU. With respect to (c), the Government has since the mid-term review taken steps to
decentralize administrative and financial decision-making to the PMU and the reorganization in
the PMU that took place in 1999 also facilitated this process. The devolution process is bringing
about further progress in this regard by allocating more funds and responsibility to local
governments and making them the focal point of the CIP program. With respect to (d) the
Government has eliminated the restrictions on engaging NGOs. With respect to (e) and (f), these
problems are deeply imbedded in the Government's overall personnel process and discussions.
However, during the last 2 years of implementation, the Government retained their most
experienced staff, in particular did not change the DG until its closing.

        CIP is designed to be implemented in four phases. During Phase I & II, the major factor
which caused delay and wastages of time and resources was the political influence over the
sub-projects identification and selection process. Later, due to the policy of up-front cash
contribution and other criteria set up by the management, several CBOs dropped out, as they
were made to believe by the politicians that they (the community), need not contribute as required
by the cash contribution policy. These drop outs caused back log and implementation delay.
Another important issue was the coordination with other departments such as WAPDA, C&W



                                                  - 18 -

and Telephone company. Each of the departments have their own Annual Development Plan,
including timing of works, which in turn interfered with each others' activities. For example,
several primary and community infrastructure schemes had to be rebuilt, because the other utility
departments installed their pipes or lines after the CIP schemes had already been completed.

The National Government
        The Government's promulgation of the nation-wide devolution program and the allocation
of funds to the local governments have given a very positive encouragement to CIP-type
programs throughout the country. The NHA was unable to come up with a positive program for
technical assistance. The Federal Ministry of Local Government, and the National Reconstruction
Board (NRB), had some difficulties working together. Although both proposed to use funds
allocated for the NHA study to support a nation-wide program of training newly-elected officials
in the participatory approaches, almost a year was wasted because of discussions on who and how
the funds should be administered. In the end, the component was left with funds devoted to the
training but no funds were allocated for the coordinating agency (federal Ministry of Local
Government), to monitor and provide assistance to the provinces through periodic visits and
preparing set of guidelines. While this program undoubtedly did some good in terms of informing
local officials on the participatory approaches of government including promotion of the CIP type
of activities in all of the provinces, it was implemented prematurely and lacked in some cases well
trained instructors. It therefore did not have the full impact that was intended, didn't cover all
stakeholders.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
        It was recognized from the outset, that institutional capacity would have to be increased
substantially to implement a large and decentralized CIP program involving support for a large
number of communities. To implement the program, a PMU was created with local PIUs, which
were assisted by the local officials of relevant line agencies. A consortium of consultants were on
the ground until the end of 1998 to build the capacity of the PMU and carry out various activities,
but it was not ready after their departure to implement the program. The PMU was too highly
centralized and unable to delegate responsibilities to the PIUs. At various times, it lacked
competent leadership and staff and still needed consultant support for design and other functions.
The Mid-Term Review in 1999 concluded that the PMU would need to outsource some of its
functions to NGOs and other organizations. While this was done to some extent, many of the
NGOs were unable to carry out their responsibilities effectively.

        Since that time, the PMU has greatly improved its capabilities with the leadership of a
series of highly qualified Director Generals. In 2000, the PMU was reorganized to decentralize
responsibilities and to give it a much stronger geographical focus. The quality of staff has
gradually improved and it carried out its responsibilities much more effectively with less
consultant support.




                                                    - 19 -

         In 2001, the leadership in the LGE&RDD and PMU changed for the better and since then
PMU had done an good job of adapting to the Government's devolution policy. It is now
increasingly focused on building up the capacity of local governments to assist communities rather
than assisting communities directly. Its work on implementing the eight pilot projects in support
of local governments has been very encouraging reflecting its competent leadership and
institutional adaptability.

5.4 Costs and financing:
         The total cost estimate of the project was originally $38.8 million, of which the IDA
 Credit was to finance $21.8 million. For the reasons mentioned previously in this report, the
 project cost expressed in rupees has increased substantially. In 2000, the Bank re-allocated
 $2.95 million from the Credit to support the Federal Facilitation Component in response to the
 de facto increase in the project and implementation problems described earlier. The adjustments
 in the amount allocated for each component are set out in Annex 2-C and the main reasons for
 these adjustments are given in section 4.2. In addition to the reasons given above for the
 re-appropriation, it appears that the Bank appraisal mission overestimated the capacity of the
 government to implement this project and in hindsight it should have provided a smaller IDA
 credit for this first CIP project.

         Disbursements were slow during the early years of the project for the reasons mentioned
above, but have increased rapidly in recent years. The full amount of the IDA Credit was not
disbursed by the closing date (it is estimated that an additional amount of $4.49 million will be
cancelled). The approved cost of the project was Rs. 1388.626 million comprising Rs.1041.636
million donor's share and Rs. 346.990 million as local share which represent 75% and 25%
respectively.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
         Overall, the CIP sustainability is likely because of: (a) successfully piloted a
  demand-driven, community development program that provides infrastructure and services at
  low cost with high economic returns and higher community participation; (b) built up the
  institutional capacity of the Department of Local Government to support this program on a
  sustained basis; (c) quickly and effectively adaption to the Government's devolution strategy
  and clearly support this core government objective; (d) strong support of the National
  Government, the GoNWFP and several other provincial Governments - in fact the devolution
  program clearly has some of the same element as CIP and allocates 25% of the development
  budget for the projects of local governments; (e) can be sustained financially because of the
  strong financial commitment the Government has made to the program - a financial analysis of
  the CIP project in NWFP clearly indicates that there is ample fiscal space to continue to
  implement the next phase of the program; (f) provides for O&M to be undertaken by the
  community and is creating the necessary organizational and financial arrangement to ensure that
  the communities meet this obligation; and (g) generated widespread support in the communities
  in NWFP, which indicates that the demand for the CIP program will remain strong and that
  there is a serious commitment at the local level to implement this program.




                                                   - 20 -

      The Federal and NWFP Governments have requested a second CIP project that would
continue the program for the next five years and the appraisal mission has ensured that all of the
requirements for a successful continuation of the program are met. The Bank Group has
financed a first CIP project in AJK and CIP projects for Bank Group financing are under
preparation in several other provinces. Over the longer run, the sustainability of the CIP is
contingent on the continuing commitment of the Federal and provincial governments to
devolution. So long as that commitment continues and the administrative capability and,
subsequently, the fiscal strength of local governments continues to improve, the CIP should
lead to stronger local governments increasing their ability to take responsibility for development
at the local level. The staff hired for the project would also be absorbed in the follow on project
which will assist the lower levels of governments as implementing agencies. The Bank's strategy
is to support the CIP in a number of provinces and assist in this crucial period of transferring
authority and responsibility to lower levels of government.

      The management reporting and process monitoring systems of the PMU will continue to
monitor progress as will frequent Bank supervision missions for the CIP II project. An impact
review by OED in the last quarter of 2004 or 2005 would be appropriate. The sustainability of
CIP infrastructure (physical infrastructure, community works, and community development) has
been calculated in statistical terms by considering the following criteria:

      No.     Description                                                             Weighted
       a.     CBO's ability to establish an office                                        05
       b.     CBO's ability to manage its office                                          05
       c.     Record keeping ability of CBO                                               10
       d.     CBO's ability to train persons to build its capacity                        05
       e.     TMA / CBO capacity for Community motivation / mobilization                  05
       f.     Community perception to own infrastructure                                  10
       g.     Community ability to act collectively through CBO                           10
       h.     CBO's ability to identify and manage environmental effects                  05
       i.     Community ability to identify and manage environmental effects              05
       j.     CBO's ability to identify O&M scope                                         05
       k.     Quality of workmanship of infrastructure                                    05
       l.     Quality of material used for infrastructure                                 10
       m.     CBO's ability to collect O&M contribution (3% of cost)                      10
       n.     CBO's ability to charge HH on monthly basis and collect bills               10
                                                                        Total             100
                                                                                       =====
       The study has been based on site inspection, the feedback from field visits, inspection of
various records kept at CBO office at community level, visual reports of O&M state at
community level, CBO's ability to generate funds for O&M, and physical demonstration of the
community to keep the drains clean and sweep street etc. Based on the above format weighted to
each community was allotted and thus sustainability analysis of 10 (stratified) randomly selected
communities was carried out.




                                                - 21 -

          The results indicate that the project is sustainable. The cumulative sustainability is
 estimated at 71%, which is satisfactory. However it is to be noted that a change in community
 attitude to O&M and other parameters can easily improve this sustainability. It is worth
 mentioning that sustainability of Community Infrastructure can even now be enhanced if due
 attention is given to the above, except points "k & I" which at this stage can not be improved.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
        As regards the physical infrastructure schemes implemented, the project design envisaged
a complete takeover of completed schemes by the CBOs and their User Committees for O&M.
Therefore, in this context no transitional arrangements are needed. All the sub-project schemes
rehabilitated or built are being managed by the communities, and except for the off site works,
there is no liability on the government for regular operations. The CBOs are collecting O&M
funds for maintenance and operation of the systems built. The second CIP being prepared in
NWFP, is also making sure that the CBOs and local governments that have participated in the
CIP 1, would be included in the CIP 2. The intention is to make sure that both the local
government and communities that will be involved in CIP 2, will be able to provide post
implementation support to the CBOs involved in CIP 1.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
        The Bank's Sector work in the later 1980s and in early 1990s demonstrated that direct
provision of infrastructure by centralized government structures faced numerous difficulties and
that a more satisfactory approach would involve the direct participation of local communities in
their own infrastructure development. IDA staff carefully studied the experience of UNICEF and
the Agha Khan Rural Support Program in supporting community development in Pakistan. On the
basis of this experience, the Bank financed a Project Preparation Facility (PPF 761-01 PAK) to
prepare a project concept note and to refine community participation mechanisms and the
monitoring of two pilot projects. The results of the two pilots were encouraging with improved
levels of beneficiary satisfaction and ownership of the infrastructure created. As a result of these
efforts, in 1996 Government formulated and adopted a new project policy framework and
incorporated the basic concept of the CIP. IDA decided to proceed with the financing of this
project.

        The difficulty was that the Government clearly lacked the capacity to implement the new
program. The appraisal team, recognizing this, provided a consortium of consultants to establish
a PMU and PIUs to manage and implement the project. However, the scale of the project was too
ambitious and beyond the capacity of the Government to implement. Hence, the implementation
problems plagued the project for the initial three years. Though the Government had formally
accepted the CIP concept, the provincial leadership did not really begin to own the project and
take necessary steps to implement it until after the mid-term review in 1999. The appraisal team
was undoubtedly aware of these problems which were intrinsic to this situation. Therefore, a less
ambitious and realistic disbursement projections/performance indicators were designed. The
problems of the Government's ability to implement the CIP approach were also not sufficiently
highlighted in the project risk assessments.


                                                  - 22 -

         Having said this, the project has largely complied with the Bank's safeguard policies, even
though these were adopted a number of years later. Initially, the requirements of effective
management and financial control were not in place, but they have gradually been built up over
time to a satisfactory level. Procurement did not constitute a problem and there were no serious
environmental concerns.

         IDA staff drew on relevant lessons learned on designing the new decentralized approach
to infrastructure provision. At the time of appraisal, experience with implementing this approach
was not so well developed and there was not much experience to draw on.

         Project estimation was prepared in consultation with all stake holders. Detailed assessment
of the financial management systems was carried out by a Financial Management Specialist (FMS)
and actions were agreed for strengthening, where necessary.

         The third party evaluation notes a few shortcomings in the financial management at the
community level and suggests practical recommendations. Given gradual building of capacity and
institutional strengthening, disbursement were slow initially, but picked up after the necessary
prerequisites were met.

7.2 Supervision:
         The Association's work in supervision, was satisfactory. Besides full supervision mission,
numerous shorter missions were conducted to rectify special problems. The Bank maintained
close liaison with the project authorities throughout the project period. The mid-term review in
1999 was crucial in terms of finally getting the project on track. The team made it clear that the
project was in serious trouble and lacked qualified leadership and support from the provincial
government and recommended a cancellation of US$5 million of the IDA Credit. The proposed
cancellation was a major eye-opener for the Government and led to a greater recognition that
additional delays would result in further cancellation. US$2.95 million was re-allocated from the
NWFP CIP Federal Facilitation component.

         After the mid-term review high quality leadership was assigned to PMU, who
implemented an effective reorganization, decentralization and reorientation to support the
development of CIP and local governments. The basic management and monitoring tools were in
place and the quality of staff was improved. Staff turnover and lack of adequate incentives for
extension staff remained an issue throughout the project years, but not adequately dealt with by
the Government until the last one and a half year of implementation.




                                                 - 23 -

        The public relations aspect of supervision work was not only instrumental in initiating
CIP programs in other provinces, but was also significant in blocking previous nation-wide
community programs. Other provinces invited the CIP staff to present the project and its
approaches, this resulted in requests for similar operations from the provincial management. The
national government also sought the Bank's help in evaluating and making recommendations to
improve the Integrated Urban and Rural Development Program (IURDP) (the main public works
program of the Government). On financial management, there were significant improvements as a
result of input provided by the financial management staff during supervision. The Bank had
conducted several procurement training workshops for the CIP/local government staff, which
were well received and made the procurement requirement better understood.

        The SDC performance as a partner in letter and spirit was commendable. It is
worthwhile to mention that SDC were very active, helpful and a dedicated partner in the design,
implementation and supervision of the CIP. Through out the project years SDC provided its
assistance and cooperation to develop the project to its current performance. In particular, SDC
supported most, if not all, of the innovative studies, evaluation workshops, social as well
institutional aspects of the project because of its hands-on professional and management style, and
shared supervision mission participation, on-time field support, flexibility, and adaptiveness to
changing situations. Their knowledge of day to day activities on the ground led to their increase
of funding contribution and staff time. Not only were joint supervision missions effective, but the
SDC were very supportive in making sure that the social development and participation aspects of
the project were realized. In 2001, SDC increased its contribution for another US$1 million to
support the Institutional Strengthening Program (ISP), which was delayed, but was able to
influence the new Devolution Plan of the Government. In addition to the ISP, SDC, with their
leadership and staff working on the CIP, had worked relentlessly in all aspects to assist day to day
operations and funded all the necessary capacity building, evaluation and awareness campaign
programs outside of their main contribution.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
        The Bank's overall performance has been satisfactory. The Bank staff identified and
developed key concepts for a pioneering approach to provision of small-scale, local infrastructure;
worked with the Government in preparing the project design; and, most importantly, worked
consistently over time to realize the promise of the new participation-based approach. If the
appraisal mission, to some extent, under-estimated the problems of widespread replication, the
provision of consultants and training in the early years and strong project supervision had clearly
made positive impact on the creation of participation-based, decentralized programs.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
        The Government was actively involved in the pilot studies and formulated and enacted the
project policy study that has guided the CIP. While it was formally committed to the approach, it
was even less aware than Bank staff of the challenges involved in implementing the CIP
approach.While it created a PMU and PIUs, it was neither adequately staffed nor prepared to
implement the program at the outset of the project.




                                                 - 24 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:
        The provincial Government's performance during the initial years of implementation was
unsatisfactory. Structural problems that impeded project implementation such as the highly
centralized administrative and budgetary procedures inappropriate to the CIP were not addressed.
The leadership of the PMU was very uneven, the parent department of Local Government and the
Planning and Development Department (overseeing all development programs in the province),
was too highly centralized, government approvals were required for even small administrative
matters and were obtained only after long delays, which were a major factor in slow
implementation.

        Since 2000, the performance of the provincial Government has dramatically improved.
The leadership appointed to the PMU has been solid. The provincial government has also
provided strong support for the reorganization (in particular the Minister of Local Government,
who also holds the Finance portfolio, the Governor, and lately the new Chief Minister),
decentralization and reorientation of the PMU, delegated considerable responsibility to the PMU
and responded rapidly to requests for approvals of budgets and other administrative matters. It
has embraced the new devolution strategy of the national government and has strongly supported
the reorientation of the CIP to strengthen the capacity of local governments to assist in
community development. The Chief Minister and the cabinet fully supported the CIP1 and
endorsed the CIP 2 also to other provinces.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
        In the early years, the PMU lacked leadership, adequate staff and management and
financial systems. It was too centralized and performed poorly. As noted above, its performance
has improved much in recent years with very able leadership, a major reorganization and the
gradual introduction and improvement of management and financial systems. It has done a
particularly good job of adapting to the new devolution strategy. Its performance during the last
two years has improved greatly and was fully satisfactory towards the end of CIP. The financial
management of the project was satisfactory and there were no significant deviations from Bank's
financial management policies (OP/BP 10.02). The accounts in respect to expenditure incurred
were by and large well maintained. Audit reports were generally received late and were a mixed
bag of unqualified and qualified opinions. However, there were no serious accountability issues.

        One of the major positive development of the PMU was its flexibility toward the
participatory approaches and its willingness to work with NGO sector. Compatibility with NGO
has remained a gray area for the government officials/system due to contrasting working
environment. Keeping in view the resources and capabilities, CIP has performed quite well after
the departure of the consultant team (OPCV) and that was the time period when the actual
learning-by-doing took place. Earlier they were heavily relying on the OPCV for its technical as
well as community development activities. Process monitoring, which was termed as "spy" by the
PMU at initial stages was later owned by the PMU staff and was therefore considered as an
integral part of M&E. One of the major bottleneck toward the incorporation of CD aspect was
the lack of female staff at the higher level in the PMU.




                                                  - 25 -

        On procurement aspects, the PMU's compliance with the agreed procurement procedures
has been generally satisfactory. There were no cases of mis-procurement. This is one of the cases
where the required improvements in government's NCB procedures were incorporated in an
on-going project through an amendment to the legal agreements, and the implementing agency,
the PMU / LGE&RDD, was found to be very receptive to the improvements. The PMU /
LGE&RDD staff, that implemented the bulk of procurement under the project, are quite
knowledgeable and experienced in the Bank's procurement procedures and documentation.
However, the Tehsil Municipal Authorities (TMAs), which were responsible for implementing the
pilot schemes at a later stage, were not proficient in the use of Bank procedures. The scheduling
and timeliness of procurement on the whole was also generally satisfactory, although there is
room for streamlining the government's administrative and clearance procedures. Also, the
addition of new schemes at the mid-term review did lead to project extension but mainly because
of the events in Afghanistan and 9/11. Finally, it may also be relevant to mention that NWFP is
the only province of Pakistan that has so far promulgated a procurement law in May 2002. The
downstream rules/regulations and standard bidding documents to implement the procurement law
are presently being developed and are expected to be notified in a few months. This is a major
step towards improving governance in general and procurement in particular in the province, and
over time is expected to have a positive impact on all operations in NWFP.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
        The performance of the borrowers during the first three years was unsatisfactory. The
 performance has improved since 1999 and is fully satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

        The main lessons learned are: The decentralized, participation-based approach to
provision of infrastructures has proven to be successful and is replicable. For replication to
happen, considerable institutional capacity in the provincial government, and lower level of
governments are required to implement a large decentralized program of this type. Community
development and empowerment is an essential prerequisite for project investments in local
communities and became the basis for the new decentralization policies of the Government. It is
clear that the CIP model can support the devolution process, but this would need considerable
effort to build up the capability of the weak and newly devolved local governments in partnership
with their communities--with the help of other partners, service organizations such as the NGOs,
the private sector, established government, and private training institutions. The following lessons
are highlighted from the experience of the project:

    1. Capacity and Commitment: Development of adequate human and institutional capacity is
        essential at all levels and this was initially a problem in the project. Strong commitment
        should be ensured from the Government and implementation agencies in terms of
        minimizing the bureaucratic delays (speedy approval), presence of project staff for the
        project duration, and flexibility toward the socially oriented development. While this
        problem was largely resolved, the new local government arrangements and the subsequent
        infusion of inexperienced elected officials and administrative staff creates the need for new
        capacity building, which is critical to the sustainability of the CIP. With that in mind a new
        project has been proposed that precisely addresses that issue.



                                                   - 26 -

  2. Innovative, community-based projects must respond flexibly and adapt to the varying
       demands generated during the community mobilization process. Process Monitoring
       (PM) was a useful tool to enable projects to learn by identifying, analyzing and
       communicating problems arising from the complex interactions between projects and
       communities.
  3. Sufficient time needs to be allowed for awareness building and community development
       before planning investments. Women participation in the project is of key importance
       since it ensures greater sustainability and better implementation. Particular heed should
       also be paid to health and sanitation matters since they strongly affect the general
       community well being. The value of gender based results would be more prominent if the
       attitude of management reflected directly through the provision of resources and
       incentives and, indirectly by ensuring gender in the M&E system. CIP was late in adding
       enough female personnel and resources to support specific women's programs were
       inadequate.
  4. Ensure that procurement capacity of the implementing agency is properly assessed during
       project preparation, take steps in the project design to strengthen it and that Bank
       procurement guidelines are fully understood by the Borrower. A procurement plan should
       be completed prior to negotiations to ensure that disbursements commence immediately
       upon effectiveness.
  5. Ensure inclusion of a sound financial management system in the project design. Financial
       management and reporting could be improved in the next phase of the project if the
       financial management staff are provided training.
  6. Post implementation monitoring needs to be sustained which could help in resource
       allocation for the maintenance of physical and social infrastructure.

Compliance with the Legal Covenants
     Agreement:        Covenant   Covenant      Original   Revised                  Description
                        Class        Status       Date       Date
 DCA
 Section 4.01 (a)        01       Complied     2/28/1998             Maintain records for Federal
                                                                     component
 Section 4.01 (b)        01     Part. Complied                       Provide Annually audit report for the
                                                                     FC
 Section 4.01 (c) (i)    01       Complied                           Maintain records of SOE transaction
 Section 4.01 (c) (iv)   01       Complied                           Provide separate auditor's opinion
 PA
 Section 2.05 (b)         9       Complied     2/28/1998   5/01/1999 Prepare a report on progress achieved
                                                                     under the project
 Section 2.05 (c)         9       Complied     6/30/1998   5/15/1999 Review, with association, the progress
                                                                     achieved MTR
 Section 3.01 (a)        01       Complied                           Maintain records and account for the
                                                                     NWFP component
 Section 3.01 (b)        01       Complied                           For NWFP component an annual audit
                                                                     report of CIP & special account within
                                                                     6 months of Financial year end.
 Schedule 2, Para 3 (a)  05       Complied     9/30/1996             Establish a project Steering Committee
 Schedule 2, Para3 (b)   05       Complied     9/30/1996             Establish a project Working
                                                                     Committee



                                                - 27 -

  Schedule 2, Para 4       05      Complied    9/30/1996             Establish Project review Board
  Schedule 2,              10      Complied                          Select scheme on basis of criteria, and
   Para 5                                                            designed, financed, implemented and main-
                                                                     tained through processes satisfactory to IDA
  Schedule 2,              10      Complied                          Enter into a scheme agreement with
   Para 6                                                            communities ad local council
  Schedule 2,              07     Not yet due                        Compensate for any resettlement in accord-
   Para 7                                                            ance with arrangement satisfactory to IDA
   Schedule 2,             10      Complied   1/31/1998   01/31/1999 Implement the project in accordance
   Para 8                                                            with implementation plane updated
                                                                     annually by Jan 31 each year



9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Director General - Community Infrastructure Project NWFP, Pakistan
        The NWFP-Community Infrastructure Project (CIP) was a novel idea. It proposed to
undertake developmental works in the NWFP through Community Driven Development (CDD)
approach. The Govt. of NWFP had never before done the developmental works in this manner
i.e., with the financial, managerial and technical partnership of the beneficiaries themselves.
Sceptics thought that it would be impossible for a project to obtain the share of the communities
in the form of cash contribution, rather than the usual forms of contribution in the shape of free
land or labor. The general opinion was that the communities could neither afford such cash
contributions nor would they trust the government with their money.

        The past six years, however, tell a different story. CIP partner communities contributed in
total of Rs 107 million in cash as their part of the deal with the Project in addition to non-cash
contributions they provided. Not only did 90 low-income-communities participate in the design,
financing and implementation of sub-projects providing basic municipal infrastructure worth more
than Rs 850 million (of course with varying degrees of enthusiasm), they were then at various
stages of making their own arrangements for maintaining and operating the infrastructure that CIP
had helped them build.

        To see how all these 90 sub projects faired, an independent third party evaluation was
carried out at the end of 2002. The findings of this evaluation pointed out certain shortcomings in
the original design of the project and the manner in which some components were implemented
over the years; the evaluation basically concluded that the CIP had been a success. In fact, it
termed CIP as a success story worth taking forward and improving further, by building upon the
lessons learned over the past six years. As such the GoNWFP requested the WB for a follow on
project for which the design has been finalized and project approval is expected in 3-4 months.
The project met its objectives. It may be noted that initially the project took much longer time to
achieve its objectives than originally anticipated, mainly due to its innovative nature, demand
driven approach and lack of clarity of procedures for financing the social activities.




                                                - 28 -

        The WB and SDC provided full support and cooperation to the PMU the PIUs and their
partners at the time of need. It was mainly due to the joint efforts of the donors that the project
achieved its objectives. We look forward to getting the same level of support and cooperation of
the donors for the follow-on project.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Swiss Agency for Development Corporation
        The Community Infrastructure Project was a joint project of the World Bank, Swiss
Agency for Development Co-operation and the Provincial Government of the NWFP through
their Local Government Election and Rural Development Department. This project worked
primarily towards the development of participatory models for rural infrastructure development
(water and sanitation related infrastructure only), and the strengthening of the government
municipal institutions that are mandated with these responsibilities.

        The financial contribution of SDC, and hence its primary interest in the project, was the
human and institutional capacity building of the institutions and organizations that were primarily
responsible for W&S service delivery. In this regard, the primary targets were the Tehsil
Municipal Authorities (TMAs) that, prior to the Devolution Plan, were known as the Municipal
Corporations, as well as the communities with which these municipal authorities were to work.
Prior to the Devolution Plan, community participation was encouraged through the development
of Community Based Organizations (CBOs). In the Post Devolution scenario, the Local
Government structure has now institutionalized this community participation in the form of
Citizen Community Boards (CCBs).

        Regarding the achievements of these components that were funded through SDC funds,
the situation has been similar to that of the CIP implementation as a whole. Progress on the
community mobilization and development aspects of CIP began in earnest but faced problems due
to the slow follow-up of the infrastructure component for which the communities had been
mobilized. The detailed progress of the community mobilization, community development and
infrastructure components may be found in the evaluation report and need not be repeated. The
progress on the institutional development of the TMAs, referred to as the Institutional
Strengthening Program (ISP), was the most delayed aspect of the project. Not only was the
commencement of ISP delayed till the middle of 2002, but the results of this component only
began to appear during the latter part of the Extension period in 2002-2003. This, however, does
not diminish the accomplishments of this component given the time restriction and other factors
limiting their progress. It is only regretful that this component could not have been initiated earlier
so as to allow the ISP more time in which to accomplish much more than what they have. The
validation of the ISP's work can be gauged from their influence on the design of the CIP-II
project that is soon to be launched. The importance of placing the institutional development
aspect of the project first and foremost in the follow-on project cannot be overstated. SDC
appreciated that an external evaluation of CIP was managed and considers such exercises as
important learning events. However, SDC felt that the evaluation could have been more focussed
on the key issues as mentioned above.

        SDC's partnership with the World Bank, and through them with the LEG&RD
Department has been on the whole satisfactory. Whereas there have been issues regarding the



                                                   - 29 -

timeliness of the project's implementation and the restrictions of government procedures,
especially regarding the procurement of additional human resources that are so essential for
capacity building processes, the spirit of cooperation and facilitation was never lacking. Provisions
can easily be made in the design of the next project to cater for such impediments to the smooth
progress of the project. The issue of financial monitoring may also be looked at as SDC is of the
opinion that SDC's own Internal Control Standards for financial management might not be met
through the current system that was in place for the project. Although both Government
procedures as well as IDA standards were being observed, SDC feels some improvements could
be made to better respond to the local circumstances

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Pak- CDP's Comments ( NGO)

        Director of the Pakistan -Community Development Program (Pak-CDP), a leading NGO
partner of CIP stated,
"..... We found Community Infrastructure Project (CIP) a very good partner for having provided
better coordination facilities and friendly working atmosphere. the designated staff of Pak-CDP
was given proper guidance when and where needed as atmosphere for effective and objective
oriented implementation of the Community Development activities....".

10. Additional Information

                                      CIP at Glance (1996-2003)
           Number of Sites                                  90
           Population Served                                Over 600,000
           Investment Per Household                         Rs. 16,400
           Average Contribution Per Household               Rs. 1,635 or Rs. 45/month
           Total Contribution Received from Communities     Over Rs. 92 million




                                                  - 30 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                1
                 Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR             Actual/Latest Estimate
(a) Proportion of project households having       more than 90%                      90 %
access to adequate infrastructure services
(by type of services);
(b) Lowering project infrastructure capital       40%                                40 (37%)
and operating costs relative to the cost of
traditional government schemes;
(c) Proportion of project households              50 %                               70 %
practicing improved hygiene;
(d) Evidence of increased community               75%                                75%
participation in government development
activities; and
(e) Proportion of project infrastructure                                             65%
facilities being maintained in working
condition one year after completion.


Output Indicators:
                                                                                1
                 Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR             Actual/Latest Estimate
(a) number of CBOs formed and registered;         90 (100%)                          90 (100%)


(b) infrastructure layout plans agreed;           90 (100%)                          90 (100%)


(c) community development programs                90 (75% were implemented)          80% actual programs implemented
agreed;
(d) availability of beneficiary contributions and 90%                                100% available and in some communities
counterpart funds;                                                                   exceeded contribution by 30-40%, only
(e) community training undertaken;                %                                  delayed by average 6 months
 and                                                                                 about 89 % carried out
(f) user group/household participation in         %                                  about 70% contributing
O&M.

1End of project




                                                                  - 31 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Primary Infrastructure                                       8.10          10.10           124.69
Local /Community Infrastructure                             13.40          17.00           126.85
Community Development                                        1.50            1.70          113.33
Design & Implementation                                      5.70            6.60          115.78
Institutional Development                                    1.90            2.10          110.52
Project Preparation Facility                                 1.30            1.30             100



Total Baseline Cost                                         31.90          38.80
 Physical Contingencies                                      3.70            3.90
 Price Contingencies                                         3.20            3.90
                          Total Project Costs               38.80          46.60
                   Total Financing Required                 38.80          46.60


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00           14.10        12.70         0.00         26.80
                                   (0.00)          (9.80)      (7.40)         (0.00)      (17.20)
2. Goods                            0.30            0.40         0.20         0.00          0.90
                                   (0.20)          (0.30)      (0.20)         (0.00)       (0.70)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         9.50         0.00          9.50
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (2.30)         (0.00)       (2.30)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         1.30         0.00          1.30
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (1.30)         (0.00)       (1.30)
5. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                            0.30           14.50        23.70         0.00         38.50
                                   (0.20)         (10.10)      (11.20)        (0.00)      (21.50)




                                                - 32 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                           Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category                 ICB              NCB                     2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                   0.00              5.22             10.08            0.00             15.30
                                            (0.00)             (3.65)            (7.06)           (0.00)           (10.71)
   2. Goods                                   0.00              0.22             0.00             0.00              0.22
                                            (0.00)             (0.20)            (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.20)
   3. Services                                0.00              0.00             1.86             3.54              5.40
                                            (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.68)           (1.32)           (2.01)
   4. Miscellaneous                           0.00              0.00             0.00             0.00              0.00
                                            (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                           0.00              0.00             0.00             0.00              0.00
                                            (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                           0.00              0.00             0.00             0.00              0.00
                                            (0.00)               ()                ()               ()             (0.00)
       Total                                  0.00              5.44             11.94            3.54             20.92
                                            (0.00)             (3.85)            (7.74)           (1.32)           (12.92)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
       (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank          Govt.       CoF.         Bank        Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Civil Works (catagory I)       14.70          1.32        2.68         10.20       1.51       3.06       69.4     114.4    114.2
Mach&Equip.(catagory            0.60          0.08                     0.20        0.02                  33.3      25.0
2B)
Incremental Staff Cost          0.80          0.92                     0.20        0.79                  25.0      85.9
(cataogory 5)
On Plot Sanitation              0.80                                   0.00                               0.0
(catagory 3)
Technical Assistance            1.30                      4.00         2.00                   3.09       153.8              77.3
Refund of PPF                   1.30                      3.08         1.30                              100.0              0.0




                                                            - 33 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

        CIP-I C/B Analysis: An economic analysis was carried out in the independent third-party
evaluation study of CIP-1 (December 2002). The report and the findings were endorsed by the
Government and the Bank. These findings are complemented by a TMA capacity assessment
completed on August 2003. The economic analysis was carried out for six completed CIP-1
schemes/sites. The economic costs and benefits were assessed for a stratified random sample of
10 communities of CIP-1, out of the total number of 90 schemes and communities.
Considerations for the sites sample were; geographic spread, combination of old, new, deepening
and pilot sites, completed and ongoing sites, covering all sub-components of CD and covering
the physical diversity, the services scope, various community sizes, and the various relevant social
and technical issues. Impact assessment surveys with comprehensive social, institutional, and
sustainability questionnaires were conducted in each of the 10 communities/sites.

        Scheme Benefits: Recorded benefits from six completed schemes were higher economic
activity, reduced depreciation of vehicles, fuel saving, increased value of houses, reduced
transportation cost for inbound/outbound farm commodities, due to improved roads and linkages.
Provision of drains or street pavement resulted in better hygienic conditions, improved health,
higher work-efficiency and reduced medical bills. Except gastroenteritis, most waterborne
diseases such as typhoid, dysentery, cholera, hepatitis and malaria have been reduced where water
supply schemes were implemented. The increase of value of land and house and savings are given
in Table I below;

          Table 1. Benefits CIP Scheme: Increased Land/House Value & Savings Medical
        Bill

                   Community             Hassam Ghorazai        Shera-     Tehkai     Hayat  Kanju
           Value and Savings Increase                           ghund       Bala      Khel
       Land-value/Acre (Rs)
      Before                                 1.25       1.15                      8                6
      After                                  1.70       1.60                     11                8
      Area Acres                              490        587                  116.8            399.5
      Value Resident. Houses -Rs
      Before                                  1.3       1.25        1.15         11      0.9       7
      After                                   1.8       1.75        1.65      14.75     1.25     9.5
      No.HHs                                  490        587         454        584      546     799
      Health Improvement (Rs)
      Before: previous bill                   225        200         225        400      275     375
      After: present bill                     200        150         225        300      300     325

       Compounding factor                   1.331      1.331       1.331      1.331    1.331   1.331




                                                 - 34 -

       On the basis of the assumptions in Table 2, EIRRs were calculated for six completed
community projects and found ranging from 25% to 75%. As shown in Table 3, the B/C ratio is
positive for all communities at the cut-off rate of 15% that is used by the Planning Commission.
EIRR for the urban localities (Kanju, Tehkal Bala) is calculated at 75% and 71% respectively.
The high return in these localities is attributed to the relatively higher appreciation in the value of
farm land and residential houses.

                              Table 2. Assumptions CIP Cost/Benefit Analysis

  1.    Roads were constructed in 04 out of the 06 six sites and resulted in improved linkages. Benefits from roads were
        higher economic activity, reduced depreciation of vehicles, fuel saving, increased value of houses, reduced
        transportation costs inbound/ outbound farm commodities. Farm land value increases were only taken where
        road construction took place. Benefits from land value appreciation are distributed evenly over 3 year period
        commencing from year 2.
  2.   Street pavement and drains were provided in all sites. Benefits were better hygienic conditions, improved
       health, higher work efficiency and reduced medical bills.
  3.   Value assessments were gathered from group discussion and field visits (2002)
  4.   Costs in 2002 prices from the year of scheme completion, using a 10% compounding factor
  5.   A very conservative approach was taken to estimate benefits
  6.   Life was taken as 10 years for all works
  7.   O&M costs were set at 3% of capital cost from year 2 onwards
  8.   Average farm size was taken as 1.0 acre/HH for Hasam. Ghorazai, Sharaghund, 0.75 acre/HH for Hayat Khel,
       05. acre/HH for Kanju, and 0.2 acre/HH for Tekhal Bala
  9.   Average house size:1 Kanal (4840 Sft) rural areas, 0.25 Kanal urban localities (Tekhal Bala/ Kanju)
 10.   Benefits from residential houses are evenly spread over 4 year period starting from year 2
 11    Savings from the medical bills are assumed as 25% of total increase in year 1, 60% in year 2, 90% in year 3,
       and full benefits from year 4 onwards
 12    Benefits from farm land and residential houses are taken as "Nil" from year 5 and 6 respectively. For medical
       bills benefits were assumed to continue during the period the infrastructure is intact
 13    For economic analysis only 25% of total benefits from farm land and residential houses ­ accruing to the
       individual - are assumed to be invested for the benefit of the economy.


                  Table 3: Economic Analysis of selected Completed CIP Schemes
                   Community              NPV @ 15%              B/C @ 15%               EIRR
                 Hassam                          1.11                 1.15               25 %
                 Ghorazai                        3.93                 1.36                37 %
                 Sheraghund                      1.73                 1.26                30 %
                 Tekhal Bala                     8.64                 2.02                71 %
                 Hayat Khel                      3.79                 1.38                37 %
                 Kanju                          13.08                 2.19               75 %




                                                     - 35 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              02/01/1993                3    Task Manager (i) Municipal           S
                                             Engineer (1) Institutional (1)
              09/19/1994                5    Task Manager (1) Municipal           S
                                             Engineer (1) Land Specialist (1)
                                             Housing Specialist; Financial
                                             Analyst ,

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              6/30/1995                 8    Task Manager; Municipal              S
                                             Engineer; Housing
                                             Specialist;CD and
                                             Institutional
                                             Specialist;Engineer;Procure
                                             ment/Disbursement;Monitori
                                             ngSpecialist
              02/15/1996                5    Task Manager;CD/Institutiona         S
                                             Devt. Specialist; Legal
                                             Officer;Financial
                                             Analyst/monitoring specialist

 Supervision

              10/13/1996                5    Task Manager(1); Procurement         S               S
                                             Disibursement (1); Municipal
                                             Engineer (1); CD/Process
                                             Monitoring (1); Management
                                             Information (1);SDC Reps
              05/05/1997                6    Task Manager;;                       S               S
                                             Community/Inst/Specialist;
                                             Municipal Engineer;
                                             Management Information; Urban
                                             Specialist;Procurement
              11/29/1997                6     Team Leader                         S               S
                                             accountant;Ins.Community Devt.
                                             Specialist; Municipal Engineer;
                                             Management Information; Urban
                                             Specialist; SDC Reps
              04/30/1998                6    Team Leader;                         S               S
                                             Community/Inst-Specialist;
                                             Mgmnt Information; Urban
                                             Specialist; Accountant Municipal
                                             Engineer; SDC Reps
              12/19/1998                3    Task Leader; Urban Spl/Imp;          S               S
                                             Finance/Monitoring;SDC rep
              05/14/1999                6    Team Leader; Urban                   S               S
                                             Specialist;Consultant/Engineer;



                                              - 36 -

                       Community
                       Specialist;Procurement;Disburse
                       ment; Finance/Monitoring;SDC
                       Program Officer
      05/06/2000    5  Task Team Leader; Community          S    S
                       Devt. Specialist; Engineer;WSP
                       Process Monitoring (1); Sr.
                       Disbursement Specialist;
                       Procurement;Institutional
                       Management Specialist;SDC
                       Program Officer
      11/09/2000    6  Team Leader; WSP-SA, Ins.            S    S
                       Devt Specialist; Procurement
                       Specialist Procurement;Urban
                       Specialist; Engineer/Cons.
                       SDC Program Officer
      05/31/2001    10 Task Team Leader;; Sr. Urban         S    S
                       Specialist; Sr. Procurement
                       Specialist; Engineer; Engineer
                       SDC; DY RES REP, SDC;
                       Consultant;2 Ins Devt. Specialist;
                       Section Officer EAD
      04/20/2002    3  TTL (1); Urban Specialist;SDC        S    S
                       Program Officer/Engineer
      01/09/2003    6  TTL (i) Sr Urban Specialist;         S    S
                       WSP Team Leader;Disbursement
                       Specialist;Procurement
                       Specialist;SDC Program
                       Officer/Engineer

ICR
      09/01/2003    9  Task Team Leader;                    S    S
                       Disbursement; Sr FM
                       Specialist;
                       Procurement;Engineer;CD
                       Social Devt. Specialist;
                       WSP-Institutional Devt.
                       Specialist;AJKCISP Chief
                       Technical Officer; Process
                       Monitoring;Mgmt
                       Specialist; SDC Program
                       Officer; Section
                       Officer-EAD




                       - 37 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            31.1                          110.6
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 46.3                          137.3
  Supervision                        144.85                      556,445.82
  ICR                                      9                            .35
  Total                              231.25                       839345.82




                                            - 38 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
   Macro policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
   Sector Policies                      H        SU    M       N    NA
   Physical                             H        SU    M       N    NA
   Financial                            H        SU    M       N    NA
   Institutional Development            H        SU    M       N    NA
   Environmental                        H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction           H        SU    M       N    NA
            Gender                      H        SU    M       N    NA
            Other (Please specify)      H        SU    M       N    NA
         The SU rating is based on
the recognition of community based
organizations (CBOs) as partners in
development by the National
Government; the Local Government
Ordinance (LGO) adopted the
policies and procedures of this
project, the partnership
arrangements for nationwide
implementation with fiscal and
budgetary support.
   Private sector development           H        SU    M       N    NA
   Public sector management             H        SU    M       N    NA
   Other (Please specify)               H        SU    M       N    NA
The SU rating is based on the
recognition that lower level of
governments can and could be
partners in development with CBOs,
therefore the Local Government
Ordinance (LGO), adopted the
partnership agreement with CBOs
with fiscal and budgetary support
including capacity building activities
for local govenrment staff on
participatory approaches.




                                                    - 39 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU
The satisfactory rating is based on a plus and minus performance during the life of the project.




                                                    - 40 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Studies/Reports Prepared under the Project

1.    Memorandum of Understanding between the Implementing Agencies and Partners.
2.    Quarterly Progress Reports produced by consultants in OPCV and later by CIP staff.
3.    CIP brochures and General Guidelines, including various presentation materials and video
       documents.
4.    Eighteen Aide-Memoire reports with technical annexes, including SDC monitoring reports.
5.    Operational Manuals of CIP (social, implementation and Financial).
6.    Final Report on Monitoring Process in CIP.
7.    Community Self Survey formats guidelines and formats
8.    Guidelines and format for Community Action Planning
9.    Community Action Planning, Process Monitoring case Study
10.   Community Selection and responses, PM case Study
11.   PC-I, PC-IV and other project documents of CIP
Documents/Reports by external Consultants

13.   OPCV PMU Consultants Report 1996-1998
14.   MTR Studies conducted by local consultants
         i.   MTR Study -1: Review of Planning, Project Implementation Process & Procedures
         ii.  MTR Study -2 : Assessment of Project impact on households
         iii. MTR Study -3: Review of CIP institutional arrangement /Local Government &
             Administrative Structure
         iv.  MTR Study-4: Assessment of Micro Finance Linkages
15.   MTR Review of Project Impact & studies- by an independent consultant
16.   Third Party Evaluation Report was presented by the Consultants Team in a stakeholders'
      workshop held on 01/02/2003, and revised in 08/2003.
17.   Workshop (CIP) report by Dr. Scott R. Bhuehler
18.   LGE&RDD National Workshop proceedings by consultant Islamabad
Documents/Reports of the Bank Consulted

19.   Staff Appraisal Report (02/13/96) and Development Credit and Project Agreements
      (07/17/1996)
20.   Full supervision reports, Aide memoires
21.   Project Status Reports
22.   Mid Term Review reports
23.   World Bank Project Status Reports
24.   Development Credit and Project Agreements (Amendments)
25.   Bank's Operational Manuals
26.   Guidelines for Preparing ICRs
27.   Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Pakistan 12/19/1995
28.   Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Pakistan 12/29/1998
29.   Pakistan Interim Poverty Assessment 2001/2002




                                               - 41 -

- 42 -

