Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2829 PAK
                       Development Credit Agreement
       (NWFP Community Infrastructure and NHA Strengthening Project)
                                  between
                       ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                           Dated April 18, 1996
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2829 PAK
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 18, 1996, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
OF PAKISTAN, acting by its President (the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of
the Swiss Confederation (Switzerland) acting through the Swiss
Development Cooperation (SDC) a non-reimbursable contribution
in an amount of three million four hundred fifty thousand
dollars ($3,450,000) (the Swiss Contribution) to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in
an agreement (the Swiss Contribution Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and Switzerland;
      (C)   Switzerland intends to appoint the Association to
administer the Swiss Contribution in accordance with the
provisions of the Procedural Arrangements, dated May 9, 1990,
between Switzerland and the Association (the Procedural
Arrangements);
      (D)   the Borrower also intends to obtain from the United
Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) a grant in an amount
equivalent to two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000)
(the UNICEF Grant) to assist in financing the Project on the
Page  2
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the UNICEF
Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
UNICEF;
      (E)   the Project, other than Part B.2 thereof, will be
carried out by the North West Frontier Province (hereinafter
called NWFP) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to NWFP the
proceeds of the Credit and of the Swiss Contribution as
provided in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and
in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and NWFP;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
      (a)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
      (b)   the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to
            read as follows:
            "Except as the Borrower and the Association shall
            otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a)
            on account of expenditures in the territories of any
            country which is not a member of the Bank or for
            goods produced in, or services supplied from, such
            territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment
            to persons or entities, or for any import of goods,
            if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
            Association, is prohibited by a decision of the
            United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter
            VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "NWFP" means the North West Frontier Province, a
political sub-division of the Borrower, or any successor
thereto;
      (b)   "NHA" means the National Housing Authority of the
Borrower;
      (c)   "LGERDD" means the Local Government, Elections and
Rural Development Department of NWFP;
      (d)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and NWFP of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
      (e)   "Swiss Contribution Account" means the Account
established by Switzerland for the purposes of the Swiss
Contribution;
      (f)   "Borrower's Special Account" means the Borrower's
Page  3
account referred to in Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
      (g)   "NWFP Special Account" means NWFP's account referred
to in Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
      (h)   "Swiss Contribution Special Account" means NWFP's
account referred to in Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
      (i)   "Special Accounts" mean the Borrower's, NWFP and
Swiss Contribution Special Accounts collectively, and "Special
Account" means any such account individually;
      (j)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated August 4, 1992 and
October 27, 1992 between the Borrower and the Association;
      (k)   "PMU" means the Project Management Unit of the
Provincial Urban Development Board of NWFP, reporting, for
purposes of the Project, to the Secretary, LGERDD;
      (l)   "PIU" means a Project Implementation Unit of PMU;
      (m)   "PSC" means the Project Steering Committee referred
to in paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
      (n)   "Working Committee" means the Committee referred to
in paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
      (o)   "CBOs" mean the Community-Based Organizations
referred to in paragraph 5 (c) (i) of Schedule 2 to the Project
Agreement; and "CBO" means any such organization individually;
      (p)   "O&M" means operation and maintenance; and
      (q)   "FY" means the fiscal year of the Borrower commencing
July 1 and ending June 30 of each year.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to thirteen million seven hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 13,700,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit and the amount
of the Swiss Contribution may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and the Swiss Contribution Account, respectively, in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss Contribution.
      (b)   Except as the Association and Switzerland shall
otherwise agree or to the extent the Swiss Contribution
Agreement may otherwise specify, the allocation and the
procedures for withdrawals of the Swiss Contribution shall be
governed, mutatis mutandis, by the provisions of the General
Conditions.
      (c)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain and cause NWFP to open and maintain in
dollars special deposit accounts in the National Bank of
Pakistan on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedules 3 and 4 to this Agreement.
Page  4
      (d)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of
the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount of the
Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified
in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each January 1 and July 1
commencing July 1, 2006 and ending January 1, 2031. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on January
1, 2016 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two
and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product
per capita, as determined by the Association, shall have
exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive
years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments,
the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such
Page  5
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines
that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the Unites States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 2.09. The Additional Chief Secretary, Planning,
Environment and Development Department, NWFP is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions in respect of the activities to be carried out by
NWFP under the Project.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, (i) shall carry out Part B.2
of the Project through NHA with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and community development practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for Part B.2 of the Project, and
(ii) without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, shall
cause NWFP to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the obligations of NWFP therein set
forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable NWFP to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
and the Swiss Contribution available to NWFP, other than
portions thereof required to be retained by the Borrower for
purposes of Part B.2 of the Project.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss Contribution shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby
agree that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04,
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) shall be carried out by NWFP pursuant to Section
2.03 of the Project Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
Page  6
resources and expenditures in respect of Part B.2 of the
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out Part B.2 of the Project or any
part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                  for the Borrower Special Account for each
                  fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                  the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as
                  available, but in any case not later than six
                  months after the end of each such year, a
                  certified copy of the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Association shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other
                  information concerning said records,
                  accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Association shall from to time reasonably
                  request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                  accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                  records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit report for
                  the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                  from the Credit Account or the Swiss
                  Contribution Account or payment out of the
                  Special Accounts was made, all records
                  (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                  and other documents) evidencing such
                  expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives
                  to examine such records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                  report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such
                  fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                  internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified,
namely that:
      (a)   NWFP shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
Page  7
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
NWFP will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
      (c)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph,
                  the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                  proceeds of the Swiss Contribution made to the
                  Borrower for the financing of the Project shall
                  have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
                  whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
                  Swiss Contribution Agreement.
            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                  satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
                  suspension, cancellation or termination is not
                  caused by the failure of the Borrower to
                  perform any of its obligations under such
                  agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                  Project are available to the Borrower from
                  other sources on terms and conditions
                  consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
                  under this Agreement.
    Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
    (b)   the event specified in paragraph (c) (i) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
    Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
    (a)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Swiss Contribution Agreement have been fulfilled, other than
those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement;
    (b)   the PMU and the PIUs have been strengthened pursuant to
the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of Schedule 2 to the
Project Agreement; and
    (c)   the consultants required for the purposes of Part A of
the Project have been appointed subject to the provisions of
Section II of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
    Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by NWFP, and is
legally binding upon NWFP in accordance with its terms.
    Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
    Section 6.04. The provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
Page  8
5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
    Section 6.05. In the event that Switzerland or the
Association terminates the functions of the Association
pursuant to paragraph 9 of the Procedural Arrangements, the
Association shall notify the Borrower promptly of the date on
which Switzerland shall assume the rights and obligations of
the Association under this Agreement in respect of the Swiss
Contribution.
                                ARTICLE VII
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division, or any Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Deputy Secretary, or Section Officer in that
Division of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
    Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
          Economic Affairs Division
          Islamabad, Pakistan
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                  ECONOMIC                  ECDIV-05-634
                  Islamabad
    For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                By /s/ Mansoor Elahi
                                                Authorized Representative
                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  9
                By /s/ Mieko Nishimizu
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                               South Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss
Contribution, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and
the Swiss Contribution to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                     Amount
                                     of the
                         Amount      Swiss
                         of the      Contri-
                         Credit      bution
                        Allocated   Allocated
                       (Expressed  (Expressed           % of
                         in SDR     in Dollar        Expenditures
Category              Equivalent)  Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works                     9,340,000       70%
(2) Vehicles and                                    100% of foreign
    equipment for:                                  expenditures,
                                                    100% of local
    (a)  Part B.2                      70,000       expenditures
         of the                                     (ex-factory
         Project                                    cost) and
                                                    80% of local
    (b)  All other       320,000                    expenditures
         Parts of                                   for other items
         the Project                                procured locally
(3) On-plot              520,000                    100% of
    sanitation                                      amounts
    grants under                                    disbursed
    Part A.2 of
    the Project
(4) Consultants'                                    100%
    services,
    other ser-
    vices and
    training for:
    (a) Part B.2         380,000      450,000
        of the
        Project
    (b) All other        450,000    3,000,000
        Parts of
        the Project
(5) Incremental          510,000                    60% in FY95,
    staff costs                                     through FY97,
                                                    55% in FY98
                                                    and FY99 and
                                                    40% thereafter
(6) Refunding            830,000                    Amount due
    of Project                                      pursuant to
    Preparation                                     Section 2.02 (d)
    Advance                                         of this Agreement
(7) Unallocated        1,280,000
                      __________     _________
Page  10
       TOTAL          13,700,000     3,450,000
                      ==========     =========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
    (c)   the term "incremental staff costs" means the costs of
staff of the PMU and PIUs appointed to posts created on or
after March 1, 1994 exclusively for purposes of the Project.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
    (a)   in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 570,000,
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before
that date but after October 15, 1994; and
    (b)   under Categories (4) (a) and (4) (b) from the proceeds
of the Credit, unless and until the proceeds of the Swiss
Contribution allocated to such Categories have been fully
disbursed.
4.  The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for expenditures for goods and works under contracts not
exceeding $150,000 equivalent, and for consultants' and other
services under contracts not exceeding $100,000 in the case of
consulting firms or $50,000 in the case of individual
consultants, all under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objective of the Project is to increase the productivity
and living conditions of low income groups in NWFP through the
provision of basic infrastructure and community development.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   NWFP Community Infrastructure Upgrading
1.  Upgrading of basic infrastructure in about 55 urban and
rural communities, including, inter alia, provision of water
supply, stormwater drainage, flood protection, streets and
footpaths, sanitation and solid waste management.
2.  Provision of incentive grants towards the cost of on-plot
sanitation facilities.
3.  Carrying out of community development, provision of health
and hygiene education, and, wherever requested by the
community, improvement of land registration facilities and
documentation.
4.  Provision of design and implementation assistance, including
the establishment or strengthening and operation of Project
Page  11
Implementation Units (PIUs), the provision of consultants'
services and training of staff and communities.
Part B:   Institutional Development and Project Preparation
1.  Provision of technical assistance to NWFP for the carrying
out of a study for strengthening LGERDD, institutionalizing the
PMU's infrastructure functions within LGERDD and strengthening
local councils.
2.  Provision of technical assistance to the Borrower for
strengthening NHA, including assistance in data analysis and
sector monitoring; program monitoring, evaluation and
dissemination; building technology evaluation and
dissemination; policy development; and information exchange.
                             *      *       *
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                          Credit Special Accounts
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means, in respect of the
Borrower's Special Account, Categories (2) (a) and (4) (a) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, and, in respect of the NWFP Special Account, all
others of Categories (1) through (5) set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for  the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) in respect
of the Borrower, an amount equivalent to $40,000 to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the
Borrower's Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to
an amount equivalent to $15,000 until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
in respect of the relevant eligible Categories shall be equal
to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 250,000; and (ii) in respect
of NWFP, an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn
from the Credit Account and deposited into the NWFP Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided,
however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent
to $400,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of the relevant
eligible Categories shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent
of SDR 6,000,000.
2.  Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the relevant Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals
to replenish such Special Account shall be made as follows:
Page  12
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower or NWFP, as the case may be, shall furnish to the
Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of
such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower or NWFP, as the case may be, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount
or amounts as the Borrower or NWFP, as the case may be, shall
have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower or NWFP, as the case may be, shall
                furnish to the Association requests for deposits
                into the Special Account at such intervals as the
                Association shall specify.
         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such
                request, the Borrower or NWFP, as the case
                may be, shall furnish to the Association the
                documents and other evidence required
                pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for
                the payment or payments in respect of which
                replenishment is requested. On the basis of
                each such request, the Association shall, on
                behalf of the Borrower or NWFP, as the case
                may be, withdraw from the Credit Account and
                deposit into the Special Account such amount
                as the Borrower or NWFP, as the case may be,
                shall have requested and as shall have been
                shown by said documents and other evidence
                to have been paid out of the Special Account
                for eligible expenditures. All such deposits
                shall be withdrawn by the Association from
                the Credit Account under the respective
                eligible Categories, and in the respective
                equivalent amounts, as shall have been
                justified by said documents and other
                evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower or NWFP, as the case
may be, out of a Special Account, the Borrower or NWFP, as the
case may be, shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents
and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into a Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower or
NWFP, as the case may be, directly from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
    (b)   if the Borrower or NWFP, as the case may be, shall have
failed to furnish to the Association, within the period of time
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of
the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;
    (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified
the Borrower or NWFP, as the case may be, of its intention to
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower or NWFP,
as the case may be, to make withdrawals from the Credit Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
Page  13
    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the relevant eligible Categories, less the amount
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to such eligible Categories, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the relevant Authorized
Allocation.
    Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
relevant eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower or
NWFP, as the case may be. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in a Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of a Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower or NWFP, as the case
may be, shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Association may
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower or NWFP, as
the case may be, has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for the relevant eligible
expenditures, the Borrower or NWFP, as the case may be, shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the
Association such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower or NWFP, as the case may be, may, upon
notice to the Association, refund to the Association all or any
portion of the funds on deposit in a Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                    Swiss Contribution Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Category" means Category (4) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Swiss Contribution allocated from time to time to the eligible
Category in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $200,000 to be withdrawn from the Swiss
Contribution Account and deposited into the Special Account
Page  14
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, NWFP
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the
Association shall, on behalf of the NWFP, withdraw from the
Swiss Contribution Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount or amounts as NWFP shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, NWFP
                shall furnish to the Association requests for
                deposits into the Special Account at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                NWFP shall furnish to the Association the documents
                and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4
                of this Schedule for the payment or payments in
                respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the
                basis of each such request, the Association shall, on
                behalf of NWFP, withdraw from the Swiss Contribution
                Account and deposit into the Special Account such
                amount as NWFP shall have requested and as shall
                have been shown by said documents and other
                evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Swiss Contribution Account under the respective eligible
Category, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by NWFP out of the Special Account,
NWFP shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by NWFP directly
from the Swiss Contribution Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
    (b)   if NWFP shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section
4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for
the Special Account;
    (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified
NWFP of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of NWFP to make withdrawals from the Swiss Contribution Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
Page  15
    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Swiss
Contribution allocated to the eligible Category, minus thetotal amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to such eligible Category, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
    Thereafter, withdrawal from the Swiss Contribution Account
of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Swiss Contribution
allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such procedures
as the Association shall specify by notice to NWFP.  Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, NWFP shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional
evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until NWFP has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
NWFP shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
    (c)   NWFP may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Swiss Contribution Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
