Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMICAL USE ONLY
vA/ ,c S-s =- VDC
Repo Ni.-5568-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
FIFTH WAPDA POWER PROJECT
May 3, 1985
Power and Transportation Division
South Asia Projects Department
This do_- a     a restrited distribtin and may be tsW by redpiets ody in the pefuwmance of
tlher offical dds Is esteat my no otherwise be disdosed without Wol BDk aorlalin.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          =    Pakistan Rupees (PRs)
Rupee 1                =    Paisa 100
Rupee 1                      US$0.0653
Rupees 1,000,000       =    US$65,316
US$1                   =    Rs 15.31
US$1,000,000           =    Rs 15,310,000
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 kilometer (km)              =    0.6214 miles (mi)
1 kilovolt (kV)               =    1,000 volts (v)
1 megawatt (MW)              =    1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 megavolt-ampere (CVA)      =    1,000 kilovolt-amperes (kVA)
1 kilowatt hour (kWh)         =    1,000 watt-hours
1 gigawaEt hour (GCh)         =    1,000,000 kilowatt hours (kwh)
1 megavar (MWAR)              =    1,000 kilovolt-ampere
reactive (kVAR)
1 ton of oil equivalent (toe)=    10,200 Kcal/kg
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB     -  Asian Development Bank
AEB     -  Area Electricity Board
AG      -  Auditor General
CIDA    -  Canadian International Development Agency
CDWP    -  Central Development Working Party
ECC     -  Economic Coordination Committee
ECNEC   -  National Economic Council
ESL     -  Energy Sector Loan
CDP     -  Gross Domestic Product
GOP     -  Government of Pakistan
ICB     -  International Competitive Bidding
IDA     -  International Development Association
IERR    -  Internal Economic Rate of Return
KESC    -  Karachi Electric Supply Corporation, Ltd.
LCB     -  Local Competitive Bidding
LIB     -  Limited International Bidding
LRMC    -  Long-Run Marginal Cost
MOP     -  Ministry of Production
MPD     -  Ministry of Planning and Development
MPNR    -  Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources
MWP     -  Ministry of Water and Power
NEPC    -  National Energy Policy Committee
NESPAK  -  National Engineering Services of Pakistan
NPP     -  National Power Plan
OGDC    -  Oil and Gas Development Corporation
PAEC    -  Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission
STG     -  Sub Transmission Grids
USAID   -  United States Agency for International Development
WAPDA   -  Water and Power Development Authority
GOP and WAPDA'S FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
FIFTI WAPDA POWER PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower            : Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA)
Guarantor            : Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Amount              : US$100.0 million equivalent
Terms                : Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace at
the standard variable interest rate
Project Description : The Project would assist WAPDA in the reinforcement and
expansion of the extra high voltage (EHV) power transmi.s-
sion network, which would also contribute to the reduc-
tion of transmission losses. It would consist of (a) the
installation of about 1,100 km of 500-kV transmission
lines, (b) the installation of two new 500/220-kV substa-
tions, the extension of four existing 500/220-kV substa-
tions, and (c) consulting services for (i) the coLlec-
tion, storage and retrieval of data on the power system,
(ii) a load research and management study, and (iii) a
feasibility study and detailed engineering for a power
station complex based on mainly imported coal to be
located in the vicinity of Karachi. The proposed Project
would involve normal electric utility work entailing no
unusual risks and there should be no difficulty in its
execution. Under previous and ongoing implementation of
the 500-kV network, WAPDA and its consultant, the
National Engineering Services of Pakistan (NESPAK) have
demonstrated their capability in designing and executing
similar projects. The likelihood of serious delays or
substantial cost overruns is therefore expected to be
minimal.
This do_en has a resticed diufttion and may be used by reipients ondy in the perfonnaene of
thew ofli=e dute Its conts may ot otherwie be disclosed vithout World lank authozatum



Estimated Costs
Local           Foreign           Total
--US$ Million
Transmission Lines                 62.5              67.3            129.8
Extension of Substations            8.5              15.4             23.9
New Substations                    15.8              25.7             41.5
Auxiliaries                        18.2              11.4             29.6
Engineering Supervision
and Administration                15.4               _               15.4
Consulting Services                 -                 5.1              5.1
Total Base Cost                120.4             124.9            245.3
Physical Contingencies              6.1               6.2             12.3
Price Contingencies                12.5              17.5             30.0
Total Project Cost             139.0             148.6            287.6
Interest during Construction        5.1               8.2             13.3
Total Financing Required       144.1             156.8            300.9
Financing Plan
IBRD Loan                          -               100.0             100.0
Cofinancing                        -                40.0              40.0
WAPDA                             120.4               -              120.4
GOP                                23.7              16.8             40.5
Total                          144.1            i56.8             300.9
Estimated Commitments and Disbursements:
US$ Million----
IBRD                              FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91
Annual                              8       12       36      27       13       4
Cumulative                          8       20      56       83       96     100
Rate of Return:    15Z
Map            :    IBRD 18732



-iii-
PAKISTAN
FIFTH WAPDA POWER PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  ENERGY RESOURCES .......     ...............................   1
A. Overviev  .*. ... ................. t      .   . .Iv* 1
B.  Organization of the Energy Sector ........... ......   3
C. Supply and Consumption of Commercial Energy .......     4
D.  Energy Pricing ....................................   4
E.  Energy Planning and Development Strategy ..........    7
F. The Bank Group Involvement ..       ......................   7
II. THE BORROWER   . ......... .  9
III.   THE PROJECT .. ................... ew  .......            15
IV.  FINANCES ..............:........... ....................   22
V.  ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION ............................ ...  30
A.  Forecast of El-ectricity Sales by WAPDA ............  30
B.  Least Cost Alternative ................ .....*.....*   32
C.  Internal Economic Rate of Return ..................  32
VI.   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS .................................  34
This report was prepared by Messrs. I. Elwan (economist), E. Linard de Guer-
techin (engineer), M. Sharma (economist), R. Sharma (systems specialist),
and J. Vance (financial analyst).



-iv-
ANNEXES
Annex 1.1 - Organization Chart - Energy Sector ...............   35
Annex 1.2 - Energy Balance, 1978          .................            36
Annex 1.3 - Energy Balance, 1984  ...............-.........            37
Annex 1.4 - Relationship between Domestic and
Border Prices of Petroleum Products .......38
Annex 1.5 - Energy Balance, 1988  .......*  ..............   39
Annex 2.1 - Organization Chart - WAPDA ....40
Annex 2.2 - Organization Chart - Power Wing ..............41
Annex 2.3 - WAPDA Thermal Generation Statistics ..............   42
Annex 2.4 - Forecast of Capacity and Energy Balances .........   44
Annex 3.1 - Project Description                                       45
Annex 3.2 - Detailed Breakdown of Project Costs ..............   47
Annex 3.3 - Project Implementation Schedule ..................   48
Annex 3.4 - Schedule of Disbursements ........................   49
Annex 4.1 - WAPDA Balance Sheets                                       50
Annex 4.2 - WAPDA Income Statements          .........        .....   51
Annex 4.3 - WAPDA Sources and Application of Funds
Statements ........o............ ; ..    52
Annex 4.4 - Notes and Assumptions for Financial Forecasts ....   53
Annex 4.5 - WAPDA Investment Program for FY85-93 .............   56
Annex 5.1 - Actual and Projected Power Demand and
Energy Sales.. .......     ......... ........         57
Annex 5.2 - Internal Economic Rate of Returnt......                   58
Annex 5.3 - Assumptions for Internal Economic Rate of
Return. ......... .      . .............   60
Annex 6.1 - Documents and Information in the Project File             62
MAP
IBRD 18732



I. ENERGY RESOURCES
A. Overview
1.01    Pakistan's commercially exploitable domestic energy resources consist
of hydro power and naturaL gas, which account for a major share of these
resources, followed by oil and coal. In addition, the country has a substan-
tial non-conventional energy resource base, consisting mainly of fuelwood,
agricultural and animal waste, and solar and wind energy. To date, these
resources are, by and large, underutilized and their development has
progressed at a substantially slower pace than is warranted by the size of
the reserves, mainly because of financial constraints and the absence of a
comprehensive plan outlining priorities for development. These issues will
be addressed under the Bank's future lending operations such as the proposed
Energy Sector Loan (ESL), whose purpose would be to ansure that high priority
projects are implemented by making available resources for their initiation
and completion and by setting a timetable for actions and measures to be
taken by the Government of Pakistan (GOP).
Hydropower
1.02    Hydropower is Pakistan's most important source of energy with the
potential estimated at about 30,000 MW. Of this, only 2,897 MW has been
developed and 812 MW is under construction. Another 3,600 KW will be added
when the site at Kalabagh is fully developed. Detailed engineering has been
completed and currently, preparations are underway for implementing this
scheme. GOP has also completed a study for ranking the sites on the Indus
River where hydropower potential is greater than 200 MW. Of these sites,
Basha and Dasu, whose potential is estimated at about 2,400 MW and 2,700 MW
respectively, are ranked first and second in the order of priority for
development after Kalabagh. Long-term plans for the development of the
hydropower potential call for exploitation of the sites at Kalabagh, Basha
and Dasu by the year 2020. Detailed cost estimates are required for
integrating the development of these sites with the program for thermal
generation and determine the optimal timing for their impLementation and
commissioning. So far, cost data are only available for Kalabagh. In order
to formulate a long-term plan for power, covering the period 1986-2005,
detailed cost estimates for Basha are required. The feasibility study for
this site has been completed with the assistance of consultants under financ-
ing from CIDA. GOP will recruit consultants by December 31, 1985, to under-
take the work covering the detailed engineering and design. Similar work
would bw initiated for Dasu after the work has been completed for Basha.
1.03    Hydrocarbons:  Natural gas is Pakistants main commercially exploited
hydrocarbon resource, with known reserves estimated at about 340 million tons
of oil equivafent (toe), comprising 271 million toe of proven reserves and 69



-2-
million toe of probable reserves. Proven reserves of oil, by contrast. are
modest, estimated ac about 13 million tons. In addition to the proven reser-
ves, probable oil reserves at known fields are estimated at 3 million tons
and possible reserves at about 6 miLlion tons. Therefore, the prospects for
increasing domestic production of oil and particularly, gas, are good. In
view of the promising prospects for increasing the domestic output of
hydrocarbons, GOP has actively promoted the involvement of public and private
sector enterprises in exploration and development of oil and gas over the
past two years. As a result, exploration and development has accelerated.
In 1984, 46,exploratory and development wells wee spudded or drilled and four
new oil and two new gas fields were discovered. Seismic surveys in the
offshore areas, undertaken with the assistance of Norway, have identified
four promising structures for drilling and further evaluation. GOP is in the
process of finalizing negotiations for offshore drilling of oil-bearing
structures located in the Indus and Makran basins. Agreement has also been
concluded with the private sector on producer prices for gas from existing
fields at Mari and Sui which has resulted in satisfactory progress being made
in the development of this resource.
Coal
1.04    Coal and lignite reserves are estimated at about 835 million tons, of
which only 107 million tons are proven. Of the total new reserves, about 80X
are held by the private sector and the remaining 20Z, amounting to 165 mil-
lion tons, is held by Pakistan Mineral Development Corporation (PMDC), a
Government-owned entity. The size of the proven reserves in the private and
public sectors is believed to be substantially lower than the country's
potential; however, at this point in time, very little is known of the geol-
ogy of coal in Pakistan. Consequently, GOP has decided to undertake a sys-
tematic program for the formulation of a comprehensive coal exploration
strategy. The Geological Survey of Pakistan (GSP), and the US Geological
Survey have signed an agreement to undertake a systematic program for the
formulation of a comprehensive coal exploration strategy. The Geological
Survey of Pakistan (GSP), and the US Geological Survey have signed an agree-
ment to undertake joint work, under USAID financing, to identify priorities
for exploration drilling and geophysical analyses. The first phase of this
work involves the assessment of the reserves in 1987 and 1988. This work
would identity the concessions, whether held by the private or public sector,
where further exploration is justified. In addition, the Water and Power
Development Authority (WAPDA),is currently implementing a program, under Bank
financing (Cr. 1355-PAK), aimed at firming up the extent of the reserves at
Dukki in Baluchistan and preparing a feasibility study for mining the coal
for power generation. GOP is also assessing, under USAID financing, the
potential for stimulating increased private sector involvement in coal
production using the development of the Lakhra reserves as a model. Should
the results prove favorable, the same model could be applied to other promis-
ing reserves. In addition, GOP has outlined a two-phase program to promote
the accelerated development of coal. The first phase would involve a highly
focused study to be initiated by September 30, 1985 and completed by April
30, 1986, to identify the main operational constraints being experienced and
outline a plan of action foe addressing them. The second phase would involve
the implementation of the plan of action which will be initiated by June 30,
1986.



-3-
Uranium
1.05    The only available estimate of uranium resources dates from 1976,
when resources with a cut-off grade of 0.1% uranium oxide U308 were estimated
at 150,000 tons of mineralized material, containing 181 tons of uranium
metal. Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission (PAEC) is exploring two relatively
large reserves which, it is hoped, would be sufficient to provide fuel for a
sizeable nuclear power program.
Renewable Energy Resources
1.06    Renewable energy resources have traditionally supplied more than 50Z
of the country's total energy requirements. ALthough detailed data on
non-commercial energy consumption by fuel type and sector are sparse. it is
estimated that they accounted for about 36% of the overall supply oi energy
in 1983. Non-commercial fuels will continue to meet a large part of the
energy needs of rural households in the future, but their share is expected
to decline relative to that of commerciaL energy. The government has
recently been analyzing and experimenting with the more productive utiliza-
tion of renewable energy resources. These developments, however, are at the
exploratory stage and are unlikely to have a significant impact on the over-
all energy picture in the near future.
B. Organization of the Energy Sector
1.07    The energy sector is highly fragmented with a multiplicity of
entities operating so that coordination within the sector is difficult and in
some cases overlapping. Three ministries share the responsibility for super-
vising the operational entities and agencies involved in the energy sector.
These are the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources (MPNR), the Minis-
try of Production (MOP), and the Ministry of Water and Power (MWP). In
addition, the Energy Division of the Ministry of Planning and Development
(MPD) has responsibility for energy planning. Operational responsibilities
in the sector are vested in a large number of entities and agencies in both
the public and the private sectors. As shown in the organization chart in
Annex 1.1, all these entities and agencies, except for three state organiza-
tions engaged in oil refining or petrochemicals, the two electricity supply
organizations and the Appropriate Technology Development Corporation come
under the jurisdiction of MPNR. Nuclear energy comes under the Office of the
Chief Martial Law Administrator. Coordination between the ministries on
energy matters is secured thrcugh a number of committees, namely the National
Energy Policy Committee (NEPC), the Economic Coordination Committee (ECC),
the Executive Committee of the National Economic CounciL (ECNEC), and the
Central DeveLopment Working Party (CDWP). NEPC is responsible for the for-
mulation of COP's energy policy. The review of the financial plans of the
sector and the approval of energy pricing proposals is under the jurisdiction
of ECC. ECNEC and CDWP review major proposals in the energy sector, as in
other sectors.
1.08    The main issue concerning the organization of the energy sector is
the multiplicity of ministries and committees responsibLe for pLanning,
coordinating and monitoring the performance of the public and private
enterprises involved in the production. transport and delivery of energy



-4-
products. This division of responsibility spreads the scarce human resour-
ces, particularly at the technical level, among a Large number of public
agencies, thus denying the sector the critical mass needed for close coor-
dination of plans and management. Efforts have been undertaken by COP to
rectify this by creating an energy planning cell (ENERPLAN) at MPD and an
energy conservation unit (ENERCON) at MOP under financing from USAID. The
Bank reviewed the scope of work, terms of reference and the timetable for the
work to be undertaken by ENERPLAN and ENERCON and found them satisfactory.
Agreement has been reached with GOP and USAID that progress in the implemen-
tation of the tasks undertaken by ENERPLAN and ENERCON would be formally
monitored by the Bank.             I
C. Supply and Consumption of Commercial Energy
1.09    Pakistan's gross supply of commercial energy, comprising domestic
production and imports, increased during the period 1978-1983 at an average
annual rate of about 8%, from 12,049 thousand toe to 1.7,760 thousand toe. In
1978, about 612 of the gross supply of commercial energy was produced domes-
ticaLly and the remaining 39%, consisting mainly of petroleum products, was
imported. The corresponding figures for 1983 were 652 and 35%, respectively.
The decline in the relative share of imported energy was largely due to the
rapid increase in the supply of hydro and natural gas, with the former
increasing from 1,786 thousand toe in 1978 to 2,705 thousand toe in 1983 and
the Latter from 4,453 thousand toe to 7,695 thousand toe. Despite this
increase, severe shortages of natural gas and electricity were experienced
during the last two years of the Fifth Five-Year Plan (1978-1983). These
shortages were attributed to the unprecedented growth of consumption,
precipitated by COP's pricing policies which distorted the relative structure
of prices. These shortages were further exacerbated by financial con-
straints, stemming from unanticipated increase in government outlays for
ongoing projects, which induced GOP to substantially scale down the invest-
ment program for the power subsector. This, in turn, prompted the utilities
I/ to allocate the limited resources to expanding their generating capacity
and the transmission and distribution networks rather than to improving their
efficiency through retrofitting, rehabilitation and reinforcement. As a
result, losses in the production, transmission and distribution of elec-
tricity increased over the Fifth Five Year Plan from 21% of gross energy
consumption in 1978 to 23% in 1983. Energy balances for 1978 and 1983,
describing the changes in the supply and consumption of energy during the
Fifth Five-Year Plan, are presented in Annexes 1.2 and 1.3.
D. Energy Pricing
1.10    Each enterprise in the energy sector is responsible for setting its
own price at levels that cover its costs, generate sufficient revenue for its
investment program and earn an acceptable rate of return on its assets. In
1/  Refer to both WAPDA and the Karachi Electricity Supply Corporation
(KESC).



-5-
practice, however, all changes in the structure and level of prices must bh
reviewed by the ministry concerned and approved by the Cabinet. Up to 1980,
GOP buffered the economy from the full impact of the higher cost of imported
energy, which started increasing after the oil embargo of 1973, by maintain-
ing the upward adjustments in the prices of domestic energy products at
levels that were substantially below the increases in the prices of imported
energy and the general price level. As a result, prices of domestic energy
products decreased in real terms between 1973 and 1979, which seriously
distorted the structure of the relative prices of competing fuels such as
fuel oil, natural gas and coal. In 1980, GOP decided to rationalize the
consumption and supply of energy by increasing the prices of petroleum
products, natural gas, coal and electricity. Domestic prices of energy
products such as gasoline, diesel fueL oit and natural gas were increased at
rates that, on the average, exceeded the increase in the general price level.
This has addressed some of the inconsistencies in the prices of energy, but
considerable work is still required to fully eLiminate the prevailing distor-
tion in the structure of prices, particularLy of electricity and gas. In
recognizing the need for consistent and systematic adjustment in the struc-
ture and Level of prices, the Sixth Five-Year pLan has set as one of its
objectives the achievement of parity between domestic prices of energy and
border prices or economic cost, whichever is applicable (para 1.14).
1.11    Petroleum Products and Gas:  The petroleum subsector has been a net
contributor to the resources of COP since 1973. In 1985, the weighted
average domestic price of petroleum products was at 150% of the border price,
US$362/toe compared to US$242.'oe. Under the prevailing price structure,
prices of all petroleum products are above their respective border prices,
with the exception of fuel oil which is below its border price by about
US$22/toe. The relationship between domestic and border prices of petroleum
products is summarized in Annex 1.4. Domestic prices of gas have tradition-
aLly been kept below their opportunity cost which is assumed in the case of
Pakistan to be equal to the border price of fuel oil. GOP agreed under SAL I
to move the price of gas to reach two-thirds the border price of fuel oil by
1988. As a resuLt, the weighted average domestic price of gas has increased
since 1980 at an average annual rate of 23%. 1/ The weighted price of
nitural gas in January 1985 was about 40% of the border price of fuel oil,
that is, US$66.6/toe compared to US$170/toe.
1.12    Electricity:  The weighted average electricity tariffs in Pakistan,
for both WAPDA and KESC, increased in real terms between 1973 and 1983 at an
average annual rate of 1.8X, from 13.96 paisa/kWh in 1973 to 16.6 paisa/kWh
in 1983 for WAPDA and from 16.1 paisa/kWh to 26.4 paisa/kWh for KESC. The
real tariffs increased during this period for all consumer categories, except
households. In January 1984, the average revenue, including fuel surcharge,
was 63 paisa/kWh for WAPDA and 97 paisa/kWh for KESC, representing 63% and
97% of the average long-run marginal cost (LRMC) of about 100 paisa/kWh for
the combined system. Despite the divergence between the average revenue and
LRMC, WAPDA has been able to finance more than 40% of its investment program
1/ Specifically, in 1982, nominal increase in the price of gas was 19% for
industry, 17% for the commercial consumers and 17% for households. In
1983, the corresponding increases were 58Z, 35% and 14Z, respectively.



from its internally generated revenues because actual investments in the past
have amounted to about 50% of the pLanned investment. In order to ensure
that actual and planned investment do not diverge, GOP has agreed under the
Fourth WAPDA Project, to a minimum investment program of Rs. 30 billion for
WAPDA, covering the period FY86-FY88. Moreover GOP and WAPDA have agreed to
undertake all necessary measures including tariff increases and ann.'al
allocations from the budget to ensure that the program is financed. Based on
the Bank's forecasts, this investment program would require a tariff
increase, net of fuel surcharge, of 11% for FY86, 15X fre FY87, and 18% for
FY88 in order to achieve the 40% level of internal cas.a generation agreed to
under the Fourth WAPDA Project (para 4.02). The Bank's estimates show chat
if tariff increases are dictated by the internal cash generation covenant and
are based on the agreed investment program, average revenue, including fuel
surcharge, would achieve parity with long-run marginal cost (LRMC) by 1989.
The introduction of a tariff increase, which will enable WAPDA in FY86 to
finance at least 40% of its investment program from internally generated
funds, would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (para
6.02), the formula for determining the internal cash generation level being
the one drawn up under the Third WAPDA Power Project (968-PAK).
1.13    A tariff study was undertaken jointly by WAPDA and the Bank in
1979-1980 to estimate the LRMC. The results of the study have been used to
correct some of the distortions in the structure of electricity tariffs.
Currently, WAPDA is updating that study in compliance with an agreement with
ADB under the Cuddu combined cycle project. The results of the study are
expected by June 1985, at which time they would be reviewed by both the Bank
and ADB, and an action program and timetable for restructuring tariffs would
be agreed upon with COP and WAPDA.  The Bank is currently collaborating with
WAPDA in assessing the impact of hydro power development programs and the
different mechanisms for covering the capital cost of this development on
electricity tariffs. In addition, GOP, in cLose collaboration with the Bank,
is currently assessing the impact on WAPDA's tariffs of having a large share
of the new thermal capacities based on imported coal.l/ This would reduce the
incremental cost of fuel substantially, and in turn, the LRMC. Completion of
the work is expected by December 1985. On the demand side WAPDA should gain
a better understanding on the patterns of electricity consumption par-
ticularly by the domestic, agricultural and industrial sectors. This would
allow WAPDA to design a tariff structure and mechanisms that would provide
incentives for consumers to shift non-essential consumption to off-peak
periods which would decrease the pressure on the exisLing system during peak
period and thus reduce the frequency of supply interruptions currently being
experienced. Therefore, WAPDA agreed during negotiation to recruit consult-
ants by no later than December 31, 1985, on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, to undertake a load research and demand management study which
would be completed and reviewed, in consultation with the Bank, by no later
than June 30, 1987 (para 6.01(a)).
1/ The study would also include a strategy for eliminating the prevailing
differential in tariffs charged by KESC and WAPDA by exploring the pos-
sibility of a national tariff level and structure and outLining a scheme
for ensuring the financial viability of both entities.



-7-
E. Energy Planning and Development Strategy
1.14    In recognition of the fact that shortages of energy, like those
experienced during the last two years of the Fiftr Five-Year Plan, could
become a major impediment to sustaining the growth momentum, GOP assigned
high priority to restructuring the energy sector during the Sixth Five-Year
Plan (1983-1988). Specifically, the objectives of the plan are:
(a) accelerate the development of domestic energy resources to reduce the
country's dependence on imported energy; (b) promote efficient and rational
use of energy and meet the future demand for energy at least cost to the
national economy; (c) raise energy prices to reflect border prices for trade-
able products and economic costs of supply for non-tradeable energy products;
and (d) streamline the organization of the energy sector to promote its
efficient operation and management. In keeping with these objectives, GOP
has taken several important policy initiatives in the areas of resource
development, pricing and demand management, and institutional development to
ensure the achievement of the current plan targets, which are presented in
Annex 1.5. These actions, which underscore GOP commitment to restructuring
the energy sector, have addressed some of the constraints responsible for the
shortfalls in achieving the targets of the Fifth Five-Year Plan. However,
despite the Government's efforts, serious shortfalls are expected to occur in
the supply of energy during the current Plan, particularly in the power
subsector where only 80Z of the supply targets are expected to be realized by
1988. The projected shortfall in the supply of electricity is due to the
shortage of financial resources stemming from both the inadequate financial
resources mobilized through tariffs and the insufficient allocations to the
subsector from the Annual Development Program (ADP). As a result, GOP has
adopted a three year plan of priority projects (core investment program) for
the period 1986-1988 for each sector and has earmarked resources for its
implementation to minimize the shortfalls during the Sixth Five-Year Plan and
to ensure a smooth transition to the Seventh Five-Year Plan. The Bank,
through this Project and the ongoing sector dialogue would address, among
others, issues relating to resource mobilization and annual allocation to the
subsector through agreements on financial performance covenants (para 4.02)
and on a core investment program for the period FY86-FY88 (para 1.12).
F. The Bank Group Involvement
1.15    The Bank Group involvement in Pakistan's energy sector started in
1955, with a loan to KESC for the construction of a thermaL power station.
Since then, it has assisted in financing projects in all subsectors of
energy. In the power subsector, the Bank has participated in the Indus Basin
Development Projects, which include the hydrogeneration capacities at Mangla
and Tarbela. A series of four credits/loans were made to KESC between 1955
and 1967 for the development of its generation capacities. Since 1970, the
Bank has been more directly involved in GOP's program for strengthening the
power transmission and distribution networks, for which four credits/loans
were made to WAPDA. The first credit (213-PAK) for WAPDA of US$23 million,
made in 1970, covered the cost of upgrading the capacity of the transmission
network. A second lending operation for WAPDA power, a Third Window loan
(Loan 1208T-PAIE) of US$50 million, subsequently reduced by US$15 milliun due
to savings achieved under international competitiv' bidding, was made in 1975
to finance the development of part of the 500-kV transmission system to
connect the hydro resources of the north with the thermal generation in the
center and south to provide the most economic means of supplying power



-8-
throughout the country. A third lending operation to WAPDA (968-PAK) was
made to cover four years of its program for the development of the secondary
transmission (FY79-FY83), involving the erection of about 4,345 km of single
and double circuit lines and the construction, expansion and conversion of
216 substations. Implementation of this Project is progressing satisfac-
torily and completion is expected in 1985. The fourth loan is a continuation
of the Third Power Project and covers the construction of a total of about
3,890 km of transmission lines and 227 substations, including expansion of 86
substations, of the subtransmission system. The loan would be come effective
on July 1, 1985.
1.16    Over the course of its involvement in the power subsector, the Bank
has directed its efforts to institution building to strengthen KESC's and
WAPDA's management and technical capabilities. WAPDA has improved its over-
all financial operations by developing modern accounting and commercial
systems. Moreover, the Authority is now capable of undertaking the design
and implementation of the projects for the development of the transmission
network. The Bank, through the proposed Project, would continue supporting
the institution building measures already undertaken by WAPDA, :ncluding the
strengthening of technical capability in formulating a least cost plan for
the development of the power subsector. Moreover, since the Bank concurs
with the objectives of the Sixth Five-Year Plan, its role would be to ensure
that the proposed ESL and future project lending focus on high priority
projects that would assist GOP in achieving its objectives. In the area of
primary energy production, the Bank would support the implementation of a
comprehensive pLan for the exploration and development of hydrocarbons and
coal. In addition, the Bank would support an investment program aimed at the
substitution of lower-value products, particularLy imported coal for gas in
power generation and to release the gas for use by industry and household as
a substitute for imported petroleum products. As for hydro potential,
emphasis would be on the formuLation of a least cost plan, and on the exten-
sion of technical and financiaL support for the exploitation of high priority
schemes. In the production of secondary energy, efforts will be directed
toward supporting the implementation of a comprehensive plan for improving
the efficiency of power plants and for the rehabilitation and reinforcement
of the transmission networks to reduce losses. Efforts would also be
directed toward retrofitting and restructuring the refinery subsector, as
well as the rationalization of the infrastructure for the transport of liquid
hydrocarbons and gas. As for consumption, the Bank would support the for-
mulation of plans for bringing domestic prices of energy products to parity
with their respective cost to the econtmy to rationalize consumption and
mobilize resources for GOP, and for investing in rehabilitation and retrofit-
ting in major energy consuming industries, such as fertilizers, cement, etc.



-9-
II. THE BORROWER
Organization of WAPDA
2.01    WAPDA, the beneficiary, is a semi-autonomous agency established in
1958 to coordinate the development of Pakistan's water and power resources.
It is divided into two largely independent 'wings', one for power and the
other for water (Annex 2.1). The Power Wing is responsible for the construc-
tion and operation of power generation, transmission and distribution
facilities throughout the country, except for the Karachi area where the
responsibility is that of KESC. The Water Wing is responsible for the over-
all planning and investigation of water resources, and the design and con-
struction of surf- -e and groundwater development projects for the federal and
provincial governments. WAPDA's governing body, referred to as the
"Authority", consists of a chairman and three members, who are in charge of
power, water and finance, and are designated as Member Power, Member Water
and Member Finance respectively. The members are appointed by the Government
and act as chief executives of their respective groups.
2.02    Member Power is assisted by seven general managers in charge of
generation, transmission, distribution, finance, coordination and planning,
design and protection, and inventory control. The organization of the Power
Wing is shown in Annex 2.2. The first general manager for finance was
appointed only four years ago, and the position of general manager for inven-
tory control is an even more recent position. In January 1985, the Power
Wing had about 88,000 employees, including 2,100 engineers, 700 other profes-
sionaLs, 9,200 technical and other staff, 15,000 administrative and accounts
staff, 44,000 skilled and 17,000 general staff. The number of consumers
served by WAPDA in January 1985 was about 3.7 million, representing about 42
consumers per employee. This ratio is relatively high, mainly because of the
overstaffing in the distribution department which is the largest department.
In January 1985, the distribution department had 62,455 employees, repre-
senting 70Z of the Power Wing's total. The distribution department includes
the staff of the eight Area Electricity Boards (AEBs), which were set up in
1981 to take over the responsibility for local elec:ricity service. Each AEB
has its own chairman, who is the chief engineer for the area, appointed by
WAPDA for a five-year term; three full-time members, who are also directors
in charge of departments; and three part-time members representing local
interests, one of whom is normally a representative of the Provincial Govern-
ment. The members are appointed for a period of three years.
2.03    GOP has started to review the means for reorganizing the power sub-
sector. The preliminary thinking was to transfer the responsibility of
distribution to the municipalities, leaving WAPDA to concentrate on gener-
ation and transmission. This scheme was rejected by the municipalicies. So
now the intention is to consider taking over the generation and the primary
transmission of KESC by WAPDA and restricting the KESC operations to bulk
purchase of power from WAPDA and distribution in the Karachi area. Addition-
ally, the possibility of handing over distribution to private sec-
tor/provinces in all the other parts of the country would be considered alon
with the possibility of creating a separate authority for power discribution.
There is substantiaL scope for increasing private sector involvement in the
power subsector and its encouragement would assist GOP in mobilizing badly



-10-
needed investment for the development of the power subsector. The increased
private sector participation in the power subsector is consistent with GOP's
goals as outlined in the Sixth Five-Year Plan. In order to assist GOP in
formulating a plan for the reorganization of WAPDA's distribution department,
consultants have been recruited under USAlb financing to outline a plan for
decentralizing power distribution in Pakistan, *rhich would aLso outline
returns, taxes, financial performance targets, etc. for the power distribu-
tion companies. The results and recommendatiunz oE this study, which is now
in progress, will be reviewed with the Bank.
Existing Systems
2.04    In January 1985, WAPDA's total installed generating capacity was
4,052 MW, of which 2,547 MW (63%) was hydro and 1,505 MW (37%) was thermal.
The maximum potential output of the existing hydro stations amounts to about
2,800 MW when all reservoirs are full. This potential drops to sLightly less
than 1,000 MW during the dry seasons, which requires the maintenance of
atequate thermal capacity. However, insufficient thermal capacity at present
results in considerable Load shedding. The high voltage transmission grid in
operation consists of 850 km of 500-kV lines and 1,300 km of 220-kV lines.
The subtransmission system, which is operated at 132, 66 and 33-kV, extends
over nearLy 15,000 km. In addition, there are 415 grid substations in opera-
tion, totalling about 12,000 MVA. Power is distributed at 11-kV and at 400
volts for shorter distances. Prior to 1973 only 2,553 villages had access to
public supply of electricity, representing about 62 of the total number of
villages (43,327) in the country. An accelerated village electrification
program was started in FY73, and was intensified in FY77. The annual rate of
village electrification rose from 295 villages in 1973 to 1,986 in 1983,
resulting in a nearly five-foLd increase in the number of villages elec-
trified in WAPDA's service area to over 14,000. Another 1,182 villages have
been electrified under a special Government program for Federally
Administered Tribal Areas.
Power Planning
2.05    WAPDA has a power planning department in its Power Wing.  Consult-
ants, financed mostly by bilateral assistance, especially CIDA and USAID, are
or have been recently employed in several power planning studies, including
extensions to Tarbela, the Kalabagh combined power and irrigation project,
the Lakhra coal mine and power station development. A prefeasibility study
to assess the viability of installing a thermal power station based on
imported coal in the vicinity of Karachi is being undertaken by INTEG
(Canadian firm) under financing by CIDA and the Bank. The study should be
completed by September 30, 1985, and would provide the general parameters
needed for detailed feasibility and engineering design. in view of the role
imported coal is expected to play in the future supply of power in Pakistan,
WAPDA agreed during negotiations to recruit consultants by no later than June
30, 1986, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to undertake a
feasibility study and detailed engineering for a power station complex based
mainly on imported coal and to prepare the bidding documents for the first
phase of such complex; the work should be completed and reviewed, in consuLt-
ation with the Bank, by no later than December 31, 1987 (para 6.01(b)).
WAPDA, assisted by consultants, has also investigated the potential for
installing low head hydro power at barrages and canals. ConsuLtants have



-L1-
aLso been engaged to evaluate potential hydro sites greater than 200 MW in
size on the Indus River and rank them in terms of cost and priority of
development (para 1.02). The results of this study, which were recently
made available, have prompted WAPDA to initiate the preparation of detailed
site investigation, engineering and cost estimates for Basha. Under UNDP
finuicing, with the Bank as the executing agency, Argonne Laboratories, USA,
have formulated an interim Least-cost program for the development of gener-
ation facilities, which incorporates the preliminary results of the hydro
ranking study. Argonne, under the auspices of the International Atomic
Energy Agency, has also trained four of WAPDA's staff in the use of the WASP
IIL computer model for system planning and have successfully installed that
model on WAPDA's computer in January 1985. This will enable WAPDA's staff to
formulate a national least-cost plan for che power subsector and incorporate
the information on the operation of the subsector, including hydrology, water
management and pattern of electricity consumption, all of which is presently
being colLected and refined. In view of the importance of such a plan to
setting priorities and earmarking resources for their implementation to meet
the forecast demnand for electricity at least cost to the economy, WAPDA
agreed under the Fourth WAPDA Project to initiate a study by June 30, 1985,
under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, to formulate a national
least-cost plan for the power subsector and to complete the study and review
its results with the Bank by June 30, 1986. In order to improve the results
of WASP III and to be able to update the plan regularly, WAPDA requires a
system for systematic and more comprehensive collection, storage and
retrieval of data on the power system. Therefore, WAPDA agreed during nego-
tiations to recruit consultants by no later than September 30, 1985, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to undertake a study for the
implementation of a system for the collection, storage and retrieval of data
on the power system; the study should be completed and -eviewed in consult-
ation with the Bank by no later than December 31, 1986 (para 6.01(c)).
System Operation
2.06    In view of the extreme seasonal variations in water flow and limited
storage capacity in Pakistan, reductions in hydro generation has to be
replaced during low flow periods with thermal capacity. As a result, during
the high water season of the year - July to September - the steam units
supply part of the base load in association with the hydrostations which also
ensure peak regulation; while during the low flow season - October to June -
most of the base load is supplied by the steam units. However, as a result
of the shortage of generating capacity combustion turbines are operated
extensively to provide the peak load and contribute with the hydrostations to
the supply of the medium load. Originally, all WAPDA thermal units were
designed to burn gas, at least as primary fuel, which was supposed to be an
abundant and cheap fuel. In the last few years and because of shortage of
gas, the shift to substitute fuel, using furnace oil for steam units and high
speed diesel fuel for the combustion turbines, has caused a number of opera-
tional and maintenance problems. Firstly, the heat rate of furnace oil and
high speed diesel fuel are lower than that of gas. More important, however,
the quality of these substitute fuels varies and they include a number of
impurities (e.g. vanadium, sodium, sulphur) which damage the boilers (tubes
and preheaters) and the blades of the gas turbines. This contributed to
degrading nominal capacity of the units, lower efficiency, less reliability
and more maintenance. The tables in Annex 2.3 detaiLed the characteristics



-12-
and operational performances of the thermal generation plants. Furthermore,
because of load supply requirement, maintenance and overhauling have been
shortened and also affected by lack of spare parts and tools. Facing these
problems and given that GOP has set as its target the promotion of energy
conservation, WAPDA shouLd initiate a plan for improving its energy
efficiency.  WAPDA, however, has no experience in preparing a program for
the rehabilitation of thermal power stations in order to improve their
efficiency and reLiability. Therefore, under the Fourth WAPDA Project, WAPDA
has agreed to engage consultants with terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank by June 30, 1985 and prepare with their assistance, by June 30, 1986,
programs of workc and investment to optimize the thermal efficiency of WAPDA';
existing thermal stations. Provision has also been made in the proposed ESL
for the acquisition of the equipment, spare parts and tools which are the
most urgently required.
2.07    In 1977, WAPDA's losses in the transmission and distribution networks
amounted to 34.7% of gross generation. These were attributed to insufficienc
high voltage transmission lines, the need for some transmission lines to be
upgraded to higher voltages, the small number of substations, lack of power
factor correction equipment, distribution systems that were underbuilt,
missing or defective meters, theft of power, and low power factors of con-
sumers' loads. WAPDA agreed under Credit 968-PAK to introduce a program for
reducing losses in the transmission and distribution networks from 34.7% to
21% by 1984. Measures have been taken in order to reduce transmission and
distribution losses. The first section of the 500-kV grid
(Tarbela-Faisalabad) has been completed. The 220-kV system has been extended
and the Link between Faisalabad and Jamshoro is presently being upgraded to
500-kV. Subtransmission lines and substations have been added at many
places, allowing the distribution feeders to be shorter. Also, capacitors
are being added to the 11-kV circuits to improve the system power factor to
90% from less than 85% in many feeders at present. Losses due to theft have
also been reduced considerably. Increased demand charges are making it
worthwhile for consumers to improve their power factors. Despite these
improvements, progress has not been rapid enough to attain the program target
of 21Z by FY84. The shortfall in achieving the target is due to: implemen-
tation of the high voltage transmission network has been slower than foreseen
because of financial constraints; implementation of the improvements and
extensions to the subtransmission grid (STG) under the Second and Third WAPDA
Power projects, were delayed because of delays in recruiting consultants and
in awarding contracts (para 1.15); and inadequate attention was given to
reducing technical losses at the distribution level. As shown in Table 2.1,
losses in th? transmission and distribution networks still amounted to about
27! -f energy generated in FY84.



-13-
Table 2.1
WAPDA - Energy Losses - As a Percentage of Power Generated
FY77   FY78   FY79   FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83    FY84
Auxiliaries, etc.  2.9    2.2    1.9    2.2    2.6    2.6    2.4         2.2
Transmission       12.4   12.2   12.1   11.0   10.7    9.2    9.5        9.9
Distribution       22.3   21.3   20.1   19.5   18.1   18.5   17.7    17.2
Total          37.6   35.7   34.1   32.7   31.4   30.3   29.6    29.3
The completion of the work of extending the high-voltage transmission net-
work, particularly the ongoing and proposed extension of the 500-kV links
(para 3.04) and the commissioning of new STG lines and substations, along
with the installation of capacitors, is expected to further reduce the Los-
ses. Although WAPDA continues to assess the transmission line designs to
ensure that the remaining lines to be built under the Third Project as welL
as those under the Fourth Project are of optimum design, further reductions
in losses are not likely to materialize because WAPDA lacks experience in
identifying the sources of energy losses and in designing a comprehensive
investment pLan for reinforcing, rehabilitating and retrofitting the network.
Therefore, under the Fourth WAPDA Project, WAPDA has agreed to engage con-
sultants with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank by July 31, 1985,
and co complete with their assistance by July 31, 1986 a study aimed at
identifying the sources of energy losses in its transmission system, quan-
tifying such losses, determining the optimum levels of such losses, and
producing detailed work and investment programs, as necessary, to achieve
such optimum levels.
2.08    As of the distribution network, WAPDA is implementing a loss reduc-
tion program together with the USAID-financed Rural Electrification Project.
A consortium of consultants have been recruited in Hay 1984. They are con-
centrating their effort on the development and initiation of a comprehensive
program to reduce technical losses in the distribution system. A number of
feeders have already been identified for rehabilitation and strengthening by
using better construction and increasing the number of distribution trans-
formers, and applying capacitors and voltage regulators. The Bank, under the
proposed ESL will also contribute in financing the supply of equipment and
material most urgently needed. In addition, WAPDA has also approved the
implementation of a management information system, proposed by the consult-
ant, in order to provide data on circuit capacities and loads, energy costs
from different sources, design planning and criteria for sizing conductor and
equipment, demand management and control of administrative losses. The
program, which has been reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory, will be
implemented over the next three years with the assistance of the consultant
under financing from USAID.
2.09    In order to improve the power system operation, WAPDA is also
implementing, under a loan from ADB, a Load despatch project.  The project
includes the installation of a National Control Center, focated at Islamabad,
to controL most of the generating plants and the main transmission network,
and two Regional Control Centers to operate the subtransmission network and
some smaller plants. The project is in an advanced stage of procurement and



-14-
is expected to be compLeted in 1987. Until the different studies and actions
mentioned in the paragraphs above (paras 2.06-2.08) are completed and
reviewed with the Bank, a target for loss reduction has been set to induce
WAPDA to continue its loss reduction efforts. This target, however, could be
revised, depending upon the results of the studies. Under the Fourth WAPDA
Project, WAPDA has agreed to take all necessary measures aimed at reducing
losses to reach the target of 21Z by 1988 and to review and revise the tar-
gets, as necessary, once the results of the studies become available.
WAPDA's Development Program
2.10    Planned Generation:  Annex 2.4 gives details of the forecast balance
of energy and capacities. The installed capacity is expected to increase
from 4,052 MW in 1984 to 9,416 MW in 1993. Projects under construction
include: the extension at Tarbela (units 9-10, 2 x 175 MW); a steam unit
(Guddu 4, 210 MW) and a combined cycle group (450 MW) at Guddu, a steam unit
(Jamshoro-1, 250 MW) at Jamshoro and a set of combustion turbines (4 x 100
MW) at Kot Addu. Financing for these p-ojects has been secured. They are
expected to be commissioned during the Sixth Five-Year Plan. In addition,
a number of projects to be commissioned in the Seventh and Eighth Five-Year
Plans would also have to be initiated during the Sixth Five-Year Plan. These
include: the extensions of Tarbela (units 11-14, 4 x 406 MW), the final
stage at Mangla (units 9-10, 2 x 100 MW), the initial stage at Kalabegh, and
thermal projects such as a fuel fired station at Multan (3 x 210 MW), the
Lakhra coaL-fired station (300 MW), the Jamshoro-2 unit (210 MW), using
imported fuel oil and/or coal and the development of a 1,200 MW power station
in the vicinity of Karachi using imported coal.
2.11    Transmission.   The salient feature of the power system in Pakistan
is that major hydro resources are located in the north of the country and
thermal facilities and electricity loads are concentrated in the center and
the south. This will continue to require bulk transmission of electricity
over distances of about 1,600 km. In order to ensure efficient evacuation of
power, WAPDA's long-term plans call for the development of 4,400 km of extra
high voltage (500-kV) primary transmission lines by 1991. Of these, 2,550 km
are in operation at 500-kV or 220-kV, 350 km are under construction or are
being upgraded, and the remaining 1,500 km, which include the proposed
Project (para 3.04), are planned for 1985-1991. The 220-kV network and
sub-transmission systems would also be expanded during the period 1986-89
under the Fourth WAPDA Project which wouLd ensure integrated and coordinated
development with the expansion of the EHV grid.
2.12    Distribution:  Under the Sixth Five-Year Plan, GOP proposes to add
about 2.8 million consumers to the 3.9 million who were served by WAPDA and
0.6 million by KESC at the end of 1983. In the same period, GOP plans to
increase the number of villages electrified by 15,000, from 16,400 to 31,400.
In its review of the Sixth Five-Year Plan, the Bank questioned the economic
justification of accelerating the village electrification program when power
deficits are projected to continue through the Plan period. Although USAID
is financing a RuraL Electrification Project over the period of the Sixth
Plan, it recognizes that to proceed immediately with GOP's rural electrifick-
tion program would not only overtax the capabilities of WAPDA's distribution
department, but wouLd also make generation deficits worse. Their project,



-15-
which consists of five main elements, will address many of the problems of
the distribution department.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Setting
3.01    Pakistan's large hydropower stations are located in the north at
Tarbela and Mangla. Due to extreme seasonal variations in water flow and
limited storage capacity, hydrogeneration has to be compensated for during
low flow periods with thermal capacity. The main thermal stations are
located at Faisalabad, Multan, Guddu and Jamshoro, in the center of the
country, and at Karachi, in the south. At the end of 1984, WAPDA's installed
power generating capacity amounted to 4,052 MW, of which 63% (2,547 MW) was
hydro capacity and 37% (1,505 MW) was thermal (para 2.04). COP's strategy
for meeting the forecast growth in demand for power calls for the accelerated
development of hydropower potentiz.1 and instaLlation of thermal capacity,
based on domestic coal, at Jamshoro (Lakhra) and imported ccal in the
vicinity of Karachi, and gas and fueL oiL at Guddu, Multan and Jamshoro (para
2.10). The evacuation of power from the above stations to the major load
centers, which are located along the north-south axis, would continue to
require a strong and reliable high voltage transmission network for the
efficient operation of the power system.
3.02    In the early 1970s, WAPDA started the implementation of a least cost
national program for development of an EHV network involving the connection
of the major generating plants to the main load centers, of the country with
a 500-kV grid. The first phase, covering the connection of Tarbela and
Faisalabad, was commissioned in 1977. Further sections were successively
built southward with Bank assistance (Loan 1208T-PAK) from Faisalabad to
Guddu and Jamshoro. These lines, which were initially energized at 220-kV,
will be fully operational at 500-kV by the end of 1986, following the upgrad-
ing of four substations, namely, Multan, Guddu, Dadu and Jamshoro. Moreover,
in conjunction with the expansion of the generating capacity at Tarbela,
WAPDA, assisted by financing frozm CIDA, has initiated the construction of a
second 500-kV line between Tarbela and Faisalabad, which is expected to be
completed by September 1985. WAPDA has recently updated its least cost
program for the development of the EHV network to take into account the
forecast expansion of its generating capacity. It calls for the expansion of
the 500-kV grid with the construction of a second 500-kV line from Jamshoro
to Multan, with an extension to Lahore, and associated substations, to inter-
connect generation facilities that are expected to come on stream by 1988
(Map IBRD 18732). This expansion, together with the planned development of
the load despatch center, (para 2.09) would provide for the optimal operation
of the generation facilities and contribute to the reduction of losses in the
transmission system.
Project Objectives
3.03    The proposed Project would focus on the development of 500-kV trans-
mission network to ensure its economic expansion and operation. It would
also continue the institution building efforts initiated under the Bank



-16-
Group's earlier lending operations by strengthening WAPDA's capabilities in
formulating and implementing an investment program for improving its energy
efficiency and thereby rationalizing the consumption of primary energy, and
production and delivery of secondary energy.
Project Description
3.04    The proposed Project, which is described in detail in Annex 3.1,
consists of the following components:
(a) the installation of about 1,100 km of 500-kLV transmission line
between Lahore and Jamshoro via Sahiwal, Multan, Guddu and Dadu;
(b) the installation of new 500-kV substations at Lahore and Sahiwal and
the extension and reinforcement of the existing 500-kV substations at
Multan, Guddu, Dadu and Jamshoro, with associated 500/220-kV trans-
formers and 220-kV facilities, including compensation equipment to
maintain adequate voltage profile along the line and improve the
power factor; and
(c) consulting services for the collection, storage, and retrieval of
data on the power system, (para 1.13), a load research and management
study (para 2.05), and a feasibility study and detailed engineering
for a power station complex based mainly on imported coal to be
located in the vicinity of Karachi (para 2.05).
Project Cost
3.05    The Project cost, including price and physical contingencies and
customs duties is US$287.6 million, while the total financing required,
including also interest during construction, is US$300.9 million. Of the
total financing required, US$156.8 million would be in foreign exchange and
the remaining US$144.1 million would be in local costs. These estimates are
based on quotations for similar ongoing works which have been updated to
December 1984 prices. Taking also into account the similarity with ongoing
projects, physical contingencies were calculated at 5: for equipment,
material and services amounting to 5% of the base cost. EscalationI of for-
eign costs was assumed to be 6.25% for FY86, 7.75% for FY87 and 8.0% per
annum thereafter. Escalation of local costs was taken at 6.5% for FY86 and
FY87, and 6% per annum thereafter. The total price escalation amounts to
11.7% of the base cost plus physical contingencies. Duties and taxes
included amount to US$51.7 million. The total Project cost net of taxes and
duties is estimated at US$235.9 million. Summary of Project cost is
presented in Table 3.1 below and more details are given in Annex 3.2.



-17-
Table 3.1
Summary of Project Cost
Local   Foreign   Total      Local   Foreign   Total
(PRs Million)               (US$ Million)
Transmission Lines          956.6  1,029.6  1,986.2       62.5    67.3      129.8
Extension of Substations   130.0    235.6    365.6         8.5    15.4       23.9
New Substations             241.0    393.2    634.2       15.8    25.7       41.5
Auxiliaries                 277.8    174.2    452.0       18.2    11.4       29.6
Engineering Supervision
and Administration         236.0       -      236.0      15.4     -         15.4
Consulting Services           -        77.8     77.8       -        5.1       5.1
Total Base Cost           1,841.4  1,910.4  3,751.8    120.4   124.9        245.3
Physical Contingencies       92.8      95.3    188.1       6.1      6.2      12.3
Price Contingencies         191.6    268.5    460.1       12.5    17.5       30.0
Total Project Cost      2,125.8  2,274.2  4,400.0    139.0   148.6        287.6
Interest During
Construction                78.3    125.5    203.8        5.1     8.2       13.3
2,204.1  2,399.7  4,603.8    144.1   156.8        300.9
Project Financing                                 /
3.06    The proposed financing plan assumes a Bank loan of US$100.0 million.
GOP and WAPDA are also considering additional sources of financing in the
form of bilateral and multilateral assistance. In particular, WAPDA has
approached the French and Japanese authorities, who are providing financing
for the construction o. the 500-kV substations including the upgrading of the
Faisalabad-Jamshoro transmission line (para 3.02), for additional financing
for the extension of the reLated substations requiring similar equipment.
Other donors have expressed their interest, or have been approached by GOP,
such as the Federal Republic of Germany, but a final decision regarding their
involvement in the proposed Project has not been reached. The following
table sunmmarizes the proposed financing plan:
Table 3.2
Project Financing Plan
Local    Foreign    Total
(US$ Million)
IBRD Loan                     -        100.0     100.0
Cofinancing                   -         40.0      40.0
* WAPDA                         120.4      -        120.4
COP                           23.7      16.8      40.5
TOTAL                      144.1    156.8      300.9



-18-
WAPDA would bear any cost overruns and COP will bear the foreign exchange
risk.
Engineering and Consulting Services
3.07    WAPDA's EHV network, which consists of the 500-kV and 220-kV grid,
has been planned to withstand faults without system separation, line over-
loading, cascade tripping o- loss of Load. To ascertain adequate design for
each new extension of the 500-kY network, including the proposed Project,
specific studies were carried out in the following areas: (a) load flows for
normal and emergency conditions and in typical cases of generation during low
water and high water seasons; (b) short circuits; (c) transient and steady
state stability; (d) switching surges and dynamic overvoltages; (e) reactive
power management for improvement of system power factor; (f) mechanical and
electrical design for the conductor selection, tower structure and substation
Layout; and (g) control, metering and relaying scheme in association with
telecommunication requirement and integration into the system control and
data acquisition (SCADA) network.
3.08    The design and engineering of the 500-kV grid, which included around
2,900 km of transmission lines and six substations, were prepared by WAPDA
with the assistance of local (NESPAK) and foreign consultants. The
experience gained through this involvement has enabled WAPDA and NESPAK to
prepare the project design. In addition, equipment and materials have been
standardized in accordance with criteria established during the construction
of the 500-kV earlier phases of the network. Accordingly, WAPDA has
recruited NESPAK for the preparation of detailed design, specification and
bidding documents for the proposed Project. The terms of reference and the
contractual agreement have been reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory.
Bidding document will be issued starting in the third quarter of 1985 after
review by the Bank.
3.09    WAPDA would require consulting services to assist in the preparation
of a study for the implementation of a system for the collection storage and
retrieval of data in the power system (para 2.05). Since this study is
required to make full use of the WASP III model, for which Argonne
Laboratories is already providing technical assistance, under UNDr financing,
GOP and WAPDA intends to request UNDP to finance the required study. WAPDA
would also need consulting services to assist in the preparation of a load
research and load management study (para 1.13). Under the Rural Electrifica-
tion project financed by USAID (para 2.12), a consortium of consuLtancy firms
have been recruited to undertake inter aLia a similar study in the rural
areas. The study included in the proposed Project would complement that
study in covering the overall power sector including other classes of con-
sumers, like industry and domestic. The terms of reference for the study
would be prepared in consultation with the Bank. In addition, WAPDA would
require consultancy services to undertake a feasibility study and detailed
engineering for a power station complex based mainly on imported coal to be
located in the vicinity of Karachi and to prepare the bidding documents for
the first phase of such complex (para 2.05).  As soon as the ongoing
prefeasibility study is completed, WAPDA will prepare, in cooperation with
the Bank, the scope and terms of reference for this study. The costs of the
consultancy services required to undertake these three studies have been



-19-
calculated on a manmonth basis and incLude salary costs, fees, and interna-
tional travelling.
Construction and Procurement
3.10    WAPDA is currently successfully impLementing through contractors the
second 500-kV line Tarbela-Faisalabad and the associated substations, as weLl
as the upgrading of the Multan, Guddu, Dadu and Jamshoro substations from
220-kV to 500-kV. The same approach would be followed for the construction
of the facilities included under the proposed Project. The transmission line
equipment and material (towers, conductor, ground wire, insulators and
hardware), representing an amount of about US$90 million, would be procured
through international competitive bidding. The construction work (erection
of towers, stringing of conductor and shield wires), representing an amount
of about US$51 million, would be carried out through separate contracts under
local competitive bidding. At Least four local transmission line contractors
have already gained ample experience in the construction of 500-kV line in
Pakistan and abroad. As for the substations, under a first stage financed
through French and Japanese bilateral assistance (para 3.06), WAPDA has
recently signed contracts with suppliers (French and Japanese) for the supply
and installation supervision of 500-kV equipment for the upgrading of four
substations, namely, Multan, Guddu, Dadu and Jamshoro (para 3.02). Since
expansion of these four substations are included in the proposed Project and
would require similar equipment, WAPDA has included an option in the con-
tracts with the French and Japanese suppliers for the supply of equipment and
material for these extensions. This would represent an amount of around
US$16.7 million. As for the remaining two substations, Sahiwal and Lahore,
to be newly constructed, the supply of equipment, including supervision of
erection, which represents around US$30.4 million, would be procured through
international competitive bidding. Similarly, most of the control, auxiliary
and miscellaneous equipment, representing around US$17.3 million, would be
financed through international competitive bidding and smaller amounts,
representing around US$3.3 million and US$3.0 million, would be procured
through limited internatiojnal and local competitive bidding, respectively.
Table 3.3 below summarizea the proposed status of procurement arrangements.



-20-
Table 3.3
Procurement Arransements
(US$ Million)
Items              ICB     LIB      OTHER      LCB     N.A.      TOTAL
1.  Land & Rights of Way                                            3.2        3.2
2.  Transmission Lines         77.8                                           77.8
Equipment and           (77.8)                                         (77.8)
Material
(Lahore-Jamshoro)
3.  Substations Equipment
- Lahore and Sahiwal      30.4                                           30.4
(12.4)                                          .Z4
- Multan, Cuddu,                             16.7                        16.7
Dadu and Jamshoro
4.  Capacitors                 10.8                                           10.8
and Control Equipt.
5.  Miscellaneous Equipt.       4.5    3.3                                     7.8
(Transport, Tools and    (4.5)  (3.3)                                    (7.8)
Workshop)
6.  Civil Works, Transp.                                  62.8      4.5       67.3
and Erection
7.  Engineering and                                                16.8       16.8
Administration
8.  ConsuLtancy Services                                            5.1        5.1
(2.0)     (2.0)
SUB-TOTAL             123.5    3.3       16.7      62.8    29.6      235.9
(BANK)               (94.7)  (3.3)                        (2.0)   (100.0)
9.  Taxes and Duties                                               51.7      51.7
10. Interest during
Construction                                                  13.3       13.3
TOTAL                                                                300.9
(BANK)                                                              (100.0)
ICB : International Competitive Ridding
LIB : Limited International Bidding
LCB : Local Competitive Bidding
N.A.: Not Applicable (negotiate contract, consultation, etc.)
3.11    Procurement of equipment and materials in an amount of about US$123.5
million to be partly financed from the proposed loan would be on the b&sis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. A
preference limited to 15X of the CIF price of goods, or the custom duty,
whichever is lower, will be extended to local manufacturers. Small quantities



-21-
of standard equipment and materials and tools, also financed under the proposed
loan, not exceeding US$50,000 each and in the aggregate not exceeding the equiv-
alent of US$3.3 million, would be procured through limited international bidding
by inviting quotations from at least three suppliers from eligible countries.
Bidding documents and recommendations for the amount of contracts exceeding the
equivalent of US$1,000,000 to be financed by the Bank would be subject to prior
approval by the Bank. Other Bank-financed contracts would be subject to
post-award review. Consultants for consultancy services would be selected in
accordance with Bank guidelines and employed under terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank. The planned schedule fo. procurement of the equipment and
material to be financed by the proposed Bank loan is: (a) start of bid invita-
tion: June 30, 1985; (b) first bid opening: September 15, 1985; (c) first award
decision: November 15, 1985; and (d) first contract signature: December 15,
1985.
Project rmplementation and Completion
3.12    Taking into account the stage of project preparation and expected timing
of procurement, the ProjecE is expected to be commissioned by the end of 1989.
This completion date is in accordance with the time schedule foreseen for com-
missioning of an extension phase at Tarbela (units 11 and 12: 812 MW) and new
steam units at Multan (630 MW) and Jamshoro (500 MW). The implementation
schedule for the proposed Project is shown in Annex 3.3.
Disbursement
3.13    The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed against:  (a) IOOZ of the
CIF cost of imported goods, or (b) 100Z of ex-factory costs of locally manufac-
tured goods, both being subject to international competitive bidding. Disburse-
ment of the loan would also be made against 100Z of the foreign cost of consult-
ancy. A schedule of disbursements is given in Annex 3.4 ana relates to the
project implementation schedule (Annex 3.3). It shows disbursements being
completed in five-and-one-half years, the same as the previous two Bank WAPDA
power projects are expected to take. This is about one-and-one-half years less
than the average Bank-wide average for power transmission and distribution
projects and in view of the similarity with cngoing works in Pakistan, the
shorter period of implementation appears achievable.
Training
3.14    The EEV transmission system is relatively new in Pakistan.  The first
500-kV line, Tarbela-Faisalabad, was placed in service in 1977. In the next two
years, the second Tarbela-Faisalabad line and the Faisalabad-Jamshoro line,
including six substations, will be commissioned and operated at 500-kV. The
implementation of the proposed Project will further expand the EHV system.
Training of qualified staff to operate and maintain the 500-kV Lines and grid
stations has therefore been a priority for WAPDA. With the assistance of CIDA
and Canadian utilities, a substantial effort has beern provided to ensure ade-
quate expertise and availability of sufficient number of technicians in WAPDA
who could operate and maintain the 500-kV network. An initial phase of training
started in 1974 when the first team of WAPDA engineers were trained in Canada
using the services of British Columbia Hydro. In 1981, a more comprehensive
program started with the establishment of a specialized training center at
Tarbela and over a period of two years Ontario-Hydro provided services of



-22-
experts to train Pakistani staff and instructors in the areas of line main-
tenance, grid station operation and maintenance, and associated protection and
instrumentation. The achievements of that program, which were reviewed in 1984,
induced WAPDA and CIDA to agree on a new training program for a period of five
years. The program would be supported by Ontario-Hydro and is designed to
provide on-the-job training for the staff after their inicial training at the
TarbeLa school and to assist WAPDA in the development of a head office team of
technical support within the Transmission and Grid Department. The program will
also support the training of WAPDA's staff overseas and che purchase of equip-
ment and tools and essential spares for the conduct of the field training.
WAPDA is also installing at the Faisalabad Training Institute a grid simulator
which, in association with steam unit and combustion turbine simuLators provided
under technical assistance from West Germany. *will enable its staff to be
trained regularly in the operation of the system.
Ecology
3.15    As in the case of previous Bank WAPDA power projects, no ecological
problems are expected. Since one 500-kV line is equivalent to approximate five
220-kV lines, the amount of right of way is greatly reduced and the appearance
improved. Similarly, due to selection of the proper size of conductor, no
problem of audible noise or radio and television interference are foreseen.
Risks
3.16    The Project consists of normal electric utility work entailing no
unusual risks, and no particular difficulty is fotiseen in its execution.
Project cost estimates and implementation schedule are based on similar work
currently in progress in the country, and provision has been made for escala-
tion, so there should be little risk of substantial cost overrun in case of
extended slippage which is unLike,y.
IV. FINANCES
Overview
4.01    The analysis and projections covered in this chapter are only concerned
with the financial performance of WAPDA's power wing which, for ease of
reference, is henceforth referred to as WAPDA. In setting electricity tariffs,
the Authority is guided by the WAPDA Act which stipulates that: "The rates at
which the Authority shall sell power shall be so fixed as to provide for meeting
the operating costs, interest charges and depreciation of assets, the redemption
at due time of loans other than those covered by depreciation, the payment of
any taxes and a reasonable return on investment." The Act, however, does not
specify what constitutes a reasonable return on investment. Under an earlier
lending operation, the Bank set a rate of return of 8Z on revalued assets as a
target for measuring WAPDA's financial performance. However, comDliance with
the rate of return covenant was not possible because of delays in the implemen-
tation of the procedures for revaluing assets.  As a result, che rate of return
covenant was replaced by a cash generation covenant, which reouires WAPDA to
finance not less than 40% of its capital expenditures from internal sources.
According to this covenant, the level of internal cash generation is determined



-23-
by averaging the capital investment over a period of three years, covering the
current and preceding two years. Although WAPDA has been able to satisfy the
covenant, the formula used for calculating the level of cash generation is
retrospective, rather than prospective. The covenant, as outlined in the exist-
ing loan agreements, forces the authority to cake corrective action for short-
falls only after they have occurred. WAPDA has been able to meet the 402 level
of internal cash generation with minimal tariff increases because the actual
investment has been as low as 5OZ of the planned investment, which has been a
major factor in the power shortages and high system losses. The divergence
between planned and actual investment is attributable to the control of the
Ministry of Finance over the annual budgetary aLlocation to WAPDA's development
program.
4.02    These shortcomings have been addressed by redefining the cash generation
covenant to reflect the prospective aspect of the capital investment program
along the line of recently issued Bank guidelines, and by agreeing oh a
three-year core investment program (para 1.12). Under the Fourth WAPDA Project,
GOP and WAPDA have agreed to: (i) starting FY89, the calculation of internal
cash generation will be based on average of the investments in the current,
preceding and succeeding years and takes into account increases/decreases in
working capital; (ii) increase tariffs to ensure that such increases, as a
minimum, would enable WAPDA to finance a 40% level of capital investment from
internal cash generation. In meeting the financial performance covenant drawn
up under the Fourth WAPDA Project, WAPDA will begin closing the gap between
tariffs and LRMC by 1989 (para 1.12). Based on forecasts through FY91, WAPDA
will need to increase its average revenue during this period at an average
annual rate of about 16%. Assuming inflation at an average annual rate of 6Z,
che average annual increase in tariffs in real terms would amount to about 10%.
The financial forecast is based on this assumption.
Past Performance
4.03    During the last five years (FY80-FY84), WAPDA has been able to finance
between 53% and 76% of its capital investments from internal sources. These
self-financing ratios are higher than wouLd normally be expected due to the
execution of a smaller than planned construction program (para 4.01). However,
tariff increases, reductions in system losses, and a fuel adjustment surcharge,
which allows WAPDA to recover part of the cost of fuel from its consumers, have
contributed to achieving the above mentioned levels of internal cash generation.
Also, the recently adopted accounting and commercial systems are enabling
management to begin exerting a tighter control over operations. The rate of
return on historically valued average net fixed assets in service during this
five-year period was between 15% and 18% and between 8% and 10% on revalued
assets.l/ Balance sheets, income statements and sources and application of funds
statements for FY80-FY84 are presented in Annexes 4.1, 4.2 and 4.3, respec-
tively. These are summarized below:
1/ Based on proforma revaluation.



-24-
Year ending June 30                   1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
kWh generated (million)             12,124  13,206  14,768  16,477  18,052
kWh sold (million)                   8,160   9,068  10,288  11,593  12,762
kWh sold as a percentage of
kWh generated                         67%      69%     701      70Z    71%
Average Revenue/kUh sold (paisa)        46       51      57       62     63
---- -  -----PRs Million
Operating revenues                   3,919   4,777   6,011   7,361   8,214
Operating expenses                   1,782   2,218   3,306   4,083   5,069
Operating income                     2,137   2,559   2,705   3,278   3,145
Net income after interest and
payment to Government              1,410   1,870   1,835   2,214   1,977
Net internal cash generation
as a percentage of capitaL
investment                            53X      76Z     62Z     71Z    61Z
Rate of return on historicaLly
valued assets                       17.0%   18.3%   17.3Z   17.9Z  14.6%
Rate of return on revalued
assets (proforma)                   10.0Z   10.4%    9.52   10.OZ   8.2%
Present Financial Position
4.04    The book value of fixed assets is shown at historical cost, as required
by GOP.  A large proportion of WAPDA's eLectricity supply facilities, including
generating plants, and the transmission and distribution networks, were commis-
sioned during the last few years. As a result, WAPDA's gross fixed assets in
service have increased by 93% during the last five years, FY80-FY84. Of all the
eLectricity supply facilities that came on stream during this period, about 60X
were financed from WAPDA's internal sources, and 40% from borrowings. WAPDA is
currently in the process of establishing a fixed asset accounting system, which
will classify fixed assets by category and form the basis for the formulation of
appropriate depreciation schedules. This work would be completed by December
1985. Until such time, an average rate of depreciation of about 3.5% is being
applied, which is considered adequate by the Rank. WAPDA's capitalization as of
June 30, 1984 is summarized below:
US$ Million
Equity                              PRs Million      Equivalent        X
Government investment             2,409            157             7
Government equity
contribution                    2,777            181            8
Capital contributions             1,578            103            5
Retained earnings                10,543            689           32
Total                          17,307          1,130           52
Long-Term Debt                        15,952          1,042           48
Total Capital                  33,259         2,172           100
The figures show a debt/equity ratio of 48/52 in FY84, compared to a ratio of
61/39 for FY79, reflecting the increased reliance of WAPDA on its internal



-25-
resources for financing its investment program which has improved its
capitalization position. Since the debt/equity ratio is calculated on the basis
of assets valued at historical cost, the assets are undervalued and therefore
the debt/equity ratio is overstated. If the assets are adjusted on the basis of
proforma revaluation, the debt/equity ratio would be aoout 30/70. Both the
ratio of current assets to current liabilities and the coverage of debt service
from internally generated cash are satisfactory.
Investment Program
4.05    WAPDA's investment program for the period FY85-93 showing annual disbur-
sements for existing and future projects is shown in Annex 4.5 and summarized
below:
PRs million    US$ million   Foreign Ex. Z
Generation                          85,937           5,613           43
Transmission                        15,414           1,007           43
Sub-Transmission                    21,513           1,405           12
Distribution                        19,155           1,251           14
Other                                   104              7            -
Total                            142,123           9,283           34
Financing Plan
4.06    Based on the above development program, a forecast of the sources and
applications of funds for the next seven years (FY85-FY91) is shown in Annex
4.3. The financing plan reflects a PRs 30 billion core investment program
during the three-year period FY86-88, which has been agreed with GOP
(para 1.12). It also reflects tariff increases to enable WAPDA to self-finance
a minimum of 40% of its capital investment program (paras 1.12 and 4.02). The
three-year core investment program is an on-going program and will be reviewed
annually for updating. Other assumptions used are outlined in Annex 4.4. The
financing plan for WAPDA for the five years (FY86-FY9O), during which the
proposed Project would be implemented, is outlined below:
p  .



-26-
WAPDA Power Wing Financing Plan
Period of Fifth WAPDA Power Project FY86-90
US$ Million
PRs Million   Equivalent       _
Requirements
Capital Investment                      59,794        3,906         96
Working capital increase                 2,807           183         4
Total Requirements                   62,601         4,089        100
Sources
rnternal cash generation               43,478         2,840         70
Less: Debt service and payments
to Government                        24,555         1,604         39
Net internal cash generation          18,923        1,236         31
Capital contributions                   4,009           262          6
Borrowings
Government loans                        16,507        1,078         26
Foreign loans
(including proposed IBRD loan)       23,162         1,513         37
Total borrowing                      39,669         2,591         63
Total Sources                        62,601         4,089        100
During this period, the funds required for the development program (generation,
transmission and distribution) would amount to PRs 62,601 million
(US$4,089 million), consisting of PRs 59,794 million (US$3,906 million) for
capital investment and PRs 2,807 million (US$183 million) for increase in work-
ing capital. Of the total, PRs 39,669 million (US$2,591 million) would be in
the form of loans, of which PRs 16,507 million (US$ 1,078 million) are local
funds to be lent by GOP, which form part of WAPDA's Government-approved capital
program. Of the remaining PRs 23,162 million (US$1,513 million equivalent) in
foreign exchange, US$1,000 million has aLready been arranged, or is in the
process of being arranged, leaving US$513 million still to be obtained.
However, the financing gap covers, to a large extent, projects that would be
initiated during the latter part of the Sixth Five-Year Plan and executed during
the Seventh Five-Year Plan. The uncertainty concerning the source of financing
for these projects is not serious and it is not likely to adversely affect the
development plan. It is expected that the financing gap would be bridged in
time to allow for the timely execution of WAPDA's development plan.
Future Finances
4.07    Forecast balance sheets, income statements'and sources and applications
of funds statements for FY85-91 are shown in Annexes 4.1, 4.2 and 4.3. A sum-
mary of forecast operating results for the seven-year period is shown below.
Revenue projections are based on increases in generation of electricity, tariff



-27-
increases and a reduction of system losses. The forecast of operating expenses
is based on system expansion and planned thermal generation. Depreciation is
taken at a 3.5% composite rate. The seven-year forecast shows operating
revenues and expenses increasing at an average annual rate of about 26Z and
takes into account annual inflation of about 6%. During this period, elec-
tricity generation is forecast to increase by 73% and electricity sold by 88%,
reflecting a decrease in system losses. This forecast shows that WAPDA would
continue to self-finance not less than 40% of its capital investment program and
thereby meet the financial performance covenant. The forecast assumes that the
present covenant wouLd remain in effecc through FY88 and that the new forward
looking covenant would become operative starting FY89 (para 4.02). The rate of
return on revalued assets during the forecast period would range between 6% and
9%.
FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91
kWh generated (million)                  19,115 20,420 23,135 24,648 25,766 27,815 31,215
kWh sold (million)                       13,763 14,907 17,351 18,979 19,840 21,418 24,036
Average revenue per kWh sold (paisa)l/       65      69     84    102    129    149    160
Revenue (PRs million)                     9,133 10,559 14,890 19,691 25,919 32,225 38,969
Net operating income (PRs million)        2,833  3,392  4,660  5,715  7,913  9,796 11,112
Net internal cash generation as a
percentage of capital investment
Three-year average (Z)                   50     40      40     40      40     40      40
Rate of return:
Historically valued assets (Z)           11.2   10.9   12.3   12.6   14.7   15.3   14.6
Proforma revalued assets (Z)              6.3    6.4    7.4    7.7    9.1    9.6    9.3
Debt/equity ratio                         50/50  54/46  56/44  58/42  58/42  58/42  59/41
Times debt service covered by
internal cash generation                  1.9    1.7    1.7    1.7    1.9    1.9    1.8
1/ Including fuel surcharge.
4.08    Forecast balance sheets (Annex 4.1) show WAPDA's financial position
during the forecast seven-year period under consideration. A substantial
growth is expected in gross fixed assets, from PRs 29,333 million in FY84
to PRs 103,912 million at the end of FY91. aver the same period, equity is
expected to increase almost threefold, from PRs 17,307 million in FY84 to
PRs 46,164 million in FY91, with retained earnings accounting for 80Z of this
increase. Long-term debt is forecast to increase fourfold, from PRs 15,952
million to PRs 65,604 million, resulting in a debt/equity ratio in FY91 of
59/41, which is reasonable for an electric utility. The coverage of debt
service by internal cash generation would be satisfactory during this period
as would be the ratio of current assets to current liabilities. Neverthe-
less, the debt servicing position of WAPDA should be monitored. During nego-
tiations, it was agreed that WAPDA wouLd incur new debt only if it internally



-28-
generates at least 1.5 times its debt service requirements, as per the debt
limitation covenant drawn up under the Fcurth WAPDA Project. This covenant
would be repeated under the proposed Project (para 6.01(d)).
Financial/Commercial Operations
4.09    WAPDA has made good progress in streamlining its commercial opera-
tions and in establishing modern accounting and commercial systems with the
assistance of consultants (Peat, Marwick, Mitchell and Co.). WAPDA's
mazagers are becoming more aware of the value of financial control in helping
to monitor and measure the operations and performance of the Authority.
Nevertheless, additional work still needs to be undertaken in areas such as
materials management, asset valuation and accounting. Also, extensive train-
ing programs are needed to ensure that the new systems are properLy staffed.
This additional work requires substantial outside assistance, which will be
furnished by USAID under its recently approved rural electrification project
(para 2.12). The project is timely in that, inter alia, it will continue
with and build on the work carried out by WAPDA with the assistance of Peat,
Marwick, Mitchell and Co. Recognizing the Bank Group's interest in
strengthening the Power Sector, it has been mutually agreed between WAPDA,
USAID and the Bank that close coordination will be maintained.
4.10    A limiting factor in continuing the strengthening of WAPDA is the
shortage of qualified staff in the accounting and commercial departments.
Although the new commercial procedures have been impLemented, the desired
results are not always being achieved, mainly because of the inadequacy of
key staff. Unless qualified staff is maintained in key posts, the momentum
generated will lag and further progress will be slow. WAPDA has been
experiencing difficulties in filling the more senior financial/commercial
positions because of the inexperience of the present staff in financial and
commercial management procedures and the overall shortage of experienced
Pakistanis in the market precipitated by the attractive compensation packages
offered in the GuLf States. WAPDA, with assistance of USAID, will be
evaluating its recruitment practices, job grading and compensations for the
financial staff, which would facilitate the recruitment of experienced finan-
cial staff from outside the Authority. This issue was addressed under the
Fourth WAPDA Power Project and it has been agreed that WAPDA shall, from time
to time, review with the Bank the qualification and adequacy of the number of
accountants in its power wing, and establish, as necessary, a plan satisfac-
tory to the Bank for recruiting professionally qualified accountants.
4.11    The commercial function in WAPDA is of major importance, and becomes
increasingly so as a large number of new consumers is added each year. The
commercial operations include application processing, connection of service,
meter reading, billing and collection. disconnection and reconnection, and
customer relations, each of which directly affects WAPDA's realization of
revenue. In upgrading its financial and commercial functions, the post of
general manager was created for the finance department, and the post of chief
commercial manager created for the comercial department, but with the latter
lacking sufficient powers to operate effectively. This continues to hinder
the commercial functions of the Authority. This issue was addressed under
the Fourth WAPDA Project and the granting of powers of a General Manager to
the Chief Commercial Manager was made a condition of loan effectiveness of
the Fourth WAPDA Project.



-29-
Internal Audit
4.12    WAPDA's Internal Audit Department is large.  Its functions should be
examined and revised with the objective of enhancing its role and influence
within the Authority. Compliance auditing clearly should be a major function
of the department, and a more positive role should be established embracing
the wider aspects of management audit. In order to develop a suitabLe inter-
nal audit function, WAPDA should engage outside assistance estimated at 20
man-months to help with the re-orientation of the department's activities and
with training of staff. WAPDA is in the process of drawing up terms of
reference for consultants to be engaged to develop a modern system of inter-
nal audit. These consultants are to be engaged before September 30, 1985 and
their terms of reference, qualification and experience shall be satisfactory
to the Bank, as per agreement reached under the Fourth WAPDA Project.
External Audit
4.13    The WAPDA Act stipulates that the Auditor General (AG) of Pakistan be
responsible for auditing WAPDA's accounts. He discharges his responsibility
through one of his special groups, headed by the Director, WAPDA Audit, and
employing some 400 staff. It is attached to WAPDA on a permanent basis and
its employees are located at all points of its operations.  Under Credit
968-PAK, it was agreed to accept AG as the independent auditor until the
WAPDA accounting system was strengthened sufficiently to permit a judgment as
to the quality of the Government audit. It is still too early to render a
judgment. AG is making a significant effort to strengthen the audit func-
tion. Under Dutch assistance, AG's staff is being strengthened through
training programs under the direction of four expatriate specialists in
auditing. These specialists are stationed in Lahore and have trained some
100 audit officers in the techniques of auditing. They are to remain in
Lahore through 1985 to continue the training program and to develop a cadre
to train staff on a continuing basis after the experts depart. Another
posicive step is that performance auditing is gradually being introduced.
These improvements, together with WAPDA's efforts to reform its accounting
procedures and strengthen its internal audit functions, will go a long way in
facilitating AG in performing a satisfactory audit.
4.14    Under Credit 968-PAK, the Bank Group has reserved the right to
monitor the present audit arrangements and, if necessary, to ask that an
additional independent auditor be appointed. Present arrangements are that
the Preliminary Audit Observations, together with the balance sheet, income
statement and any other relevant statements covering the performance of
WAPDA, are accepted for the time being as satisfying the Bank's audit
requirements. The observations are normally issued within six months of the
ciose of the fiscal year. Considering the present circumstances, it is
recommended that the existing audit arrangements continue until the new
internal audit system is in place (para 4.12) and the new accounting system
is fully implemented and operational, so that a judgment may be made on the
quality of the Government audit. The new internal auditing system is
unlikely 'to be implemented prior to December 31, 1986, after which audits
consistent with the Bank's guidelines would be required on an annual basis
within six months of the end of each fiscal year. Under the Fourth WAPDA
Project, it was agreed thac the 3ank's standard audit covenant would be



-30-
included in the loan document-s to enable the Bank to retain the right of
exercising the option of requesting an audit consistent with its guidelines,
and that the interim arrangement governing WAPDA audits would be outlined in
the minutes of negotiations. This agreement would be renewed under the
proposed Project (para 6.01(e)).
Government Arrears
4.15    Private consumers have been settling their electricity bills satis-
factorily, while Government needs to improve on the time it takes in settling
its accounts. Though there has been considerable improvement, with arrears
declining from about seven months' Government billings to four months, the
position is still not satisfactory. Government should now be settling its
eLectricity accounts in not more than three months from receipt of bill.
Under the Fourth WAPDA Project, GOP agreed to settle all arrears owing to
WAPDA as of December 31, 1984 by not later than June 30, 1985 and that all
future electricity bills shall be paid by all government agencies and depart-
ments within three months after the receipt of the biLl. It would be
expected that, if necessary, the Federal and Provincial Governments would
make adequate provision in the budgets of their agencies and departments for
the payment of current bills.
Insurance
4.16    Prior to 1977, WAPDA had been insuring with the National Insurance
Corporation of Pakistan, a Government insurance agency under the Ministry
of Commerce. After experiencing difficultv in settling its claims with NIC,
it elected to insure its assets under a self-insurance scheme. With the
assistance of actuarial consultants, WAPDA established a self-insurance
scheme covering substations, power houses, machinery and workshops against
Loss from fire and machinery breakdown. The scheme is administered by a
Board of Management consistii.g of six members, with the Member Finance as
Chairman. The other five members are: Member Power; General Manager, Finance
(Power); Hanager, Finance Coordination; WAPDA's Internal Auditor and the
Director of Insurance. The Board meets periodicalLy together with the
actuarial consultant to review the insurance program. At present, PRsI4.4
million is allocated annually to the insurance fund, an amount determined
based on studies carried out by WAPDA and its actuarial consultants. The
insurance fund, amounting to PRs 64.7 milli.on (as of June 30, 1984), is
administered separately by the Board of Management and is invested in Defense
Savings Bonds (approved by the Government), earning annual interest of 10.
These insurance arrangements are satisfactory.
V. ECON)MIC JUSTIFICATION
A. Forecast of Electricity Sales by WAPDA
5.01    The rates of growth of electricity sales by WAPDA between 1973 and
1983 are presented in Table 5.1 below. Over the ten-year period, sales
increased at an average annual rate of 9.7Z; however, the rate of growth was
substantially higher in the second than in the first-half of the decade,
averaging about 7.1Z for the period 1973-1978, compared to 12.3% for



-31-
1978-1983. The most significant change was in the industrial sector, where
the rate of growth of electricity sales more than tripled over the two
periods, increasing from 3.1% to 11.2%. The growth of sales to the household
and commercial sectors also increased substantially over the two periods,
increasing from 17.22 to 23.3% for households and from 13.9% to 15.7% for the
commercial sector. The acceleration in the growth of electricity saLes was
primarily due to (a) the increased demand for electricity by the industrial
sector whose real output rose at an average annual rate of 6.9% for the
period 1978-1983, compared to 4.52 for 1973-1978; (b) the flow of resources
in the form of workers' remittances from the Gulf area, which maintained a
buoyant demand for electricity by the household and commercial consumers; and
(c) the increased emphasis by GOP in extending public suppLy of electricity
to low-income consumers in both the rural and urban areas.
Table 5.1
Historical Development of Electricity Sales by WAPDA 1973-1983
Average Annual      Average Annual      Average Annual
Growth Rate         Growth Rate         Growth Rate
1973-83 (X)         1973-78 (Z)         1978-83 (Z)
Energy sold                 9.7                  7.1                12.3
Residential                20.2                 17.2                23.3
Commercial                 14.8                 13.9                15.7
Industrial                  7.1                  3.2                11.2
Agriculture                 8.1                  7.9                 7.2
5.02    Electricity sales are forecast to increase between 1983 and 1993 at
an average annual rate of about 9.3% which is only slightly lower than the
rate of growth of 9.7% observed for the period 1973-1983. However, as shown
in Table 5.2,
Table 5.2
Forecast of Energy Sales by WAPDA 1983-1993
Average Annual      Average Annual      Average Annual
Growth Rate         Growth Rate         Growth Rate
1983-93 (x)         1983-88 (Z)         1989-93 (Z)
Energy sold                 9.3                  10.4                8.3
Residential                 9.5                  10.6                8.3
Commercial                  9.4                  10.6                8.2
Industrial                  9.5                  10.6                8.3
Agriculture                 9.0                   9.6                8.3
the forecast rates of growth of 10.4% and 8.3Z for the periods 1983-1988 and
1989-1993 are substantially lower than the 12.3% observed for the period
1978-1983. The deceleration in the rate of growth of electricity sales
between 1983 and 1988 is primarily due to supply constraints precipitated by
the shortage of financial resources which have induced GOP to substantially
scale down the Sixth Five-Year Plan's investment program for the power sub-
sector. However, over the next five years, it is also expected to result



-32-
from: (a) the increase in real tariffs to achieve parity with LRMC by 1989
which would double the average tariff in real terms, and consequently induce
a greater emphasis on conservation and a more rational use of power by con-
sumers; and (b) the initiation by GOP of a program for energy conservation,
concentrating initially on the large energy intensive industries such as
cement, steel, fertiLizers, building materials, etc. As a result, the growth
rates of sales to all consumer categories are forecast to drop from about
10.4Z for the period 1983-1988 to about 8.3% for the period 1989-1993.
B. Least Cost Alternative
5.03    The Project has been prepared by WAPDA, whose capabilities in for-
muLating and implementing programs for the extension and reinforcement of
its transmission network have been developed through the involvement of che
World Bank Group, ADB and CIDA.  Three options for system development were
investigated, in particular for the northern section of the 500-kV system
between Multan and Tarbela: (i) a 500-kV line from Tarbela to Lahore and
from Lahore to Multan, via Sahiwal, and a second 500-kV line from Multan to
Jamshoro, (ii) a third 500-kV transmission line from Tarbela to Faisalabad
via Lahore and a second 500-kV line from Faisalabad to Jamshoro and (iii) a
third 500-kV line from Tarbela to Faisalabad, a double circuit 500-kV line
from Faisalabad to Lahore, and a second 500-kV line from Faisalabad to Jasm-
shoro. The analysis showed that the new Tarbela-Lahore-Sahiwal-Multan 500-kV
line and the second Multan-Jamshoro 500-kV line would contribute to the
delivery of power at least cost to the economy in terms of technical losses,
and capital and operating costs. The section Lahore-Jamshoro which con-
stitutes the proposed Project is needed by 1989 (para 3.11) while the section
Tarbela-Lahore would be required about two years later by the time units 13
and 14 at Tarbela are commissioned. The Bank reviewed the methodology used
and the results produced and found them satisfpctory.
C. Internal Economic Rate of Return
5.04    ALthough the proposed Project is expected to play a critical role in
ensuring the optimal development and operation of the power system, its
benefit cannot be isoLated from those of generation and distribution. Conse-
quently, the return on WAPDA's investment program, covering generation,
transmission and distribution, for the period 1984-1990 is used as a proxy
for the return on the Project. The internal economic rate of return (IERR)
is about 5.9Z, based on the measurable costs and benefits (Annex 5.1). The
measurable costs include: (a) capital and labor costs involved in develop-
ment of generation, transmission and distribution facilities; (b) the annual
cost of operation and maintenance, assumed at about 3% of the capital cost;
and (c) the incremental cost of fuels comprising natural gas, fuel oil and
coal, valued at their cost to the economy. Domestic costs of capital and
labor, both skilled and unskilled, were expressed in their equivalent border
values. The measurable benefits are only comprised of the incremental
revenues associated with the investment program, based on an average revenue
of 63 paisa/kWh, which is taken as a proxy for the consumers' willingness to
pay. The revenues were also expressed in terms of their equivalent border
values. Details of the assumptions used and the calculations for shadow
pricing are presented in Annex 5.2.



-33-
5.05    The return on the Project does not compare favorably with the oppor-
tunity cost of capital of about 11%; however, this is not a measure of its
economic merit, but a reflection of the deviation of WAPDA's average tariff
from the LRMC of supply (para 1.13). GOP maintains WAPDA's tariffs low for
social reasons. This allows WAPDA's consumers to capture surplus or benefit
greater than is reflected in its tariffs. If these tariffs are used as a
proxy for the benefits attributed to the Project, IERR understates the real
return. A better estimate of the Project's economic viability could be
obtained only if the surplus currently captured by WAPDA's consumers is
quantified. Ideally, this could be estimated once the demand curve is
specified. However, specification of the demand curve cannot be accuratPly
determined because of the inadequacy of available data. A partial measure of
the surplus can be estimated by determining the maximum price consumers are
willing to pay for electricity. Consumers supplied by KESC pay an average
tariff, including fuel surcharge, for electricity which is about 56% higher
than that of WAPDA's, 97 paisa/kWh compared with 63 paisa/kWh.  KESC's
average tariff is a better measure of what consumers in Pakistan are willing
to pay at present for public supply of electricity. If KESC's average tariff
of 97 paisa/kWh is used as a proxy for WAPDA's consumers' willingness to pay,
and incremental sales are reduced by 5X to allow for the possibility that not
all consumers would be willing to pay the higher tariffs, the Project's IERR
would increase to about 13.9%, which is a more accurate approximation of the
real return on the Project. This 13.9% is above the estimated opportunity
cost of capital and reflects indivisibilities in the investment program and
the fact that the supply system is not in equilibrium.
5.06    If WAPDA's average revenue is increased, in real terms, by about 12%
annually between FY86 and FY90 in order to meet, from internal sources, 40%
of its development program of Rs 30 billion agreed with the Bank for
FY86-FY88, and the incremental sales are reduced by about 3X11 per year to
accommodate the likelihood that higher real tariffs would induce greater
conservation and economy in the use of electricity, the rate of return on the
Project increases to about 15.1Z. The 15.1Z IERR represents the minimum
return on the proposed Project. If all the benefits associated with the
Project could be quantified, the IERR would be higher. TheJe benefits
include the improvement in the power plant efficiency expected after the
completion of the Project; the reduction in the overall fuel cost associated
with the commissioning of the dispatch center which srould ensure the effi-
cient operation of existing and new power plants; and the reduction in the
losses in transmission and distribution associated with the programs
initiated under bilateral aid or under the Fourth WAPDA Project and the
proposed Projecc.
1/ Sales are reduced by 32, instead of 5% when KESC's tariffs were used, to
allow for the fact that the changes in tariffs to meet the 40% cash
generation covenant would be implemented over a longer price horizon.
This makes it more relevant to apply Long-te:m time elasticities which
have been shown to be lower than the short-term elasticities.



-34-
VI. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS
6.01    During negotiations, WAPDA agreed to:
(a) recruit consultants by no later than December 31, 1985, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to undertake a load research
and load demand management study which would be completed and
reviewed, in consultation with the Bank, by no later than June 30,
1987 (para 1.13);
(b) recruit consultants by no later than June 30, 1986, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to undertake a feasibility study
and detailed engineering for a power station complex based mainly on
imported coal and to prepare the bidding documents for the first
phase of such complex; the work should be completed and reviewed,
in consultation with the Bank, by no later than December 31, 1987
(para 2.05); and
(c) recruit consultants by no later than September 30, 1985, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to undertake a study for the
implementation of a system for the collection, storage and retrieval
of data on the power system; the study should be compLeted and
reviewed in consultation with the Bank by no later than December 31,
1986 (para 2.05).
(d) incur new debt only if it internally generates at least 1.5 times
its debt service requirements (para 4.08); and
Ce)  include standard audit covenant in the loan docur'.-nta to erable the
Bank to retain the right of exercising the option of requesting an
audit consistent with its guidelines, and outline in the minutes of
negotiations the interim arrangement governing WAPDA's audits (para
4.14).
6.02    The introduction of a tariff increase which will enable WAPDA in FY86
to finance at least 40% of its investment program from in.arnally generated
funds, in accordance with the formula for determining the internal cash
generation level under the Third WAPDA Power Project, would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan (para 1.12).



PAKISTAN
ENERGY SECTOR
Oranizaffon Chad
(Febuao   1984)
(ligh WM GOP enwg                      (A      d 4&                                  (PIe opwAO
powy bnAtkXn                           oth  fncald rnaollte                          COW choked by Iltw
co'ctd by lmlw id                      ch   by MWtow d                               d P1avV  & ICHC chated
Ihorce &    w)fin)                                                                   by tr,4c Fkmrce)
Pet,almn &
NdaR                          Mtwd               mfmfffW  d                                     W r* fr ,   d       MW*W d    |
_ . E b n~~~~~FodcAtbn                      Wateq &              Soc,twlo        S        c                v*~&
Okeleo,            J hlt          _ i _.search I                                                           (CoadrKNbin 
_|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 1 R*a    ,..W m h)   |                                                       w   | zSmoW hydOW |v  | orv;             I |
ROIOLNM                                                           non4~~~~~~~~~~itam onai    cwdnltkmfpLjCf
I                                                I        R        t                                 I                 !I                   I             Scbndi.wtcr
I                i                lIItIe I                                                                                              I   g*  
OGDC              ASt             5HGP         (D      I d            C               PIUAC           WA                 PC                  AW
MAtR                             SGIC          blagaN                                                KESC
ptx               PARCO           KOC            r*   I
FAiUJ(MM)         PSO             3C            coAectimc&
INON             PFIS             uStWE         p.tlIond
OXY               Cft             FALU         Nwlcd  't
PSO            data ehf)
NltC - NohlanErgyI P"cy~C     qOXYe O- Occidenti Co d USA                                 KGC - KarOCN Gas Co
GOP - Gawnwtlat cisiton                     MM - Ptakstan NM4w  D.we   m.l Capapatln      GC - tw Gam Co
[CC - CalbMI's  Cca   dratConVcu to    GSP - Geooc Sim d Pokkta.                     ll WIE - Shudwy d r*i I e
ECHIC - E'cut,e Canitltlee d the Ndtb t  d     F PFl - PlkWm RON" Ltd                    PERAC - Slat6 PtCI     Rl*'& Pfoctwsdd C*T-
kCvnic Counc                           AR - Alook Rsltd                             HMIt - Nafbiol Rehay Ltd
COP- Contft Dwlpnnlmevl  WakiV PF          PARCO - PtmAb R.hA*  C&                         KR - HNfbtWnPobahc il4t4 (ot htoacbc)
C - Chi Modtkpl Ad*owhaot                     PSO - Paklin SVole 0 Co, Ltd              WAPA - Water & Pa   w         Ajho"tty
OGCC - Oi & Goa Dslopmen Copaatbin            PMS - Paiwan &Jma, ml R                     IKSC - KMON EteCtic 5CrApatOibn
Po. - PclMknOl NIdbs Ltd                    C1x - Calt of USA                           PAIC - PalkstanNAl   le Ene  ComnnW
PR - Pakisn Piiumn Ltd                   SNOPR - Su Nwtt*n GCa PpelWe Ltd               AIDO - Actplafe ;o       D FpoenI OgSm1
rAU - fatrfotrondWin                        SGIC -l Aot Gllrwi*Vton Co Ltd
LNOU     - Lnbin l8ga Co d USA



Commercial !QI1IW4t IA)anc - I'll
'OOtoe)
vAILxUYa uNIciC                                                                                      RCOHDAII 3lt10!
................... .....................................  .....................................NN.........----------_--................ON.........-..... - --....-...- 
PETROLEUM                                                                                                                                                       PETROLEULI PRODUCTS
m.............*m..... .......... ..m ..m.m......mMflm.........                        m...immm
High                      Higb Octana                     Light              Total
Natural                                                 Superior Speed    Fuel   MOtor    Blended    Aviation                Diesel           Petroleuu  Row
Coal        Oil      Gas           Hydro     Uranium    Slectricity         ierosnet  Diesel  Oil   spirits  Componeat    Puel   LPO    Oil   Naptbe Products  Totals
.-p....   ......  u..... .   m....           ... m.....    m....m ..n"-..- .......  m.....  ..... ph....   .S.m.Um.   mmu. *--.. _ *-..... ---mu- ............  mum._ ......... - e".......-  ..._-.. . .._.",._,"
Sgoureg of SUpOlIV
Do*.tic Production            566         417   4, 453         1,786         54                                                                      -                                       -              7,276
Imports                        10       3, 578        -            -          -                -            455       543        -       -          36             B      -      90        -     1,132      4, 720
Eaportr                                                                                                                                                                                                      
stock Chango.                   -          58         -            -          -                -             (71)      (4)      87      11            2          (14)     -     (20)       7         t2)        56
Groas supply                    576      4,053    *,453         1,786          54                -            384       539      87       11          36           (6).    -       70        7     1,130    12,052
COn5YrJ1in 
lefinerles                      -      (4,053)        -            -          -                -             282      875  1,217       356           70          458    32       .30     201     3,721       (332)
Electricity  ceneration    (II)             -  (1,396)        (1,786)       (54)           1,043               -      (14)    (20)        -           -            -      -        -       -        (34)  (2,25)
P:oceeatoz of Gas               -           -      t342)            -         -                -               -         -       -        -                     -  -               -             -           (342)
Converaio   lon sse                                                                                                                                                                                        (1,912)
self consumptlia                -           -         -            -          -              (35)              _         -   -           -            .            _      _                                    (3_)
Loesms lo tranamieaion
and Distribution              -                     -                                    (302)
Nlt Available                 565            -   2,715              -         -              706             666    1,400   1,284      367          108          452     32      300     206     4,817      8, W3
Exports                         -           -         -            -          -                -               -      (il)  (671)                      -       (150)      -       (3)  (208)  (1,045)  (1,045)
lanker Sales                    -            -        -             -         -                -               -      (13)    (65)        -           -            -      -       (3)      -        (S1)       (61)
Net Dostatic
Consumption                  565           -   2,715              -          -              706            666    1,374       548     367         108          302      32     294        -    3,691       7,677
CoOlumDtiOn by Sector
Domestic                       17                   229             -         -              144             649         -       -        _           _            -     25        _       _        674     1,064
Comerieal                       -           -       124             -         -               62               -         -       -        -           -            -      -        -       -          -        16t
Industrial                     10           -    1,689             -          -              287               1       26      187       -            -            -      7        5       -       226      2, 212
Agricultural                    -            -148                                                              -         -       -                                        - _  _  272      -        272       420
Transport                       -            -        -             -         -                -               -    1,134       57     367          106          302      -       12       -     1, 950     1,960
Fertiliaer                      -           -       269             -         -                -               -         -       -        -           -            -      -        -       -          -       269    -
Other Gojernmaat                7            -        -             -         -               65              16      214      304        -           -            -      -        5       -        519        611 1
Kilns                         531            -        -             -          -               -               -         -       -        -           -            -      -        -       -          -        531
Non-lIergy 'iJe                  -                  404             -         -                -               .         .       -        -           -            -                                          '404
Source:  Energy Year Book, 1983, Govc.naent of Pakistan, Directorate General of Energy Resources, Minstry of Patro!cun a-.d 11U-Jl rlooources



00 too)
nIEATr aucr                                                                                  UECUlDAIV *OY
......................                             ..................................Ma... ...No... .............................ee........... MO ......
?ITkOLWNJ                                                                                                                                            PETSOLUH VO1UCTU
*emmm.emmmmmmm.mm.e..e..m.m.m...m..m..........e...m...e..m.m.m........................  ...m
High                    gil  Oetare                  Lilght            Total
Naltural                                             Superior 5 led   fuel   lotor    Ieeded    Dyltios              Diesel          Petroleum  Kow
Coal       Oil      Gas         dydro    Urcalum   Electricity    Kerosene Dleoe   Oll  Ipirite  Compoent    Fuel   LPG   oil   Naptbh  Produets  Totals
... .  -         *--".w ...... *----** -*                                        *-     ------....... .......    4.6-....... _  .._-- ......m...  ....       .
Sourged of SuppIl
Domeatic Production         723       452      7,695        2,705          54                                                                                                                  1 - I,629
Tuporta                      14    4,320            -           -          -             -           402     1,40111                                    -      -     -         -    1,922    6,256
tapott                                   -                -           -             -             -          -                     -        -       -        - .
stock Changee                 -         -           -           -           -            -            (27)      (30)  (53)   (22)          (1)         13         -            -      (120)    (120)
Orosa Supply                 737    4,772       7,495        2,705          54            -            375    1,371   (53)   (22)          li          13      -      -        -    1, 02    17,765
Conwverion
Refinerles                    -   (4,772)                                   -                         246    1,206 1,421    611            29         467    50   175        196    4 405       (367)
Elcetricity Generation   (IS)                 0 (3,755)    (2 705)       (54)       13660               -      (329)  396       -           .           .      .      .        _     (725)  (3,594)
Procesing of Gas              -         -       (602)           -           -            -              -         -      -                  -           -      -     -         -         -      (602)
Conversion losses             -         -           -           -           -            -              -         -                         .                                                 (4 565)
sell consumption              -                     -           -           .            .              _         _
Losses in tranismialon        -         -           -           -           -          (48)             -         -              -          -           -      .      -        -)
eand Distribution           -         -          -            -          -          (420)             -         -     -       *          -            -      -                                (420)
Not Available               722         -      5,336            .           _        1,192            623    2,248   972    589           1'          460    50   175        198    5,462   12,734
Esport                        -         -           -           -          -- -                                   -  (176)      -           -        (150)    -       -    (195)    (526)    (526)
lanker Sales                  -         -           -           -           -            -                       (6)  (40)       -          *           -      -    (2)        -       (46)      (46)
Not Domeetic
Consumption                722         -      5,336            -          -         1,192           623     2,242   754    569          147          330    SO   173         _    4,906   12,160
Cona,mtios by Sector
Domestic                     10         -         01            -           -          316            611 1              .            -         *             39      -        -      450    1,677
Coier.iel                     -         -        207            -           -           6               -         -      - s                         -                -        -         -       295
Industrial                   14                2,155            -           .          420              -       105   262       *                                                       1 11  7  365    3,024
Agricultural                  _         _           _           _                      216                                                                          U 2  -  .  -  *   IS  .   170  $1
Tgavep-rt                                           .           .           .            -                      81,66   170    559        142         216      -      5             2, 980    2,9 0
Vartilimar                    -         -         910                            c-                     -         -              -          -           -      *      -        -         -
Other Coyermaqt               3         -           -           -           -          202             12       239   322      30           5         112      -               -       72        828
3i1.s                       695                                                                                 * * * *          -                                                               65
Non-Lawtgy Ucs                -          -     1,365                                                                                                                                           1,365
Sources  Energy Year Book, 19t3, Governant of Pakistan, Directorate General of Energy Resourees, Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Reaources



-38-
AMN=X 1.4
PAKISTAN
Relationship of Domestic and Border Prices for Petroleum Products
January 1984
(US$/toe)
Border Price/                    Tax or        Domestic Price
Product       Economic Cost  Domestic Price  (Subsidy)  as Z of Border Price
Premium GasoLine       261            677            416              259
Regular Gasoline       251            637            386              254
Kerosene               248            254              6              102
Diesel                 255            359            104              141
Fuel Oil               170            148            (22)              87
Aviation Fuel          275            461            186              168
LPG                    200            207              7              104
Weighted Average
for Petroleum
Products           242             362                             150



come Irrcilhm    cec 1p968
-(.000 to.)
P*IIA     3     1120couuai Macy
~~~~~~~~~~~~~*-.-.--... -W..... ---...._ ........... M_  - ---  ..-_
PIUCLIU                                                                                                                                            FIIGOLIUN PRODUCTS
ighb                    'i4  Octam                   Light             Total
Natural                                             Suporior Speed   fuel   leotor    Meaded   Aviation            Diesel                         httrrlem     4W
Coal       Oil    CGa           Nydro    Uranium    lctrOlsty         Kerosene Diol  Oll   Spirits  Comeat    fuel   LPG   Oil   laptba Products  Totals
*.f.. .  ._.... . .                 . ........ _ ..... .........  . .......  .u..fl... .......  ......n...  ..e..  .....a ufl....*  .   _  ***   --  .... ...*   .eau  -.__....._..-_ _,_.............._._
Soarces of Supply
Dometic Production    1,100            715    9,510        4,010        20            -               -        -       -        -          -          -      -       -      -         -   15,3SS
Imports                      60     6,795 '                    -         -           -                       147  1,263              -          -            -      -       -    1,410   10, 265
aports                        -          -         -           -         -           -                -        -       -        -          _          .      .       _      _         _ 
Stock Chaooes
Gross Supply               1,160      9, 510    9, 510      4,010        20            -               -      147  1,263                    -          -      -       -      -    1,410   25, 620
Co                                                                                                                                                                              '                    io
laimeries                     -    (9, 510)        -           -         -            -             594   2,912  1,602   1,129           353        950   220    268    345    6,673         (637)
slectricity Generation  (179)                (3,163)    (4,010)         20       3,019                -    (574)(1,647)         -          -                                -   (2,421)  (6,794)
Process      t ofGee          -          - s(769)              -         -           -                -        -       -        -          -          -      -      -       -         -      (769)
Cowuersio  lose                               -          -          -                                 -        -       -        -          -                 -                             (6 400)
Self consumptiom                   -          -                -         -         (64)               -        -       *                              _      _       _      _         _       tU)
Losses is traensission
sd Distribution             -                                          -        (74)                -        -       -        -          -          -      -      -                 -      (574)
Not Available               961          -    5,55             -         -       2,357              694   2,465  1,019   1,129           353        950   220    268    345    7,662   16,556
xports                             -               -           -         -           -                -        -       -        -          -          -      -       -   (345)    (345)    (345)
Vsker sales                   -          -         -           -         -           -                -        -       -        -          _          _      _      _       _         _ 
Net Demstic
Coosptioa                 961                 5, 556                    -       2,357              594   2,435  1,016   1,129           353        950   220    266        -    7,317   16. 213
Consignation b  sector
Domestic                     12          -       757           _         -         492              e50            -       -         -                -   165            -  -    1,015    2, 276
Comerciul                     -                  217           -         -         133                                 -                              -    5         -      -        55       405 S
Industrial                  47           -    2,230            -         -       1,196                -      116    249         -          -          -      -      -       -       365    3,636
Aricultural                  -          -         -           -         -         346                -       13       -        -          -          -           252       -       265       611
Transport                     -          -         -           -         -           7                -   2,090    304   1,079           343        671      -      10      -    4,497    4. 304
le,ttise                      - ..- 92                         -         -           -                -        -       - -  -              -        -        -          -        -            142
Other Govmnt                  -          -         -           -         -         13                 4      266    465        50         10        279      -       6      -    1,120    1,307
Silas                       922                -         -          -          -                      -        -       -        -          -          -      -       -      -         -       922
Noo-Emarty Us*                -          -    1,412            -         -           -                -        -       -        -          -          -      -      -       -         -    1,412
Sources jReJflgf"fL,8Ithe Sixth Plan 1983-1988 -- rgy Prepared for the Plantalng Comission, Covernment o  Pakcntar. by :t Consu1tants SA. December 1982,



PAKISTAN
WATER AD POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORIY
Oraizaltn Chad
(FebWy 1964)
CR &
19-U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Alf 1     
I-* m_-i II   Ir I  I,l
1   (,   1l hC)  rc"E=7)
ccr"                                     WAFDA    1  , X  l >S> i>
(I~~~~~~~~~~i~~~~~~~)~ ~ ~
M.ugMrvi.0   G.* ogM                       m
(W_*)    I <     oeh*cl)             IASa w(P
Wo Nr*-25W



PAKISTAN
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
Organization Chad d Power Wing
(FIbmary 1984)
mff w  rAcla  |
O~ecta Gaw ~ Gcwd Manrogi        Chenr I'rqkw     CtiInhI          cio mrroi
I~~~~~~~~- I(                   -
ChW ErQ6-iW  chwf           MeEEtghkOU       Chwro
t GdMef |    Chie Gerqfd                                             Ch |  Eng1E M    ||G r   ||6 rM||Gd       o
I~~~~~Co Cawiwc                   cIS IrIQI ,F;W 1 _ I  Chie Ir'&
2  Oncha Gl {  r crW   i    L   a  cS  E    l  |  Ch e t. Er G)   l  E        Chbl Enrew 1jOmpz Gevmm
ChbtC"vemlckil      ChidEn oh I       Chbl En Cho                    J   hinte            (e
ft~~~~~~~u~~Ch rat
C~~~~~~fce                      01E |- -  tEr                   {      C      1-|Ciln 
Qkj        1  1      E H     l1                                            a
II~~I~~od  LI            Dev. ~~C(Gwoqm)    GIC Kvoi
O.is_.                                         _
t _ ^ ChId En  _ OS Enp_ _ .
I   _     Ifod2alMff l   GSC Nfi 
_-    .          ~~~~~~CE/RE     Chd Engw
_~~~~~~~~ bUwG                  PHa:     |_  K
_~~~~~~~~~~~h=                            Ch- to g ea
| I L-| ] -|-CGscEn$h) 



WASHl FAN 10I KWI.WIIII MfNIlIITY
SIEM USSIS
SIntr11   tpgmiig IN  WUvc          CAwecllV                cur ursI1ArIm                                     SIEMON                                Fil                  1ff KICIK!
lIOIA  AS OF Ki. 31,1964        IN FT d        T4TALAS *5  XifC. 31,1164        IN FT 64       0054009  5
#Al[     YEARS           lo)5                                                                MUWL    iII                  LOW    ISIS J 111.  Sit 13     11611             11141
OF       IN                            193l  awaau PRc  iwM                         TOAL   AVERAG   fUSE               FACTE              Rauwc  ourwim        12 U    TI cm     Xit
IMI! COSIISI. SEIVITE  iIIWd  EFFECI5YE W655 (hi   (hi           III      (h       (Xi      (ml    (SIhi   IIII it   (KUS    IT)It         GM       OIL
53116       I   4/5941       24.4     45.0      40.0    530300     5333      40.9     4212     14.1                                213.6       .1.9                      l6ow      32.6
2   41114.0     24.4      45.0    64.0    121041      4914      144      4622     52.3                                 210.4     11.9                       14443     32.6
3   1211943     20.9      65.0     40.0    131144     6552      414.64923          19.0                                282.6     41.9                       50443     32.6
4   1211963     20.9      45.0     60.0    139102      6669     It.1     1405      54.5                                245.6     59.4                       5666      32.6
181011.t                          240.0    240.0                                                                               1631.2
111164                                                         Nil      41.1      445      13.3                                251.1     46.9    64.0       32.0    116663     32.6   5199M      231.4
NTKMIM    I   5/1160         24.5      I.5       4.0    54610      6199      71.4     1641     93.                                   45.3     31.3                       li9t"     59.6
2   511940      24.5       1.5      6.0    515954      1515     35.9     V1I       19.                                  44.4     11.9                       511ft     59.6
3   41114       19.4       3.0      1.0    141498    7539       36.      25174    24.1                                   1.9     56.9                       59     1 15.6
64/5941        11.4      55.6      8.0   I56166      646       69. 2    1PM       33.2                                 36.4     42.3                       5191      IM.
1(31011                            36.0      23.0                                                                               131.4
*11146                                                         4946      13.6     4155     1.6.                                           13,1     94.       4.0    51156    5I.       19154      51.5
maul~    5  3/5945           11.  152.5         12.5    123447     6935      19. 7    4714     54.0                                  40.      48.6                       54056     23.6  19176.6    51.3
2   3/1145      51.1      52.5     12.  1525559        1613     NI       1010      51.4                                 31.4     42.I                       5154      236    5 91151.6    51.2
3   4/5941      51.6      12.1     12.1    551452      6614     1.3      193       10.                                  44.7     45.2                       541154    23.3  591ll.6      Il.!
4   415941       11.6     52.5     52.5    114973     6534      14.6     465       14.0                                 49.5     59.6                       1485      23.6  59116.6      51.3
181111.                            50.0     50.0                                                                                114.6
A1114                                                          dill?    71.1      6014     49.4                                 48.1      63.1    16006      0.6    51316      23.6    5919       17.2
FAISIAUM   I   4/5141        11.4    166. 640.0    551515          till      1342     3593      .48.
2   55/596I157.6          46.0     61.0    510043      6(69     73.1     6821      11.9
3(31011.                          532.0    520.0                                                   91.                           5.
*11164                   51.2                                  14440    13.5      630      12.9                536     69.5    214.3     12.5I    65.0      39.6    5246       23.3    I I w     29.5
aOn         5   3/5914       (0.7    550.6    550.0                                   7434     14.9                                562.8      U06                          69      31.5
2   50/5914      56.5    55.#    550.0                                   "414      18.2                                543.6      l.5 I69                             31.5
3   121591       3.9    216.0    210.0                                   1241      94.5                               5330.0     16.9                        949      31.5
1(31051.                          4301.0    426.0                                                                              23.
*111461                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                                ~~~~~1540  44.3  60.  55 9.  .6  69  31.5    15396  29.9 
IGTU. slim                           956.6    R4d.0                                                                               4355.9                                                                                 Hd
AWAi                                                                                  62       7.                                             10.4                                                                       o.~
AVRA   MEIN9  lYrs.1         54.2                                                                                                                                                                                        ph1w
1I Loud Fkicw(iu5eg   tIlatI uSata   a kwatiuul(Shlaig NbhuseffKcive Cd.uityll 



p.
Z                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..........................................................................
*0
&:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                                                                                                                l   ole}                      {'%J} S1" 
116i     11'U                                             cut   P t3         l1           1wiu                  a 1   2 Cii CI   1W! e  1  p P  P1  l i
tIt  'll                                        L1C       lot St I   'll     UnlI          l     esu *lt   fu        *1 ^     sI"llo    I
flu       LI"                                   oit       An       016       Oil       t6ml       eszi     olu       zli       SIU/I    9
L'ni    Z15t                                      t      uu M                tOII ml             O'U         19 euU    OW Wl/1 I
I  91    ILl  f      P1 11M                                                 lItl 3         I     O'S2      O'OK  II    l  SZl3i 
I'lL     l*Ct                                   u                 '1 Oi   l ml        Oil        o su e*t  I II              C^lit   I Im ws!
t'll     tiolI,9111C                                                                                       9                 II lac1                1 *nl            Oil       P6       1 /lCt        3s V
Glut                                                                          9         ou31    O eil   w131l0
^                                                                                                     1'*t     ntt        1         O'S2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l  9.1 C'ti I I/ 
I                                                                                                              U*C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~66  Ml  itSU  o';2  elsz  sIs  lulls   s
Z't     li2       "IU       0'11      0',1      I's        161 Olll
0II I C1!         131m      ol03     Osl    fi1         MIM11   3
(IL  055                       I'Ll      Dli      I'll~~~~~~z1f  YOGI  1iLl!    olil      I'l       I'l       0161/9   I
IlL      OIl                                    VIE      13       III       11       31111      OL        Oli       I'1       316111    1      111
9161  MI    $lot  iltit    olni    #I$               ciI                                     'i      Sl         'l       1!       00!        @        Oil       PS         1611         VIO3SVI
0'10,                                                                                   eeol     sw                               wioelns
er, I       l 1     liti      I'l      I'll      1191      ubilo0    9
*21  at       titet      0ezl      I'l      ilci      696o0    s
III  ILUI    SU  611!    693lOH911l0 1101 U1 01101   t
I'll     9111      90ZI Oil  t '21           G'W 1         ill /    9
I*    1  SSIl      flU!       OIl      Oil       cil        "bill  1I
llD   M   11   11  1t1 / 111 1z11w1 111 w1 111 I11   1I! S                         31tl3     Oil       Oi11XllMS Ii   'SIIIILI 11I
I'll     1G91      9lu Onl             OIl       Ii         "bill   I 1 5A
u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i    nOl                                                          IlS       0t1       Oill  Illj            t I  01J111   1II I eswo
lie  m  11    11   (VA I 11   (it   l i    lvai  i)     (41    EU        *11    (139 0gm           OAI3 i vlm    ]Ihvl    OISIII3 i           lI
II!    w11         III    LI!IO              OSM                 I'l                                                       lwli m fll                                                              3SVI3 NJ  A
Oil                                                                               OOL   CU                                  WIGINS
tRAJ  UNION  III N  Ai 11 3111    MI      ml            Tom            ~91                       SIl       111           IN) U'!          Ii        llivOl 
lowa m  11 Al  i  1161 it '30 in  v wio          to Ai01       9'litl   JD3 1 '111          Ol          '!      IC         YlC 
=31in  imu                        wlivv]Nn                                       00~~~~~~~~~~~1',!  tOIl  1111 Oi        U'S!dIV  3I1l 3  Of 0i1O!     NIIS
II II1 i It      wI        U         'lll                                                                         W
$3115111S Nue      3  3m w   1111 31
AIIWIUIIN 1U3333  NMW  3 3111
1015131



PAKISTAN
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPHENT AUTHORITY
FIFTH POWER PROJECT
FORECAST OF ENERGY AND CAPACITY BALANCES
CAPACITY(MlW)            ------------
POWER STATION          DATE       INST.   AVAILABLE
-------------          OF        -----   ---------       ------------------------ UNITS GENERATED (GWh)-------------------------
NYDEL                 CONHISSION            MAX.   MIN.    1984/85 1985/86 1986/87 1987/88 1988/89 1989/90 1990/91 1991/92 1992/93
-____ ----------  ---------------------  ------- ------- ------- ------- -------  _.___  ------- ------- -------
EXISTING        DEC 83   2547   2830    976        13475   13761   13761   13761   13751   13761   13761   13761   13761
TARDEIA 9-10        MAY 85    350    400         0      ----    1345    1529    2094    2094    2094    2094    2094    2094
TARBELA 11-12   MAY-OCT 89    812    880          0      ----    ----    ----    ----        332      981    1781    1781    1781
TAR3ILA 13-14   nES-JUN 90    812    880          0      ----    ----    ----    ----    ----    ----          700    1400    1400
KANGLA 9-10        DEC 89    200    200         0      ----              ---     ----    ----    ----    ----        100      260
SU5-TOTAL WYDEL                       4721   5190    976       13475   15106   15290   15855   16187   16836   18336   19136   19296
STEAM
GUDDU 1-3       1974-80    430    400    400         2400    2400    2400    2400    2400    2400    2400    2400    2400
OUDDU - 4        FEB 86    210    210    210         ----      268    1138    1260    1260    1260    1260    1260    1260
GUDDU CS        OCT 8d    150    150    150         ---         ----    ----    ----    400     800      SOO      800     800
FAISAIABAD          1967    132    120    120          630      491     665      665      665     665      665      665      665
HULTAN - 1       1960-63    260    240    240         1293      989    1320    1320    1320    1320    1320    1320    1320
SUKKUR       1965-67      50     40      40        224      181     240      240      240     240      240      240     240
HYDERAMAD       1960-65      43      30     30        131      130     180      ISO      ISO 10     O     180      180      180
QUETTA          1964      15     10      10         43      44       60       60       60      60       60       60      60
REPHMES        (1951)      29      9       9        132      129     172      174      174     174      174      174     174
JANSHORO - 1        DEC 88    250    250    250         ----    ----    ---    ----         350      900     900      900      900
MULTAN 1-3 DEC 89-DEC 90   630    630    630          ----    ....    ----    ----    ----    ----    1350    3400    3600
JAHSHORO - 2        JUN 90    250    250    250                                   ----    ----    ----    ----    ---    1000
KA&ACHI COAL        OCT 91   1200   1200   1200         ----    ....              ----    ---- .    ---     ---      ----    15Q
LAXHRA        DEC 91    300    300    300         ----    ----    ----    ----    ----    ----    ....    ---           850
SUBTOTAL STEAH                        3949   3839   3839        4853    4632    6175    6299    7049    7999    9349   11399   14949
GAS TURBINE
___________
SHADARA       1966-69      85     70      70        131      103      68       75       75      75       75       75       i5
FAISALABAD          1975    200    195    195          350      304      350     350      350      350     350      350      350
KOTRI   1970-78-81    130    121    121           243     225      160      230     230      230      230      230     230
QUETTA 1972-73-75-84   131       65      65         63       50      75       75       75      75       75       75       75
GUDDU CS        MAY 86    400    300    300         ----    ----      650      860      850     850      850      850     850
ROT ADDU        OCT 86    400    400    400         ----    ----      367      904      950     950      950      950     950
SUBTOTAL GAS TURBINE                  1346   1151   1151         787     682    1670    2494    2530    2530    2530    2530    2530
TOTAL GENERATION                                               19115   20420   23135   24648   25766   27365   30215   33065   36775
ENeRGY REQUIREMENT                                             19810   21712   23796   26081   28584   31328   34336   37632   41245
ENERGY SURPLUS/DEFICIT                                          -695   -1292    -661   -1433   -2818   -3963   -4121   -4567   -4470
CAPACITY(MW)
INSTALLED                 10016     NA      NA       4052    4612    5412    5412    6178    7200    8266    9416    9416
AVAIIABLE NAX.                     NA  10180      NA       3510    4029    4624    4624    4964    5142    5500    5500    6775
AVAILABLE MIN.                     NA     NA   5966        2048    2237    2867    2867    3230    3416    3794    3794    5144
PEAX DEHUND                                            3762    4121    4517    4955    5436    5963    6541    7176    7872
POWER SURPLUS/DEFICIT                                           -483    -897    -459    -995   -1957   -2752   -2862   A3172   -3104



-45-
ANNEX 3.1
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
FIFTH WAPDA POWER PROJECT
Project Description
The Project consists of the following major physical components
which are also indicated on the single line diagram shown on page 2.
I. Transmission Lines
The expansion of the 500-kV network would be composed of:
(a)  Lahore to Multan, single circuit:            280 kns
(b)  Multan to Guddu, single circuit:             324 kns
(c)  Guddu to Jamshoro, single circuit:           478 kns
II. Substations
The 500-kV facilities included in the Project would be as follows:
Substations              500-kV Circuit           500/220-kV       500-kV
Breakers (25,000 MVA)      Transformers    Reactors
(Number)                (MVA)         (MVAR)
LAHORE     new                  6                    1350            20
SAHIWAL    new                  6                     900          20 + 18
MULTAN     extension            3                      -           37 + 17
GUDDU      extension            3                      -           37 + 37
DADU       extension            3                      -           30 + 22
JAMSHORO   extension            1                      -             24
The 500/220-kV MVA transformers would consist of three single phase
150 MVA units making a bank of 450 MVA. Similarly the 500-kV reactors would
consist of single phase shunt reactors. The 500-220-kV facilities in MuLtan,
Guddu, Dadu and Jamshoro are provided under the ongoing upgrading works of
the Jamshoro-Faisalabad transmission line (para 3.;J2). The protection scheme
for the lines would be based on two main protections and one back-up. Fault
location and oscillographs would be provided for analyzing the faults. The
telecommunication system would use power line carrier using solid state and
integrated circuit technology and having a frequency range of 50 to 500 KHz.



PAKISTAN
FIFTH WAPDA POWER PROJECT
500-KV Power Transmission System by 1991
(Single Llne Dlogram)
TARBELA                         LAHORE                    SAHIWAL
406 1 75  1175  1175  1175
N  KMW    MW     W    mW                 20oKvMS                  a220V BUS
)200 20 20020009 0                      t 450   450
450~~~~~         L MV- AfAfAWA         I :Ar WAtA           45      ACH
450 4)^^50             K                       _      40V        50ha      N~MA
WA                                         MV    MVA M3 .
WO-              tI,  175ml             1       75W             2$KAACHI 220-W
2 KVI                SW M W  -'C4
4    ~~~~~~~~5xvMA    054
2204W
401i75 175                                                                                                   kVIO
220-KV BW KM VW  NW                          ~ ~~MULTAN                               45oA5
220-KV B UVA                                   1MA
JAMSHORO                 510-Kc
450         450    5
2                           tAVAi  h)t tA  tJMM                   X  _   1    iA WA  5V
WAR
; 00- fMvew-                                66 8K
66
C15  M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LVAR 2ii  V
_      500SKV                                      152 K  ._.A 'I
Legenqd                              4+F-5CKV                              4        SISKV-v-500eK5
cats"ucIbrt      6    i3450~~~~~40                         450       450
Fdslrget  undt                         W                             W         M
Constmxtion                                                                                                                             0
r    Plect                                                                                                                                    '
220WKBuS                       220UV B            220KcV BUS                                                  )
0 p2
GATTI-FAJSALABAD                     GUDDI              DAMU               Wa'i Bco*-2r295



ANNEX 3.2
-47-                                                     Page 1 of 2
1. h m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1    11
UsmrieI-lomueetr     0.    44    44       0.    .    .0 00 242           2.      0.0 S  . 5 .6   0.0,   3.    3.         .*, ge 
Luted    0mqwtr         .8  04.0  M.       0.L5  0.0  0.5  2.5  04.0       3.5    1.3  01.0   1.51   2.5    0.    351.    eg 
Netris-.s            00   0.A0.           001.   03   .    07           2.7I    0.0  S90    ,e       00    0. 1.3             0.0 e.
NoterL.-Csdleturu      9.0  134.4  3173.4    0.3  0.0  0.0  0.9   0.      11.     44135.  32.    2.7   2.0  34.7   a~             . 
C.U. 4, hrtLes       127.5   0.0  137.    12.7  0.0  31.7  2.7.   g.e    21.5   34.4   0.0  34.4  34.4y   0.0  34.4  zn.    0.0  2.7.
3. ouUua-Je4sr
LuE"                   G.0   0.0   0.0    0.75  e.0  0.7  2.2   0.0        2.2    2.25   0.0   2.2   2.2    0.0   2.23   1.5   0.s   a.0
Netwiel-Te.ews         0.0  122.2  033.3    0.0  35.2  31.2  0.0  30.5 I   0.5I   0.0  93.4  69.4   0.0   33.2  15.27   0.u   0.g   0.0
Uat.riel-CsMuiutv     33.  2424  255.0     0.0  0.g  0.0  0.9  24.2 2A.5  .3           36911.0  319.2   2.7   45.5  56.2    0.0   0.0   0.0
Ueturiul-Kuinul.tr  0.0  30.9  39.9    0.0  0.0  g.0  0.0  41S.9    41.9    0.0  10.g  10.1   0.0    3.    3.0    0.0   o.e   0.0
C.U. A, remItis,     1lL.   0..J   2132.    13.  0.0 13.EA  2Y. 5 0  21.1    11.2    iL  0I  34.k  3la4   0.0.  4.k ~27          L9   L7. 
See CstTrL.2B..         30    .0 3096  3.4    4.7.  34.4  *..7  235 31.2           24.0 4.2250.3  743 35113.2  2      74.90 -2   9I  0.0  9. 3
Teae 0SulesTr"'.  ie   47. 0.0 1      47.3 15  .03 0.0 M    1.0314.1 0.0   3 14.3  257.1 0.0    *57.1 41.4   0.0  5213.4    0.0   0.0   g.e
Mb.1-tire.1 Liues       13. j Iflfl, 2IILZ    12.2  0.k  11.11.1  211.2   121.1  91.1  12. 1 J9ZL    13.1  AiLl 21. 2   11.1   0.I  IL
Leaorld               32ite  .6   5.0  32.4    2. 0.0     1. 0. 5 0.0   0.0 .9 4.  0.0  03.0  03.0   0.0    0.0  0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0
11 CstruTurem  Lie      30.0  173.2  17.2   40.0  04.0  01.0  0.   1L5 3L .0 42.3 4".3 0.0   1.9  2427.9 0.0    5.2 3.           0.0 0.     .0I
Ur ims-2  y              ge 177 3.             .    .    . 0.0 4474.                 .g     73     . 0.0        5.    .4      0.    0.     03
Tru,9ving 4RseTs.         0.0  93.1793.3    0.0  0.0  0.0.0 01.   23.        12.3   g57g  37.2  37.2      1  0.537.  27.      0.0   4.4   4.0
2. Seiwel
Lmd      32.4   0.0  32.0   12.4  0.0  32.0~~~~~~~~~~~I':   0.    00 .0  0.  .     .     .       . 0.0  .LS50    1:0.0
Ciwil Verbs     30.0~~ ~ 0.    40     00 0000 2400                  2.4      7.2   0.    7.2    .       .    . 1.4 1g 1.
structue"              0.0  13.7  33.2    0.0  0.5  0.0  0.0   .3.    .3.         0.0   5.3   5.9   0.5    4.0  4.         0. 0.0       0.4
km ipu.ee3-49          0.0  34.2  34.2    0.0  0.0  0.0  0.5  16.0   14.0         0.0  22.9  22.5   0.0   18.9  24.9       0.0   2.01  2.1
11uipmeest220-kV       0.0  12.7  12.3    0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   3.2    2.2         g.g   5.0   5.0   0.01   3.7  3.7        0.0   0.68  5.6
Traem. S Roewor       0.0  04.   04.2:   0.0   0000  0.   21.0   23.0            0.0  33.7  33.7 00 2.  2.3               0.0   A.26  4.2
Erectia        10.0  10.4  22.0    0.0  0.0  0.07  2.4 2.         4.9      7.    L.6   1.4. .0        S. 0  97.02   31.a   3.7   3.3
Uqupue12.0-5              0.0 22.4  22.4      0.0    1. 0.0   0.0   0.05. 56      0.0   9.0   9.0   0.0    6.4  0.0        0.0   1.2   1.2
~civl ee              06.0  33.4  33.0    0.0  0.0  0.0   . 0.0 5.3    5.3            0.0 124    2.   0.0   10.0  10.0     1. 0.0   1.7  .
trecurie              5.    .5 3.9        00    .   0.5  0.9   3.0    .3.         2.7   2.6   5.3   1.0    4.0  3.0        0.3   0.7   1.2
Civiln VetS            6. 0.0       0.7    0.0Z.   0.0  0.0  3.0  0.0 3. 0 :      3.0   0.0   3.0   2.0      37   . 0.02.  07   0.0   0.7
STram' tur  ta         0.0   6.0  96.02   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  21.5   31.3         0.5  23.4   2.4   0.0    1.0 Z3.         0.0   0.1  06.2
tract iam             10.0  16.2  3Z.0    0.0  0.0  g. .0          1.3 2.3 4      3 .0   3.3   6.3 .2        2. 4.  2    9   0.7   0.7   3.4
5. molen
Civil works            5.08  0.0   5.5    0.0  0.0  0.0  0.9   0.0    0.9         2.6   0.0   2.6   1.7    0.0  3.7        0.0   0.0   5.6
Structure              00     .2    52     00 00       .0 .0   1.2    3.3         0.0   2.1   2.1   0.0    1.0  1. 6       0.0   0.2   0.2
r4miemst 100-49        e.   23'.0  22.-4    0.0  0.   0.0  0.      .4    5.4      0.0   .06   5.4   0.0    4.5  4.3        0.0   1.1   3.2
tructige51                   59 3.          .   0.0  0.0i0.9   0.9    3.0          .    2.    3.2     1.      .   3.5      0.      .    1.2
0.  linker
Civil Verbu            2.2   0.0   2.2    0.0  0.0  0.0  10.   0.0    .0.         1.0   0.0   1.0   .0.    0.0  .0.        5.2   0.0   0.2
Lpmact-0             0.0w. 2 .0           00    .    .000         .      .5      00 0.0   0.2        .       .    .        .     .      .
Tram.uu & ecors        0.0   5.9  58.9    0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   2.2    2.2         0.0   3.7   3.7   0.0    2.0  21.6       0.0   0.9   0.4
Brectee                0.0 12.42  13.0    0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   3.5    3.5         0.0   3.2   5.3   0.0    44   4.0        0.0   0.6   0.4
civit wrk'       I1  ..L&   I&       LI0:   LI  :L Li   L           L       2 1.1   1     22    L  Li    Li    1      ::I   ::,   Li
Teas 4  uet s-0ubtel    26. 0.0 21  2.6.    0.0  0.0  0.0  39.1   0.0   59.3    9. 0.0           94.4 73. 0.0         715 .0   30 00 3.
Subttal- Suhtais        flJfI            1.1        LA  ZLI- flak 121   ZL .Z    1:11 21.1:  11.2001 LULlA.M.  21:.    2112. 
ErtsectAion 4  ic        1.  12.   I1.    .11         iIL   il.2 0.          1..    1.      L 2    1.    12 2.   11          IL     L      IL
CY.    vius Trues. 0  u   2.4   0.0  92.4    0.0  0.0  0.0  22.3   0.0   032.       40.   0.0  44.2  12.9    0.0  12.9        0.0   0.0   0.0
1.   eSisza             20.0  77.0  32.3   39.0  13.4  74.  59.0   26.3   05.1    47.2  37.   64.7   7.2   12.4  59.6    22.4   6.2   2.5
TOTAl. 3      MO-kw    1009. 391. 290.   30.  55.6 19.9 20.2  24.4  70.2   301.0  939.7 321.2  22.3  20.3  .63.    14.3  01.4  20.9
etelTease4Duis           9. 0.0      791 .7   20.0  0.0  20.0 2152    0.0  23.2   20.2   0.0  30.3  15.1   0.0  15.0    16.0   0. 0 36.
tmseu CoetisustLmei         92.57  956.3   0. 7   .3 0   2.3 10.0 25 3 1.9   221.3  47LI  .2 24.   4.9  30.9  319.   19.5  351.5 I .   10.9 .9 "I
Frzes CsDutiusem-xieAs Lc  IWL.I  0.01.  K.11I.    LI0 0.2.  5...   4.21.  00  4.1    32Ll   0J.Z  3.J.a   .21.1  0.11   IIA.1   5..d.   11.0  iL
rTOA. FRJUOT 035! 2_1M 25.4 227.2  9240.   30.0 43.5 22.3 305.4    4.3102.7   477.9 104.3 156.2  '39.9  40.5 950.4   209.   72.6  2.2



PAKISTAN
FOURTH WAPDA POWER PROJECT
IhEMple ntaton Schedule
,.~~~~O                                   rUnL M6i7ll    iii9ii                                     11 1  1
v "*-2I23
Mordh J FMAMIJ J I AlIO MID J I IMIAMJ J l$IO14DIJIIM A 14JIJA SIOPIID IFMAIM J JAl$ ON 4JI114AIM J .1AISIGINi)
MN"s a EQUO"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i



-49-
ANNEX 3.4
PAKISTAN
FIFTH WAPDA POWER PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year        Disbursements, US$ million
and Semester          In Semester      Cumulative            Cumulative Z
1986
December 31, 1985            2.0             2.0                   2.0
June 30, 1986                6.0             8.0                   8.0
1987
December 31, 1986            4.0            12.0                  12.0
June 30, 1987                8.0            20.0                  20.0
1988
December 31, 1987           15.0            35.0                  35.0
June 30, 1988               21.0            56.0                  56.0
1989
December 31, 1988           15.0            71.0                  71.0
June 30, 1989               12.0            83.0                  83.0
1990
December 31, 1989            8.0            91.0                  91.0
June 30, 1990                5.0            96.0                  96.0
1991
December 31, 1990            4.0           100.0                 100.0



PAKISTAN
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
POWER WING
FIFTH WAPDA POWER PROJECT
ACTUAL AND FORECAST MIANCE SHEETS
(AS OF JUNE 30th)
(RUPEES MILLION)
-- --------------- ACTUAL  ................  (ESTIMAE) --------------            FORECAST----------------------
ASSETS                            1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91
FIXEb ASSETS
_.,________.
IFIXED ASSETS IN OPERATION          16303    19265    20966    26100    29333    35715    43397    52184    62170    73787    87771   103912
LESS:DEPRECIATION RESERVE            3472     4133     4841      5650     6697     7835      9220    10892    12894    15273    18100    21455
NET FIXED ASSETS IN OPERATION       12831    15132    16125    20450    22636    27880    34178    41292    49277    58514    69671    82457
WORK IN PROGRESS                     5149     5027      7500     6475     8095     9003    10861    12405    14096    16407    19771    22791
______  .......  .......   -------  _____._  .......  .......   -------  -------  .......   -------  ------
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS                  17980    20159    23625    26925    30731    36883    45039    53696    63372    74921    89442   105248
CURRENT ASSETS
_____________
CASH                                  317      315      429       611      501      568       636      856     1197     1563      1960     2450
INVENTORIES                           672     1239      1550     1649     1779     2143      2604     2870     3109     3689      4389     5196
ACCOUNTS RECEIVAILE                   680      928      1182     1435     1752     1644      1901     2680     3544     4665      5800     7014
WATER WINO ACCOUNTr                   159      191       242      251      212      223       234      245      258       271      284      298
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS                  128      531       565      865      955     1003      1053     1106     1161      1219     1280     1344
-__ _    -.__ _ ..   .......   .......   .......   .......   .......   .......     .......   .......   .......   .
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                 1956     3204     3968      4811     5199     5580      6427     7757     9269    11407    13713    16302
______  -------  -------   -------  -------  -------   -------  -------  -   -----   -------   -------   -------
TOTAL ASSETS                        19936    23363    27593    31736    35930    42463    51466    61453    72641    86328   103155   121550
un... ..  un.....  ....rn..n .u.n.....  .......i  "Ku..... nsa mns..... oon . . ... Us "uwom   ..uuuuu  uuu u  Maam"-.
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES
......................
EQUITY
OOVERNNENT INVESTHENT                2144     2147      2218     2318     2409     2409      2409     2409     2409      2409     2409     2409
O0VERNZENT EQUITY CONTRIBUTION       2766     2766     2777      2777     2777     2777      2777     2777     2777     2777      2777     2777
CAPITAL CONTRIDUTION                  ---      151      650      1035     1578     2175      2832     3555     4350      5225     6187     7245
RETAINED EARNINGS                    2787     4660     6500      8664    10543    12268    14013    16348    19012    23114    28203    33734
TOTAL EQUITY                        7697     9724    12145    14794    17307    19630    22032    25089    28548    33524    39575    46164
WHO TERN DEBT                       11018    11965    13295    14475    15952    19932    25964    32021    38718    45959    55352    65604
CURRENT LIABILITIES                  1221     1674      2153     2467     2671     2902      3471     4344     5376     6844      8228     9781
____ _._.....  ..... _ - ___ -------   -------   -------   -------   -------   -------   -------   -------   --- --- --- --
TOTAL CAPITAL AND LIAIILITIES       19936    23363    27593    31736    35930    42463    51466    61453    72641    86328   103155   121550
....... *UUUUU  .......  *uuuuu   urumM   u ........rn  .."......  ur..... .u.rnu gmur  um....... .......  ur.....  *...... .  I..    .....     
DEBT AS X OF DEBT+EQUITY               59       55        52       49       48       50        54       56       58       58        58       59
EQUITY AS S OF DEBT+EQUITY             41       45       48        51       52       50        46       44       42       42        42       41



PAKISTAN
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPHENT AUTHORITY
POWER WING
FIFTH WAPDA POWER PROJECT
ACTUAL AND FORECAST INCOME STATEHENTS
(YEAR ENDING JUNE 30th)
(RUPEES MILLION)
------------ ACTUAL  -              - (ESTIHATE)  ---------------------FORECAST----------------------
1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982183  1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91
KWh GENERATED (MILLIONS)              12124    13206    14768    16477    18052    19115    20420    23135    24648    25766    27815    31215
KWh SOLD (MILLIONS)                    8160      9068    10288    11593    12762    13763    14907    17351    18979    19840    21418    24036
KWh SOLD/KWh GENERATED(2)                67        69        70       70        71        72        73       75        77        77        77       77
AVE. REVENUE/KWh SOLD(PAISA)          46.19    50.84    56.75    61.93    62.74    64.70    69.16    84.23   102.15   128.96   148.75   160.45
OPERATING REVENUE
_________________
SALES OF ELECTRICITY                   3546     4245      5322      6146      6785      7317     8797    11829    15224    19891    24626    29435
FUEL SURCHARGE                          223       365       516     1034      1222      1588      1512     2785      4164      5694      7232     9130
OTHER OPERATING REVENUES                150       167       173      181       207       228       250      276       303       333       367      403
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES               3919      4777     6011      7361      8214      9133    10559    14890    19691    25919    32225    38969
OPERATING EXPeNSES
FUEL COST                               388      494      1132      1541      1892      2443     2326      4285      6406      8760    11126    14047
HAINTENANCE                             266       336       514      545       641       786      1042     1252      1492      1171      2107      2494
OPERATION & ADMINISTRATION              584       767       952     1178      1546      1933     2416      3020      4076      50?,      6369     7962
DEPRECIATION                            544       621       708      819       990      1138      1384     1673      2001      2379      2827     3354
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES               1782      2218     3306      4083      5069      6300      7168    10230    13976    18006    22429    27857
NET OPERATING INCOME                   2137      2559     2705      3278      3145      2833     3392      4660      5715      7913     9796    11112
OTHER INCOME                             85       109       97       127       235       259       284      313       344       378       416      458
--        ---     __ _ _ ------  -------  ----    --   -------   -------   -------   -------              _______
NET INCOME AVAIlABLE FOR FIXED         2222      2668     2802      3405      3380      3092     3676      4973      6059      8291    10212    11570
CHARGES
FIXED CHRGS
INTEREST                                973       985     1071      1264      1481     1726      2353      3136      3965     4847      5907      6965
LESSItTEREST CHARGCED CON8TN.           181       207      124        93        98       380      442       517       589       678      804       946
INTEREST CHARGED OPERATIONS             792       778      947      1171      1363      1346     1911      2619      3375      4169      5103     6019
INCOME                                 1430      1890     1855      2234      1997      1745     1765      2354      2684     4122      5109      5551
LE8StPAYMENT TO GOVERNMENT               20        20       20        20        20        20       20        20        20        20        20       20
____ -    -------   -------   -------   -------   - -      -------   - - -     __        __       -------   -------
NET PROFIT                             1410      1870     1835      2214      1977      1725     1745      2334      2664      4102     5089      5531
**U* UUUUUUU UUUEU UUMt muuu uua.u ammuma u..... " ..uu urumu uU.... ,..  ............  ...  ,.... ....... I...  .    ....-"....
RATE OF RETURN ON AVERAGE NET
FIXED ASSETS IN OPERATION
HISTORICALLY VALUED          15.25    18.30    17.31    17.92    14.60    11.22    10.93    12.35    12.62    14.68    15.28    14.61
REVALUED (PROFORNA)          10.00    10.40       9.50    10.00      8.20      6.30     6.40      7.40      7.70      9.10      9.60     9.30



-52-
ANlE 4.3
PAKISTA
WATE AND PONER DEVELOPHEUT AUTHORITT
POWER, vin
rIT  VAPDA POWE PROJECT
FORECAST SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF UNS SrATUEIIS
(YEAR ZNDING JUNE 30th)
(RUPEES MILLION)
FORSCAST-=
SOURCZS OF FUNDS                            1984/85  1985186  19K8617  1987/88  1988189  1989190  1990/91
INTERNAL CASH CEIERATION
MM! INOCME FOR FIXZD CHARGES                   3092     3676     4973     6059    8291   10212    11570
DEPRECIATION                                   1138     1384    1673    2001    2379    2827         3354
TOTAL IrTERNAL CASH GENERATION                 4230     5061     6646    8061    10670    13039    14924
CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS                           597      657      723      795      875      962     1058
BORROVINGS
RUPEE LOANS                                    1063    2934      3218    3236    2662       4457     4227
FOREIGN LANS                                   3382    3595      3415    3773    5051       5859     7197
PROPOSED IJRD LOAN                             -         122      184      551     413       199       62
TOTAL BORROVIGS                                4445     6651     6817     7560    8126    10515    11486
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                        9272    12368    14185    16415   19671    24516    27468
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
aoNSTRUCTION PROCRAN
PROPOSED PRDJECT                                -        234     1052     1882      950      282   -
OTHER CONSTRuCION                              6910    8865      8761     9206   12300    16262    18214
TOTAL CONS TUCTION PROGREM                     6910    9099      9813    11088   13250    16544    18214
DEBT SERVICE
INTEREST                                       1726    2353      3136    3965    4847       5907    6965
AMORTIZATION                                    465      618      760      863      884     1123     1233
TOTAL DENT SElVICE                             2192    2971      3895    4828    5731       7030     8198
MAED?W TO GOVERUKUNT                             20       20       20       20       20       20       20
VARIARION IN WORKING CAPITAL
CASH INCREASE                                    67       68      220     342       365      398      490
OTHER THAN CASH INCREASE                         84      210      237      138      305      525      546
NET INCREASE                                   150      278      456      480      670      923     1036
TOTAUL APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS                   9272    12368    14185    16415   19671    24516    27468
TIS  DEBT SERVICE COVERED BY
INTErNAL CASH GENERATION                       1.93     1.70     1.71     1.67     1.86     1.85     1.82
SELF FINANCING RAUIO-3 Yr. AVE.                  50      40       40        40      40        40       40



-53-
Annex 4.4
Page 1 of 3
PAKISTAN
FIFTe WAPDA POWER PROJECT
Notes and Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
INCOME STATEMENT
Sale of Electricity
The forecast sale of electricity is based on projected plant
expansion and takes into account a reduction in system losses. increase
in sales is forecast at an average annual rate of about 10 through FY91.
Average Revenue per kWh Sold
The average revenue per kWh sold reflects changes in the fuel
adjustment surcharge, as well as tariff increases of 112 in FY86, plus
another 107% in increases spread over the period FY87-91.
Other Operating Revenue
Other operating revenue consists principally of miscellaneous
services such as transfer/replacement of meters, application fees, recon-
nection of service, etc.  These revenues are shown to increase by 1OZ per
year based or, the increase in the number of consumers.
Fuel Cost
Increase in fuel costs have been assumed as follows:
Ca) 40% per annum for raw gas and 30Z for purified gas up to FY88,
and IOZ thereafter;
(b) HSD, fuel oil and crude oiL at 10% per annum; and
(c) Coal at 5% annually.
Maintenance Expense
Maintenance expense is related to plant in service and is forecast
at 2.2% of fixed assets in operation for FY85 and 2.4% for the following
years, taking into account past experience and the increasing proportion
of thermal pLant in the system.



-54-
Annex 4.4
Page 2 of 3
Operation and Administration Expense
Except for FY88, operation and administration expense is forecast
to increase by 25Z annually, taking into account system expension, infla-
tion and also past experience. An increase of 35% is taken for FY88 to
reflect an expected general wage increase.
Depreciation
WAPDA is applying a composite rate of depreciation of 3.5Z. This
rate is realistic and has been used in the forecasts.
Other Income
Other income includes interest, sale of scrap and rental of office
space, and is shown to increase by 10Z annually.
Payment to Government
UAPDA has been remitting Rs 20 million annually to Government for
assets earlier transferred to WAPDA. Forecasts show this payment continu-
ing.
BALANCE SHEET
Cash
Cash balances are projected on the basis of about six weeks' cash
operating expense.
Inventories
Inventories are forecast on the basis of a percentage of fixed
assets in operation. Taking into account past experience and WAPDA's
efforts to improve materials management, the following percentages are
used for the forecasts:
6Z   of fixed assets in FY85 and 86
5.5Z of fixed assets in FY87
52   of fixed assets thereafter
Accounts Receivables
Forecasts assume that, as in the past, WAPDA's accounts receiv-
ables will be equivalent to two months' billings.



-55-
Annex 4.4
Page 3 of 3
Other Current Assets
Other current assets include miscellaneous receivables, advances
and clearing accounts. Forecasts assume a 5X annual increase.
Current Liabilities
Current liabilities include consumer security deposits, deposits
for works to be carried out for other agencies, contractor deposits,
duties payable and accrued salaries. Based on past experience, current
liabilities are forecast at between SO and 60% of current assets.



VATIE AND FOWIE DIVELI31PN1111 AIITNOUIT!
r
5HVEISTIItT l'IOCUAN 1914115 -  992l595 31 IIOJICT ACiOSI 1IA35 4IN PI ELN I
96ojicT         11TI14AT10 fIOJgCT COST& 190161811 1961906  96*961? 5961116  966109t 1969160 19,611   lOitlli  1191590    MuVCU
GI"NCATION         LOCAL  FONE14N  TOTAL   TOTAL   TOTAL   TOTAL   TOTAL   TOTAL   TOTAL   TOTAL   TOTAL   TOAL                        1lUAU1
rROJECTS' CONIL&TION          IA.        S       it        55      *-        --                  -        *
GVDDU-4 ISI  "VI            Isis     11461    list       951       I7 59,               5       .         .         .        .-        .          coin
cuouu.casua,aauswua        5131      5416      sill    fill        1114      F66      11611     165       ...      ...      ..-   ..         v1AIfIISII
JAMNONO   - I fiSiNVI    safe        5665      3553        if      355     156   561 ls        15661     546       ...      ...       ...         JAPAN
OVITTA 43514V)                51      Its       la?       lot       to       ...      ...       -*        ...      ...       -*        -          Japan
LOT AOOU IIOBIWI            l59*     fail      Is9as      134     19111      11%is               -                 ...      -..   ..         I1OI1TALI
TANURLA (9-163               1,15     131      3431       455       Is       *.       .-          -.....                              ...     A11111CI11A
TAIIILA 111.141            sold      sees    64*16        Ise      9I6     flat    1561113     5166     5516       116,     III       ...    aSliUcI
CHIAIIAL 154511 It            It         a       Is        11        11      ...      .. .---                      ..-..
GiLOIT 111010 S3NUS          5*9       so       55161      as       46        46       46        It      ...       ..        ..        .
9' 6 I Of SWAJOI NIOCL       III        7a      sos        if       76        Is       111      ---      ...-       .         .        .
DUll COALIUPC I A III         11       63       Ila        54       is        Al       as       ...      ...       ..       ..
LOW HEAD KV0lL             Isis       all      5its         I       to       530      366       146      11611    510       ..
NULTAM  5-3 4616 "UPE    4114        3956      50,4         5       If       Is6      Is0      1466     5465      5614      66111     --      VIASA4II
JANSHOIO.5 fill NV)         1547     I676      3135       ...      ...       -*        so       50l      716      l6fe      655       Ise    CEINAIIII
THEU4SAL 466KVW - I         1746      3366     7466                ...  .     ..  ...            to 6    56161    5106     3666l    53ll
TNIUNAL 3661WV - 5          5606     5l16      27164                                             so .  .. .- 5  to  466    li6e      Ils6
LARIMI  COAL 13111111I     1666      5706    56336       ...**                                 1156     l1f6      log6     Il5ll    5051
LAESSIA COAL 46466W)    53646        444611   l6sle      ...       ...       ...      ...       ...      Se6      5366     5666      5966
TWEtSIAL 664MW  - 3         4826     16666      606l                         ...      ..        ..       ...       oil     Ill       3466
hANCLA 1566KV)               493      S6l      1663       ...       ...      --.      ---         1      512       056       a166     514
DIES[l. CILOST 439(V                                                IS9 3  .  1 1     ..         .         ~       .           .U
SUITOTAL GCNEIATION    49a I76               64?        130       46       469       1415      6166     9196     554    1I2    536
TAN -rA5660   366KV-1        416      341       659       414       93       ...      .-.        .                      ...           ....         CElA
fA1010-JAN  5616KV         late      574`4    3452       536      l6st       366      595       ...      -..   -.            ...      ...  WUIJAFIP#IA
FA1610 -11UWL 138EV          all      I6I       353       I111     136        SI      ..        ..        . ...              .         -.AD:
LOAD DESFATCN C9I1TAE        lot      347       746        3s      Is9       576      567       55        -.       -.       ..         .            Aln
LANOBE-JAN  5166V          l6s7      1556      4913      ...        161      366      16611    5510     I566       0561      461      ...         viII)
TARI6LA-LANO6E 566EV         Ills     363      8460      --         17       8611     116       441      Fit       546        .
GUD .55101-OTA  311KV        356       so       se6       ...      ...        It      556       114       554      *..    .      ...                156to
"N5I514-IISN   516Ev         17       II        59s         1      517       5e1       as        o6      ...       ...       ...      ...           FIG
DOOU.KNUZDAI 226KV           66I        12      753         5       is       436      556l       to       ...      ...  .   ..        ...           fig
LUOW -OAUD 5261166KV         467      453       966      *-  ...              I6       4*       al6      30   64             155II     .
ROT ADU-LOI 12511V           244      all       374                                                        is   .  .. 5  65  I6I      546
"10-COUNTNV                  33*      306       616       *.  ...            ...      ---         .        41      564       11151     044
SUITOTAL TEANS             9465      433      I 1314     6118     876      57         75       38       54         16      84 
SU1-TRANA5N565505lti 34696           56 1       11       13       lit        ia 3513 56  316 556  1.   5466    5116611    l166  5966  55661  VI (46-41-65
0ISIN 6 NURAL ELECT    15*46         ails    59133      5556      5326      3545     55v6      lo56     5566s    3166      546       5066         16A13
DIESEL SETS58 ISLEAL'        164       ..       564        As       44       ...      ...       ...      ...       ...       ...        -
TOTAL INVESTSINT          91670    462351  145133    it5          plot     9651     55ll  83555    51644    56154    5t46s   1919
....***  a ....*     48894t  *siSI.  Bsso.***              ...    saunas  asin...   *....s   among.   u.s...  mosse.  *s*e.s
or WHIICH.   LOCAL                                      56        505      6156      6164      7760    56556l  l161961   55096    556111
fOREgNa                                   315511 5ll         sill     4354      1464     s63t      1360      Ills     1156
TOTAL IHY IN GUS NIL   6444          5536      till       411     d4l6       all      11651     94      8846      531e      5544    5105
Of VISICII.   LOCAL                                      al6       315       459      466       1511     ?151      154       66d     1659
1,0RESCN                                   141      156       546       i90      571       454      1161      it?      616



PAKISTAN
PIM  WAVDA POWER PROJECT
Actual and Proechted Power Demand and mcergv Sales
(WAPDA 8ystem)
----------- Actual-----------  ------------------------------EtimAted - -------------------- ---------
1Y80  "fl       YY82    Y82     LXA  n85    FY86 n87    FYm    1159    TY"    1Y91    Y923
Instilled Capacity  (M)    2,685   3,254   3,254   3,954    3,954   4,052   4,612   5,412  5,412   6,178   8,266   8,266  :9,416   9,416
Peak Demand        (NW)    2,076   2,473   2, 846  3,163    3,437   3,762  4,121   4, 517  4, 955  5,436   5, 963  6,541  7,176  7, 872
Eoergy Generated   (Cwh)
lydel                     8,718  9,046   9,526  11,367   11,828  13,475  15,106  15,290  15,855  16,187  16,836  18,336  19,136  19,246
Tbermal                  3,406   4,160   5,242   5,125   6, 537   6,294   8,661  11,042  13,772  15,643  18, 837  21, 951  24,147  27,658
Total Generation  (CVb)  12,124  13,206  14,768  16,492   18,052  19,115  20,420  23,135  24,648  25,766  27,815 31,215  33,065 36,775
Eoergy sales       (Clb)
Domestic                  1,564   1,858   2,408   2,866    3,191   3,440   3,131   4,340   4,745  4,958   5,355   6,013   6,366   7,078
Comercial                  3 89    445     574    634       704     760    623    958  1,049  1,096   1, 184  1,328  1,405  1, 557
Industrial               3,154   3,482   3,960   4,423    4,922   5,313   5,753   6,693   7,326   7,665  84269   9,270   9,827  10,933
Aricultural              2,057   2,125   2,357   2,546    2,702   2,919   3,155  3,678   4,022   4,204   4,543   5,098  5,397   6,002
Public Lighting              50     58      75      78       88      93    102    119    130    136.   147    173    187    218
Bulk Supply                900    1,056      872   1,002   1,111   1,194   1,295   1,509   1,650   1,724   1,862   2,092   2,215   2,463
Traction                  46         4               44      44      44f   -48        4      S  57 ---              62      63  _-66
Total Sale.      (nli)  8,160    9,068  10,288  11,393  12,762  13,763  14, 97  17,351  18, 979  19, 840  21,418 24,036  25,460  28,317
Annual Increase    (Z)      16.9   11.1   13.5   12.6    10.1    7.8    8.3   16.4    9.3    4.5   12.2   12.2    6.0   11.2
Total System Louse  (M)I/    32.69   31.33   30.34   29.74    28.0   27.0   25.0   23.0   23.0   23.0   23.0   23.0   23.0    21.0
./ Include losses in auxiliaries, etc.



PAKISTAN
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPHENT AUVIORITY
FIFTH P0WOER PROJECT
INTERNAL ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
-------------------------------------------
1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90 1990/91 1991/92 1992/93 1993/94 1994/95 1995/96 1996/97 1997/98-2013/14
INFLATION RATE-LOCAL(X)                  8.0      7.0       6.5       6.5       6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0     6.0      6.0     6.0      6.0      6.0
INFLATION RATE-FOREIGN(Z)                5.7       8.5      9.0       9.0       8.3      6.8      6.0      6.0     6.0      6.0      6.0     6.0      6.0
CURRENT PRICES(PRe HILLION)
INVESTHENT COSTS                        6910     9099      9813    11088    13250    16544   -----   -----   ----    -----   ----- -
LOCAL COSTS                             3328     5382      6214      6764      7786    10515   -----   -----   -----   -----
FOREICN COSTS                           3582      3717     3599      4324      5464     6029   -         -----   -----   -----   -----   ----    -----
CONSTANT (1984) PRICES(PRs HILN.)
---------------------------------
INiMSTHENr COSTS                        6683     8188      8211      8633      9618    11299   -----             --- -        ----- -
LOCAL COSTS                             3200     4815      5208      5323      5767     7348            --- -        -------
MATERIAL                          2656      3996      4323      4418     4787      6099   -----   -----   -----   -----
SKILLED LABOUR                     192       289       312      319       346       441   -----   -----   -----   -----   - ---    -------
UNSKILLED LABOUR                   352       530       573       586      634       808   -----   -----   ----    -----   ----    -----
FOREIGN COSTS                           3483      3373     3003      3310      3850      3951       -----   -----         -----   -----   ----    -----
IN BORDER (1984) PRICES(PRs HILN.)
LOCAL COSTS                             3347     5036      5447      5567      6032     7685   -----   -           -----    -------
MATERIAL                           2922      4396      4755      4860     5266      6709            -----   -----           - - --    -------
SKILLED LABOUR                      204       306       331       339      367       467        -----   -----   -----   -----          -----   -----            ---
UNSKILLED LABOUR                    222       334       361       369      400       509   -----   -----   -----   -----   -----    -          --
FUEL COSTS                               829     2012      3386      5049      7037     9518   10708   12046   13552   15246   17152   18524   20006                20006
ECONOHIC COSTS (PR. MILLION)
INVESTMENT COSTS                        6830     8409      8450      8877      9882    11636   -----   -----   -----   -----   ----   ----   --
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE COSTS            212       261      262       275       306       361     451      564      705     740      777     816      856             856
FUEL COSTS                               797      1800     2838      3973      5212     6651    7059    7492    7951    8439    8956    9125    9298                 9298
TOTAL COSTS      7839    10470    11550    13126    15401    18648    7510    8056    8656    9179    9733    9941   10154                    10154
AVERAGE REVENUE/KWh (CURRENT PR.)  0.6470   0.6916   0.8423   1.0215   1.2896   1.4875  1.4875  1.4875  1.4875  1.4875  1.4875  1.4875  1.4875                     1.4875
AVERAGE REVENUE/KWh(CONSTANT PR)  0.6221   0.6187   0.7059   0.8039   0.9552   1.0395  0.9806  0.9251  0.8727  0.8233  0.7767  0.7328  0.6913                      o.'913
INCREMENTAL SALES (MILLION KWh)         1001     2145      4589      6217      7078     8656   11274   12698   15555   18666   22399   27999   33599                33599
I-
U.9



PAKISTAN
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPHEHT AUTHORITY
FIFTH POWER PROJECT
INTERNAL ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
CASE I : ANNUAL AVERAGE REVENUE AT PR& 0.6187 (1984 PRICES)
1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90 1990/91 1991/92 1992/93 1993/94 1994/95 1995/96 1996/97 1997/98-2013114
---- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ------ --- -- ------
INVES1)IENT COSTS                     6830     8409      8450     8877     9882    11636   -----   -----   ---- ---- ___
OPERATION 6 MAINTENANCE COSTS          212      261       262      275      306       361     451     564     705      740     777     816     856             856
FUEL COSTS                             797     1800      2838     3973     5212     6651    7059    7492    7951    8439    8956    9125    9298              9298
TOTAL COSTS     7839    10470    11550    13126    15401    18648    7510    8056    8656    9179    9733    9941   10154              10154
INCREMENTAL SALES (MILLION KWh)       1001     2145     4589      6217     7078     8656   11274   12698   15555   18666   22399   27999   33599             33599
BENEFITS (PRs MILLION)                 560     1194      2555     3462     3941     4820    6278    7071    8661   10394   12473   15591   15709             18709
NET BENEFITS (PR. HILLION)           -7278    -9275    -8995    -9664   -11460   -13828   -1232    -985         6    1215    2739    5650    8555             8555
INTERNAL ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN       5.92
CASE II : ANNUAL AVERAGE REVENiUE AT PR. 0.9670 (1984 PRICES)
------------------------------------------------------ _ 
1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90 1990/91 1991/92 1992/93 1993/94 1994/95 1995/96 1996/97 1997/98-2013/14
---       ---    ------------   ---   ---   ---   ---   ---- ----- -- - -- - -- 
INVESTMENT COSTS                      6830     8409     8450      8877     9882    11636   ---                          --                  -
OPERATION & HAINTENAtlCE COSTS         212      261       262      275      306       361     451     564      705     740     777     816      856            856
FUEL COSTS                             757     1710      2696     3775     4952     6319    6706    7117    7554    8017    8509    8669    8833              8833
TOTAL COSTS     7839    10470    11550    13126    15401    18648    7510    8056    8656    9179    9733    9941   10154              10154
INCREMENTAL SALES (MILLION KWh)        951     2038     4360      5906     6724     8223   10710   12063   14777   17733   21279   26599   31919             31919
BENEFITS (PRs MILLION)                 828     1773      3794     5140     5852      7157    9321   10499   12861   15433   18519   23149   27779            27779   w
tlET BENEFITS (PRs MILLION)          -7011    -8696    -7756    -7986    -9549   -11492    1811    2443    4205    6254    8786   13208   17625              17625
INTERNAL ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN      13.9Z
CASE III: AVERAGE REVENUE INCREASES AT 12Z ON AVERAGE
---------------------------------------------------
1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90 1990/91 1991/92 1992/93 1993/94 1994/95 1995/96 1996/97 1997198-2013/14
-______  -----__  -------   -------
INVESTHENT COSTS                      6830     8409     8450      8877     9882    11636   -----   -----   -----   -_
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE COSTS          212      261       262      275      306       361     451     564     705      740     777     816     856             856
FUEL COSTS                             773     1746      2753     3854     5056     6452    6847    7267    7713    8186    8688    8852    9019              9019
TOTAL COSTS     7839    10470    11550    13126    15401    18648    7510    8056    8656    9179    9733    9941   10154              10154
INCREMENTAL SALES (MILLION KWh)        971     2081     4451      6030     6866     8396   10936   12317   15088   18106   21727   27159   32591            32591
BENEFITS (PRs MILLION)                 544     1159     2828      4363     5902     7855   10231   11523   14115   16938   20326   25408   30489             304wa
NET BENEFITS (PRs HILLION)           -7295    -9311    -8722    -8763    -9498   -10194    2721    3467    5459    7760   10593   15467   20335              20335
INTERNAL ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN      15.1X
.II



-60-               ANNEX 5.3
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
FOURTH WAPDA POWER PROJECT
Internal Economic Rate of Return
ASSUMPTIONS
I. COSTS
(1)     Capital Cost.  WAPDA's investment cost for generation, transmission and
distribution between 1984/85 and 1989/90 is presented in Annex 4.5.
(2)     Local Costs were expressed in their equivalent border prices using the
following converaion factors: material - 1.1; skilled labor - 1.06; and
unskilled labor - 0.63.
(3)     Annual Operating and Maintenance Costs were calculated at 3.1% of the
capital cost.
(4)     Incremental Fuel Cost was computed on the basis of:
(a) 1984 Border Prices
US$/Toe           Rupees
Fuel Oil              170             2,603
Gas                   170             2,603
Diesel                255             3,904
Coal                  100             1,531
Crude Oil             194             2,970
assuming an exchange rate of Rs. 15.31/US$1 and the price of gas at parity with
the border price of fuel oil.
(b) The projected incremental consumption by type of fuel is shown below
('000 Toe):
Gas        Fuel Oil        Diesel        Coal       Crude Oil
1984/85          233            30             35            3
1985/86          364            43             53            5           -
1986/87          373            44             30            4           27
1987/88          429            61             45            5           69
1988/89          510            80             57            5           83
1989/90          607           149             54            6           98



-61-
ANNEX 5.3
Page 2 of 2
Incremental cost of fuel by type of fuel is shown beLow:
(Rupees Million)
Gas      Fuel Oil   Diesel   Coal  Crude Oil         Total
1984/85            608          78      138        5       -             829
1985/86            948         111      207        7       -           1,273
1986/87            972         114      119        6       79          1,284
1987/88          1,117         159      176        7      204          1,663
1988/89          1,327        207       199        8      247          1,988
1989/90          1,580        388       211        9      293          2,481
II. BENEFITS
Revenues were calculated based on the projected incremental sales valued
using the average revenue of 0.62 rupees (1984 prices), which is assumed as a
proxy for the consumers' willingness to pay. Revenues were converted to their
equivalent border prices using the standard conversion factor of 0.9.
In the case of sensitivity, KESC's average revenue of 0.97 rupees (in
1984 prices) was taken as a proxy for consumers' willingness to pay. Revenues
were revalued in terms of border price using the standard conver:;on factor of
0.9.



-62-
ANNEX 6.1
PAId STAN
FIFTH WAPDA POWER PROJECT
Documeuts and Information in the Project File
1.  Proforma PC-1; 500-kV Lahore-Multan-Cuddu-Jamshoro Transmission line.
VAPDA Planning Department Power Wing. November 1984.
2. Scope of Work for the Terms of Reference of 500-kV Jaushoro-Lahore Trans-
mission Line Project prepared by NESPAK. February 1985.
3. Poaer System Statistics, Ninth Issueu, APDA Planning Department Power
Wiig. November 1984.
4. Contract for Services for Prefeasibility Study for Imported Coal Fired
Thermal Power Station near Karachi between WAPDA and INTEW Intercontinen-
tal Engineering Limited of Canada, financed by CIDA. January 1985.
5. Terms of Reference for a Study to Improve the Operational and Thermal
Efficiency of WAPDA Thermal Power Plants. February 1985.
6.  WAPDA Prequalification for the Supply, Installation, Comissioning and
Maintenance Services for the Equipment Required for Load Despatch
Project. Electricite de France/NESPAK. April 1983.



;  i   j~*-    LAHORE RING   ---  s s-H m u_;mb                                                                            l
BW \ / ~~~~~~~~~~~P A K     t A  
FASLAA  RINGX                                     Dzuea                                         TRNMSIO    IE
C                                    VA o  %                                                                        f .,;s
?  )4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i.                                                                         Z   (_ _SnE
J;                         ]                        *              -             2>SIW2 ;V
AIGI4ANSSTADMAIN4OWER1TATIO                                            S AND
TRANSMISSION LINES_* e o 
FAXIXALArBAD RINGa
GATI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GI  TTOS                                                         r
'4- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ WSL
MAIN POWEPOWE STATIONSAN
4U~~ POSER 5d EOSEA
*NENTIPA EZTMSAIOpE   ZSE.GS  I
0         300~~         2ao          sc KILOMAETEES






