Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAuL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4054-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED -LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$100 MILLION
TO THE
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
FIFTH WAPDA POWER PROJECT
c
May 8, 1985
This document hs a restricted dribution  d may be used by recipients only in the performac of
their ofic  duties  s content may not odthrwse be discosed nthowut World Dank authion.  l



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
Rs 1          = Paisa 100
US$1          = Rs 15.31
Rs 1          = US$ 0.065
FISCAL YEAR
Government and WAPDA : July I-June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB        Asian Development Bank
CIDA       Canadian International Development Agency
KESC       Karachi Electric Supply Corporation
km         kilometer
kV         kilovolt (1000 volts)
kWh        kilowatt hour (1000 watt-hours)
mW         megawatt (1000 kilowatts)
NESPAK     National Engineering Services of Pakistan
SAL        Structural Adiustment Loan
toe        Tons of Oil Equivalent
UNDP       United Nations Development Program
USAID      United States Agency for-International
Development
WAPDA      Water and Power Development Authority



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A FIFTH WAPDA POWER PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) with the guarantee of
the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for the equivalent of US$100 million to help
finance a Fifth UAPDA Power Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including five years of grace, at the standard 7jariable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Recent Economic
Developments and Structural Adjustment" (No. 5347-PAK, dated March 20, 1985)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 4, 1985.
3.      The steadily improving performance of recent years was interrupted in
FY84 due to an unexpected downturn in agriculture and migrant remittances,
and the carry-over of inflationary pressures from FY83. GDP growth slowed to
3.5% as a result of a 6.2% fall in agriculture value added caused by adverse
weather and pest attacks. Manufacturing grew by 8.3Z and services by 6.2Z.
Fixed investment rose by 6.5%, while private investment increased by 11.5Z.
National savings fell to 12.1% of GNP as a result of a drop in private
savings. Public savings remained low reflecting reduced Federal and
Provincial budget surpluses. Excess liquidity from FY83 (generated largely
by foreign exchange inflows), increases in world prices and reduced agricul-
tural output, contributed to inflation above 9Z, as against 5.2% in FY83.
Budgetary policies continued to be prudent.  Current revenues increased by
20%, largely through improved tax administration, but current expenditures
also increased reflecting higher allocations for economic and social
services. Considering the economic importance of agriculture, the achieve-
ment of creditable growth in FY84 points to a considerable resilience of
Pakistan's underlying economic structure, which is partly the result of
recent Government efforts to begin removing structural imbalances in the
economy.
4.      The balance of payments deteriorated in FY84, relative to the marked
improvement in FY83. The current account deficit at US$1 billion was almost
double that in FY83. Stagnant exports and lower remittances were the main
contributiag factors. With cotton and yarn exports much reduced by the poor
cotton crop, exports rose by only 1.6%, while imports increased by 6.9%.
Remittances, which declined for the first time in FY84, fell by 5.1%.
Moreover, recent projections suggest a decline in net migration, which is



-2-
likely to lead to lower remittances over the medium term. The higher current
deficit, together with low net capital flows, led to a reserve drawdown of
US$113 million. Gross official gold and foreign exchange reserves were
US$2.4 billion at end FY84, equivalent to 3.8 months of imports of goods and
services.
5.      Since 1980, the Government has moved gradually to eliminate interest
from the economy and has announced that the process will be completed by July
1985.  AlL transactions will be based on new financing modes consistent with
Islamic principles. Existing interest-based commitments will be honored and
transactions with foreign governments and financial institutions will not be
affected. At this stage, it is difficult to determine with any certainty the
potential costs of Islamization. Undoubtedly, there wilL be some costs in
converting the system, but whether long-run efficiency is affected will
depend on how the systemr is applied. To date, the Government has proceeded
cautiously and, while fulLy committed to the elimination of interest, has
stressed that new financing modes will, be applied flexibly and developments
monitored closely.
6.      The slowdown in economic growth in FY84 marked a departure from the
improved performance achieved during the Fifth Plan period (FY79-83). Growth
in national output (6.5Z), agriculture (4.2%), manufacturing (10.4Z), exports
(liZ) and private investment (6.7%), though below Plan targets, was well
above rates achieved during FY70-78 and very respectable compared to other
LDCs. Growth during this period - coupled with increased remittances -
benefited large segments of the population. Improved performance took place,
despite a number of adverse factors: (a) a world recession; (b) a 30% decline
in the external terms of trade after 1979; and (c) the Afghanistan crisis
with its attendant requirements for increased defense and refugee assistance
expenditures.
7.      Fiscal performance and the balance of payments improved significantly
during the Fifth Plan. The overall budget deficit and Government bank
borrowing, which stood at 8.8% and 4.3Z of GDP in FY79, fell to 6.4% and
1.7%, respectively by FY83. Reduced levels of Government borrowing from
banks, together with overall credit restraint, led to lower money supply
growth and lessened inflationary pressures; inflation dropped from 8% to 5%
by the end of the Plan period. The improved fiscal performance was largely
the result of expenditure restraint rather than better revenue performance.
Real expansion in current expenditures on economic and social services barely
kept pace with population growth and development expenditures declined rela-
tive to GDP. Government revenues rpmained constant at 16% of GDP and public
savings, having risen in the first half of the Plan period from 1% to 3.8% of
GNP, dropped to 1.6% by FY83. Assisted by remittances, but also strong
export growth, the current account deficit fell from 5% of CNP to 2% by the
end of the Plan Period. Gross reserves increased from 3.5 to 4.5 months of
imports of goods and services.



-3-
X.      In addition to improving economic management through fiscal and
monetary policies, the Government took measures to improve performance in the
commodity-producing sectors. In agriculture, all major crops reached record
output levels, with wheat and sugar achieving self-sufficiency. Subsidies on
pesticides were virtually eliminated, while fertilizer prices were raised to
reduce the subsidy burden. Crop procurement prices were adjusted to bring
them closer to world prices. Provincial allocations for operations and
maintenance in irrigation were increased, along with water charates.
Encouraged by improved policies and incentives, private manufacturing invest-
ment grew by lO.9Z p.a. Areas open to the private sector were widened, most
agricultural processing units were denationalized and sanctioning limits
increased. A flexible exchange rate policy adopted in 1982 was instrumental
in encouraging manufactured exports, while import liberalization increased
the availability of raw materials and capital goods. In energy, measures
were taken to accelerate the development of domestic resources, rationalize
prices, and improve policy formulation and energy plAnning capabilities.
9.      The developments in Pakistan's economy since FY78 represent welcome
steps toward the solution of problems which are essentially structural and
long-term in nature. Notwithstanding these improvements, further wide-
ranging measures to address structural issues are necessary. Two issues are
critical to Pakistan's long-term growth prospects: (a) the need to increase
the level and efficiency of public investment; and (b) the need to encourage
export expansion and efficient import substitution. To sustain high economic
growth, Pakistan is faced with the urgent need to make major infrastructure
investments, upgrade existing facilities and strengthen its neglected social
base. The latter has fared badly as a result of resource constraints and is
reflected in Pakistan's social indicators which lag seriously behind those of
other developing countries at comparable levels of development. Increases in
public investment and recurrent allocations will not be possible without a
major domestic resource mobilization effort. Although reform of indirect
taxation through the introduction of a broad-based sales tax should receive
priority, greater reliance on user charges, curtailment of subsidies and
increased self-financing by public enterprises will also be required. Given
the more constrained outlook for official assistance and the likelihood of
lower remittance flows, sustained improvements in both export expansion and
efficient import substitution will be necessary to support high growth with
sustainable external capital requirements. Improved trade performance will
require a continuation and strengthening of the structural adjustment process
in the key sectors of agriculture, industry and energy.  Both agriculture and
industry have considerable potential for increased exports and some degree of
efficient import substitution. In energy, the accelerated development of
Pakistan's under-exploited resources can make a major contribution to the
reduction of energy imports.
10.     In agriculture, high growth has been largely the result of increased
acreage; average yields remain low by world standards and those of progres-
sive farmers within Pakistan. Increasing agricultural productivity and
diversification will require strengthened institutional support, appropriate



-4-
pricing policies, and the identification and implementation of the core
investment program. More effective institutional support should be sought
through improvements in the quality and quantity of services to farmers. In
particular, strengthening the seed program requires more efficient seed
multiplication and dissemination, increased efficiency in public sector
plants and a greater role for the private sector. The delivery of agricul-
tural credit needs to be improved to ensure it actually reaches small farmers
and tenants, whose credit needs are greatest. Marketing costs need to be
reduced together with a strengthening of research and extension services.
Agricultural pricing policies should ensure appropriate incentives to
farmers, while minimizing subsidies. Multi-crop approaches to pricing should
complement the single crops, cost-of-production approach currently used.
Finally, a core investment program in agriculture and water is needed to
reduce the possibility of distortions in investment priorities. Programs
that are low-cost and yield quick returns should be emphasized along with
critical infrastructure investments that raise farm productivity. Greater
emphasis on the complementarity of investment programs, especially between
agriculture and water, would ensure that priority is accorded to programs
that increase agricultural productivity rather than merely augment the supply
of physical infrastructure.
11.     Increasing and diversifying Pakistan's manufactured export base and
encouraging efficient import substitution will depend, to a large extent, on
a rationalization of industrial incentives to reduce both the level and
dispersion of effective protection rates. Thne objective should be to
increase the efficiency of the industrial sector by exposing protected
producers to greater foreign competition and to reduce the anti-export bias
inherent in the present incentives system. In addition, reform of Government
regulations affecting investment sanctioning and cost-plus pricing is also
required. The Government should limit sanctioning to a few cases of
strategic importance, leaving most investment decisions to the private
sector, which is better able to assess investment opportunities. Cost-plus
pricing arrangements, which provide insufficient incentives to minimize costs
or allocate capital efficiency, should be replaced by market-oriented
approaches which better reflect supply/demand conditions and provide adequate
incentives for reinvestment and operational efficiency.
12.     In the energy sector issues need to be addressed in three broad
areas: (a) investment and development; (b) pricing; (c) institutional
strengthening. To date, the Government's power generation program, as well
as other investments in the sector, have not been based on a long-term least-
cost development plan. Given the likelihood of domestic resource constraints
and persistent power shortages, the Gove.nment should ensure that future
investments conform to such a plan and that a core investment program is
insulated from uncertainties inherent in the budgeting process. The present
gas producer pricing formula for new discoveries should be adjusted to
provide adequate incentives to attract private sector exploration. Consumer
gas prices, which were maintained artificially low to encourage the substitu-
tion of gas for imported oil, have resulted in a considerable distortion of



-5-
relative prices and uneconomic use of gas. The Government's policy is to
increase gas prices to reach two-thirds of fuel oil parity by FY88 and since
1982, price increases have averaged 15Z p.a. in dollar terms. The Government
needs to meet its FY88 objective and move to full parity as soon thereafter
as possible.  Electricity tariffs, which are currently below long-run mar-
ginal cost, should be adjusted to reflect this cost, not only to ensure
efficient use of electricity and encourage energy conservation, but also to
mobilize additional funds to meet the substantial resources required by the
power investment program. Finally, the Government should consider increasing
autonomy of public enterprises in the energy sector to improve their
efficiency and should continue efforts to strengthen energy planning and
policy coordination.
13.    The Sixth Five-Year Plan (FY83-88) articulated a pragmatic strategy
for Pakistan's continued rapid development which included an expanded role
for the private sector, increased public development expenditures and
increased allocations for energy, agriculture, irrigation and the social
sectors. Although the size and composition of the Plan are appropriate,
development expenditures during the first two years of the Plan will be 9%
lower than the amounts projected because of insufficient domestic resource
mobilization. Although this would not appear overly large, the way in which
sectoral shortfalls have been distributed contradicts Plan priorities.
Education, energy, health and agriculture, received considerably lower
allocations than called for in the Plan. Furthermore, without a pre-defined
core investment program, there is a tendency to distribute shortfalls evenly
over a large number of projects within a sector; too many projects are
initiated and projects that should receive priority are underfunded. In
order to address this issue, Government has announced the re-introduction of
a Three-Year Priority Investment Program (FY86-88). The Government has
emphasized that the adoption of a roLling medium-term program does not mean
plan strategies and priorities are being revised, or that shortfalls are
considered inevitable. The Program will identify sectoral core investment
programs which will be given priority in formulating annual plans. By
protecting priority investments, especially in key areas, the effectiveness
of the public investment program would be enhanced and priorities sharpened.
14.     Despite the temporary setback in FY84, the improved performance and
policy framework set in motion during the Fifth Plan, which the Government
intends to continue during the Sixth Plan, have improved Pakistan's credit-
worthiness for a blend of Bank and IDA borrowing and commercial borrowing.
At the end of calendar year 1983, Pakistan's external public debt (excluding
the undisbursed pipeline) stood at US$9.8 billion, of which US$4.7 billion
was owed to biLateral members of the Pakistan consortium, US$1.3 billion to
OPEC, US$2 billion to multilateral agencies, and the balance, to other
bilateral and private lenders. In 1983, the Bank Group's share in Pakistan's
external public indebtedness was 15.3% and in external debt service was 7.0Z.
Bank projections indicate that, provided recent policy improvements are
sustained and structural issues addressed, Pakistan's debt service would



-6-
remain below 15Z during the remainder of the 1980s, even with somewhat higher
levels of commercial borrowing.
PART II - BAII GROUP OPERAIIONS IN PAKISTAN I/
15.    The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of Loans and Credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$3.2 billion. During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in most sectors
of the economy. This has included its involvement with other donors, over a
20-year period, in the major program of works to develop the water resources
of the Indus Basin.  Approximately 30X of total Bank/IDA commitments to
Pakistan have been for agriculture and irrigation; 282 for industry including
import program credits; 187 for transport, telecommunications and public
utility services; 14% for energy including power, gas pipelines and
petroleum; 5% for social programs in education, population and urban
development; and 5X for structural adjustment lending and technical
assistance.
16.     In the current period, the Bank's assistance strategy is to support
the Government of Pakistan's efforts to formulate and implement policy
reforms in three sectors--energy, industry, agriculture--which shape the
structural adjustment process in the economy. At the same time and in order
to ensure that the gains from adjustment are sustained in the long term and
shared more broadly, the strategy also includes investments in physical
infrastructure and the social sectors (education, population etc.) which have
been neglected in Pakistan's development efforts. To succeed, this strategy
requires a flexible deployment of the full range of traditional instruments
of Bank support - sector work and active policy dialogue, policy and project
based lending, technical assistance and aid co-ordination. The Bank Group's
lending program comprises two components. The larger project-based component
supports specific high priority investments in productive sectors and physi-
cal and social infrastructure. The smaller but strategic component focusses
on policy reforms in the key sectors of agriculture, industry and energy,
relying heavily on high quality economic and sector work. The strategy
includes a series of technical assistance credits to finance studies and
formulate action programs for policy reform. The experience with the first
of these has been extremely positive. Through the annual Country Economic
Memorandum, we aim to foster a greater understanding among Consortium members
of the Government's structural adjustment program and aid requirements, which
coupled with increased co-financing should enhance the policy relevance and
1/ Part II is substantially the same as that in the President's Report
P-3940-PAK (Fourth WAPDA Power Project) dated February 13, 1985.



-7-
effectiveness of other official aid and help attract additional resources to
Pakistan from non-concessional sources.
17.     Historically, the Bank Group has placed special emphasis on lending
for agriculture which is the mainstay of the Pakistan economy. The Bank and
the Government are in agreement on the main elements of a strategy which
underpins lending in the sector. In recent years, the objective has been to
increase agricultural productivity through improvements in the efficiency of
the irrigation system and supporting agricultural services. Among the issues
being addressed are: the balance between short-gestation projects and longer
term expenditures, rationalization of input and output prices, marketing,
improvements in operation and maintenance, cost recovery, and a wider role
for the private sector. Projects in the sector have ranged from
irrigation/drainage to agricultural inpu's, research and extension and have
included institution building components. Overall, prog-ess in agriculture
has been satisfactory.
18.    In industry, the strategy has two complementary aspects: to
strengthen and broaden the process of structural adjustment in Pakistan's
industrial sector and to support the Government's efforts to revitalize the
private sector through the provision of industrial finance. The industrial
reform program is designed to improve the competitiveness of the sector in
order to promote export expansion and import substitution. Issues being
addressed include trade and industrial incentives; deregulation; efficiency
of public enterprises; pricing decontrol; and improvements in the credit
delivery system. Projects have included lines of credits to DFCs and other
financial intermediaries which has been mainly for the private sector, total-
ing US$488.5 million. Direct lending for industry has also included assis-
tance to three large fertilizer plants and a refinery engineering loan. As
of March 31, 1985, IFC has made investments in 16 Pakistan enterprises total-
ing US$191.24 million of which US$179.91 million was by way of loans and
US$11.33 million by equity participation (these are shown in Annex II).
While individual operations have generally achieved their objectives, the
agenda for overall reform in industry remains formidable.
19.     Following progress on a number of major sector issues as a result
of the Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) process in 1981/82, our lending
program in energy is expanding rapidly. The overall objective is to expand
domestic supply from all energy subsectors while simultaneously increasing
the efficiency of energy use through appropriate pricing, conservation and
other demand management measures. No less central have been efforts to
strengthen key institutions in the sector. In power the Bank has assisted
both the Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC) and the Water and Power
Development Authority (WAPDA) in both power generation and transmission; the
sector has also been assisted by the construction under the Indus Basin
Development Program of Mangla and Tarbela Dams. In oil and gas, the Bank
has financed operations which support a sound exploration and development
program and has assisted in the development of the extensive gas transmission
system.  Smaller operations, mostly of an engineering and technical assis-



-8-
tance nature, have supported coal exploration, energy audits and oil
refining. Despite much progress, however, the Bank will need to continue its
participation in institution building in concert with efforts to assist the
Government mobilize adequate funds for energy investments through tariffs,
co-financing, and greater private sector participation.
20.     Bank Group lending for transport and communications has focussed both
on new capital investments and on improving the efficiency of existing
assests. Operations have also focussed on strengthening the institutions
responsible for these services, especially the Karachi Port Trust, Pakistan
Railways, the Telephone and Telegraph Department and federal and provincial
highways agencies. However, recent analysis has identified transport
infrastructure as a critical constraint to over-all growth, due in large
measure to a running down of infrastructure stock. In the future the balance
between new investments and operation and maintenance and among various modes
will need to receive greater attention.
21.     With an over-all literacy rate of only 25Z, a population growth rate
of about 3%, and rapid urbanization, Pakistan faces a formidable development
agenda in the social sectors. The Bank has supported the Government's
programs in education through five credits totaling some 'S$62.5 million
designed to upgrade primary, post secondary and higher technical and agricul-
tural education, middle-level training of primary teachers and agricultural
extension agents. The focus has and will continue to be on the lower end of
the education system (primary, secondary, technical and non-formal education
including literacv) A first population project designed to expand demand for
population control services was approved in FY83. In the urban and water
supply sector, the Bank has financed four projects.  Besides providing urban
services, these operations are addressing, among other issues, improved local
resource mobilization and cost recovery, improved planning and efficiency of
resource utilization; and urban management especially at the ProvinciaL and
Municipal levels.
22.     With respect to policy-based lending, a SAL operation was approved in
June 1982. The SAL program consisted of a number of significant reforms in
government development planning and in policies and programs in the
agriculture, energy and industrial sectors. The loan was fully disbursed at
the end cf FY83 and achieved significant progress in the above areas. In the
next few years, continuing support to the structural adjustment process is
envisioned under sector loans.
23.     Annex II contains a sumiary statement of Bank Loans ane IDA Credits
as of March 31, 1985. Credit and loan disbursements have been generally
satisfactory. Some projects have experienced initial delays due to
protracted government procedures for project approval, which are being
addressed, and to slowness in the procurerent of goods and services. Rtapid
turnover of managerial and technical staff, in part due to migration to the
Middle East, and budgetary constraints have been problems in the case of some
projects.



-9-
24.     A number of operations are currently under preparation or are being
appraised. These include projects for power transmission and generation;
coal development; lines of credit for industrial finance for the private
sector, industrial subsector restructuring, balancing and modernization;
irrigation/drainage, agricultural inputs and services; primary and informal
education; telecommunications; urban development and water supply. In addi-
tion to a recently approved energy sector loan, sectoral loans which would
support further structural adjustment in industry and agriculture are being
discussed with the Government. Where successful, these sector loans would
provide a policy umbrella for projects in those sectors. To assist the
Government to finance agricultural and other high-priority projects which
have a low foreign exchange component, financing of some local expenditures
in specific cases is justified.
25.     In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the basis
for continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of Pakistan
on development strategy, the sector loans now being prepared, and for the
co-ordination of external assistance within the Pakistan Consortium. The
work program emphasizes resource mobilization, structural adjustment in the
three key sectors, and physical and social infrastructure.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR AND POWER SUBSECTOR
Energy Sector
26.     Sustained high economic growth over the long run depends critically
on both accelerated development of the substantial domestic energy resources,
and measures to limit the growth of energy demand. On the supply side,
development of domestic resources has been held back by inadequate producer
prices and internal cash generation, ineffective planning and resource
allocation, and institutional weaknesses including arrangements for mobi-
lizing private capital and management. Further development of domestic
energy resources will require further adjustments in sectoral pricing, plan-
ning and institutions. On the demand side, Government buffered consumers
from the higher cost of imported energy during the 1970s, and priced domestic
gas and electricity at levels substantially below their economic cost.
Adjustments in the prices of petroleum products were initiated in 1978 and by
early 1983 the weighted average price was about 150% of the border price.
Consumer prices of gas and electricity, however, were not increased until
1980 and even then at a substantially slower pace than for petroleum
products. Little progress has been made in improving the efficiency of gas
and electricity users. The net effect has been that acute shortages of both
gas and electricity emerged during the last two years of the Fifth Plan
(FY79-83) and have continued under the Sixth Plan.
27.     In recognition of these problems, Government accorded high priority
in the Sixth Plan to restructuring the energy sector; the allocation to
public sector energy programs increased by 120% in real terms over the Fifth



-10-
Plan, and amounted to fuily 38% of total planned public sector outlays. More
important still, Government has continued the pricing adjustments initiated
in the Fifth Plan and has taken several important policy initiatives to
p-omote the achievement of the Sixth Plan objectives. Beginning with the
design of the Structural Adjustment Loan, approved in June 1982, the Bank has
had an increasingly fruitful dialogue with Government on the energy sector
and project lending has accelerated, in petroleum and power through
pipelines, refineries and coal. Most recently, the results of the continuing
dialogue have led to an Energy Sector Loan, which is being processed concur-
rently with the proposed project. This Sector Loan provides the policy
framework within which energy projects are being and will be designed; it
enables project conditionality (and the documentation) to be focussed on
implementation matters and thereby simplified, as is the case with the
proposed project.
Power Subsector
28.     Public electricity supplies about 20% of the commercial energy con-
sumption of industries and households, and over 50% in agriculture. The
installed generating capacity nationwide is about 5,000 MW, of which 1,000 MW
(all thermal) in the Karachi area managed by KESC, and 4,000 MW elsewhere
(two-thirds hydro and one-third thermal) manageJ by WAPDA. The planning of
power generation in Pakistan is complicated both by the diversity of possible
modes, and by the fact that the major hydro resources are located in the
north whereas the electricity loads and thermal facilities are concentrated
in the center and south. An interim least-cost program for the development
of generation facilities has been worked out, under a Bank-executed UNDP
project, and the WASP III model for system planning was installed on WAPDA's
computer in January 1985. WAPDA's capability to update and refine the least-
cost program requires, however, a system for the collection, storage and
retrieval of data on power; the design and implementation of such a system
would be part of the proposed project. Given the role that imported coal can
be expected to play in power generation, the proposed project would also
include a feasibility study and detailed engineering for a power generation
complex at Karachi based mainly on imported coal. The geographical disper-
sion of resources, faciliLies and loads requires bulk transmission of elec-
tricity over distances up to 1,600 km. In order to ensure efficient power
transmission, WAPDA's plans call for 4,400 km of extra high voltage (500-kV)
lines by 1991, of which 2,550 km are in operation, 350 km under construction
and the remaining 1,500 km, including the 1,100 km included in the proposed
project, are planned for 1985-1991. The 220-kV network and sub-transmission
systems would also be expanded during the period 1986-89 under the Fourth
WAPDA Power Project, which would ensure coordinated development with the
extra high voltage grid.
29.     The institutional framework of the power subsector is
straightforward, with the main operational agencies, WAPDA and KESC, coming
directly under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Water and Power. Pricing
decisions, however, are subject to the approval of the Ministry of Finance



-1l-
and are under the ultimate jurisdiction of the Economic Coordination
Committee of the Federal Cabinet. Major investment decisions, too, are
subject to the approval of the Ministries of Finance, and Planning and
Development. WAPDA is not therefore a fully autonomous agency, despite its
size and importance. Set up in 1958, WAPDA is divided into two largely
independent "wings", one for power and the other for water. The Power Wing
is responsible for the construction and operation of generation, transmission
and distribution facilities throughout the country except for the Karachi
area. The Power Wing has 88,000 employees and 3.7 million customers, with a
turnover of Rs 8.2 billion (US$600 million) in FY84. The Distribution
Department alone has 62,000 employees, including the staff of the eight Area
Electricity Boards responsible for local electricity service. Government
intends to review the organization of the power subsector. The possibility
of relieving WAPDA of distribution and limiting its responsibility to gener-
ation and transmission of electricity for the entire country will be
examined. This would include ascertaining the feasibility of taking over the
generation and the primary transmission of KESC by WAPDA and restricting the
KESC operation to bulk purchase from WAPDA and distribution in the Karachi
area. Additionally, the possibility of transfering distribution to the
private sector/provinces in the rest of the country would be considered along
with the possibility of creating a separate authority for power distribution.
In order to assist the Government in formulating a plan for the reorganiza-
tion of WAPDA's distribution department, consultants have been recruited
under USAID financing to outline a plan for decentralizing power
distribution.
30.     Losses in transmission and distribution, which amounted to 35% of
gross generation in FY77, had been reduced to 27% by FY84, a noteworthy
achievement but still short of the FY84 target of 21Z that had been set under
the Third WAPDA Power project. While transmission losses have been reduced
from 13% to 10%, further reductions are expected from completion of the high
voltage network, particularly the extension of the 500-kV link. Distribution
losses have been reduced from 22Z to 17%, and further work to reduce dis-
tribution losses was started in May 1984 under the USAID-financed Rural
Electrification Project.  In addition, under a loan from the ADB, WAPDA is
impLementing a load despatch project including a National Control Center for
most of the generating plants and the main transmission network, and two
Regional Control Centers for the sub-transmission network and some smaller
plants; this project is expected to be completed in 1987. WAPDA is still
targetting a loss factor of 21X, by 1988, but this would be reviewed and
possibly revised once ongoing studies on further possible loss reductions
become available.
31.     Average revenue in FY84 was 63 paisa/kWh, of which 53 from tariffs
and 10 from a fuel adjustment surcharge that allows WAPDA to recover part of
the cost of fuel from its customers. WAPDA thereby recovered 63% of the
long-run marginal cost of about 100 paisa/kWh; in comparison, the weighted
average consumer price of natural gas was only 40% of the border price of
fuel oil in January 1985. WAPDA has nonetheless been able to finance more



-12-
than 40% of its investment program from internally-generated funds, because
actual investmert has consistently fallen short of planned investment. In
order to ensure that actual and planned investments do not diverge,
Government has agreed to a minimum investment program for WAPDA of Rs 30
billion (US$2 billion) for FY86-FY88, and that all necessary measures,
including tariff increases, will be taken to ensure that the program is
financed. This investment program will require tariff increases, net of fuel
surcharge, of 11% for FY86, 15% for FY87, and 18% for FY88 in order to real-
ize the targetted 40% level of internal cash generation.  The introduction of
a tariff increase that would enable WAPDA to finance in FY86 at least 40%
of its investment program from internally-generated funds would be a condi-
tion of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 7.01(b) of the Loan
Agreement). In addition, WAPDA is presently reviewing the structure of
electricity tariffs in compliance with an agreement with the ADB. The
results, expected by June 1985, would be reviewed by both the Bank and ADB,
and an action program and timetable for restructuring tariffs would be agreed
with Government and WAPDA. Further work is required, moreover, to gain a
better understanding of the patterns of electricity consumption by different
users; accordingly, a load research and demand management study would be part
of the proposed project.
32.     The Bank Group's involvement in the power subsector started in 1955,
with the first of four loans to KESC for generation facilities. The Bank has
participated in the Indus Basin Development Projects, including the hydro
plants at Mangla and Tarbela which, together, account for 83% of the
country's total hydro generation capacity. Since 1970, the Bank's involve-
ment has been more directly in support of Government's program to upgrade the
power transmission and distribution network, for which four credits/loans
were made to WAPDA. First, Credit 213-PAK was made in 1910 to finance a
project to augment the transmission stbstation capacity of the power system.
The project faced implementation delays as fund limitations required scaling
down the physical components of the project; high losses impacted unfavorably
on WAPDA's finances and major financial covenants were not met; and opera-
tional improvements within WAPDA were slow and major targets were met much
later than anticipated. The main finding of the Project Performance Auditl/
was that where institutional change is a prime objective, careful planning
and realistic targets are of the utmost importance. Second, Loan 1208T-PAK
was made in 1975 to finance part of a 500-kV transmission system which would
eventually create the backbone of a national high voltage grid. The start of
the project was delayed by about nine months due to late employment of con-
sultants and slow award of contracts. Despite this delay, the project has
been satisfactorily implemented.   Third, Credit 968-PAK was made in 1980 to
cover a four-year time-slice of WAPDA's secondary transmission program.
Implementation, though somewhat delayed, has been satisfactory and the
project is expected to be fully implemented by the end of calendar year 1985.
I/ "Project Performance Audit Report", April 6, 1981 (SecM81-291).



-13-
Fourth, Loan 2499-PAK was made in 1985 to cover a five-year time-slice of
WAPDA's program for the reinforcement and expansion of the secondary trans-
mission system.
33.     The main objectives of the Bank and Government in the power subsector
are in harmony, namely:
(a)  to assist in the establishment of a least-cost power development
program in the long run;
(b) to establish close coordination between the primary energy
development policies (production, imports, pricing, etc.) and
the power generation program;
(c) to promote the use of local energy resources, especially hydro,
for power generation in the medium and long term;
(d) to support in the short run projects aimed at improving the use
of existing generation facilities, reduction of energy losses,
implementation of load management programs, etc., to alleviate
the power shortage; and
(e) to strengthen the institutional arrangements and the managerial
capabilities of the subsector to handle planning, execution and
operation needs.
The proposed project has been designed within this context and is seen as one
of a series of projects and sectoral operations designed to pursue the above
objectives in progressively greater depth.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.     The proposed project was prepared by WAPDA.  It was appraised in
November/December, 1984. Negotiations took place in Washington, D.C. from
April 15-18, 1985; the delegation from Pakistan was led by Mr. Ejaz A. Naik,
Secretary General, Economic Affairs Division, Government of Pakistan. A
Staff Appraisal Report, entitled "Pakistan: Fifth WAPDA Power Project"
(Report No. 5568-PAK, dated Hay 3, 1985) is being circulated separately to
the executive Directors. A supplementary data sheet is attached as
Annex III.
35.     Background and Objectives.  In the early 1970s, WAPDA started the
implementation of a least-cost national program for development of a 500-kV
network involving the connection of the major generating plants to the main
load centers in the country. The first phase, from Tarbela to Faisalabad,
was comissioned in 1977. Further sections were successively built southward
with Bank assistance (Loan 1208T-PAK) from Faisalabad to Guddu and Jamshoro.



-14-
A second 500-kV line is being built between Tarbela and Faisalabad, with
completion expected in September 1985.  WAPDA has recently updated its least-
cost program for the development of the 500-kV network to take into account
the forecast expansion of its generating capacity. It calls for the con-
struction of a second 500-kV line from Jamshoro to Multan, with an extension
to Lahore, and associated substations, to interconnect generation facilities
expected to come on stream by 1988 (Map IBRD 18732). This line is the focus
of the proposed project. The main project objectives are therefore (i) to
permit, together with the load despatch center (para. 30), the optimal opera-
tion of interconnected generation facilities, and (ii) to contribute to
reduction of losses in the transmission system. A secondary project objec-
tive is to improve WAPDA's planning capabilities.
36.     Description.  The project would consist of:
(a) the installation of about 1,100 km of 500-kV transmission line
between Lahore and Jamshoro via Sahiwal, Multan, Guddu and Dadu;
(b) the installation of new 500-kV substations at Lahore and Sahiwal
and the extension and reinforcement of existing 500-kV substa-
tions at Multan, Guddu, Dadu and Jamshoro; and
(c) consulting services for: (i) implementing a system for the
collection, storage and retrieval of data on power; (ii) a load
research and demand management study; and (iii) a feasibility
study and detailed engineering for a power generation complex at
Karachi based mainly on imported coal.
37.     Implementation.  The project would be executed by WAPDA which is
successfully implementing through contractors the ongoing second 500-kV line
and associated substations, as well as upgrading existing substations from
220-kV to 500-kV. The same approach would be followed for the construction
of the facilities included under the proposed project. The design and
engineering of the 500-kV grid were prepared by WAPDA with the assistance of
local consultants, the National Engineering Services of Pakistan (NESPAK),
and foreign consultants. The experience gained through this involvement has
enabled WAPDA and NESPAK to prepare the project design. In addition, equip-
ment and materials have been standardized in accordance with criteria estab-
lished during the construction of the earlier phases of the 500-kV network.
Accordingly, WAPDA has recruited NESPAK for the preparation of detailed
design, specifications and bidding documents, as well as engineering
supervision, for the proposed project. WAPDA would also retain the consult-
ants for the three studies, under terms of reference and with qualifications
and experience acceptable to the Bank (Schedule 4, Section II of the draft
LEc'-i Agreement). WAPDA would recruit the consultants and complete and review
the studies with the Bank within an agreed timetable (Schedule 5, Parts 1, 2,
and 3 of the draft Loan Agreement). The training of staff to operate and
maintain the 500-kV system is being assured by WAPDA with assistance from



-15-
CIDA; the proposed project does not therefore include any provision for
training.
38.     Cost. The total project cost is estimated at US$288 million.
Including interest during construction, the total financing resuired is
estimated at US$301 million, with US$157 million (52Z) in foreign exchange.
These estimates are based on December 1984 prices. Escalation of foreign
costs was assumed to be 6.25Z for FY86, 7.75Z for FY87 and 8% thereafter.
Escalation of local costs was taken at 6.5X for FY86 and FY87, and 6Z
thereafter. The total price escalation amounts to 12% of the base cost plus
physical contingencies. Physical contingencies were taken at only 5Z in view
of the similarity between the works under the proposed project and ongoing
projects. Duties and taxes amount to US$52 million. The total net-of-tax
project cost is estimated at US$236 million.
39.     Financing.  Of the total foreign exchange requirement of US$157
million equiv7alent, US$100 million (63%) would be financed by the Bank, by a
Government-guaranteed loan to WAPDA, and US$40 million (25%) through co-
financing. The Government would provide the remaining 12Z of the foreign
exchange requirements. Of the total local currency requirement of US$144
million, US$120 million representing 40% of the total financing required
would be financed by WAPDA from its own resources, and the balance would be
covered by loans from the Gove.acrnt, at an interest rate of 11%. Government
and WAPDA would make available all the financing resources needed for the
project in a timely manner (Section 3.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement and
Section 2.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
40.     Procurement and Disbursement.  With the exceptions noted below,
contracts financed under the proposed loan for the supply of equipment and
materials would be awarded in accordance with Bank guidelines for interna-
tional competitive bidding (ICB); domestically-manufactured goods would be
allowed a 15% preference or the applicable import duty whichever is lower.
Small quantities of equipment and materials and tools, also financed under
the proposed loan, not exceeding US$50,000 each and in the aggregate not
exceeding the equivalent of US$3.3 million, would be procured through limited
international bidding (LIB) by inviting quotations from at least three sup-
pliers from eligible countries. Bidding documents and recommendations for
the award of contracts exceeding the equivalent of US$1,000,000 to be
financed by the Bank would be subject to prior approval by the Bank.
Consultants would be selected in accordance with Bank guidelines. The
proposed procurement arrangements are sumarized below, where the figures in
parentheses are amounts financed out of the loan.



-16-
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million) I/
Component                     ICB      LIB     OTHER     LCB 2/ N.A. 3/  TOTaL
Land and Rights of Way                                             3.2       3.2
Transmission Lines'          77.8                                           77.8
Equipment and Materials   (77.8)                                         (77.8)
Substations Equipment        30.4              16.7                         47.1
(12.4)                                        (12.4)
Capacitors and
Control Equipment          10.8                                           10.8
Miscellaneous Equipment       4.5      3.3                                   7.8
(Transport, Tools and      (4.5)   (3.3)                                  (7.8)
Workshop)
Civil Works, Transport
and Erection                                           62.8     4.5       67.3
Engineering and Adminis-
tation                                                         16.8       16.8
Consultants' Services                                             5.1        5.1
______   ______   ______             (2.0)     (2.0)
TOTAL 3/               123.5      3.3      16.7     62.8    29.6      235.9
(BANK)                 (94.7)   (3.3)                       (2.0)   (100.0)
1/ Net of duties and taxes.
-/ LCB: Local Competitive Bidding.
31 N.A.: Not Applicable (negotiated contract, consultants, etc.).
Disbursements from the proposed loan would be made against 10OZ of the CIF
cost of directly-imported goods, 1001 of the ex-factory price of locally-
manufactured goods, and 100% of the foreign costs of consultants" services.
Based on a project implementation period of four years, disbursements are
estimated to be completed in five and one-half years, the same as the pre-
vious two Bank WAPDA power projects are expected to take. This is about one
and one-half years less than the Bank-wide average for transmission and
distribution projects and in view of the similarity with ongoing works in
Pakistan, the shorter period of implementation appears achievable.
41.    WAPDA's Financial Position.  The accounts of WAPDA's Power Wing for
the last five fiscal years (FY80-FY84) show a generally satisfactory finan-
cial performance and position. Both the ratio of current assets to current
liabilities and the coverage of debt service from internally generated cash
are satisfactory. As of June 30, 1984, WAPDA's capitalization showed a
debt/equity ratio of 48152, in contrast to 61/39 for FY79. During this
five-year period, WAPDA has been able to finance between 53Z and 76% of its
capital investments from internal sources corresponding to a rate of return
of between 15% and 18% on historically-valued net assets in operation, or



-17-
between 8% and 10% on proforma revalued assets. These exceptionally high
levels of internal cash generation have arisen mainly from the fact that
actual investment has consistently fallen short of planned investment. To
address this shortcoming, in addition to the agreed FY86-88 minimum invest-
ment program (para. 31), the basis for determining the internal cash gener-
ation would be changed from the current retrospective basis to a prospective
basis, starting in FY89 (Section 5.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Projections of WAPDA's financial position over the next seven-year period
show a substantial growth in gross fixed assets, from Rs 29 billion in FY84
to Rs 104 billion at the end of FY91 and a threefold increase in equity from
Rs 17 billion in FY84 to Rs 46 billion by FY91. Retained earnings would
account for 80% of this increase. Over the same period, long-term debt is
forecast to increase fourfold to Rs 66 billion resulting in a debt/equity
ratio of 59141, which is reasonable for an electric utility. The coverage of
debt service by internal cash generation would be satisfactory during this
period, as would the ratio of current assets to current liabilities.
Nevertheless, the debt servicing position of WAPDA would be monitored, to
ensure a coverage of at least 1.5 (Section 5.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
42.     Financial/Commercial Operations.  WAPDA has made good progress in
streamlining its comm ercial operations and in establishing modern accounting
and commercial systems with the assistance of consultants. Ne-wertheless,
additional steps will need to be undertaken in areas such as materials
management, asset valuation and accounting. This additional work requires
substantial outside assistance, which will be furnished by USAID under its
recently-approved rural electrification project. A limiting factor in con-
tinuing the development of WAPDA is the shortage of qualified staff for key
posts in the accounting and commercial departments. WAPDA is currently
evaluating its recruitment practices, job grading and compensations for the
financial staff to facilitate the recruitment of experienced financial staff
outside the Authority. In order to improve its accounting capabilitAes,
WAPDA agreed under the Fourth WAPDA Project to review from time to time with
the Bank the qualifications and adequacy in number of the accountants in its
power wing, and thereafter establish, as necessary, a plan satisfactory to
the Bank for recruitment of professionally qualified accountants.
43.     Government Arrears.  Private consumers have been settling their
electricity bills satisfactorily, while Government has been delinquent in
settling its accounts. Though there has been improvement, the position is
still not satisfactory. Government arrears are now estimated at the equiv-
alent of about four months' Government billings. The Government has agreed
under the Fourth WAPDA Project to settle all arrears owing to WAPDA as of
June 30, 1985, by not later than December 31, 1985, and that all future
electricity bills would be paid by all government agencies and departments
within three months after the receipt of the bills.
44.     Audit and Insurance.  WAPDA is taking action, under the Fourth Power
Project, to improve the system of internal audit with the objective of
enhancing its role and influence within the Authority. The external audit is



-18-
performed by Government's Auditor General. The Bank is monitoring the
present audit arrangements and has reserved the right to request, if
necessary, an audit consistent with Bank guidelines. The existing audit
arrangements would continue until the new internal audit system is in place
and the new accounting system is fully implemented so that a judgement may be
made on the quality of the Government audit. With respect to insurance,
WAPDA operates a self-insurance scheme that is administered independently by
a Board of Management with the assistance of actuarial consultants. The Bank
has reviewed these insurance arrangements and found them acceptable.
45.     Sales.  Electricity sales by WAPDA increased between 1973 and 1983 at
an average annual rate of 10. The growth of sales accelerated over the
decade, averaging 72 between 1973 and 1978, and 12% between 1978 and 1983.
Between 1983 and 1993, sales are forecast to increase at an average annual
rate of 9Z, with a deceleration from 10% between 1983 and 1988 to 8X between
1988 and 1993. This sales forecast provides the basis for assessing project
benefits.
46.     Benefits.  Although essentially a transmission project, the project's
benefits cannot be isolated from those of generation and distribution.
Consequently, the return on WAPDA's investment program, covering generation,
transmission and distribution, for the period 1984-1990 is used as a measure
for the return on the project. With the costs of the investment program
expressed in their equivalent border values, and with incremental benefits
valued at WAPDA's average revenue of 63 paisalkWh, the internal rate of
return is 6Z. This valuation of benefits understates the economic return
since WAPDA's average revenue is only 63% of the long run marginal cost of
supply. In the absence of a demand curve that would permit the surplus
currently enjoyed by WAPDA's consumers to be quantified, one proxy is to take
KESC's average revenue of 98 paisa/kWh as a measure for WAPDA's consumers'
willingness to pay. With benefits valued on this basis, no change in the
valuation of costs, and incremental sales reduced by 5%, the internal rate of
return is 14%. Another proxy is to value benefits at the projected increase
in WAPDA's average revenue that is required to meet the 40% internal cash
generation target. On this basis, and with costs unchanged and incremental
sales reduced by 3%, the internal rate of return is 15%. This is the best
measure for the economic return on the project, although it does not capture
the unquantifiable cost-savings expected from improved power plant
efficiencies, reduced overall fuel costs, and reduced transmission and dis-
tribution losses.
47.     Risks.  The project consists of normal electric utility work entail-
ing no unusual risks, and no particular difficulty is foreseen in its
execution.  The implementation schedule and cost estimates are based on
similar work currently in progress in the country, and reasonable provision
has been made for contingencies. No ecological problems are anticipated.



-19-
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
48.    The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Water and Power
Development Authority of Pakistan, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the
Islamic Republic of Pakistan and the Bank and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement. are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Additional con.L-
tions of effectiveness would be approval by the Executive Committee of the
National Economic Council (ECNEC) of the PC-1 document for the projectll; and
introduction of a tariff increase that would enable WAPDA to finance in FY86
at least 40X of its investmpnt program from internally-generated funds. The
project has no special conditions.
49.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - ECO         ON
50.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 8, 1985
Washington. D.C.
1/ A PC-1 (Planning Commission Proforma No. 1) is an internal government
project appraisal document necessary for the Government of Pakistan's
approval procedures.



-20-                                                 ANEX I
TA2 LF 31                                        FAR  I
PArITA                - SOCrAL DIDCAIGES DAT Se
PAKISTA                             RzFlUUCt GUPS (EZOD  ARASES) L.
MOST                OIOST RCUT  SDIAE) lb
RRM    b    C XNCD         Z     i         DICO
1960t    1i7ioikb    STj            ASIA PACII            ASAL & PACIFIC
AL C SA1 SQ. X)
TOrAL                              803.9      .039         _0.
227.5      243.3       253.3
i PER cAio   Cos)                      70.0      130.0       380.0            27M6                   1091.2
-00  CinSria    FM CAPITA
C tELOURANS OF OML EUlIVAIMI)       98.0      139.0       179.0            272.0                   567.3
--m mD SO
P0PULATIONNID-!EA  (CNDOUSAIDS)   *5851.0    60,49.0    671Z5.0
RIm   PoPULAIO C: or TUML)          22.1       24.9        29.1             21.7                    34.7
POPULnTIO rPRWECILS
POPULATIO  IN EAlt 2000 CILL)                            139.6
STATIONARY POPMLATgIO  (tXLL)                            377.3
POPULATIO  Nts 19
POPULATION DEmIT
PER SQ. IN.                       57.0       752         105.1            166.6                  261.9
Pm  SQ. D  ACIl D                201.5      248B4       333.6             345.5                 1735.1
POPULATIOW AGE STWRTURE (C)
0-14 IRS                         '3.8       46.3         86.1             33.8                   39.0
15-1 TIS                          51.8       50.5        50.9             59.8                    57.6
65 AND AOVE                        4.I        3.2         2.7              4.3                     3.3
POPULATION GROH RATE CZ)
TOrAL                              2 3        2.8         3.0               1.9                    2.3
URBAN                              4.6        4.0         4.3              4.1                     4.3
CRUDE ATn  RATE (PER THOUS)         48.6       46_6        42.0             27.7                    30.1
CRUDE D52  LATE CPU T8W0S)          23.4       19.3        15.4             10.1                     9.S
CROSS REPROODCTIN RATE               3.4        3.4         10               1_8                     2.0
FAJtILY PLAMNING
ACPIIIS. AFIIAL C(rW)                       1908.1      1244.0 Ic
u3SE  (: OF mI>RIED IU)             .         6.0 id        .               ..                    S27
FOD AID NEIrTI
T=EX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPrrA
(1969-71-1DD)                       89.0      10L0         105.0            112.8                  1730
PUL CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CACItIES C: OF EEQUZIREIIS)      68.0      106.0        106.0            97.7                   114.4
PROEINS (CRAMS PFE DAT)           58.0       65.0        65.0             56.8                    57.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       23.0       22.0         20.0 I           14.9                   14.1
CHILD (AGS 1-4) DEATH RATE          25.1       Zl1O        16.8              9.8                     7.2
LIF: EXPECT. AT BRTH tEARS)         43.1       46.0        49.8             60.0                    60.4
INFAST MORT. RIATE (PElt TIM5)     161.5      143.0       120.9             83.8                    66_3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATFR (IFOP)
TOTAL                               ..       21.0         29.0 /f          32.9                   37.0
UAN                                          77.0        60.0 if          70.9                    54.8
RURAL                               ..        4.0         17.0 if          22.1                   26.4
ACCeSS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
CZ OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        3.0         6.0              la 18.1                41.3
URBAN                               ..       12.0        21.0 J           72.6                    47.4
RURAL                               ..         ..          ..              4.6                    33.3
POPULATION Pm  PsICrAI            S'400.0    4300.0/h    3460.0           3484.2                  7749.4
POP. PU NURSINC PEltSON          16960.0    180m.0       5820O            4793.1                  2460.4
POP. PER HOSPrTAL BED
TOTAL                           1790.0     1860.0       1560.0 Ic        1066.5                 10".2
URBAN                            510.0      650.0        710.0 i.        298.0                   651.2
RURAL                          22650.0    12480.0      1160.0 -.         5993.4                 2594.6
A1SSleOS PUER HOSPIL RED              ..         ..          ..                                     27.0
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEILD
TOTAL                              5.4        5.3          6.1 /c
URBAN                              5.6        5.5         6.4 i..
RURAL                              5.4        5.2         6.0 /c
AVERArE NO. OF PEISOIIS/ROOI
TOTAL                              3.1        2. /t
uRBt                               3.1        2.7 riT
RURAL                              3.1        2.8 /.
ACCESS TO ELECT. CZ Or DIILLXNGS)
TOTAL                                        17.9 ti
uAN                                 ..       54.4 A.
RURAL                               ,,9 4.                                   ..



-21-
ANNEX I
TAULK  3A,                                       PA  2
PAISTAN               -SOCIAL IUDDCATORS DkTA SUET
PAKISTAN                            RUZRE   GlOWS CREIGKTED AVERA) /a
OT                 CIMT RESE  ESTMIDIE) /b
ri,EoI          LOW   D  INCiM      IL  DbcO
ISGO&     1970&!    Z      ~ZSTIAT  ASIA & FACIPTC         ASIA & PACIFIC
AD3USUD EUDUHET  RAIO
PKDIAMXS   TrAL                   30.0       40.0        56.0             97.4                   102.0
tAsZ                   46.0        57.0        78.0            110.5                   105.9
FDLl                   LlO.       22.0         31.0             83.7                    9S.2
SEmARYZ TOMTL                     ILO        13.0        17.0             35.9                    46.0
ILUC                   IS.0       20.0         27.0             44.6                   48.7
FUIAIE                    0        5.0          7.0             26.8                   43.1
1OCA1IDIA. CZ OF SECOEDART)          LO         1.5         1.0 Ic           2.2                    17.5
PUPL-TEACM  RAMo
PR1cAZY                           39.0       41.0        48.0             38.5                    31.8
SECNAI                           24.0        20.0        23.0 Ic          18.7                    23.5
ADULT LITEACI RVAE (x)              15.4       20.7 ij     24.0 Ic          53.4                    72.9
PASSEDR CARS/ZIISANSO POP           1.5         2.6         3.4              0.9                    10.1
RAOM RECEHIVE3lDIUSA   POP          6.0        17.1        67.0            112.1                   113.6
TV UEOEIMESIlSA DOP                  ..         t.6         9.7             15.7                    50.1
NExSPAPU CDIY GENERAL
IrLEST) CIRCtLAT20
PER DIDISAI  POPULATIS            13.2         ..        13.7 /c          16.2                    53.9
CIEA A MMDAL ATrENDANC/CAPA          1.7        3.0 l1      2.2 Cc           3.6                     3.4
TOTAL uABO FOEc CTHO)            14448.0    17364.0     25240.0
FEMALE (PERET)                    8.6         9.3        10.5             33.3                    33.5
AGRICULTURE CPERCEST)            61.0        59.0        57.0             69.6                    52.2
IDUSTR  (PECE3T)                  18.0       19.0        20.0             15.6                    17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE C(PECET)
TOTAL                             31.5       28.7        29.0             42.6                    38.7
tUZ                               55.2       50.4        49.3             54.7                    50.9
FEUZ                              5.7         5.5         6.0             29.8                    26.6
EC0ID*aC DEPENEY RAMO               1.5         1.7         1.8              1.0                     1.1
PERM= or PRIVATE INN*D
RECEIED AT
HIGHES 52 OF HOU1ENLDS            20.3 ALk   17.8          ..               .,                    22.2
HIGMS 202 OF HOUSEOLDS          45.3 k      1.8           ..               ..                    48.0
LWEST 20 OF HIOSEHOLSM            L.4 IT      8.0          ..               .                      6.4
LOWIiS 402 OF OUSEOLDS            17.5 JE    20.2          ..                                     15.5
POIUMT mt Wz COW
ESTDIATED ABSOLUSE POVER   nEONE
LEVEL (USS PEIR CAPITA)
URB"A                              *-        68.0 I1    176.0 Ic         133.9                   18S.6
RURAL                              ..        1.7.0      122.0 Ic         111.6                   152.0
ESDIATEO RELATIVE POVErT XllE
LEVEL (CSS PER CAPIT)
,,AI                                         36,0 {1    s    s. 
URBAN                  ..       34~~~~~~~~~~~~.0 (  88.0 I      .177.9
RMUAL                              ..        22.0 I1     58.0 tc            ..                   164.6
ESTISATF  POP. BEID1 AB501U1
L                  POVERTY Tm C LEVEL CZ)
URBAN                              ..        42.0 /1     32.0 fe           3.8                    23.4
RAL                                ..         3.0 fj     29.0 re          51.7                    37.7
Or AVAILABLE
Mar APPLICABLE
N OT E S
la  The gop awerages for each ldicAtor are popuLetlo-welgbted aritbeeStc some. Coverage of curtries moons the
Indictea desnda on availability of dsat and is not wnfoce.
fb  Unless otberwim  noted, Deta for 1960- refer to ay year between 1959 and 1961; 'Deta for 1970" betwesn 1969 and
1971; and data for tibst Recent sltmeata betwee  1980 and 1982.
tc  l979; /d 196S; J* 1977; If 1976; I 197S; thlbRgsed, ote *11 practicing in the coumtry; /1 1973; .. 1972; IL
1964.                                                                                                 1984
Jun.~ 1984



-22-                                                                    ANNME I
Page- 3
~003.   -    .0 SO. lo .0.MIoo4lo  A.M0600-              o,0g   .J.4 19411400    L=0   So o01020  00. d00.. 10_ A.0*00.                           to.Ol..  01m
W.3 - 0100  60         CalS 0000w   --6I dg-W of 0  0002-6   ml    -  1fl  019. 5o   "0.5                    1,10030    o0   0       00 230. o    u          a.0
.   mM  -    4...   1.0 'NW  t.00 (00 M.oooo        o-  ft    114431. t-- 3-00 AM.30  MI MLd. Mot  0. 00..o b                of -.a..0.I.o
-f .15). 0. &0  W000.0 awo  d-0 ohO oooe0.  -  oV10I~   .W."46o   "Ch0001    -    3 .    .8-00 IM30.l MI               4.,      4.00or 00  -000 0.
jo.   dl04.0  3- 00t 300*1. 30=  Oh.  -..W *                0  00   064000              fio000   20. *Ao.hIl'od 40  l00  MI A. W= 000 .16- 0=  06
.oo0..4 0. v..1006 ~os  -  -50404.8.9 -  3. '03000  *oo  -By t?  000.00       flo00056-             34=0 00. 00.6   -          SI.        o"
-wod1   0    .q..        ~93-00-W'-01.00000M                                                                  - 0040 .10.41 , -.9sc 01  -4030
- 00006006oo0loO  34-..4 0.M -a               I0=..  0904.                         9                      *ootoo .000--.0tdltoV3..2
lWoft I 9919340.003107  001= 2 900*. -  00424   000090.0   0 00-44
GRIM M  =        - cm  W  01503.0   0.0    0000.-6902                                     MI .4030.  0004d .5.. ---I4  04.0o 6003.1 L0.0
89100 5900 4.-,W5o.                      Ot c"WZ  .II._fod..300 t.    00yl.    II4- 00.0  4- -Ms 0b0o                                  .-I 6013- 5    r00
3t40. IWO0. MI 0424..  440  ...                                                                            0oo*t   36*               ...40   p600"00   036006.00
-   -  .   10.0.4.4.   -1 3-Ol.    i0. .3.& 000.00*0
09    034.    906060 ~- .00            .o     .        noO1-0o                                   .  0    o       l. oool. 19 * o,bl. -Co 19.40
3920. MI3040 0.   41514.0 N-0 3  50.0 30  - 100.  04.1. fr-                                                                           ..         10000
(Wo- 0to.  *000.4          -IN-01  01 0.40.
009404  ROM                                                                                                        Tot05.or 00412
M40   ...o..4i1l00.odl--.  ot0  00   00  o   0                                            60
-                                                               *.o..o. 00.0.1!-k -   30.00.04Too..  0   -001) 000  .3.M 00
o  P...3.oo  0..o.0 . 0.001 -  .OOoFr .10.. o 00.  p.o.S.;-0                             - 00.0000  b04000&-1    -W003             R000  000100940
60000  001000. 600=.- 0.  M."020  004.6 00100  06  -.00                            .0.4 ptO
I...!  4.0*90 5 0. o4st- all 0000  5o.g0(60inr .6100. 00 ?F.0*9- 166 0   0.0 .                                          R04o      0..  0too - MI v0---W
rai.00205  MI O-ats 20, 0..000  0003004   1                                    9000004.53    15   -a0  00660        -?0016040,.        0    6400
.60050. 6          a200     d- 00 - a0  =100  I.oo15   00176700. -                                      t00aS  0.1. MItt     30...-00.oK  M   0
MI.   0100040*61.000   00.0  -04000.  MI 030 R.                                             004  .060.0000O1o0.0..o                         0    0  00
no.00l 6400  40  3 001.060100.osn.6.0.   03                                                5         00 M    sO  .30 - ..0 R06                     ft a-3.0-0W
to".MI   . 006o S olo..-    .00100.60"I09.000   000                                41.4 "0900. 00.4.  0.0 (0000 40. C00.1 6.10?1.005.
!M..0      0   -3  0  000000  .30O.00   0001=6050  0000601.- 4.00000 001.000  Is0505=0000 
001.0000003000*000101 tUlt2S3000.4   0.!p.0  .oSo*3   o5   00000   0700406                                                                       60   0
R.  0090   0002.000620106.14Mt.                            -                             4.101 004
4..0440*oD. W.3o    501 0  yotoI       md-.o0..   0                              nSOO.0.3.0    .05   106001 -500000.001
*1    Sw6.3.  (--    -,-3000 .I0 000 00.41.500000.000                           01     00300  .        0..0000604=02OptO
I6 m 04  00IW000. ...0  0o0.-5boS900013                                             -Nn0400? t-  40_00p00o5  .o0.oOty 'UN.03200000             F
0074.g 000400                                                                         001  loOoo1.3. -00001a.040o100   .10.1 50000  049004
P00.2.0*4. 005.09                                     p624.19 MI 00004439 00060.0041404 0? 0.0709 200010 00                 A.
00tots.   M   01.   0  ot   I..3-ptoo                  .   l-o                         'Oo   Coal t. Cm-  W0.0   0        -26.dSm  6000... 600.0006
Oo...604 16.0003306000000 t f- 00     - 4000 100 1004. 09 2020 0S, 00006009oOltO0
600.103000905000*00.660001- 0000 -0.000  06000 90.-9-                                                            T-0.  40000  0.1160- -00.00  20 000.1 0010040
0000000-          000    5479    I0-00.20010. 04006   0000-MNmn.                                                                           .c.002.0  0?
flod 000000  .0  0..o.40- 00.0  0..0t30~0 .0..0  0  05             oo        g .600;400  ..v.00  1.0 t.           00 -Rol..500=
91   300093000 10 j 0 -ood  - 000   40 -00. 6o9-20    o9000''0r040.0  61  0=00oo040     9  6401  0-000.
00001409 60.; .0    ..o.o                 .0.  O   60  00  M                               500000    4.M~ -0.01  0000.                et.490.      .  00000
60.31 tI5                                                                                 -_n... ..2(30.      00.  o   0oooo.00K   S5    02 00-6 V-  R.600.0'040  4l.00
-0 1030W40,-4004at                                        -t100  0 43000S.                              -ip00.00-00   0.-0I00     071.b6 -9..'o 0.4003  000
tMIl 040100- 000  900..000  .0604 .3    01.0200.90.700             0-01  060.                                      ,                r  
So=4   054I0-.0'00-0.0000 p960.00  0  in4000040
06060000  00?9.0000001-0004.  00530000o4            -~i1~L.0.96  000.04.  - 04. 100 -7t010.  N-f.t&-.404   M
p-  -1-  y   0 ::004 7000         ,,'00)      Zoo-l    01  ., 10OO                                 .      =0 %3.    .. -    -r7002000  0.03 0. 00h0..
.900  p0001. .  .1  0.8  -00.,...W 60061d  0 .000.0-4  M                                           - -050 0-.0  op-.010. -010.09               P-034 oM
oel-0  000001 ..tf.. o-Oo .4.. 0400 -MI 00oSoOlO-o,07.1o.oOI0300 00.004044    0501%                                                                95040M
00..  MI   L-00   RI1043 4-0r=s0F.o00             P .036000 -0 -.O is                   000660-0.MI.MI40  0                -0000000.  000 66601 090 w36
_,_I00.6P_0  00.01000  -   - .0404  39~i 90   .00.4 .044R.=                                                  
4004.                                                 97  -   10                   00,0t-0000 [v0  10070 e-  0004   4t.0   M --n.  .- 9. -06 W01 -60
007  ost  C-60  04 *02.. 3.  96t.1.   4-9led t w.1o. -d (....0    00..000.....  90000 01 l 4300-t.000000.z 0.0 .   dMI  00=0200   tote-
00064000.140*0040=  0000010. .0000010.  07 pt 0040* 00'    60505000of 0..5. 43. MI 0.02.00603004. 0 4004406  o040005.1P
00 M   -  400.0-04 L 0100.24041  MI 1.004 30I 60006   00
R.Mnod0.3   230.01  M   040.0                                                           120000 
RS .  e..0.bg0w    4064000 0600   .   0   I2  1=0 ..        00.  M
000.6401.  010   0  1=  304.MI0   -~                                                                         .O    .olo  o=6    1  .067100I.M
00110om.000 004.0009   601.o1poo.0.   O                                        13ZJoloO0.
0400    t  %.&. .0    o-sO  10.60. nS-   .  0.0.dOy t000   &-I.                   000   .0000   40   4od10 40
oo1400   0.  0oSuo    0 dg  0.3900  04  .0.                                          400.40000-   7410f0tl.0..?  94 C1600l-.100Mo1tO 
60' 00600000.00  9. .001MI.0. -.6e1.*ly.10000..00.0?(00P"0*0- OP.&420.0600 0-140.
400    9.003  M   90.0  000747   030.213   I39                                           .60000O  400.410p. o004 091000*40



-23-
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ucogn ic unVOnnnwr DATA
GNP PER CAPXTA IN 1982: USS380 LE
CRnn  Ln&TIOAL PRDDIr m  1983184 lb                                   ANUAL RATE OF CROu   (Z. constnt orices)
USS Sillion       -              196917e-1974175  1975176-1980/81  1981/2  1982183  1983/84
W      GNP at market prices            33_68         100.0                  3_5              7.1           4.3      7.4      4.2
Gross domestic investmt         5.23          15.5                 -5.5              4.1          10.5      9.6      3.4
Gross national saving           4.20          12.5                 -..1              6.7           6.9    24.9    -6.5
Current account balance        -1.00          -3.0                   .. 
Exports of goods. NFS           3.44          10.2                 -3.5              7.3          -5 6     n 5    -3.2
Imports of goods, IIS            7.06         21.0                 -7.1              5_5           0.7      1.1    22.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCrIVrTT IN 1983/84
Value Added                Labor Porce /c               V. A. Per iorker
S Million    X  -Million   S2                                5S 
Agriculture                    6.652     24               14.1      51                    472    47
Industry ld                    8.096     29                5.2      19                  1.557    155
Services                      12.931    47                 8.3      30                  1,558    155
Total/Average                27.679   100               27.6    100                   190O3    too
-OENE  FINANCE
Central Government If                          Federal Governmeat
(Re billion)          X of CDP               (Rs billion)         : of GDP
1983186 Lf    1983184  1978179-1983/84        1983184 ft 1983184  1978179-1983184
Current receipts                     73.2         17.4         16.6               58.2        13.9         12.4
Current expendiures                  803          19.1         Z3 5               62.8        15.0         13.2
Current surplus                      -7.2         -1.7         -6.3               -4.6        -1.1         -0.4
capital expitr                       34.2          8.1          9.4               34.2         7.0          8.0
External assistance (net)             6.0         14           2.1                6.0         1.4          2.1
MWNEY- CR1D1T AND PRICB
1974/75   1975176   197617l  1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82  1982M83  1983/84 lb
(Ra billion)
oney and qa-si nay Li                   33.1      41.6      51.7      63.7      76.5      90.7    103.5    113.6   146.0   162.5
Dank credit to public sector            21.2      28.1      36.6      43.5      54.9      61.8      70.9      79.7    95.5   105.6
Dank credit to private sector           16.0      17.8      23.0      26.5      30.9      36.9      41.9      51.3    62.8    77.8
(percentages or index mashers)
Honey ad quasi mey as X of GDO          29.5      31.5      34.6      36.7      39.0      38.3      37.0      35.1      40.1      38.7
Consumr price index (1969170-100)      211.3    229.4    256.7    277.0    295.6    331.9    375.4    403.9    418.1    462.0
Annual percentage chnges in:
Consumr price index                     23.6       8.6      11.9       7.9       6.7      12.3      13.1       7.6       3.5      10.5
BDnk credit to public sector               .      32.5      30.2      18.8      26.Z      12.6      14.7      12.4      19.8      10.6
Dak credit to private sector                      11.2      29.2      15.2      16.6      19.4      13.5      22.6      22.4      23.9
/a  Based an Porld Dank Atlas methodology and calculated at - average of 1980-82 prices ad exchange rates. All other
conversions to dollars in this table are at the averge ecbage rate prevailing daring the period covered.
lb Provisional.
/c  Projection for 1983/84. Does not include unemployed labor force.
Id  Includes namufacurig. mining, constrtion and electricity and gas.
/e  Conaolidated revenuea and expenditures of Federal and Provincial Governments (excluding Federal-Provincial Government
transfers).
If Reevised budget data-
ft Excluding principal repayments of fareign loan. Capital expenditures me defined in goverant budget include
certain curreLt expenditures also.
fh Provisioal.
fi  Metary statistics of Pakistan blv  be   fully adjuted for desonetized  notes, devaluation and revaluation of the
rupee, etc. as from Jsne 30, 1975. Data for 1974/15 from State Bank sources are not strictly comparable vitb UT
estimates for earlier years.
Not applicable.
Not aailable.
March 1985



-24-
Al= I
Page S of 5
_ALA_ _ OF PAYMENTS                                                                   lICECUDISE EXPORTS (AVERAG  197T9180-1983184)
1979180  1980181  M98UM82  1982/13   1983184                                  US  millio n
CUSS million)
Exports of goods. NFS             2.955    3,461    3.0,52    3.416     3.439         Raw cotton                    315.3        11.9
Imports of goods. WFS             5.709    6.466    6.679   6.5BB       7.058         Cotton yarn                   214.7         8.1
Resource gap (deficit - -)       -2,754   -3.005   -3.627   -3.172    -3.619          Cotton cloth                  281.1        10.6
Rice                         417.9        15.8
Interest paymeant                  -285     -357      -453    -421       -477         All other comodities        1.422.4        53.6
Workers reuittances               1.748    2.097    2,224    2,887      2.737           Total                     2,651.4       100.0
Other faetor payments (net)         151      274       321      195       359
Met trxnsfers                        --
Balance on current account       -1,140     -991   -1,535      -511    -1.000                  EKTEZNAL DEBT. JE 1984
Direct foreign investment             _        .        _        _
Set MLT borrowing                                                                                                           uS$ iilien
Disbur semnts                   1.134      956    1,102    1,301      1.248
Amortization                     -310     -516      -49Z     -386      -569         Public debt, including guaranteed       9.890.4
Sub-total                         824      440      610       915       679         Nan-guaranteed private debt le
Trausactions with TKF j-             78      315       358      413        -1           Total outstandisg and disbursed       9,890.4
Other items n.e.i. lb               600      546       315      285       142
Increase in reserves C-)           -362     -310       249   -1,102       180           DEBr SERVICE RATIO FOR 1983M84 If
Cross reserves (end year) IC        748    1,058       809    1.911     1,731 
Petroleum imports Id              1.079    1.535    1,71D    1.610      1,423         Public debt, includinz guaranteed          15.6
Petroleum exports Id                178      126       194       77        40         Non-guaranteed private debt                _,
Total                                 15.6
RATE OF ErCAZNE                                                                          rRlD/TDA LENDING (December 1983) CUSS millioun
Throueh Nay 11. 1972               From May 12. 1972-Feb. 15. 1973                                                        IBaD       ID
USSI - Rs 4.7619                          US$1 - Rs 1.00                           Outstanding and disbursed            350.7   1,144.7
Rs I - U1 S0.21                           rs I - USS0.09                           Undisbursed                          197.0    617.2
Outstnding including undisbursed   547.7   1.761.9
From Feb. 16. 1973-Jan_ 7. 1982    From July 1981-Jone 1982 1        From Jul- 1982-Jene 1983  Fg From July 1983-June 19B4 kL
US$ I - Rs 9.90                      US1 -  s 10.55                  USSI - Rs 12.75                  US$1 - Rs 13.50
rs  I - US$0.10                      Rs 1 - USSO.095                 Rs I - DSSO.078                  Rs 1 - USSO.074
la Including Trust Fund.
Ib Including net short-term borrowing aed errors and emissions.
lc Excluding gold reserves of abaut 1.8 million troy ounces.
fd Crude and derivatives.
le Nan-guaranteed private debt service is n gligible.
IE Ratio of actual debt service to exports of goods, factor and non-factor services; debt service includes DIE charges.
fg Effective January 8, 1982, the rupee is to be managed with reference to a weighted basket of currencies. The *verage
exceange rate shown is vis-a-vis USS for the period sbown.
Nat available.
March 1985



-25-
AUNNEX TI
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATnonS IN PAnISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BADK LOANS AIND TDA CEDmITS (as of Marcb 31. 1985) 1-
C                                                                                               (USS million)
Loan/                                                   (Amoent net of cancellations)
Credit    Fiscal        .                                                        Undi--
Samber     Tear    Purpose                              DAnk  TM        IDA      burued
L                             Ninety-eight loans and credits fully disbursed Lb    761.4  32.0  1,00l.6fL
648       1976   Irrigatica A Drainage (Khairpur)       -               14.0      3.5
1366T     1977   Punjab Livestock Development           -     10.0      -         3_5
754       1978   Salinity Control & Reclamation         -               70.0     66.8
813       1978   Punjab Ext. & Agric. Dev.              -               12.5      4.2
877       1979   Salinity Control & Recl. (Nardan)    -                 60.0     53.6
892       1979   Primary Education                      -               10.0      3.9
922       1979   Sind Agricultural Extension            -                9.0      4.6
968       1980   Third KAPDA Power                      -               45.0      6.4
974       19W0   Third Higbway                          -               50.0     20.7
1019      1980   PICIC Industrial Development           -               40.0      3.7
1109Le    1981   Vocational Training                    -               25.0      8.4
11131e    1981   Small Industries                       -               30.0      0.4
1157/e    1981   Grain Storage                          -               32.0     16.7
1158/e    1981   Agricultural Research                  -               24.0     15.1
1163&     1981   On-Farm Water Management               -               41.0     13.0
118b/e    1982   Industrial Development (IDBP 'I)       -               30.0      4.8
2122      1982   Fourtb Telecommunication               40.0            -        13.8
2172      1982   Fertilizer Industry Rebabilitation   38.5              -        26.5
2247      1983   Reservoir Maintenance Facilities       10.2            _        10.0
2305      1983   Agricultural Dey. (ADSP V)             10.0            -         5.9
2324      1983   Fifth Shi Northern Gas Pipelines       43.0            -        42.2
1239/e    1982   Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation    -                 40.0     25.2
1243/e    1982   Baluchistan Minor Irrig. & Agr.        -               14.0     10.6
1256ke   1982   Technical Assistance                    -                7.0      4-7
1278/e    1982   Eleventh Railway Project               -               50.0     39.5
134U/e    1983   Lahore urban Development               -               16.0     14.0
1350ke   1983   Population                              -               18.0     14.1
1355k    1983   Coal Engineering                        -                7.0      6.3
1374/e    1983   Karachi Water Supply                   -               Z5.0     22.0
1375ke   1983   Fourth Drainage                         -               65.0     58.8
13EO/e    1983   Agricultural Development (.R'P V)    -                 47.8     17.2
2218      1983   Refinery Engineering Projer            12.0            -         9.0
2351      1984   Petroleum Exploration                  51.5            -        48.5
2374      1984   Second Toot Oil and Gas Development  30.0              -        24.2
2380      1984   Industrial Investment Credit           50.0            -        49.9
1439le    1984   Industrial Investment Credit           -               50.0     44.6
14611e    1984   Integrated Hill Farming Development  -                 21.0     19.9
1480ke   1984   Second Technical Assistance             -                7.0      6.5
1487      1984   Command Water Management               -               46.5     43.3
1499      1984   Second Smll Industries                 -               50.0     44.0
15321c    19B5   Left Bank Outfall Drain - Stage 1    -                150.0    150.0
1533 i   1985   Baluchistan Agricultural Extension   -                   8.3      8.3
2499kc   1985   Fourth lAPU Power                      100.0  -         -       100.0
Total                                                1,166.6  42.0  2115.9  1,088.3
of vhich hBas been repaid                            490.2   3.8      39f 8
Total now outstaneing                                  676.4  38.2  2.076.1
Amount sold                  23.9
of which bas been repaid    23.9
Total now held by Bank rnd IDA/d                       676.4  38.2  2.076.1
Total undisbureed                                      330.0   3.5    754.8  1.088.3
/a  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
lb  Excludes the disbursed -ortion of loans and credits wholly or partly for projects
in the former East Pakistan which bave now been taken over by Jangladesh.
Ic  Not yet effective.
Id  Prior to exchange adjustment.
ke  IDA Credits under the 6th Replenishment denominated in SDUR. The principal
is shown in US$ equivalent at the time of nego'iation. Disbursed amunts are
computed at the market rate on dates of disbursements.
LI  By using the market rate on dates of disbursements, the current principal
for Credit 1066-PAK and Credit 1255-PAZ (both ftlly disbursed) is
$42.5 and sU.5. respectively.



-26-
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31. 1985)
Fiscal                                              Auouut  In USS   Million
Year    Obligor               Tvpe of Business      Loan   Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of         Rolled Steel
Pakistan Ltd.         Products              0.63     -        0.63
1959     Adamjee Industries
Ltd.                  Textiles              0.75     -        0.75
1962-    Gharibwal Cement
1965     Industries Ltd.       Cement                5.25    0.42       5.67
1963-    PICIC                 Development
1969-                          Financing              -      0.52       0.52
1975
1965     Crescert Jute
Products              Textiles              1.84    0.11       1.95
1965-
1980-    Packages Ltd.         Paper Products       19.25    0.84      20.09
1982
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp Ltd.             Paper                 5.38    2.02       7.40
1969     Davood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.       Fertilizers            1.00    2.92      3.92
1979     Milkpak Ltd.          Food and Food
Processing            2.40    0.36      2.76
1979     Pakistan Oilfields
Ltd. and Attock       Chemicals and
Refinery Ltd.         Petrochemicals       29.00    2.04     31.04
1980     Fauji Foundation      Woven Polypropy-
lene bags             1.78     -        1.78
1980     Premier Board
Mills Ltd.            Particle Board        2.70     -         2.70
1981     Habib Arkady          Food and Food
Processing            3.15    0.16      3.31
1982     Asbestos              Cement                4.02      -        4.02
1983     Pakistan Petroleum   Chemical and
Ltd.                  Petrochemicals       99.32    1.56    100.88
1985     National Dev.         Money and
Leasing Corp.         Capital Market.       3.44    0.38      3.82
Total Gross Commitments                   179.91   11.33    191.24
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales              131.59    0.38    131.97
Total Commitments Now Held by IPC          48.32   10.95     59.27
Undisbursed (including participants)       68.70    0.70     69.40



-27-
Annex III
PAKISTAN
e. sFIFTH uAPDA POWER PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
Six months.
(b) Agency which prepared project:
WAPDA.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of first
Bank mission to consider project:
April 1984; September 1984.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
November 5, 1984
ge) Date of completion of negotiations:
April 18, 1985.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
September 1985.
Section II: Special Bank implementation Actions:
None
I
Section III: Special Conditions:
None.
The following would be additional conditions of effectiveness
(paragraph 48): (i) approval by ECNEC of the PC-1 document for the project;
and (ii) introduction of a tariff increase that would enable WAPDA tc finance
in FY86 at least 40Z of its investment program from internally-generated
funds.



LAHORE RING      us ss It                                                   D---a-p- 
<>^~~~SHM KAf KU-_
AGAKNISTAtd '                     _-
INDIA
A   ~~~~IDO \                       70' /                ,i
VI                              0- I-.
.  \ tX  H  N   ,1 P                      {/        ~~~~~~~~P A K I S T A N
 # 7 g .L ~~~~~FIFTH WAPDA POWER PROJECT
,,- ",, , a j .............. _ /MAIN   POWER STATIONS AND
6 (d'   ^   ;;/Zy,$Y Xr    /                      ~~~TRANSMISSION  LINES
FAISALABAD RING   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXSTG   LANE  FROECrPROEC
s)   "-&     <  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RNINISSI55 tI>IES
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WL
04*)*   \  & ' E EJW
ttX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6,3 2      *            0
_ w151.A?aD      's                              1.            4E                     S  N 0
4D r bXTEN                                                                         ES
* .      r                                 .                    , FIT   WAD    POWE   PROJEC
|   _  4                                      o               IllO             2o1DIUtES '  .  D~~~~~~~~~~~~0  So  
MAIN  POWR ST 'ATION  A
UN3F      TRASMSSONLEINES
C,                                 A~~~~~~~~~~~~~O  4  PIER !IhUNE
-  --              - ~~~gTENAIDON"SIDA
4rabi an~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                          12I
l  NUCLEAR      LE
or,                                                                         74



