Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H159 - MAI 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Education Sector Support Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Page  2
2
Dated May 10, 2005
Page  3
GRANT NUMBER H159 - MAI 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 10, 2005, between REPUBLIC OF MALAWI (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter from the Recipient, dated 
October 21, 2004, describing a program designed to improve quality and efficiency of its 
education sector and lay a foundation for a broader education sector program 
(the Program) and declaring the Recipient
’s commitment to the execution of such 
program;  
(B) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist 
in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement 
(the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Beneficiary” means a school or an educational institution that has met 
the eligibility criteria set out in the DGM (as hereinafter defined) and the requirements of 
Page  4
-
2
-
Schedule 4 to this Agreement and as a result, has received, or is entitled to receive, a DSS 
Grant (as hereinafter defined); 
 (b) 
“Community Day Secondary Schools” or “CDSS” means the schools 
established by the Recipient in 1998 to provide secondary school education; 
(c) 
“DSS” means direct support to schools, the activities to be financed 
under Part D of the Project; 
(d) 
“DSS Grants” means a grant to be made out of the proceeds of the Grant 
to finance activities under Part D.1 of the Project; 
(e) 
“DSS Grant Guidelines” means the set of guidelines for the Beneficiary 
to comply with in order to receive a DSS Grant in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 12 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and the provisions of the DGM 
(as hereinafter defined); 
(f) 
“DSS Grant Manual” or “DGM” means the manual referred to in 
paragraph 10 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(g) 
“Education Development Management Unit” or “EDMU” means the 
Education Development Management Unit of the Recipient’s Ministry of Education 
which is responsible for overseeing day-to-day implementation of the Project and 
referred to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(h) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (6) set forth in the table 
in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(i) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
consultants’ services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(j) 
“Environmental and Social Management Framework” or “ESMF” means 
the framework dated May 2004 issued by the Recipient and outlining the environmental 
and social screening procedures to be followed during implementation of the Project 
including potential environmental and social risks and adverse impacts of the 
Project along with proposed mitigation measures; 
(k) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(l) 
“Malawi Kwacha” means the currency of the Recipient; 
(m) 
“Operating Account” means each of the accounts referred to in Part C of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
Page  5
-
3
-
(n) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan, dated 
October 6, 2004 covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods 
(or longer) of Project implementation; 
(o) 
“Project Affected Person” or “PAP” means any person who owns or 
occupies land, property or other assets or structures which are adversely affected by the 
Project, or whose livelihood, business, trade or other occupation is adversely affected as a 
result of the Project, and who is declared accordingly eligible to compensation or other 
assistance under the RPF (as hereinafter defined); 
(p) 
“Project Implementation Manual” or “PIM” means the manual to 
prepared by the Recipient for the implementation of the Project and referred to in 
paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(q) 
“Project Steering Committee” means the committee to be established by 
the Recipient to provide strategic guidance for Project implementation and referred to in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(r) 
“Project Technical Committee” means the committee to be established 
by the Recipient to review and approve Project work plans and implementation 
arrangements and referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(s) 
"Resettlement Policy Framework" or "RPF" means the Resettlement 
Policy Framework, dated May 2004 issued by the Recipient, and describing a program 
of actions, measures and policies designed to avoid or minimize any adverse impact or 
hardship to PAPs as a result of the Project or, if such adverse impact or hardship cannot 
be avoided altogether, provide for the compensation and resettlement of such PAPs as 
may be appropriate; and 
(t) 
 “Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II 
The Grant 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Grant Agreement, an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty two million Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 22,000,000). 
Page  6
-
4
-
Section 2.02. The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: 
(a) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant; and (b) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, amount to be paid) by the Recipient on account of withdrawals made under DSS 
Grants to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works and services to be financed under Part 
D.1 of the Project, in respect of which the withdrawal from the Grant Account is 
requested. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 15, 2010 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on June 15 and 
December 15 in each year. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through its Ministry of Education with due diligence and efficiency and in 
Page  7
-
5
-
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, educational and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Recipient shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the Association not 
later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the 
Association’s approval. 
 Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.  
 
Page  8
-
6
-
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section  for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association) audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
  furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year 
(or such other period agreed to by the Association): 
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year (or other period 
agreed to by the Association), as so audited; and (B) an opinion 
on such statements by said auditors, in scope and detail 
satisfactory to the Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of
 
statements of expenditure, 
the Recipient shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 15 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
Page  9
-
7
-
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days 
after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter.  
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which will 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  10
-
8
-
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Recipient: 
 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
P.O. Box 30049 
Lilongwe 3 
Malawi 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
FINANCE 
 
44407 (MI) 
 
(265) -1- 789173 
 
Lilongwe 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Lilongwe, Republic of Malawi, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI 
 
By /s/ Goodall Gondwe 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Hartwig Schafer 
Authorized Representative
 
Page  12
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated 
 % of 
 
(Expressed in 
 Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Works 
 
8,500,000 
100% 
 
(2) Goods, 
Vehicle 
and 
4,700,000 
100% 
 Equipment 
 
 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ 3,300,000 
100% 
 Services 
 
 
 
(4) 
Workshops and Training 
1,900,000     
100%  
 
(5)      DSS Grants under                               1,900,000            100% of amounts disbursed 
 
Part D.1 of the Project 
 
(6)  Operating Costs 
                                    1,700,000                    100%    
 
_________
22,000,000 
 TOTAL 
========= 
 
Page  13
-
11
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, 
the term “operating costs” means incremental 
recurrent expenditures incurred on account of the Project implementation including office 
supplies, fuel and maintenance of vehicles, maintenance of equipment, telephone and 
other communications charges, office rent and insurance for vehicles, motorcycles and 
office equipment and furniture, bank and services fees, travel and supervision, but 
excluding salaries of officials of the Recipient’s civil service. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 500,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after July 1, 2004; and (b) payments made under category (5), unless 
the Recipient has furnished to the Association a DGM in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, and the  DSS Grants have been made in accordance with criteria, 
procedures, term and conditions set forth or referred to in Section IV of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement and the DGM.  
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods 
costing less than $200,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than $300,000 
equivalent per contract; (c) services of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract; (d) services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract; (e) workshops and training; (f) DSS Grants; 
and (g) operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
5. 
The Recipient may request withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient (Report-based Disbursements). In the 
case of the first such request submitted to the Association before any withdrawal has been 
made from the Grant Account, the Recipient shall submit to the Association only a 
statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the date of such request. 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Recipient may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial Bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Grant Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
Page  14
-
12
-
(a) 
if the Recipient is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
(b) 
if the Recipient is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was 
made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to 
in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for 
Report-based Disbursements;  
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Recipient directly from the 
Grant Account; or 
(c) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Association shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Association shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Recipient of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall 
Page  15
-
13
-
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Recipient shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Grant Agreement. 
C. Operating 
Account
1. 
The Recipient shall open and maintain in Malawi Kwacha an Operating Account 
in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association (including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment).  
2. 
The Recipient shall, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association, 
withdraw from time to time from the Special Account and deposit into the Operating 
Account, an amount required to finance eligible expenditures for a period of 90 days of 
Project implementation. 
3. 
Payments out of the Operating Account shall only be made for eligible 
expenditures. 
4. 
In the event that the Association, after consultation with the Recipient, 
determines that any outstanding amount in the Operating Account is not further required 
to cover payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient, upon notice from the 
Association shall promptly refund such outstanding amount to the Special Account. 
 
Page  16
-
14
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
The term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $3,500,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3(a) of this Annex, provided, however, that unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$1,500,000  until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Grant Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions hall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR 9,000,000. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts, which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw 
from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
Page  17
-
15
-
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  18
-
16
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be deposited by the Association into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Grant, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following the date of such reports. 
Page  19
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to improve the education quality in the 
Recipient
’s territory through development of a broad education sector policy, enhancing 
the capacity and number of qualified teachers, enhancing the capacity and quality of 
education service delivery, and improving learning outcome at all school levels. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A:
Development of Teacher Capacity
1. 
Improving capacity of teacher development and training at University of Malawi 
(Polytechnic) through: (a) construction of buildings and laboratories; (b) acquisition of 
equipment and teaching and learning materials; and (c) provision of technical advisory 
services.  
2. 
Provision of support to University of Malawi (Chancellor College) to improve 
capacity of teacher education, facilitate sustainable expansion of student intake, and 
regularize continuing professional development programs, including: (a) rehabilitation of 
lecture rooms and laboratories; (b) acquisition of equipment and teaching and learning 
materials; and (c) provision of technical advisory services. 
3. 
Provision of support to Mzuzu University (Faculty of Education) to improve 
quality of teacher education, carry out educational research, expand enrollment by 
approximately 400 students, and strengthen teaching practicum, including: 
(a) construction of class rooms, library, facilities, and laboratories; (b) acquisition of 
equipment and teaching and learning materials; and (c)  provision of technical advisory 
services. 
4. 
Establishment of a new teacher education college for primary education teachers 
with a capacity of approximately 540 students through: (a) construction of class rooms, 
laboratories, arts and crafts rooms, a library, offices, halls, facilities, hostels, and staff 
rooms; (b) acquisition of equipment, books, and teaching and learning materials; 
and (c) provision of technical advisory services. 
 
Page  20
-
18
-
5. 
Strengthening teacher development capacity across the education system and 
teacher training colleges, through: (a) improving staff development at teacher training 
colleges through provision of technical advisory services and facilitation of training and 
workshops; (b) provision of support to facilitate institutional networking between existing 
teacher training colleges; (c) carrying out of pilot strategies to strengthen entry level 
capacity of student teachers through provision of technical advisory services; 
(d) facilitating continuing professional development and distance learning for teachers 
through provision of technical advisory services; (e) facilitating teaching and learning 
using locally available materials; and (f) provision of technical advisory services and 
program support to ensure continuous and further expansion of the present University  
Partners for Institutional Capacity (UPIC) bachelor of education primary degree program 
at Domasi College. 
6. 
Establishment of a baseline for measuring student achievements, and assessment 
of relevant learning factors in schools and homes through: (a) carrying out of a student 
assessment surveys; (b) provision of technical advisory services and training; 
and (c) facilitation of workshops and stakeholder consultation. 
Part B:
Learning Quality improvements
1. 
 Improving teaching and learning conditions at Dedza Secondary School, 
Lilongwe Girls Secondary School, Blantyre Secondary School and Mzuzu Government 
Secondary School, through: (a) rehabilitation of class rooms, facilities including facilities 
for special needs students, laboratories, dormitories, and some teacher houses; 
and (b) acquisition of equipment, books, and teaching and learning materials including 
equipment and materials for special needs students. 
2. 
Improving teaching and learning conditions at CDSS classrooms through 
provision of support to CDSS teachers including acquisition of basic teaching references 
and guidelines and facilitation of classroom-based assessment of student progress.  
Part C:
Mitigation Externalities Affecting Quality of Education
1. 
Provision of health services and nutrition package to primary school children to 
reduce school absenteeism and enhance learning performance. 
2. 
Capacity building for the Ministry of Education and other relevant ministries to 
develop, plan, implement, and evaluate school health and nutrition programs 
through: (a) provision of technical advisory services; and (b) facilitation of workshops 
and training. 
 
Page  21
-
19
-
3. 
Enhancing coordination of school health and nutrition interventions among 
relevant ministries, donors, and civil society through: (a) provision of technical advisory 
services; (b) facilitation of workshops; and (c) carrying out of sensitization and 
information dissemination campaigns. 
Part D:
Direct Support to Schools
1. 
Decentralization of management of primary education and improving quality of 
primary education at the school level through provision of DSS Grants. 
2. 
Provision of support for the preparation, implementation, and monitoring of the 
DDS Grants program including: (a) provision of technical advisory service; 
 (b) facilitation of workshops and training; and (c) carrying out of information 
dissemination campaigns. 
Part E:
Capacity Building and Policy Development
1. 
Development of a medium to long-term education sector strategic plan through: 
(a) provision of technical advisory services; and (b) facilitation of workshops. 
2. 
Development of teacher education policy, strategy, model, and implementation 
plan through: (a) provision of technical advisory services; and (b) facilitation of 
consultations. 
3. 
Facilitating a review of the language of instruction policy through: (a) provision 
of technical advisory services; and (b) facilitation of consultations. 
4. 
Supporting the ongoing primary education curriculum reform and assessment 
through: (a) provision of technical advisory services; and (b) facilitation of workshops. 
5. 
Capacity building for staff at the Ministry of Education in procurement and 
financial management through: (a) provision of technical advisory services; 
and (b) facilitation of training. 
6. 
Improving efficiency in utilizing resources allocated to universities, and 
development of a policy and sustainable mechanism for student financial assistance 
through: (a) provision of technical advisory services; (b) facilitation of training; 
and (c) carrying out of information dissemination campaigns. 
7. 
Improving capacity of school managers at secondary school level 
through: (a) provision of technical advisory services; and (b) facilitation of training. 
 
Page  22
-
20
-
8. 
Implementation of the Recipient
’s policy on decentralization of primary 
education through: (a) acquisition of equipment; (b) provision of technical advisory 
services; and (c) facilitation of training. 
9. 
Improving the Recipient’s capacity to assess environmental and social impacts 
through provision of training. 
10. 
Development of new human resources policy for recruitment and deployment of 
teachers. 
11. 
Development of a plan for outsourcing hostels and catering services through 
provision of technical advisory services. 
12. 
Development of financial management and procurement procedures for 
universities. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by March 15, 2010. 
Page  23
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and service
s
(other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Recipients” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Recipient and works to be carried out by domestic 
contractors. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. National 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than 
$250,000 equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $600,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
National Competitive Bidding. 
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per 
contract  and works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
3. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
.
Medicines & micronutrients may be 
procured directly from United Nations agencies in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.9 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
Page  24
-
22
-
4. Community 
Participation
.
Goods, works and services required for Part 
D.1 of the Project may be procured on the basis of community participation in 
accordance with rules and procedures acceptable to the Association set forth in the DSS 
Grants Manual. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
.
Services for assignments which the 
Association agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of a Fixed Budget in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Audit services and services for assignments which 
the Association agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
4. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the 
requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the 
circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts 
may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis, subject to prior approval 
of the Association. 
5. Workshops 
and 
Training.
Workshops and training shall be carried out on 
the basis of annual work programs which shall have been approved by the Association, 
and which shall identify: (a) the workshops or training envisaged; (b) the personnel to 
attend the workshop or to be trained; (c) the selection methods of institutions or 
individuals participating in the workshop or conducting the training; (d)  the institutions 
which will facilitate the workshop or conduct the training, if already selected; (e) the 
Page  25
-
23
-
duration of proposed workshop or training; and (f) the cost estimate of the workshop or  
training. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association: (a) each 
contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more; (b) each contract 
for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more; (c) each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
 
or 
more; and (d) each contract for consultants’ services provided by an individual estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $50,000
 
or more.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post 
Review by the Association. 
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
I. 
Overall Project Oversight
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain at all times during the implementation of the 
Project, a Project Steering Committee which shall be chaired by the Recipient's Secretary 
of Education  and include representatives of the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance, 
Ministry of Economic Planning and Development, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Local 
Governments and Rural Development, Accountant General, Department of Human 
Resources Management and Development; heads of education institutes and universities 
involved in the Project; and representatives of civil society, development partners and 
stakeholders.  
2. 
The Project Steering Committee shall provide overall strategic guidance for the 
implementation of the Project and approve Project work plan. 
3. 
The Recipient shall maintain at all times during the implementation of the 
Project, a Project Technical Commit which shall be chaired by the Permanent Secretary 
of the Recipient’s Ministry of Education and include managers of all Project components 
and representatives for Project executing agencies.   
4. 
The Project Technical Committee shall review the Project work plan, 
implementation, monitoring, evaluation, financial, technical, and audit reports. 
II. Project 
Administration 
and 
Management
5. 
EDMU shall be responsible overseeing the day-to-day implementation of the 
Project including carrying out financial management and procurement aspects of the 
Page  26
-
24
-
Project. The Recipient shall appoint to EDMU by December 31, 2004 staff having 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association. 
6. 
The Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association a PIM in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association setting out details of: (a) Project implementation 
arrangements; (b) Project procurement, financial management and disbursement 
arrangements; (c) Project environmental and social management; (d) Project performance 
indicators; and (e) such other administrative, financial and organizational arrangements 
as shall be required for the Project. 
7. 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the 
PIM, and shall not, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, amend or waive any 
provision thereof which, in the opinion of the Association, may adversely and materially 
affect the implementation of the Project. 
III. 
Environmental and Social Measures
8. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carryout the 
Project in accordance with the ESMF and RPF, and shall not amend or waive, or permit 
to be amended or waived, the ESMF, RPF or any provisions thereof in a manner which, 
in the opinion of the Association, may materially and adversely affect the implementation 
of Project.  
9. 
Without limitation upon the Recipient
’s other reporting obligations under Section 
4.02 of this Agreement, the Recipient shall submit quarterly consolidated reports on 
compliance with environmental and social safeguard measures under the Project, giving 
details of measures taken in furtherance of the RPF and the mitigation measures specified 
in the ESMF, and conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten implementation of the 
RPF or the mitigation measures specified in the ESMF, and remedial measures taken or 
required to be taken to address such conditions. 
IV. 
Procedures and Eligibility Criteria for DSS Grants
10. 
The Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association a DSS Grant Manual 
(DGM) in form and substance satisfactory to the Association setting out details of: 
(a) DSS Grants, activities to be financed by DSS Grants, Beneficiaries and eligibility 
criteria; (b) arrangements and procedures for preparation, appraisal, approval, 
implementation and supervision of activities to be financed by DSS Grants; 
(c) procurement, financial management and disbursement arrangements; (d) performance 
indicators; (e) standard formats for a DSS Grant Guidelines; and (f) such other 
administrative, financial and organizational arrangements as shall be required for 
providing DSS Grants. 
11. 
The Recipient shall provide DSS Grants in accordance with procedures and 
eligibility criteria set forth in the DGM. 
Page  27
-
25
-
12. 
DSS Grant shall be provided after a DSS Grant Guidelines is signed by the 
Beneficiary, including under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, which 
shall include the following: 
 (a) 
the Beneficiary’s obligation to carry out the activities to be financed by 
the DSS Grant in accordance with the DGM, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with sound technical, financial, environmental and managerial standards and 
to maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the DSS Grant; 
 
(b) 
the requirement that: (i) goods, works and services to be financed from 
the proceeds of the DSS Grant shall be procured in accordance with the procedures set 
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods, works and services shall be 
used exclusively in the carrying out of the eligible activities in accordance with the 
DGM; 
 
(c) 
the right of EDMU to inspect by itself, or jointly with the Association, if 
the Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, plants and construction financed 
by the DSS Grant, the operations thereof and any relevant records and documents; 
 
(d) 
the right of the EDMU to obtain all information as EDMU or the 
Association shall reasonably request regarding the administration, operation and financial 
conditions of activities to be financed by the DSS Grant; and 
 
(e) 
the right of the Ministry of Education to suspend or terminate the right of 
the Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the DSS Grant upon the failure by the Beneficiary 
to comply with the DSS Grant Guidelines.  
V. Dated 
Covenants
14. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(a) 
develop and implement by December 31, 2006 teacher distribution 
formulae and teacher establishment by school; 
 
(b) 
finalize its policy in community participation and direct support to 
schools by December 31, 2005; 
 
(c) 
ensure that  the Ministry of Education has finalized a human resources 
development policy by December 31, 2005 to be used for training of its staff; 
 
(d) 
prepare costed and integrated sector implementation plan for selected 
core priorities such as curriculum, teacher development, decentralization and community 
participation by July 31, 2006; 
Page  28
-
26
-
(e) 
prepare guidelines, criteria and mechanism for the rehabilitation and 
maintenances of CDSSs and secondary schools including tuition fees and maintenance 
policy by December 31, 2006; and 
(f) 
develop a strategy for higher education and its financing including plans 
for: (i) integrated higher education sector development; (ii) financial resources for 
retrenching university staff; and (iii) cost recovery at tertiary levels, bursary and loan 
schemes, security cleaning and boarding, all by December 31, 2007. 
VI. 
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
15. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about January 31, 2008, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by March 31, 2008, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
Page  29
-
27
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Performance Indicators 
The performance indicators for the Project shall include the following, said 
indicators being subject to modifications by agreement between the Recipient and the 
Association: 
1. 
The Recipient has improved the pupil qualified teacher ratio in standard 1 to 8 to 
a
maximum of 80:1 by Closing Date. 
2. 
The Recipient has improved the pupil qualified teacher ratio in community day 
secondary schools to a maximum of 65:1 by Closing Date. 
3. 
The Recipient has delivered effective health and nutrition interventions to at least 
80% of primary school pupils under the age of 10 by Closing Date. 
4. 
The Recipient has provided DSS Grants: (a) within the first quarter of the school 
calendar year to primary schools by March 31, 2007; and (b) to at least 2000 primary 
schools by Closing Date. 
Page  30
-
28
-
SCHEDULE 6 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04(a), 3.04(b), 6.05 and Article VII are deleted in their 
entirety. 
 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to 
read as follows: 
 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”. 
 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”. 
 
(c) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”. 
 
(d) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
 
3. 
Section 1.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 1.01. 
Application of General Conditions 
 
These General Conditions set forth the terms and conditions generally applicable 
to the Development Grant Agreement to the extent and subject to any modifications set 
forth in such agreement.”  
 
4. 
Paragraph 3 of Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“3. 
“Recipient” means the party to the Development Grant Agreement to 
which the Grant is made.” 
 
5. 
Article III is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
The heading of Article III is modified to read “Grant Account; Partial 
Payment”, and the heading of Section 3.04 is modified to read “Partial Payment”. 
 
(b) 
The words “The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit” in 
Section 3.05 are modified to read “All amounts required to be paid under the 
Development Grant Agreement”. 
 
Page  31
-
29
-
6. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
Section 4.02(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.02.
 
Currencies in which Payments are to be Made
 
(a)  The Recipient shall pay all amounts required to be paid by it under the 
Development Grant Agreement in the currency specified in such agreement or in such 
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section.” 
 
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02(c) and (e) of the General Conditions, the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “amounts”. 
 
(c) 
Section 4.03 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.03.
 
Amount of the Grant 
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be the equivalent in 
terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective dates of withdrawal from the Grant 
Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.” 
 
(d) 
Section 4.06(b) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“(b) All amounts which the Recipient shall be required to pay under the 
Development Grant Agreement shall be paid without restrictions of any kind imposed by, 
or in the territory of, the Recipient.” 
 
7. 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes 
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Development Grant Agreement, the proceeds 
of the Grant may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the 
Recipient on the goods or services to be financed under the Grant, or on their 
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of such taxes is subject to 
the Association’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds 
of its credits and grants. To that end, if the Association shall at any time determine that 
the amount of any taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant is excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Association may, by 
notice to the Recipient, adjust the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in 
respect of such item in the Development Grant Agreement as required to be consistent 
with such policy of the Association.” 
 
Page  32
-
30
-
8. 
Article VI is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
The word “credit” in paragraphs (a)(ii) and (c)(i) of Section 6.02 
is replaced with the words “credit, grant or financing”. 
 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) is modified by replacing the words “corrupt or 
fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
 
9. 
Section 8.01(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“(a) All amounts which the Recipient shall be required to pay under the 
Development Grant Agreement shall be paid without deduction for, and free from, any 
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Recipient.” 
 
10. 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 12.05.
 
Termination of Development Grant Agreement. 
 
The obligations of the Recipient under the Development Grant Agreement shall 
terminate on the date 20 years after the date of the Development Grant Agreement.” 
 
