4                             RRP241
MALAWI GOVERNMENT
EDUCATION SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT I
Resettlement Policy Framework
May 2004
Ministry of Education Science and Technology
Private Bag 328,
Capital City, Lilongwe 3
Tel.: (265)1789382/422
Fax: (265)1788064/184
FILE COPY



List of Acronyms
ADB         African Development Bank
CDSS        Community Day Secondary School
CIDA        Canadian International Development Agency
DDP         District Development Planning system
DEA         Director of Environmental Affairs
DEAP        District Environmental Action Plan
DEO         District Education Office
DFID        Department for International Development
EAD         Environmental Affairs Department
EDO         Environmental District Officer
EIA          Environmental Impact Assessment
EMA         Environment Management Act
EMP          Environmental Management Plan
ESMF        Environmental and Social Management Framework
ESSP I      Education Sector Support Project I
FM          Financial Management
GTZ         Gesellschaft fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit
JICA        Japanese International Corporation Agency
RAP         Resettlement Action Plan
RPF          Resettlement Policy Framework
SAC         Structural Adjustment Credit
SOER        State of the Environment Report
SWAP        Sector Wide Approach
TCE          Technical Committee on the Environment
TDC          Teacher Development Center
TTC          Teacher Training College
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
UNICEF      United Nations Children's Emergency Fund
UNESCO       United Nations Education and Scientific Organization
UNFPA       United Nations Population Fund
WFP          World Food Programme
2



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page Number
1. Introduction                                                      4
2. Preliminary Project Description                                   5
3. Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF)                               6
The Education Sector Support Project I                         6
Principles and Objectives governing the implementation
Of the Resettlement Policy Framework                           7
Process of preparing and approving Resettlement Action
Plans (RAPs)                                                   8
Estimated Population Displacement                              9
Legal Framework                                                9
Methods of Valuing Affected Assets                             10
Policy for Compensation for Property and Crops                 10
Basis for Compensation of Property and Crops                   10
Organizational Procedures for Delivery of Entitlements         11
Description of the Implementation Process, linking
Compensation to Civil Works                                    11
Grievance Redress Mechanisms                                   11
Budget and Funding Arrangements                                11
Methods for Consultation with, and Participation of
Affected People                                                11
Monitoring Arrangements                                        12
3



1.0   Introduction
Education in Malawi is facing a deep crisis as reflected in high numbers of untrained
teachers, shortage of instructional materials and equipment, inadequate and dilapidated
classrooms and infrastructure, low retention rates and poor student outcomes. The
situation is adversely affected by an inequitable and inefficient use of human and
financial resources across the system that is incongruent with defined government policy
objectives. Given the weakness of the Ministry and scope of problems, it will not be
possible to address all issues at once. Consequently, selectivity in the choice of
interventions is pivotal to turning Malawi's education system around.
The government has issued a series of policy documents (including MPRSP, Vision 2020,
Education Sector Policy Investment Framework (PIF) 2000-2012, the draft Malawi
Education For All (MEFA) that prioritize the development of the education and training
system as a key component in its poverty reduction strategy. The PIF targets
improvements in the quality of basic education and teacher development and increased
access to post-primary education to sustain the development of the system itself and
ensure the needs of the economy are at the center of the strategy for the medium-term
framework (2005-07). This strategy will provide the necessary capacity to implement the
MPRSP, bolster primary and secondary levels and provide a supply of better teachers and
essential teaching resources. The recent (2002) Joint Sector Review (JSR) reiterated the
need for government to develop a strategic plan, which will provide a blueprint for the
implementation of the PIF and a move towards a sector wide approach (SWAP).
Donor collaboration in general, and in the education sector in particular, is strong.
Current donor interventions by USAID, GTZ, JICA, DFID, ADB, UNICEF, WFP,
UNESCO, CIDA, the Netherlands and UNFPA target the primary education sub-sector,
notably teacher education, learning materials and textbooks, classroom based assessment,
curriculum development, district capacity building, school mapping and micro-planning,
Teacher Development Centers (TDCs), primary school construction, national training of
staff, HIV/AIDS and EMIS. In addition to the World Bank, JICA and CIDA are
supporting secondary teacher training (SSTEP) and in-service teacher training, and ADB
will soon finance the rehabilitation of a few CDSSs. A core group on teacher
development               is                being                revitalized.
This project will focus on two issues, which will build the foundation for broader
interventions in the future. The project will improve the quality of education by
increasing the quantity and quality of teachers and strengthen government capacity to
manage the system and financial resources, thereby readying the government to
implement a broader, sector-wide program. It will further emphasize donor collaboration
and the initiation of a small, but scaleable pooled fund with a view toward harmonizing
fiduciary procedures and move towards a better integrated sector program. To achieve the
project's objectives, it will be necessary to rehabilitate secondary schools, Mzuzu
University, Chancellor College, and the Polytechnic Institute, and to build one new
teacher training college.
4



Since the social impacts that might result from the rehabilitation and construction of the
education facilities are not known at this time, a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF)
has been prepared for this project. This framework outlines the policies and procedures
that will be applied in the event that any of the project activities require land acquisition,
thereby affecting people's livelihoods.
2.0   Preliminary Project Description
The project will improve the conditions for service delivery and the quality of teaching
and learning across the education system by: (i) improving the management, the number
and quality of teachers as measured by the reduction in the Pupil:Qualified Teacher Ratio
from 123 to 100 in Standards 1 to 4 by year 2008, and (ii) strengthening government
capacity to manage the system and financial resources.
The project will finance selected system wide activities and the initiation of a SWAP
covering the primary, secondary and tertiary sub-sectors with emphasis on quality
improvements and teacher development and management. The elements related to the
SWAP entail the setting up of a small, but scaleable pooled fund and work towards a
more comprehensive expenditure framework. The government is currently preparing a
comprehensive implementation plan for the PIF and in the interim period it will provide a
basis for earmarking World Bank activities. Three-quarters of the credit for teacher
development, management and quality improvements will be disbursed against an agreed
two-year rolling budget and work program against specific IDA expenditure categories.
The plan will be prepared and approved by the Steering Committee overseeing the
project and PIF program. The other quarter of IDA resources will finance defined
activities in the areas of policy development, capacity building and reforms. The project
will finance and sustain activities initiated under the Secondary Education Project,
including management training of head masters and pedagogical advisors.
Component 1: Selected system wide quality improvement: (i) Teacher development and
management and (ii) quality improvements and inputs (non-salary recurrent costs,
learning materials, equipment and rehabilitation of secondary schools, the Mzuzu
University, Chancellor College, and the Polytechnic Institute, and construction of a new
teacher training college);
In addition, the following policy issues and minor activities will be addressed through:
Component 2: Policy consolidation and capacity building: (i) Recalibrate national
policy and implementation plan across the system, (ii) develop teacher education policy,
strategy and model for the system, (iii) formulate a language of instruction policy and
implement the new curriculum for primary schools, (iv) develop a funding formulae for
decentralization and teacher deployment (SAC condition October 2004), including,
monitoring and evaluation, redeployment, inspection, and phasing in of financial
transfers to district and schools - including nutrition and conditional cash transfers in
collaboration with WFP, Dfid, NGOs and UNICEF, (v) selected policy reforms at
5



secondary and higher education levels (vi) develop FM and procurement procedures and
reporting for a wider SWAP and expanded pooling arrangement.
Resettlement Policy Framework
The following principles will be applied in the preparation of Resettlement Action Plans
(RAPs) in the event that social impacts occur that require compensation during the
implementation of the Education Sector Support Project I.
The Education Sector Support Project I
In light of the preliminary project description of ESSP I, social impacts are likely to occur
in the context of the construction and rehabilitation of the following education facilities:
(i)   Rehabilitation of approximately 100 Community Day Secondary Schools
(CDSSs) throughout Malawi. Since rehabilitation will take place at existing
facilities and will include minor buildings such as a secure store room or a
staff room on existing school grounds, social impacts are expected be limited.
However, care will have to be taken during the screening process to identify
all possible land uses, for example, crop production or grazing at these
facilities to ensure proper compensation.
(ii)  Rehabilitation at Mzuzu University in the Northern Region (Mzuzu Urban
District). Rehabilitation activities will include water proofing of leaking roofs,
replacement of broken fittings, repair of malfunctioning drainage, water and
electrical installations, and painting. As required, these activities will include
the construction of additional lecture rooms, laboratories, library facilities,
office space, boarding facilities, dining and kitchen facilities, ablution
facilities for students and staff, and related walkways, access roads, and storm
water drainage. Although potential social impacts will be determnined during
the screening process, such impacts are not anticipated since the university
compound is fully walled (no squatters), and there is no use of enclosed
college grounds for agricultural purposes, nor do the grounds provide access
other than to college buildings.
(iii) Rehabilitation at Chancellor College in the Southern Region (Zomba Urban
District). Rehabilitation activities will include water proofing of leaking roofs,
replacement of broken fittings, repairing of malfunctioning drainage, water
and electrical installations, painting, and re-surfacing of worn access roads. As
required, these activities will include the construction of additional lecture
rooms, laboratories, library facilities, office space, boarding facilities, dining
and kitchen facilities, ablution facilities for students and staff, and related
walkways, access roads, and storm water drainage. Since rehabilitation will
take place at an existing facility, social impacts are expected to be limited.
However, care will have to be taken during the screening process to identify
6



all possible land uses, for example, crop production or the sale of products at
kiosks.
(iv)  Rehabilitation at the Polytechnic Institute in the Southern Region (Blantyre
Urban District). Rehabilitation activities will include water proofing of
leaking roofs, replacement of broken fittings, repairing of malfunctioning
drainage, water and electrical installations, and painting. As required, these
activities will include the construction of two additional classrooms and one
instruction workshop, with ancillary store rooms, cloakroom and ablution
facilities for students and staff, and related walkways, access road, and storm
water drainage. Since rehabilitation will take place at an existing facility,
social impacts are expected to be limited. However, care will have to be taken
during the screening process to identify all possible land uses, for example,
crop production or the sale of products at kiosks.
(v)   Construction of one new Teacher Training College (TTC) at a site yet to be
decided in the Liwonde area, Machinga District, in the Southern Region.
Construction activities are likely to include: Leveling of the site; laying of
building foundations for the TTC, staff housing an other buildings; laying of
drinking water pipes and sewage pipes; connection of the TTC and its various
buildings to the power grid; an access road for the public; a service road for
employees and suppliers. Social impacts are expected to occur with regard to
changes in land use as well as the need for land acquisition to accommodate
the construction of power distribution lines to connect the campus to the grid.
Although four potential sites have been identified, a final decision for the site
has not yet been made.
(vi)  Development and use of borrow pits as sources of construction materials. In
addition to considering the social impacts related to the construction and
rehabilitation activities discussed earlier, ESSP I also has to take into account
potential social impacts due to the development of new borrow pits as sources
of construction materials for the proposed education facilities. Such impacts
are likely to include loss of access to economic activities and loss of
livelihoods due to the need for land acquisition to develop new borrow pits.
The screening process will determine the extent of social impacts and the need
for the preparation of a RAP prior to construction.
Principles and objectives governing the implementation of the Resettlement Policy
Framework:
(a) Involuntary resettlement as defined in OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement should
be avoided where feasible, or minimized, exploring all viable alternative project
designs.
(b) Affected people will be provided prompt and effective compensation at full
replacement costs for losses of assets attributable directly to the project.
7



Compensation will be provided prior to the implementation of construction
activities triggering OP 4.12.
Process of preparing and approving resettlement plans
In view of the planned rehabilitation and construction activities, limited social impacts
are expected to occur. To address these social impacts, abbreviated or full Resettlement
Action Plans (RAPs) will be prepared once the exact sites have been determined.
An abbreviated resettlement action plan would be prepared if impacts on the entire
population were minor, that is, there were no physical displacement, less than 10% of
their productive assets were lost; and fewer than 200 individuals were affected. The
abbreviated resettlement action plan would address the following issues:
(a) A census survey of affected persons and valuation of assets;
(b) Determination of impacts on the livelihoods of affected persons;
(c) Description of compensation and other resettlement assistance to be provided;
(d) Consultations with displaced persons about acceptable alternatives;
(e) Institutional responsibility for implementation and procedures for grievance
redress;
(f) Arrangements for monitoring and implementation; and
(g) A timetable and budget.
A full resettlement action plan would be prepared if impacts on the entire population
were significant, that is, there were to be physical displacement; more than 10% of the
population's productive assets were lost, and more than 200 individuals would be
affected. The full resettlement action would address the following issues
(a) Description of the project and project area
(b) Identification of the potential impacts
(c) The main objectives of the resettlement program
(d) Findings of socio-economic studies to be conducted in the early stages of project
preparation
(e) Findings of an analysis of the legal framework
(f) Findings of an analysis of the institutional framework
8



(g) Definition of displaced persons and criteria for determining their eligibility for
compensation and other resettlement assistance, including cut-off dates
(h) Valuation of and compensation of losses
(i) Resettlement measures - a description of the packages of compensation and other
resettlement measures
(j) Site selection, site preparation, and relocation
(k) Housing, infrastructure, and social services
(I) Environmental protection and management
(m) Community participation
(n) Integration with host populations
(o) Grievance procedures
(p) Organizational responsibilities
(q) Implementation schedule
(r) Costs and budget
(s) Monitoring and Evaluation
Estimated population displacement
It would be likely that some people might have to be resettled as a result of the new
construction of the TTC. In addition, it has to be expected that some people will loose
some assets and/or livelihoods that would require compensation.
Legal framework
The Ministry of Lands, Physical Planning & Surveys will ensure that the implementation
of the Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) will be consistent with the national laws in
this regard, and where these laws do not cover certain individuals or groups of affected
people, the Ministry of Lands, Physical Planning & Surveys will ensure that the
provisions outlined in OP 4.12 will apply. Where there are inconsistencies between the
national laws and that of the World Bank policy, the World Bank policy will prevail.
The Ministry of Lands, Physical Planning & Surveys, through the Controller of Lands
Services, will also ensure that the appropriate steps are taken during project
9



implementation to prepare and implement Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs), as
required.
Methods of valuing affected assets
Under ESSP I, compensation of assets and livelihoods will be based on the replacement
values in Malawi. In order to determine unit rates to be used for the compensation for
various crops in the affected areas, information will be collected from the District
Commissioner's office and the Department of Forestry Office. In the event that the unit
rates do not reflect the market value, the Board will carry out a survey in the market areas
of the sites.
Policy for compensation for property and crops
For temporary loss of crops and/or structures, the Board compensates individuals,
regardless of ownership status (tenured or customary, including road reserves), for loss of
current crops and replacement of structures.
For permanent loss of land, crops, and/or structures, the Board compensates affected
individuals, regardless of ownership status (tenured or customary, including road
reserves), where the Board pays compensation and relocates affected individual to
another equivalent site acceptable to him/her for the full replacement value of the lost
crops, structures, labor needed to replace crops and structures, lost income from time of
acquisition until time that new crops are at the same production level as previous crops.
Basis for compensation of property and crops
Crops - The District Commissioner (DC) maintains a schedule of compensation rates for
various types of crops and trees. The schedule is used to set minimum compensation
rates.
Land - The Ministry of Lands, Physical Planning and Surveys in corroboration with the
District Commissioner (DC) Office maintains a schedule of compensation rates according
to a formula, and, in consultation with traditional leaders, relocates the affected
individual to another equivalent sites acceptable to him/her.
Structures - For the compensation of structures, the Ministry of Lands, Physical Planning
and Surveys in corroboration with the District Commissioner Office uses the services of a
professional assessor and Valuation Officers who determine the value of the affected
structure.
Miscellaneous - Compensation for cost of moving as well as any costs incurred for
transfer of land to new occupant.
10



Organizational procedures for delivery of entitlements
The process of compensation is managed with the full involvement of the Lands
Valuation Officers from the Ministry of Lands, Physical Planning and Surveys, and the
District Commissioner's office, which is the authority mandated to handle issues of
compensation.
The process starts with the identification of the required land and affected individual,
consultations with affected persons, and the assessment of the crops, structures and the
size of the affected property. This assessment is done jointly with the District
Commissioner's office, Lands Valuation Officers from the Ministry of Physical Planning
and Surveys, the Local Leaders (Chiefs), professional assessors, and the owner of the
property.
Once the assessment is made, the Ministry of Lands, Physical Planning and Surveys, in
liaison with the District Commissioner's Office, come up with the compensation value
that needs to be paid to the affected individual.
Payment for compensation is made by the Board to the affected individual through the
District Commissioner's office.
Description of the implementation process, linking compensation to civil works
In the event that the planned rehabilitation and construction activities will precipitate
negative social impacts, compensation measures will be implemented prior to the
commencement of construction and rehabilitation.
Grievance redress mechanisms
The Traditional Area Land Tribunal would address grievances at the village level; and at
the district level, the Land Tribunal would address grievances. In the event that the issue
remains unresolved, grievances can be appealed to the Settlement Board at the national
level.
Budget and funding arrangements
If required, compensation would be paid by Malawi's Government from a budget held in
the Office of President and Cabinet. In doing so, compensation must improve or restore
livelihoods and standards of living to pre-project levels or levels at time of displacement,
whichever amount is higher.
Methods for consultation with, and participation of, affected people
Consultations with potentially affected people will be carried out in the context of the
preparation of the rehabilitation and construction activities to ensure they are aware of
this Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) as well as to elicit their feedback. In this
11



regard, ESSP I will follow Malawi's Guidelines for Public Consultation as described in
Appendix G of the Guidelines for Environmental Impact Assessment (December 1997).
Consultations will also be carried out in the event that affected persons require
compensation as a result of project activities.
Monitoring arrangements
The Ministry of Lands, Physical Planning & Surveys, through the office of the Controller
of Lands Services, will monitor social impacts in the context of project implementation.
The monitoring results will be included in the relevant quarterly reports to be sent to the
World Bank.
12



