                                                                                                         96387
First Education Sector Support Project (ESSUP)                                                       April 13, 2012




 Quality of Education
 Improving Teaching and Learning Capacity in Malawi


Overview
The Education Sector Support Project (ESSUP) contributed to improving the quality of
education at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels in Malawi. At the primary level, the
quality of learning was improved through provision of learning and teaching materials, and food
and medication for better health and nutrition, to almost all schools in the country. At the
secondary and tertiary levels, learning was boosted with better-trained teachers and new
classrooms.


Challenge
Since 2002, Malawi’s poverty reduction strategies have
                                                                   More Results
identified the enhancement of human capital as one of
Malawi's formidable challenges. The 2006 strategy prioritized

                                                                   29
improvements in education access, quality and equity across
education levels in a bid to foster human development for
growth. Three major constraints to education service delivery
were identified: declining quality of education, in part, due to   Number of university lecturers
                                                                   trained at the masters and
the high number of untrained teachers; inefficient service         doctorate level
delivery due to distorted resource allocations over the years;
and high absenteeism and low retention levels partly due to
poverty and limited community involvement.

Approach                                                           3
In response to these challenges, the International
Development Association’s (IDA) approach focused on (i)
teacher capacity development, (ii) constraints to learning and
                                                                   Million
                                                                   Public primary school students
(iii) policies for better quality of education. The approach       benefitting from direct support
included training of primary school teachers, provision of         to schools program

materials to secondary teachers and training of university
lecturers at various levels. The project engaged the
communities through the participation of parent-teacher            MORE INFORMATION
associations in the procurement of learning materials,
                                                                    Malawi First Education Sector
organization of school feeding programs, and promotion of
                                                                    Support Project
good health and nutrition practices. This support was
delivered through a direct support to schools program.              Country Website
Finally, the project supported the development of a better          Country Brief
policy framework and more comprehensive strategic plan.
                                                                    Country Assistance Strategy
                                                                  Data and Statistics
Results

     Teacher capacity developed at all levels which
     improved the Pupil to Qualified Teacher Ratio
     (PqTR) at all levels: (i) At the primary level a new
     training college was constructed in for primary teachers to increase the number of
     trained teachers by 605 annually, compared to the targeted 500. The PqTR decreased
     to 70:1 by 2010, from 82:1 in 2004. (ii) Approximately 1,000 additional spaces to train
     secondary teachers in tertiary education (five times the project’s target of 200 spaces),
     decreased the PqTR from 82:1 to 65:1. The facilities for such training were constructed
     at Malawi Polytechnic, Chancellor College, and Mzuzu University. (iii) In higher
     education, 29 university lecturers were trained, resulting in the expansion of college
     program offerings and increased student intake. Training was offered at master’s and
     doctorate levels.

     Improved conditions of learning in four secondary schools: Blantyre, Dedza,
     Lilongwe Girls, and Mzuzu Government were refurbished with better hostels, libraries,
     and classrooms. Each school has about 700 students every year.

     Improved learning through supply of basic learning materials to schools while
     strengthening the participation of communities in school management: Ninety-
     eight percent of the 5,086 primary schools in Malawi benefitted from the direct support
     to schools program (DSS) that enabled them to procure required learning and teaching
     materials at the local level. Three million pupils attending public primary schools
     benefited from the DSS grants, including district education management officials and
     members of the school management committees whose capacity was built in managing
     the grants. 

     Mitigated externalities affecting the quality of education through health and
     nutrition interventions to at least 98 percent of pupils under the age of 10:
     Children were reached with interventions, which included distribution of Vitamin A and
     iron, folic acid, de-worming, treatment of malaria and fever, and promotion of good
     health and nutrition practices.

     The country developed a National Education Sector Plan (2008-2017) , which is now
     being used as the framework for government and its development partners supporting
     the education sector. Malawi also developed a teacher education policy, strategy and
     model.

`Bank Contribution


     Before this project, all the girls in Form One used to sit on the
  floor. But now, every girl at all levels has a desk and a chair. This
  is a very significant change in their learning environment.
  Additionally, girls need more comfortable accommodations and
  safe storage for their belongings. We now have that although we
  still need more bed space. We also look forward to having our
  laboratories refurbished and we need a multipurpose hall for all
  activities including examinations.  
         —Mrs. Anita Kalinde, the Headmistress of Lilongwe Girls
                                                                  SS
          The project supported the rehabilitation of four national
       secondary schools, including the Lilongwe Girls Secondary
           School (SS), which has 678 students and benefited from
        rehabilitated hostels, classrooms, a library, and a kitchen.
Partners
This is an emergency or disaster risk reduction type of project. There has not been much donor
interest or capacity to support this project. IDA remains the only donor partner for this project
through its three successive phases.

Toward the Future
With the objective of expanding the impact of the first and second phase of the project, the
Additional Financing Credit-1 of US$20 million is closing in October 2010. The results of the
project are tangible and people recollect how their lives changed before and after the IDA effort
got underway. The achievements made were not only recognized by those living in Taiz but
also by those who know people before the initiative. If there is a project that all people have
the same voice about it, it is the Taiz Municipal Development and Flood Protection Project
