Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY            1 L
Report No. 2274d-IND
INDONESIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT FOR
SECOND AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
April 9, 1979
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS /1
US$ 1                    Rp 625
Rp 1               -    US$0.0016
Rp I million       =    US$1,600
Rp 1 billion       =    US$1,600,000
GLOSSARY
AARD          -   Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
AAETE         -   Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and
Extension
BAPPENAS      -   National Planning Agency
BIMAS         -   Mass Guidance - a farm input-credit package program
GMU           -   Gaja Mada University
GT            -   Gross ton
INPRES        -   Presidential Instruction - a rural public works
program
IPB           -   Agricultural University, Bogor
MOA           -   Ministry of Agriculture
NATI          -   National Agricultural Training Institute
PIU           -   Project Implementation Unit
Repelita      -   National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I,
1969-74; Repelita II, 1974-79; Repelita III,
1979-84)
Sarjana       -   Five-year degree program
Sarjana Muda -   Three-year degree program
SPP           -   Agricultural Development School (senior secondary
level)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
SCHOOL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
/1 The Rupiah was devalued on November 15, 1978 from Rp 415 to Rp 625 to the
US dollar. All figures in this report are based on the new exchange rate
(i.e., US$1 = Rp 625).



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
1. AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY AND IMPLICATIONS
FOR EDUCATION AND TRAINING . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   I
Development Pattern and Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
Implications for Education and Training  . . . . . . . . . . .   5
2.  AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
Overview   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  8
Middle-level Agricultural Education  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
Problems. .  . ...........  14
Plans and Strategy in Middle-level Education and Training  . .  15
3.  THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
Objectives and Scope . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
Agricultural Development Schools . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
In-service Training Centers  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
Technical Assistance ....................    25
Project Management and Preinvestment Studies . . . . . . . . .  27
4.  PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS  . . .  28
Cost of the Project  . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  28
Project Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  32
Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         32
Disbursements .35
Monitoring and Evaluation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  36
5. BENEFITS AND RISKS . . . ...37
Benefits   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  37
Risks .38
6.  AGREEMENTS REACHED. . . .  . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . .  38
This report is based on the findings of a mission to Indonesia during July/
August 1978 composed of Messrs. S.R. Santos (agricultural educator and
mission leader), W.L. Taylor (economist, Unesco) and L. Concepcion (architect,
consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
List of Tables in Text
1.1 Average Annual Demand for Middle-level Agricultural
Manpower, 1979-88  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    6
1.2 Average Annual Supply of Middle-level Agricultural
Mlanpower, 1979-83  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  7
2.1 Agricultural Training Institutions (1945 and 1970) ..... .          8
2.2 Number, Enrollment and Output of Agricultural Development
Schools by Types, 1977-78  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    11
2.3 Number of Places and Output of In-service Training Centers .       13
3.1 Improvement and Expansion of Agricultural Development
Schools in Indonesia ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   20
3.2 Full-time Teacher Requirements of Project Agricultural
Development Schools  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   21
3.3  Improvement and Expansion of In-service Training Centers
in Indonesia ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    23
3.4  Technical Assistance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   25
4.1  Summary of Costs by Project Item . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   28
4.2  Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure .29
4.3 Areas/Costs per Student Place .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   30
4.4 Annual Price Increases ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    31
4.5  Schedule of Disbursements  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    36
List of Charts in Text
Chart 4.1: Organizational Structure of the Project
Implementation Unit ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   33
Annexes
1. Comparative Education Indicators
2. Project Institutions
3. Implementation Schedule
4. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Map
Location of Project Institutions



INDONESIA
BASIC DATA /a
Enrollment (1977)
Amounts:         General Education (Government Schools)
Primary (Grades 1-6)                 17.3 million
Secondary (Grades 7-12)              3.4 million
Tertiary (Grades 13-17)               0.3 million
Agricultural Education (Government and Private)
Senior Secondary (Grades 10-12)   12.0 thousand
Tertiary (Grades 13-17)              14.3 thousand
Ratios: /b       Primary                                78%
Secondary                              18%
Tertiary                                3%
Finance
GNP/capita (1977)                                       US$300 p.a.
Public education expenditure as percentage
of GNP (1976)                                         3%
Percentage of expenditure devoted to education
(1976)                                              11%
Actual expenditure of AAETE for agricultural
training (1977-78, US$ million)
Routine budget                       2.5
Development budget                   8.0
Total                               10.5
Total as a percentage of MOA's
total actual expenditure          16%
/a Comparative data are shown in Annex 1.
/b Gross enrollment ratios, including overage students, based on enrollment
in government schools.






1.   AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY AND
IMPLICATIONS FOR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
Development Pattern and Strategy
1.01      The Agricultural Sector.  The agricultural sector in Indonesia
accounts for about 36% of GDP, 25% of total exports, 80% of non-oil exports,
and it employs about 60% of the total work force. The sector has a dualistic
structure, consisting of some 14.4 million smallholder farms which cultivate
about 14.2 million ha, and about 1,800 large estates which occupy about 2.2 mil-
lion ha. Production in all subsistence and cash crops, except oil palm and
tea, is dominated by smallholders. About two-thirds of the farm families
live on the "inner islands" of Java, Madura, and Bali, where 65% of Indonesia's
population is concentrated. However, together these islands account for less
than 7% of the country's total land area. Consequently, about 70% of farmers
cultivate less than one ha of land.
1.02      The primary long-standing objectives for development of the sector
have been to: (a) intensify and accelerate production of food crops, primarily
rice; (b) create productive employment; (c) raise the incomes of the rural
poor; and (d) improve net foreign exchange earnings by increasing crop exports
and reducing rice imports. As a necessary first step, investments in agricul-
ture during the first five-year development plan (Repelita I, 1969/70-1973/74)
were directed largely towards rehabilitation of neglected irrigation works and
other infrastructure, and of rundown public sector tree crop estates. The vast
majority of attention under the First Plan went to the inner islands. The
Second Plan (Repelita II, 1974/75-1978/79), however, emphasized wider distribu-
tion of development efforts over different regions. With this in mind, efforts
under Repelita II have centered on: (a) a pricing policy for farm products
designed to give incentives to the rural producer; (b) heavy investment in new
roads, irrigation, marketing facilities, and other infrastructure; (c) streng-
thening production oriented research; and (d) promoting the adoption of
improved production techniques and inputs through rural credit schemes and
development of an effective extension service. These policies are expected to
continue to receive heavy emphasis during Repelita III (1979/80-1983/84),
commencing in April 1979, with the addition of: (a) formulation of a national
food strategy which would further promote rice while increasing emphasis on
the production and consumption of nonrice food crops; and (b) revival and
promotion of traditional agricultural exports. Also under the Third Plan, the
Government plans to vastly expand its continuing program of transmigration,
which has long been an integral part of the strategy to increase agricultural
production. This program seeks to move many landless and near-landless farm
families from the densely populated island of Java to the underutilized, though
less fertile, areas in the other islands and help establish them on their own
holdings.
1.03      As part of the Government's policy to improve research and extension,
two new agencies, the Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD)
and the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and Extension (AAETE) were
established within the Ministry of Agriculture in 1974. These agencies are
responsible for administration, supervision, and planning of programs in
their respective fields. Support for research has come from various foreign



-2-
donors, including the World Bank under the ongoing Agricultural Research and
Extension Project (Loan 1179-IND, 1975). Under this project, the linkages
between research and extension are being strengthened through the establishment
of one national, and nine regional, agricultural information centers. Even-
tually, the Government hopes to establish such centers in each of the 26
provinces. A second research project to continue strengthening and developing
agricultural research networks in the country is being considered.
These projects require adequately trained manpower. In extension, separate
services are run by each of five Directorates General: Food Crops, Estate
Crops, Animal Husbandry, Fisheries, and Forestry. The current size and
projected growth of these extension services over the next decade are described
below (para. 1.10). Staff from the Directorates General assigned to the
provinces remain responsible to their respective Directorates for technical
matters, but are administratively responsible to the provincial Governors. As
part of the Government's efforts to improve its extension services, the Govern-
ment is carrying out a Bank-assisted National Food Crops Extension Project
(Loan 1267-IND, 1976). The project is introducing an extension methodology
which emphasizes continuous training and farm visits and establishing 529
rural extension centers (RECs). Each REC would become the basic module from
which the extension service in the area the REC serves would be built up. A
proposed second food crop extension project presently under preparation would
extend improvements to the extension service to other provinces. Up to 1985,
the Directorate General of Food Crops estimates that about 6,000 trained
middle level extension workers would be needed to implement its extension
program in addition to about 6,000 trained middle level extension workers
presently serving. The Government also has recently started a program
for farm women, to promote rural home improvement activities. There are now
about 300 female extension agents undertaking the program, and an additional
700 will be added during the Third Plan. Another instrument for rural
development which the Government has pursued beginning under the Second Plan is
development of a system of farmers' cooperatives, particularly for marketing
of crops. Preliminary plans for Repelita III are to increase the number of
cooperatives from the current 3,800 to 5,500 by 1983. Due to a serious lack
of suitably trained staff, however, many of the present cooperatives are
either inefficient or inactive and, therefore, they tend not to be used by the
farmers. Additional staffing would also be needed in the implementation of
the expanded transmigration program. As many as 86,000 families have been
resettled from Java to other islands during Repelita II. Under Repelita III,
however, the intention is to resettle 500,000 families and provide them with
necessary physical and social infrastructure (education, health services) as
well as agricultural supporting services. These plans include the provision
of one multi-purpose field extension officer for every group of 500 families.
1.04      Crops.  There are six major food crops in Indonesia - rice, corn,
cassava, sweet potatoes, peanuts, and soybeans - which together account
for about 80% of total food intake. Domestic production has not been
sufficient to meet the aggregate demand for food, and Indonesia has become
a large importer of food grains (2.6 million tons of rice and 1.0 million
tons of wheat in 1977/78). Consequently, Government food crop programs
have been aimed at increasing production, through increasing both yields
(particularly in Java) and area under cultivation (in the other islands). As
the major food crop, rice has received the bulk of the attention of the



programs during both Repelita I and II, though the secondary crops have gained
some emphasis in recent years. A major policy tool to stimulate rice produc-
tion has been the periodic adjustment of rice and fertilizer prices. The main
vehicle for increasing production, however, has been the BIMAS ("mass-guidance")
program, commencing with rice in 1965 and extending, to a limited extent, to
the other secondary food crops between 1972-75. The bulk of extension efforts
in Indonesia have been directed to this program through which farmers are
provided with extension advice and credit for fertilizer, improved seed and
other inputs. Under BIMAS, rice farmers showed increased yields of 62% over
farmers not reached by the program. This contributed to about a 4.5% p.a.
increase in rice production during Repelita I. In recent years, however,
growth in rice production has slowed to between 2-3% p.a., and production of
secondary crops has stagnated, largely due to unfavorable weather, damage by
pests and disease, denial of credit to farmers who defaulted on BIMAS loans,
and limitations within the research and extension programs. The coverage of
the BIMAS program has been constrained to a large extent by the shortage of
trained extension personnel; 34% and 9% of the extension staff of the Director-
ates of Food Crops and Estate Crops, respectively, have less than a secondary
school education.
1.05      Indonesia is among the world's largest producers and exporters of
rubber, coconuts, palm oil, and spices and grows large amounts of coffee and
tea as well. Although their relative importance as export earners has
declined following the oil and timber booms of the early 1970s, rubber,
coffee, oil palm and tea still accounted for almost 20% of total exports and
44% of non-oil exports in 1977/78. Between 10-20% of the Indonesian labor
force earn the larger part of their living in the tree crop sector and
roughly two-thirds of production of rubber, the major tree crop, is in the
hands of smallholders. Serious problems have arisen in smallholder produc-
tion, particularly in rubber, coconut and pepper, due to poor cultivation
methods. Smallholder rubber production is stagnating and shows signs of
slowly declining. A critical bottleneck to growth in production is the
shortage of trained personnel, reflected in the weakness of research and
extension.
1.06      Fisheries.  The fisheries sector in Indonesia provides the chief
source of animal protein to the nation's diet and accounts for about 4.5% of
total agricultural output. In 1977, 1.1 million tons of saltwater fish and
0.4 million tons of freshwater fish were produced, 57,150 tons of which were
exported. The sector has four main branches: off-shore, coastal (artisanal),
fish cultivation (chiefly fishponds) and fresh water capture (rivers and
lakes). Together, off-shore and coastal fisheries account for 72% of total
output. Off-shore fisheries is dominated by large commercial enterprises,
including many foreign firms and joint ventures. Coastal fishery is com-
prised of some 850,000 small fishermen, mainly using small boats and tradi-
tional gear. About 500,000 people are engaged in fish cultivation which
consists of about 180,000 ha of brackish water ponds (6% of output), 40,000
ha of freshwater ponds (4% of output), and 80,000 ha of paddy fields (2% of
output). There is substantial scope for improvement in catch; total sustain-
able annual yield of Indonesian waters is estimated at about 6.0 million tons
compared to 1.5 million at present. The Government's long-term objective for
the sector is to increase annual fish production/consumption to 30 kg per



- 4 -
capita, from the present level of 11 kg per capita. Indications are that the
targets for fisheries in the Third Plan, now under formulation, will be to
increase total output by 5.8% p.a. and exports by 13% p.a. Constraints on
increased production include the use of traditional catching techniques,
weak marketing and handling facilities, and the high cost of inter-island
shipping and port operations. Poor cultivation techniques and inadequate
supply of fry contribute to low fishpond yields. Government programs to
alleviate these constraints include: (a) improvement in fish marketing
systems; (b) infrastructure construction at fishing harbors; and (c) credit
and extension schemes for brackish and fresh water fishponds, boat motorization
and small-scale ice plants. A large part of credit for fisheries is being
provided through the Bank-financed Fisheries Credit Project (Credit 480-IND)
and the Rural Credit Project (Credit 827-IND). The marine and inland fisheries
extension staffs of the Directorate General of Fisheries have been considerably
hampered in their efforts by lack of adequate training; almost half of the
total staff of 3,510 have less than a secondary education.
1.07      Forestry.  During the years 1971-76, exports of timber averaged 80%
of the total annual harvest in Indonesia, and about 40% of total agricultural
exports. While production of teak by volume has declined (from 770,000 cu m
in 1971 to 480,000 cu m in 1976), production of other hardwoods has grown
considerably (from 12.9 million cu m in 1971 to 20.8 million cu m in 1976).
This growth has largely been due to foreign development of the timber industry
in the outer islands, which is part of the Government's program to initiate
industrial development and mining outside of Java and Bali. At the same time,
the Government has recently expanded a program of reforestation and conservation
in Java. Three million ha (22% of Java's area) have been classified as forest
reserves. In 1976/77, the Government allocated Rp 16 billion to an INPRES
(public works) reforestation program, using unskilled workers on a part-time,
temporary basis. This program, however, was unsuccessful. One of the major
constraints in both increasing production of timber and reforestation/conserva-
tion continues to be the lack of trained technical personnel, particularly at
the middle level.
1.08      Livestock.  Meat and dairy products in Indonesia account for about
7.0% of total agricultural production. Except for a few large ranches, almost
all livestock are owned by smallholders and integrated into their farming
activities. Until recently, Government development programs in the sector
were directed primarily towards increased beef production for local consumption
or export. This was the focus of the first large-scale credit program in the
sector, the Slaughter Animal Development Program (1975), and of the World
Bank-assisted Beef Cattle Development Project (Credit 355-IND, 1973). However,
a serious shortage of draft animals, the main source of farm power, has emerged
throughout the country, particularly in newly settled areas. Consequently, the
emphasis of programs, including the Bank-assisted project, has been redirected
towards the breeding of draft animals. A national credit scheme has been
developed with Bank Rakjat Indonesia to assist smallholders in purchasing 2-5
cows or fattening steers, construction materials for sheds, veterinary supplies
and supplementary feed. Extension programs are underway throughout the country
to provide farmers' animals with disease control and artificial insemination
through the extension service. The extension effort is very limited, however,



being constrained, to a large extent, by the lack of qualified livestock
production and animal health technicians. Of the Directorate of Animal
Husbandry's middle level technical staff of 1,290, 70% have not completed
secondary school.
Implications for Education and Training
1.09      One of the main constraints to the success of the Government's
development programs in the agricultural sector is the shortage of quality
agricultural manpower, particularly at the middle level. Efforts have been
made to help remove this constraint under the recently completed Second
Education Project of 1972 (Credit 288-IND, para. 2.03). The country's
requirements, however, are large and additional assistance is needed.
1.10      The effective demand of the major Government agricultural agencies
for trained middle level agricultural manpower over the ten-year period,
1979-88, and their existing number of staff, are shown in Table 1.1 below.
These projections are based on estimates made by the agencies of the need for
additional staff for replacements and expansion during only the five years of
the Third Plan (1979/80-1983/84). However, in view of the high probability
that such relatively large numbers of staff could not be absorbed by the
agencies over a five year period, their estimates of expansion needs have
been applied, more realistically, to a ten-year period as shown in Table 1.1.
Estimates of replacement needs were adjusted accordingly. In sum, a total of
about 4,000 middle level agricultural staff will be needed annually, on the
average, over the ten-year period in order to carry out the Government's
agricultural development programs. The largest average annual requirement,
920, will be for the Directorate General of Food Crops, to be involved, for
the most part, in extending the coverage of the BIMAS program. To maintain
the relatively large size of the food crops middle-level technical staff
(12,670 at present), about 45% of the staff needed over the ten years will be
for replacement of those retiring or resigning. The Directorates General of
Forestry (for regreening), Animal Husbandry and Estate Crops will also have
large annual requirements for technicians to staff their development programs
(630, 610 and 560, respectively). Due to the unavailability of data, esti-
mates have not been made of the demand for middle-level agricultural manpower
in private industry. Two particular areas of the private sector that can be
expected to generate additional demand for technicians are the forestry
harvesting and products industries, and commercial marine fisheries.



-6-
Table 1.1: AVERAGE ANNUAL DEMAND FOR MIDDLE LEVEL AGRICULTURAL MANPOWER,
1979-88
Existing    Annual requirements         Total additional
Existing staff           staff   Replacement /a   Expansion  annual requirements
Agency for Research &
Development            1,000         40               110               150
Directorates General:
Food Crops            12,670        420              500               920
Estate Crops           1,035        100              460                560
Animal Husbandry        1,290       110               500               610
Forestry               2,600        110              240                350
Forestry (for
regreening)          2,050        130              500               630
Fisheries (marine)    1,630          70              190                260
Fisheries (in.land)    1,880         80              200                280
Transmigration            105        20               100               120
Cooperatives              100        20              100                120
Total              24,360      1,100            2,900             4,000
/a  Based on an assumed 3% attrition rate of existing stock and 1% of new
appointees.
1.11      The current supply of agricultural technicians over the ten-year
period to meet this demand is shown below in Table 1.2. At present, there
are 99 senior secondary agricultural schools, called agricultural development
schools, producing middle-level manpower. Of these, only 15 are producing
graduates of satisfactory quality, having recently been upgraded through
World Bank (14 schools) and FAO (one school) assistance (para. 2.03). No
preservice training is currently offered for forestry technicians who would
be involved in forest and wildlife conservation, forest exploitation and
forest products industries. (Staff for the Directorate of Forestry's refores-
tation programs are receiving training at the agricultural development
schools). At present, there is also no training offered for female extension
agents in rural home improvement extension work. Table 1.2 shows shortfalls
in supply in all categories of middle-level agricultural manpower.



-7-
Table 1.2: AVERAGE ANNUAL SUPPLY OF MIDDLE-LEVEL AGRICULTURAL MANPOWER,
1979-83
Output per annum                 Average      Total
Emphasis of SPP         Improved  Unimproved                 annual      annual
school     school      Total       demand      deficit
Agronomy /a                 680      1,730       2,410       2,500         (90)
Livestock production        210           -        210         610        (400)
Inland fisheries             -          40          40         280        (240)
Marine fisheries             80          70        150         260        (110)
Forestry                      -          -           -         350        (350)
Total                 970       1.840       2,810      4,000      (1,190)
/a Includes research and development, food crops, estate crops, forestry
(for regreening), transmigration, and cooperatives.
1.12      The potential large shortfall of new graduates, if the current
supply situation continues, is not the full extent of the problem, however.
There is also a pressing need for upgrading the quality of the existing staff
of the agricultural agencies through in-service training programs. In the
past, the general quality of agricultural graduates at the middle-level has
been poor. It is only very recently that programs to improve some of the
schools have been completed and a limited number of graduates with satisfactory
training have been generated. The majority of the agencies' staff, therefore,
could benefit greatly from in-service training programs in their fields
designed to raise their qualifications to at least the level of the graduates
of the improved agricultural secondary schools. This is particularly true
for the five Directorates General of MOA which have had to meet their needs
by hiring staff with less than a secondary education. Continuing in-service
training, in the form of refresher courses, also is needed, however, to keep
the trained agents abreast of technical developments in their fields.



-8-
2.   AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING
Overview
2.01      Prior to independence (1945), Indonesia's agricultural education
and training system consisted of one faculty of agriculture (grades 13-17),
which offered higher-level training, and one senior secondary agricultural
school (grades 10-12), for middle-level training. No significant expansion
of these training programs took place until 1960, when the Ministry of Agri-
culture (MOA) substantially extended agricultural services to the provinces,
thus creating a substantial demand for trained agricultural manpower. This
triggered a rapid expansion of agricultural institutions in the country. By
1970, there were 46 faculties of agriculture and related sciences in 24
universities and 96 senior secondary agricultural schools (16 established by
the national government, 51 by provincial governments and 29 by the private
sector), as shown below.
Table 2.1: AGRICULTURAL TRAINING INSTITUTIONS
(1945 and 1970)
Institutions                                                 1945         1970
(number)    (number)
Agricultural Faculties (Grades 13-17)
Agriculture                                                  1           20
Agricultural Engineering & Products Technology               -            2
Animal husbandry                                             -          12
Veterinary medicine                                          -            2
Animal husbandry & veterinary science                        -            2
Forestry                                                     -           4
Fisheries                                                    -           4
Total                                                  1           46 /a
Senior Secondary Agricultural Schools (Grades 10-12)
Agriculture (agronomy)                                       1           86
Animal husbandry                                             -            4
Plantation crops                                             -            3/b
Fisheries                                                    -           2
Forestry                                                     -            1/c
Total                                                  1           96
/a In 24 universities.
/b Terminated in 1972. Technicians in plantation crops have, since then, been
recruited from graduates of the schools specializing in agronomy (now
called crop production).
/c Converted into a forestry in-service training center in 1972.



- 9 -
2.02       At the higher level, the growth in the number of agriculture facul-
ties was not accompanied by a commensurate growth in resources. The result-
ing budgetary constraints were reflected in inadequate teaching facilities,
equipment, student hostels and staff housing. In addition, the majority of
teachers worked on a part-time basis and few had adequate training. Conse-
quently, these institutions produced poorly trained graduates. Since 1970,
the Government has initiated measures to address these problems of higher
agricultural education. A Consortium of Agricultural Sciences has been formed,
composed of: (a) the agriculture faculties of the two leading universities
in Indonesia-Institut Pertanian Bogor (IPB) and Gaja Mada University (GMU);
and (b) technical experts from foreign agricultural universities who have
been provided with USAID assistance. The Consortium's main responsibilities
are to establish training standards, accredit agricultural faculties and act
as an advisory body to the Directorate of Higher Education of the Ministry of
Education, which administers university education in the country. The
Government has also designated the faculties of agriculture at IPB and GNU to
act as "Leader Faculties" to help improve other faculties of agriculture by:
(a) the affiliation of weak agriculture faculties to IPB or GMU; (b) staff
exchanges; (c) staff upgrading through summer courses; (d) improvement of
curriculum and introduction of educational reforms; (e) development of
collaborative research programs; (f) provision of consultant services; and
(g) program evaluation. Six universities are being assisted under the
Leader Faculties at present and, within the next five years, the Government
intends to expand the program to about 14 other universities with USAID
assistance.
2.03       In 1970, lack of sufficient resources was also the rule at the
middle level, resulting in the same deficiencies as at the higher level in
quality of training offered by the Senior Secondary Agricultural Schools. The
secondary agricultural schools under each of the five types (Table 2.1) were
administered by the corresponding directorate general of the MOA. Lack of
coordination among the directorates resulted in widely differing standards of
training. There was also some duplication of effort, particularly among the
schools specializing in agronomy and plantation crops. Poor planning resulted
in overcrowding in some schools and uneconomically small enrollments in
others. Furthermore, the technical courses offered by the schools were
confined to their respective disciplines, rendering the graduates ineffective
in working with farmers who generally practice mixed farming.
2.04       Within the context of an integrated program to improve extension,
research and training (para. 1.03), the Government has taken steps since 1970
to improve middle-level agricultural education and training. Based on the
findings and recommendations of an FAO survey mission (1971) on middle-level
agricultural education and training, the Government developed a two-phased
strategy for upgrading MOA staff and of agricultural training in Indonesia.
The first phase was to concentrate on improving selected national institutions
to meet the country's most urgent middle-level training and manpower needs.
The second phase was to improve another group of selected institutions focusing
on provincial institutions in the islands outside Java including marine fishery
and forestry (preservice) training which were not included in the first phase.
The first phase of the strategy was carried out by the Government with assis-
tance under the Second Education Project (Credit 288-IND, 1972).  Under this



- 10 -
project, an institutional framework for coordination and administration of
middle-level agricultural education and training was established in 1972 with
the creation of the Agency for Agricultural Education and Training under the
MOA./1 In addition, the project upgraded 14 existing senior secondary agri-
cultural schools,/2 and introduced curricular improvements in all of these
schools. FAO has also provided assistance through upgrading of one senior
secondary school in marine fisheries.
2.05      In 1970, in-service training programs for agricultural staff were
conducted separately by each of the different directorates general of the MOA
on an ad hoc basis whenever staff training was needed. Training was usually
carried out in dilapidated buildings or improvised training centers. These
training centers generally had no land for practical training and nearly all
of their teachers were on a part-time basis. Altogether, the different
directorates general trained about 1,000 agriculture personnel annually.
Since then, 23 in-service training centers have been established 16 of which
were upgraded under Credit 288-IND, and FAO has upgraded 1 marine fisheries
in-service training center. These assisted centers were provided with ade-
quate teaching facilities, equipment and enough qualified full-time teachers
to satisfactorily carry out their present training programs.
Middle-Level Agricultural Education
2.06      Administration and Management.  The Government created the Agency
for Agricultural Education, Training, and Extension (AAETE) to centralize and
rationalize the management of all middle-level agricultural education and
training programs (para. 2.03). The administration of all schools and in-
service training centers of the different directorates general of the MOA have
been transferred to the Agency. It has been made responsible for: (a)
assessment and planning of education and training programs of all middle-
level agricultural institutions, and prescribing relevant improvements in
curriculum; (b) accreditation of all national, provincial and private agri-
cultural development schools; and (c) preparation and administration of final
examinations to graduating students of all the agricultural development
schools to determine their eligibility for graduation.
2.07      The Agency has the same hierarchical status in the MOA as the
directorates general, and consists of four main units: (a) the Secretariat,
which controls the training budget and takes charge of administrative ser-
vices; (b) the Bureau of Agricultural Education, which is responsible for
preservice training programs; (c) the Bureau of Personnel Training, which is
responsible for in-service training programs; and (d) Bureau of Agricultural
/1 This agency has been renamed the Agency for Agricultural Education,
Training and Extension (AAETE) in accordance with Presidential Decree
No. 45 dated August 26, 1974.
/2 The senior secondary agricultural schools were renamed Agricultural
Development Schools (SPPs) in accordance with Ministerial Decree No. 50
dated January 1, 1978.



- 11 -
Extension, which guides and assists the different extension units of the MOA
in planning and carrying out their extension program and in preparing appro-
priate extension materials. At the provincial level, the functions of the
Agency are carried out through officers in the different provincial departments
of agriculture who work closely with each of the Agency's three bureaus. The
Agency is assisted in supervision of the provincial and private agricultural
development schools by the directors of the 14 national agricultural develop-
ment schools which were improved under Credit 288-IND (para. 2.04). Since its
inception, the Agency has accomplished a great deal. Better coordination
among the training programs of the MOA and management of their budgets has
reduced the inefficient allocation of resources among the national agricultural
development schools (para. 2.03). The quality of preservice and in-service
training and their relevance to the manpower needs of the directorates general
of the MOA have been increased through curricular improvements introduced by
the Agency. In addition, standards of training among institutions have become
more consistent due to the requirements for accreditation which the Agency has
set (e.g., minimum area of school farms and number of full-time teachers,
selection criteria for students).
2.08      Preservice Training.  Preservice agricultural education in Indonesia
is carried out by Agricultural Development Schools (grades 10-12), which are
the principal source of middle-level manpower in agriculture. There are two
general types of these schools according to their field of training: agricul-
ture, which includes training in crops, animal husbandry and inland fishery;
and marine fishery. According to administration, there are three categories
of schools: national, provincial and private. The number enrolled and output
per annum of the different types of agricultural development schools are
shown below.
Table 2.2: NUMBER, ENROLLMENT AND OUTPUT OF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT SCHOOLS BY TYPES,
1977-78
Provincial and
National Schools           Private Schools                Total
Enroll-  Output           Enroll-  Output            Enroll-  Output
Types        Number   ment       p.a.   Number   ment      p.a.   Number   ment       p.a.
Agricultural
Crops          11    2,280       680      82      8,390   1,730    93      10,670   2,410
Animal
husbandry      3      720     210        -         -       -       3        720      210
Inland Fishery  1       150       40       -         -       -       1        150       40
Marine Fishery  2       490      150       -         -       -       2        490      150
Total      17    3640   1,080         82     8,390   1,730    99       12,030   2,810



- 12 -
All 97 schools of the agricultural type offer a core curriculum (72% of the
time allocated to teaching) which is designed to provide students with the
broad background needed by middle-level agricultural technicians who work in
a mixed farming system. This is particularly true for extension technicians
involved in the transmigration and cooperatives programs. Of the core, 65%
is allocated to social and natural sciences and 35% to general agriculture.
Each of the schools devotes the remaining teaching time (28%) to specializa-
tion in either crop production, animal husbandry or inland fisheries, depend-
ing upon the predominant agricultural enterprise and the manpower require-
ments in the region the school serves. No schools offer specialization in
forestry. Overall, the curriculum at each school consists of 34% general
education and 66% technical subjects. The proportion of lecture and prac-
tical periods is 49% and 51%, respectively. This curriculum was introduced
under Credit 288-IND (para. 2.04), with only minor deviations since then in
the form of the addition of more crop production specialization courses in
response to manpower needs arising out of the National Food Crops Extension
Project (para. 1.03). The curriculum of the two marine fisheries schools was
developed under the FAC project (para. 2.04). The curriculum gives adequate
emphasis on off-shore commercial fishery. However, since the marine fishery
service deals substantially with artisanal fishing, the emphasis the cur-
riculum gives to coastal fishery may need to be increased.
2.09      The 14 national agricultural schools (crops and animal husbandry)
which were upgraded under Credit 288-IND and the one national marine fisher-
ies school upgraded by FAO are operating satisfactorily. When upgraded,
however, the agricultural schools were provided with hostels to accommodate
only 75% of their students. This is now causing some problems. These
schools are generally located far from residential areas, where public
transportation is either irregular and costly or unavailable. Those students
who do not reside on the school campus, consequently often have to walk long
distances daily to and from school. As a result, absences among these
students are high, especially during the rainy season. Moreover, these
students are not able to take advantage of the school library during off-
school hours. In addition to insufficient boarding places, these schools
also do not have facilities to train extension workers in rural home improve-
ment nor sufficient practical training facilities and equipment for animal
health technicians needed for implementation of Government development
programs (paras. 1.03 and 1.08). The remaining national schools (one inland
fishery and one marine fishery) which have not received external assistance
do not have enough classroom and laboratory space and lack the necessary
teaching equipment. Moreover, the inland fishery school has virtually no
farm land nor fish ponds, and the marine fishery school is located in the
center of an urban community and has no immediate access to the sea. The
students of these schools, therefore, receive limited practical training.
The provincial and private schools, in general, operate with substandard
physical facilities, equipment, and materials and have few qualified teachers.
Almost all of these schools have insufficient farm land, averaging about 5
ha. For lack of these resources, the students receive a minimum of laboratory
and practical field training. The poor quality of training in these schools
is reflected in their low graduation rates. As shown in the above table, the
output of the provincial and private schools represent only about 20% of the



- 13 -
enrollment as compared to 30% in national schools. This implies that a
greater percentage of graduating students in provincial and private schools
fail the national final examinations (para. 2.06) and, therefore, are not
allowed to graduate.
2.10      In-Service Training.  At present there are 23 permanent in-service
training centers which train a total of about 5,650 MOA personnel annually.
The agriculture, marine fishery and forestry centers generally conduct two
groups of courses: (a) a remedial program for staff who have not taken
preservice training at the agricultural development schools, in order to
upgrade them to the level of the graduates of these schools; and (b) courses
of varying length to keep staff abreast of technological developments in their
field and to give staff additional specialized training in response to changing
emphasis of development programs. This longer in-service training complements
the shorter recurrent training given to extension staff under the training and
visit system (para. 1.03). The average duration of courses is two months at
the agriculture centers (crop, livestock and inland fishery) and four months
at the marine fishery center. Due to absence of preservice forestry training,
the forestry centers offer a 10-month induction course for new staff, in
addition to refresher courses averaging 2 months each. The national institute
conducts various administration, management and technical courses for MOA
administrative staff and subject matter specialists with an average duration
of two months per course, and a three-month course in pedagogy for teachers of
the national agricultural development schools and training centers, since no
preservice teacher training is offered by the university agricultural faculties
system. Each of the 23 centers has four to five qualified full-time teachers
and is under the administration and management of the AAETE (para. 2.06). The
number, capacity, and annual output are shown below (Table 2.3).
Table 2.3: NTMBER OF PLACES AND OUTPUT OF IN-SERVICE TRAINING CENTERS
Types                  Number      Number of places      Output p.a
Agriculture              13               710                3,550
Marine Fishery            3                140                 380
Forestry                  6               480                  960
Administration,
Management, Teaching/a 1                160                  760/b
Total               23             1,490               5,650
/a Called the National Agricultural Training Institute (NATI).
/b Sixty are agricultural teachers.
The 17 centers improved under Credit 288-IND (13 agriculture, 2 forestry, and
the NATI), and FAO assistance (1 marine fishery) are operating satisfatorily,
except one forestry center which lacks laboratory and workshop facilities.
These facilities were not provided because at the time of project formulation
(1971) the Government intended to build a forestry laboratory and workshop
beside the project forestry center for the Ministry of Labor and make these
facilities available to trainees of the center. This plan, however, did not



- 14 -
materialize. It is now the intention of the Government to provide the center
with these facilities. At the remaining centers (2 marine fishery and 4
forestry), however, practical training is inadequate due to insufficient
workshops and equipment. These centers were not included in the first phase
project (para. 2.04) since the scope of the project was limited to meeting
the most urgent training needs of the MOA, with the intention that improvements
in forestry and marine fishery training would be pursued at a later date in a
second phase project.
Problems
2.11      Administration and Management.  Despite its achievements (para.
2.07) the AAETE (the Agency) like any new organization, still has certain
deficiencies. The Agency's current planning activities only focus on the
immediate training needs of the directorates general of the MOA. It does not
have the capability for overall planning and development of agricultural
education and training activities in relation to the country's long-term
development requirements. The Agency should develop a capacity to assess, on
a continual basis, these long-term manpower needs in terms of both quantity
and quality and plan its education and training activities accordingly.
The planning unit of the Agency should, therefore, be strengthened with
qualified personnel to perform these functions. In addition, the agency
should also take steps to strengthen its evaluation. It should develop and
implement a system to evaluate the placement and performance of the graduates
of the agricultural development schools and the effectiveness of in-service
training given to extension workers.
2.12      Quality of Training in Provincial Agricultural Development Schools.
The quality of training in provincial agricultural development schools is
generally poor. For lack of adequate financial support from the provin-
cial governments, these schools do not have essential physical facilities and
equipment nor sufficient qualified teachers (para. 2.09). Their operation is
uneconomical, having an average enrollment of about 100 students per school
(Table 2.2). The average passing rate on the final examinations administered
by the Agency for the graduating students ranges from 40%, in schools with the
lowest standards, to 76% in the better provincial schools. This compares
unfavorably to an average of 97% in the national schools improved under
Credit 288-IND. These provincial institutions, however, are presently relied
upon by the Government to provide most of the middle-level manpower needed for
agricultural development, since the few improved schools can provide only
about one fourth of the requirement. The recruitment of these poorly trained
graduates continues to affect adversely the quality and efficiency of the
agricultural services. The national government needs to assist the provincial
governments in upgrading these schools since they play a vital role in the
agricultural development of the country.
2.13      Equity in Education and Training Opportunities.  Of the 26 prov-
inces in Indonesia, only 12 have agricultural development schools producing
adequately trained graduates. Five other provinces have access to these



- 15 -
institutions to a limited extent.  The remaining provinces are served by
substandard institutions. Due to the shortage of well-trained graduates,
coupled with the reluctance of these graduates to accept employment in the
outer island provinces, the agriculture departments in these poorly served
provinces tend to be weak, having to employ either inadequately trained
agriculture graduates or general secondary school graduates who have had no
training in agriculture. These unqualified staff have little opportunity to
improve their skills for lack of local in-service training since the in-service
training centers are, in general, located in the same provinces as the improved
agricultural development schools. Improvement of the quality of agricultural
manpower in the remaining provinces necessitates the upgrading of their
existing training institutions and establishing new institutions where they
are needed and where no training opportunities are available.
2.14      New Programs.  There are three vital areas for which programs are
not currently given by the existing agricultural education system: (a)
training for female extension workers; (b) preservice training for forestry
technicians; and (c) training for managers of agricultural development projects.
The present female extension workers of the MOA (about 300), who implement
the home improvement program for farm women (para. 1.03), are graduates of
home economics senior secondary schools of the Ministry of Education, whose
training program is focussed on urban home improvement. Only about 5% of
these workers, who now occupy supervisory posts, have undergone rural home
improvement training. Training progams focussed on the skill requirements of
these extension workers need to be established, particularly in view of
the MOA's plans to expand the rural home extension program. In forestry,
the existing technicians are recruited from graduates of general senior
secondary schools who have had no training in forestry. To prepare these
technicians for the tasks they are expected to perform (e.g., forest and
wildlife conservation, plantation and watershed management, forest exploita-
tion control, logging and wood processing operations), they are given a
10-month induction course immediately upon their appointment. This course,
however, has been found to be too short and too general to meet their training
needs. A program of preservice forestry training should, therefore, be estab-
lished. The various existing agricultural development projects of the MOA
are managed by higher level agricultural technicians (university graduates)
who had no training in project management. These project managers have
been generally found to be weak in project planning and development, budget
preparation and administration and project supervision. In addition, those
who manage the extension projects lack a thorough understanding of the
recently introduced training and visit system of extension (para 1.03) by
which these projects are being carried out. An in-service training program
for these project managers would be needed to improve their managerial skills.
Plans and Strategy in Middle-Level Education and Training
2.15      With the assistance of an FAO Survey Mission on middle-level agri-
cultural education and training in Indonesia (1971), the Government developed
a long-range strategy for the improvement of the quality and supply of middle-
level agricultural manpower. The first phase was to focus on: (a) estab-
lishment of a central agency to be responsible for planning and managing all



- 16 -
middle-level training in the country and for administering all training
programs of the MOA; and (b) improvement of selected national training
institutions to meet the country's most urgent training needs, largely for
food crop production, research and extension technicians. The second phase
of the strategy would be to: (a) improve existing, or establish new training
programs which were not included in the first phase (i.e. marine fishery,
forestry, rural home improvement and project management); (b) extend quali-
tative improvements to provincial preservice institutions; and (c) establish
new preservice and in-service institutions in provinces which have no access
to adequate training facilities. In addition, institution building of the
AAETE would be continued. In particular, its planning and evaluation func-
tions would be further strengthened to increase its effectiveness in provid-
ing the needed quantity and quality of middle-level manpower to implement the
Government's agricultural development plans.
2.16      The first phase of this strategy, implemented under Credit 288-IND
(para. 2.04), has recently been successfully completed. The completion
report for the project (July 1978) indicates that the project institutions
now have adequate teaching facilities, satisfactory curricula, and an ade-
quate number of qualified full-time teachers, and they are being provided by
the Government with sufficient operating funds. The student dropout rate
at the project schools has decreased from 24% at the time of appraisal
(1971), to 2.6% in 1977, while the percentage of graduating students who
passed the national final examination increased from 78% to 97%. In addi-
tion, the AAETE has successfully integrated all training programs of the
Ministry of Agriculture under its administration and management and has
extended institutional supervision to the provincial and private middle-
level agricultural institutions.
2.17      During the next national development plan period (Repelita III,
1979/80-1983/84) the Agency intends to implement the second phase of the
Government's strategy, and to resolve the problems facing the present agricul-
tural education and training system (paras. 2.11-2.14). The investment plan
of the Agency during Repelita III for agricultural training amounts to about
Rp 33 billion.



- 1 7 -
3. THE PROJECT
Objectives and Scope
3.01      The project constitutes the second phase (para. 2.15) of the
Government's long-range strategy to improve the quality and supply of middle-
level agricultural manpower. In accordance with the strategy, the project
would pursue the following objectives:
(a)  to upgrade the quality and increase the output of existing
preservice and in-service training institutions;
(b)  to provide preservice and in-service training facilities in selected
provinces where none exists;
(c)  to develop new training programs in response to needs arising out of
Government development plans for the agricultural sector; and
(d)  to strengthen the planning and management capabilities of the Agency
for Agricultural Education, Training and Extension (AAETE).
3.02      The proposed project components are as follows:



- 18 -
Number
of insti-  Existing  Additional  Total
Component                                        tutions    places      places    places
a. Agricultural Development Schools
(grades 10-12)                                31       4,560       2,880      7,440
(i)  additions /a to existing schools
(11 agriculture and 3 animal husbandry) 14 /b   3,000             360     3,360
(ii)  relocation of existing schools
(6 agriculture, 1 animal husbandry,
and 1 marine fishery)                       8       1,080         840      1,920
(iii)  rehabilitation of existing schools
(2 agriculture and 2 animal husbandry)   4            480         480       960
(iv)  establishment of new schools (2 animal
husbandry, 1 inland fishery and 2
forestry)                                   5           -       1,200     1,200
b. In-service Training Centers
(nonformal)                                   23       1,020         560     1,580
(i)  additions /a to existing centers
(11 agriculture, 1 forestry, 1
national institute)                        13 /b      830         110       940
(ii)  relocation of an existing
forestry center                             1          80           -        80
(iii)  rehabilitation of existing centers
(1 forestry and 1 marine fishery)           2        110          30        140
(iv)  establishment of new centers
(6 agriculture, 1 animal health)            7          -         420        420
c.  Project Implementation Unit Support               -          -           -
d.  Technical assistance /c                           -          -           -
Total                             54       5,580      3,440      9,020
/a  Addition of facilities for new courses and boarding of students.
/b  Schools or centers which were improved under Credit 288-IND.
/c  Includes specialist services for the training institutions and for the
AAETE, fellowships, special studies, future project preparation and other
related activities.



- 19 -
A list of project institutions, their locations and categories according to
type and administration (national or provincial) and the proposed assistance
under the project is shown in Annex 2.
Agricultural Development Schools (Estimated outlay, US$31.5 million, exclud-
ing technical assistance and contingencies)
3.03      This component is designed to accomplish the following:
(a) to improve the quality of training and expand enrollments of 12
existing schools;
(b) to establish five new national schools in provinces
where there are acute shortages of trained middle-level agri-
cultural manpower, of which three in provinces where no such
institutions exist;
(c) to introduce new teaching programs: rural home improvement courses
for female students in all schools oriented to crops and livestock
and three-year preservice course for forestry technicians; and
(d) to provide additional facilities and equipment to schools improved
under the first phase project to enable them to implement new
programs of the Government (para. 2.09).
3.04      By upgrading 12 existing schools (1 national and 11 provincial)
and establishing 5 new national schools, the proposed project would increase
the number of well established and improved schools from the existing 15 to
32, including the marine fishery school (240 places) assisted under an FAO
project (para. 2.04) as indicated in Table 3.1. The national school (marine
fishery) to be upgraded is one of the two national schools which were not
improved under Credit 288-IND. This school would be relocated since its
present site does not have immediate access to the sea. The other national
school (inland fishery) lacks laboratory facilities and space in its present
site for practical training (para. 2.09). This school, however, was not
included in the proposed project since the Government had not decided where
to relocate it at the time of appraisal. A 100 GT training vessel will be
provided for practical training of the marine fishery students. Upon comple-
tion of the project, 11 of the 17 schools would be located in outer island
provinces (para. 2.13). The capacity of each project school would be 240
students. This would mean an increase in enrollment at 14 schools, 3 of
which were improved under Credit 288-IND and have capacities of 120 students
each. Total enrollment in upgraded schools would, therefore, increase from
the present 3,240 to 7,680, and the output would increase from 975 to about
2,400 when the project schools become fully operational. At that time the
improved schools would be able to admit a total of 2,640 new students annu-
ally. No problems are foreseen in recruiting the students; in 1977, there
were more than 4,000 applicants from all over the country for the 1,000
available places at the 14 improved schools.



- 20 -
Table 3.1: IMPROVEMENT AND EXPANSION OF AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT SCHOOLS IN INDONESIA /a
Phase I (Cr 288)  Phase II (Prop.)           Total
Type                   No.  Enrollment   No.  Enrollment    No.  Enrollment
National               (14)   (3,360)      (6)   (1,440)       (20)    (4,800)
Agriculture
Crops              11      2,640/b      -         -        11       2,640
Animal husbandry   3         720        2/c     480         5       1,200
Inland fishery      -          -        1/c     240         1         240
Marine fishery        -          -        1        240         1        240
Forestry              -          -        2/c      480        2         480
Provincial              (-)       (-)    (11)   (2,640)        (11)    (2,640)
Agriculture
Crops               -          -        8     1,920         8       1,920
Animal husbandry   -           -        3       720         3         720
Total             14      3,360       17     4,080        31       7,440
/a  Excludes one national fishery school (240 place) which was improved under
an FAO project.  All schools are existing except as indicated.
/b  Includes enrollment expansion of three schools from present 120 each to
240, under the proposed project.
/c  Not existing; to be established.
3.05      Recurrent Financing of Provincial Schools.  All of the 5 new schools
to be established would be national, and 3 of the 11 provincial schools to be
upgraded under the project would be converted into national schools. These
three schools would emphasize animal husbandry and, as such, their conversion
would be in accordance with a decision of the national Government to fully
finance livestock oriented schools. The national Government has a good
record of providing sufficient recurrent funds for national schools. The
provincial governments, however, generally do not provide sufficient recur-
rent funds for operation of the provincial schools (para. 2.12). At negotia-
tions, assurances were provided by the national Government that it would
cause the necessary recurrent funds to be provided when the provincial
schools become fully operational.
3.06      Curriculum.  The 14 schools under the project which would train
agricultural technicians (crop, livestock and inland fishery) would adopt
the curriculum introduced under the first phase project (para. 2.08). The
curriculum would, however, be reviewed and improved as necessary. New courses
in rural home improvement for female students would be developed and introduced
at all 28 agricultural schools (Table 3.2) in lieu of the farm mechanics and



- 21 -
machinery courses. On a temporary basis the project marine fishery school
would continue to follow the curriculum being offered at the Tegal Marine
Fishery School (Central Java) which has been improved with FAO assistance.
However, this curriculum would also be reviewed and any necessary changes
would be made. A three-year curriculum for forestry technicians would be
developed for the forestry schools to be established under the proposed
project. The review, improvement, or development of curricula would be
assisted by specialists to be provided under the project (para. 3.19).
3.07      Teachers.  Each project school would have 13 full-time teachers.
Of these, 9 would have at least a Sarjana Muda degree (grade 15) and the
rest, who would take charge of practical training, would be at least grad-
uates of agricultural development schools with no less than five years of
practical field experience in the extension service. All of the 14 schools
that were improved under Credit 288-IND have a sufficient number of quali-
fied full-time teachers for their present capacities. However, additional
teachers would be needed in the future for three of these schools which would
be expanded from a capacity of 120 to 240 students under the proposed project
(para. 3.04). Taking into account the present number of full-time teachers in
the existing schools which are included in the project, an additional 119
full-time teachers would be needed when the project is completed. The
teacher requirements of the different types of project institutions are as
follows:
Table 3.2: FULL-TIME TEACHER REQUIREMENTS OF PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT SCHOOLS
Number      Existing           Additional
Type of school    of schools    teachers         teachers required          Total
Agriculture            28           277                  87                  364
Forestry                2             -                  26                   26
Marine fishery          1             7                   6                   13
Total                31           284                119                   403
No problems are foreseen in recruiting teachers from the existing agricultural
universities which produce about 1,500-2,000 Sariana Muda graduates yearly.
Teachers (28) for the rural home improvement course would be selected from
the existing female extension staff.
3.08      There are no preservice training courses for agricultural teachers
in Indonesia. Instead, in-service training courses are given at the National
Agricultural Training Institute (NATI). Teachers are not considered qualified
until they have taken this course. All of the existing teachers of national
middle-level agricultural institutions have taken the teacher training
course, but only about 20% of the 600 full-time teachers of provincial and
private agricultural schools have done so. Therefore, all new teachers for
project schools, as well as the existing teachers who have not had any training



- 22 -
in pedagogy, would need to take the in-service training course at the National
Institute. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that by June 30, 1985 teachers of all the project schools who had no training
or received insufficient training in pedagogy would have completed the in-
service teacher training course.
3.09      Schools Under the First Phase Project (Education II, Credit 288-IND).
The 14 agricultural development schools which were improved under the first
phase project would be provided, as necessary, with additional facilities and
equipment to enable them to offer courses in rural home improvement and to
strengthen training in animal husbandry in support of present Government
programs to promote home improvement activities among farm women (para. 1.03)
and provide farmers with disease control and artificial insemination services
(para. 1.08). These programs were not considered as priorities in the
Government's agricultural development program when the first phase project
was developed and therefore training in these fields was not covered by
the project. Additional boarding places would also be provided to enable all
students to reside on the school campus (para. 2.09). Also, additional
facilities, equipment and housing would be provided for the three schools
which were designed for 120 students and would be expanded to 240 places
under the project.
In-service Training Centers (Estimated outlay, US$11.1 million, excluding
technical assistance and contingencies)
3.10      The objectives of this component are:
(a)  to extend in-service training opportunities for middle-level
technical staff of the MOA to six provinces where such
opportunities are not available;
(b)  to upgrade the quality and, where necessary, expand the output of
three existing training centers (two forestry, and one marine fishery
which were not improved under the first phase project nor by FAO;
(c)  to strengthen existing in-service training programs for livestock
technicians, add new programs for female extension workers and
animal health assistants and provide additional places and housing
for additional staff as necessary at 11 of the 13 /1 agriculture
centers and add laboratory and workshop facilities at the forestry
center, which was upgraded under the first phase project;
(d)  to improve and expand the inservice program for agriculture
teachers of national, provincial and private middle-level agricul-
tural training institutions; and
(e)  to develop a new training program for managers of MOA agricultural
development projects.
/l The other two of these centers will be provided with additional facili-
ties and equipment under a project assisted by the Japanese Government.



- 23 -
3.11      With the establishment of seven new agricultural in-service training
centers and the upgrading of three existing centers not included under Credit
288-IND, the proposed project would increase the number of improved training
centers to 27 including the center assisted by FAO (Table 3.3). Only 3
centers will remain unimproved. These three centers were not included in the
proposed project since the Government is considering relocating them and no
decision had been made by the time of appraisal.
Table 3.3: IMPROVEMENT AND EXPANSION OF IN-SERVICE
TRAINING CENTERS IN INDONESIA /a
Phase II
Phase I (Cr 288)       (Proposed)           Total
Student             Student            Student
Type                 No.   places         No.   places      No.   places
Agriculture            13     710          6/b    430/c       19    1,140
Marine fishery          -                  1        60         1       60
Forestry                2     160          2       160         4      320
Animal health           -       -          l/b      60         1       60
National institute    1       160          -        40         1      200
Total             16   1,030          10      750        26/d  1,780
/a  All centers are existing except as indicated.
/b Not existing; to be established.
/c Includes 70 additional places for three centers under Phase I (from
110 places to 180).
/d Excluding one center (60 places) improved under an FAO project.
When all training facilities are completed, the training places in all
training centers (including the FAO improved center (60 places) and the three
unimproved centers (220 places) would increase from the present 1,490 (Table
2.3) to 2,060 and the number of trainees per annum from 5,650 (Table 2.3) to
8,240. Only 8 of the 26 provinces of the country would remain without local
in-service training centers. These 8 provinces which at present have rela-
tively few agricultural personnel would continue to send their trainees to
neighboring provinces which have training centers. Each of the agriculture,
marine fishery and animal health centers would have 60 places and the fores-
try centers would have 80. To reach this capacity, 3 of the agriculture
centers improved under Credit 288-IND and an existing fishery center would be
expanded. Forty new places would be added to the existing 160 places of the
National Agricultural Training Institute (NATI). In addition, laboratory and
workshop facilities will be added to one forestry center assisted under
Credit 288-IND (para. 2.10).
3.12      The agriculture, forestry and fishery training centers would cater
to the training needs of middle-level technical staff of the MOA. In 1984
this staff is expected to consist of about 40,000 technicians distributed
among the five directorate generals (Food Crops, Estate Crops, Animal



- 24 -
Husbandry, Forestry and Fisheries) of the MOA (para. 1.10). The National
Institute would take care of the in-service training needs of the higher-
level staff of the MOA (about 3,000) and of agricultural teachers of all
middle-level agricultural training institutions in the country (para. 3.08).
3.13      Curriculum.  The agriculture, marine fishery and forestry in-service
training centers would continue to offer two general types of courses
(para. 2.10). At the agriculture centers, the first type (remedial program)
consists of three two-month courses in crop, livestock and inland fishery
which follow closely the technical subjects in the curriculum of the agricul-
tural development schools. At the forestry centers, the remedial program
consists of a ten-month course in forest and wildlife conservation, forest
exploitation and wood processing. At the marine fishery centers it consists
of a four-month course in navigation, engine operation and maintenance and
fish capture. The second type of courses in all of the above centers covers
a wide range of technical subjects and extension methods and techniques,
depending upon the discipline of the center (viz. agriculture, forestry or
marine fishery) and on the training needs of the staff. These courses are
offered to those who have completed the remedial program and to the staff who
are graduates of agricultural development schools. The animal health center
would conduct 4-6 month in-service courses for animal health assistants in
diagnosis,, treatment and prevention of animal diseases to support the ongoing
animal disease control program of the Government (para. 1.08). Technical
assistance would be provided under the project for improvement of the fores-
try, inland fishery and marine fishery curricula (para. 3.19). Courses in
two new fields would be added at the agriculture centers: (a) rural home
improvement for women extension workers; and (b) animal disease prevention
and control for animal health technicians. Technical assistance would be
provided under the project for development of these courses (para. 3.19).
3.14      At the National Institute a project management training program
would be introduced for staff who take charge of the various development
projects of the MOA (para. 2.14). The program, may include courses in
community survey and program planning, project preparation and development,
project administration and supervision, accounting and extension methods and
techniques. This program would be given priority over other administration
and management courses of the Institute until the training needs of project
managers are satisfactorily met. About 80% of the training places at the
Institute would be made available for this project management training. The
rest (20%) of the training places would be utilized for training in pedagogy
of new and under-qualified agriculture teachers. The project management
training program, as well as improvements to the teacher training program
would be developed with the assistance of specialists provided by the project
(paras. 3.19 and 3.20). Project management training would start in about
mid-1980.
3.15      The AAETE would be responsible for determining training needs in
close consultation with the different Directorates General of the MOA
and other relevant agencies of the Government, as necessary. In response to
these needs, the Agency would also take charge of initiating and developing
appropriate courses with the assistance of selected directors and staff
members of the middle-level agricultural training institutions. Before the



- 25 -
start of each training year, the Agency would prepare an in-service training
plan indicating: (a) the courses to be offered in each training center;
(b) course duration; and (c) the number of staff to be trained under each
course. In addition, the Agency would also allocate the training places to
the different agencies in accordance with their staff training needs.
3.16      Teachers.  Each training center for middle level staff would have
five full-time teaching staff whose qualifications would be at least a Sarlana
Muda degree in agriculture or related sciences. The national institute would
also have five full-time teachers who would have Sarjana degrees. Qualified
part-time teachers would be recruited as necessary from the agricultural
universities and qualified staff of the MOA. No problems are foreseen in
recruiting the required 30 additional qualified full-time and part-time
teachers. As in the case of the agricultural development schools (para.
3.08), the Government gave assurances at negotiations that all new full-time
teachers, and all existing full-time teachers who have had insufficient
pedagogical training would take the in-service teacher training course at the
Institute by June 30, 1985.
Technical Assistance (Estimated outlay, US$3.2 million, excluding
contingencies)
3.17      The technical assistance component under the proposed project is
designed to serve two objectives: (a) to provide support for the implementa-
tion of the training programs under the project; and (b) to assist the Govern-
ment in strengthening the educational planning and management capacity of the
AAETE. These objectives would be achieved through a combination of specialists'
services and fellowship training for teachers and Agency staff. The specia-
lists' services and fellowships to be provided under the project are as
follows:
Table 3.4: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Fellowships (man-months)
Specialist services   Short courses    Degree
(man-months)       and study tours  programs
Naval Architect                              6                                 -
Marine fishery education                    24                  -             54
Inland fishery education                    24                  -             54
Forestry education                          24                  -            144
Agricultural education
(crops and livestock)                     -                   -          1,044
Rural home improvement
education                                 24                  -             54
Agricultural teacher training               24                  -            126
Educational planning and
management                                48                 70            102
Total                                174                  70          1,578



- 26 -
To ensure timely implementation of the technical assistance component, the
Government prepared a plan for specialist services and fellowships. The
specialist services program indicated the following for each specialist:
(a) field of specialization and qualifications; (b) timing and duration of
service; (c) recruitment procedure; (d) duty station; and (e) terms of
reference. The fellowship program indicated the following for each fellow-
ship post: (a) field of training; (b) timing and duration of studies; and
(c) institution where training would be carried out. The fellowship program
took into account the staff training needs of each project institution. The
Government had also selected the agency to recruit the technical assistance
specialists to be provided under the project. During negotiations, the plan
for specialist services and fellowships were discussed and, with slight
modifications, were agreed upon by the Bank and the Government.
3.18      All the specialists would be under the adminstrative control of the
AAETE. The specialists would report directly to the Head of the Agency, or to
his authorized representative who would be responsible for supervising the
specialists' activities. This arrangement would be indicated in the employment
contracts of the specialists with the Government.
3.19      Assistance for Training Programs.  The specialists in marine and
inland fishery education would assist in reviewing the relevance of fisheries
training programs to the Government's fishery development program and to
training needs of fishery technicians (para. 2.08). Based on this assessment,
the specialists would help in designing and implementing necessary improve-
ments in training. A naval architect, to be provided under the project,
would assist in preparing the design and specifications of the marine train-
ing vessel (para. 3.04), considering international requirements for safety
and health provisions. The forestry and rural home improvement education
specialists would provide guidance in developing and implementing new train-
ing programs for students and teachers in their respective fields, based on
the functions and skill requirements of forestry technicians and home
improvement extension workers. The specialist in agricultural teacher
training would assist in reviewing and revising as necessary the curriculum
of the agriculture oriented schools and training centers and in determining
the training needs of middle-level agricultural teachers. Accordingly, the
specialist would help improve the existing in-service teacher training course
at the National Agricultural Training Institute. Access to these courses
would be made more easily available to teachers of provincial and private
institutions. All fellowships allocated for the different training fields as
indicated in Table 3.4 would be for development of the staff of the project
institutions.
3.20      Assistance for Planning, Management and Evaluation.  The special-
ists in program planning and management would assist the AAETE in strengthen-
ing the evaluation and planning unit of the Agency. This unit would be made
responsible for the overall planning of the agricultural education and
training programs of the MOA in relation to the country's current and long-
term development requirements (para. 2.11). The unit's main concern would be
to: (a) assess and regularly update the short- and long-term manpower needs
at all levels in the agricultural sector; (b) regularly evaluate the rele-
vance to employment requirements of the MOA's agricultural education and
training programs; and (c) plan for the improvement and further development



- 27 -
of the programs accordingly. In addition, the unit would assist in monitor-
ing and evaluating agricultural education and training projects under the
MOA. Fellowship training would be provided for key staff of the unit. The
specialists would also assist the Agency in setting up and coordinating a
tracer system in each of the project institutions to keep track, of the
employment and performance of their graduates. After the Planning Unit and
the tracer system have been established, the specialists would provide
leadership in conducting a middle-level agricultural manpower survey and a
tracer study of the graduates of the 14 project institutions improved under
Credit 288-IND, focussing on the placement and performance of the graduates.
The specialists assigned to the Agency would also be responsible for assess-
ing the need for training of higher-level MOA staff in project management and
for developing relevant training courses to be offered at the National
Institute. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government:
(a) that by June 30, 1980: (i) the planning unit under the AAETE would have
been strengthened with qualified staff as required; (ii) plans for carrying
out the manpower survey and project evaluation (tracer and follow-up studies)
would have been prepared, reviewed by the Bank and be ready for implementation;
and (iii) the training program for agricultural project managers would have
been developed in consultation with the Bank; and (b) that by June 30, 1981
the tracer system would have been set up in each operating project institution
and the manpower and tracer studies would have been completed.
Project Management and Preinvestment Studies (Estimated outlay, US$3.0 mil-
lion, excluding contingencies)
3.21      Specialists would be provided to assist in procurement, conducting
feasibility studies, preparation of future education projects, and in carrying
out project evaluation studies for the preparation of project completion
reports. Part of the technical assistance allocation for project management
and studies would be utilized to finance expenditures required for the collec-
tion of data for all of the studies to be conducted and for the preparation of
the reports. The AAETE would take charge of the preparation of the completion
report for the proposed project.



- 28 -
4. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
Cost of the Project
4.01      Summary of Project Cost.  The total cost of the proj:cwt is estimated
at about Rupiah 44 billion or US$71 million equivalent. The estimated cost by
project component is summarized in Table 4.1:
Table 4.1: SUMMARY OF COSTS BY PROJECT ITEM /a
Rupiah (Billions)               US$ (Millions)
Project item                 Local   Foreign   Total       Local   Foreign  Total
Agricultural Development
Schools (SPPs)
Additions to/expansion/
rehabilitation of
existing schools            1.30     1.21      2.51       2.08      1.93    4.01
Relocated/new schools         9.21      7.94    17.15      14.74    12.71   27.45
Subtotal               10.51      9.15    19.66       16.82    14.64   31.46
In-Service Training
Centers (ISTCs)
Additions to/expansion/
rehabilitation of
existing centers            1.42     1.15      2.57       2.27      1.84    4.12
Relocated/new centers         2.18      2.01     4.19       3.50      3.22    6.72
National Agricultural
Training Institute          0.10     0.09      0.19       0.15      0.15    0.30
Subtotal                3.70      3.25      6.95       5.92     5.21   11.13
Project Management
Support and
Technical Assistance        0.98     2.91      3.90       1.57      4.66    6.23
Total Base Costs             15.20    15.31    30.51       24.32    24.50   48.82
Contingencies
Physical                    1.52      1.53     3.05       2.43      2.45    4.88
Price                       5.34     5.45    10.79        8.55      8.72   17.27
Subtotal                6.86      6.98    13.84       10.98    11.17   22.15
Total Project Cost    22.06    22.29    44.36         35.30    35.67   70.97
/a  Totals may not add up due to rounding.



- 29 -
4.02      A breakdown of estimated project costs by categories of expenditure
is summarized in Table 4.2:
Table 4.2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE /a
Rp (billions)               US$ (millions)
Type of expenditure           Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total
Civil Works
Site development             2.31      1.54     3.84    3.69       2.46     6.15
Academic/communal          }
Student boarding           } 9.22      6.15    15.37   14.75       9.84    24.59
Staff housing              }
Professional services        1.27     0.85      2.11    2.03       1.35      3.38
Subtotal                12.80      8.53    21.33   20.47    13.65    34.12
Furniture and Equipment
Furniture                    0.83      0.55      1.38    1.33      0.88      2.21
Equipment                    0.60      3.39     3.98    0.95       5.42      6.37
Subtotal                  1.43     3.94      5.37    2.28      6.30      8.59
Technical Assistance
Fellowships                  0.07      1.95     2.02    0.12       3.11      3.23
Specialists 
Project administration /b  0.90        0.90      1.80    1.44      1.44      2.88
Subtotal                 0.97      2.85      3.82    1.56      4.55      6.11
Base Costs                    15.20    15.31    30.51   24.31    24.50    48.82
Contingencies                  6.87      6.98    13.85   10.99    11.17    22.15
Total Project Costs        22.07    22.29    44.36   35.30    35.67    70.97
/a Totals may not add up due to rounding.
lb Includes experts to assist in procurement, preparation of the project
completion report, conducting feasibility studies and preparation of
future education projects. Part of allocation would be used for logis-
tical support of the experts.
4.03      Bases of Cost Estimates.  Base cost estimates refer to January
1979. Costs of the project buildings have been determined by: (a) estimating
the required academic and communal facilities for the planned number of
students and staff on the basis of functional and economic accommodation



- 30 -
schedules; (b) assessing boarding requirements as a function of area require-
ments per student; (c) assessing the staff housing requirements to attract
qualified staff; (d) subtracting the usable existing facilities from (a),
(b), and (c) above; and (e) establishing the estimated area unit costs on
the basis of recent bidding experience. During negotiations the cost esti-
mates were updated on the basis of architectural sketch plans. Utilization
factors for the project agricultural development schools would average 75%
based on 42 teaching periods per week. Costs per square meter of gross floor
area range from US$75 for animal houses to US$150 for academic buildings.
These unit costs are comparable with building costs in the region (Malaysia,
Philippines and Thailand). Site development costs were estimated at 15-33%
of construction costs, depending on the accessibility of sites, land fill
requirements, and site facilities needed (e.g. fishponds). Cost adjustments
for locations have been incorporated in the costs of individual project
items. Gross areas and costs per student place are shown below.
Table 4.3: AREAS/COSTS PER STUDENT PLACE
Gross Area        Costs in US$ per Student Place
Site               Furn-  Equip-
(sq. m)    dev.  Buildings   iture   ment   Total
Academic/Communal
Aglr iltural Development
Schools
Agriculture                     11.5      415      1,655      150     640    2,860
Inland fisheries                11.5      660      1,655     150   1,025    3,490
Marine fisheries                10.1      365      1,455      130   3,460    5,410
Animal husbandry                12.4      445      1,785      150     770    3,150
Forestry                        11.6      420      1,670     150      770    3,010
In-Service_Training Centers
Forestry                        15.6      560      2,245     200   1,540    4,545
Agriculture and marine
fisheries                     22.1      790     3,180      250   1,700    5,920
Boarding
Agricultural Development
Schools                        6.5      235       940       85             1,260
In-Service Training Centers    6.9        250        990      90             1,330
4.04      The cost of professional services has been estimated using t'ae
applicable fee scale of the National Planning Agency (BAPPENAS), and ranges
from 8.25% to 14.0% of the estimated cost of construction and site develop-
ment, depending on the location. The building plans developed for the
first agriculture training project (Credit 288-IND) will be adjusted and



- 31 -
modified to fit the requirements of this project. Furniture costs have been
estimated at 9% of the construction costs, and equipment estimates were based
on equipment lists which are considered reasonable. The cost of equipment
per student place in the Marine Fishery development school is high compared
to the other project institutions. This is due to the need for a 40 place,
100-GT training vessel costing about US$600,000. This vessel is essential
for the practical training of marine fishery technicians. The alternative of
leasing or renting a vessel was considered during appraisal but not found to
be feasible. The technical assistance program was costed as follows:
US$80,000/ man-year for expatriate specialist services; US$13,000/man year
for fellowships for overseas training; US$2,000/person for overseas travel;
and US$750/person/ month subsistence for short-term fellowships.
4.05      Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange content of each
category of expenditure has been estimated as follows: (a) civil works and
professional services, 40%; (b) furniture, 40%; (c) equipment, 85%; and
(d) technical assistance and fellowships, 75%. The foreign exchange compo-
sition of the various categories of expenditure has been derived by analysis
of the tax, profit, overhead, materials, equipment and labor contents
of locally procured civil works, goods and services.
4.06      Contingencies.  The contingency allowance of US$22.2 million
includes: (a) physical contingencies estimated at 10% of the base cost;
and (b) price contingenies averaging 32% of the base cost plus physical
contingencies. Price contingencies were calculated on the basis of the
implementation schedule (Annex 3) and expected annual increases between 1979
and 1984 as follows:
Table 4.4: ANNUAL PRICE INCREASES
Annual Percentage of Price Increases
Year       Local       Foreign       Total
Civil works, furniture
and professional services           1979         30            7            22
1980        20            7            15
1981/82     15            7            12
1983/84      10           7             9
Equipment                             1979         30            7            10
1980        20            7             9
1981/82     15            7             8
1983/84      10           7             7
Technical assistance                  1979         30            7             9
1980        20            7             8
1981/82     15            7             8
1983/84     10            7             7



- 32 -
4.07      Customs Duties and Taxes.  Directly imported project items would
be exempt from customs duties and taxes. Of the estimated total project
cost including contingencies, taxes would amount to about US$3.0 million
equivalent.
Project Financing
4.08      The proposed loan of US$42 million would finance 100% of the
foreign exchange cost and 18% of the local cost or 64% of the total project
cost, excluding taxes and the cost of vehicles (para. 4.13). The Government
would finance the remaining costs. At full operating capacity, the annual
recurrent expenditures generated by the project would be about US$4.7 million
equivalent (1978 prices) which would amount to 37% more than AAETE's budgeted
recurrent expenditure for 1978/79. Since the full amount of these recurrent
costs will not be incurred until 1984 or 1985, and would be shared with the
provinces where the project provincial schools are located, it is reasonable
to assume that sufficient funds would be available to the Agency to cover
them. This seems probable given the rate of increase in recurrent expen-
ditures by the Agency from US$5.7 million equivalent in 1976/77 to US$12.5
million equivalent budgeted for 1978/79. During negotiations the Bank and
Government agreed on the estimated annual allocations in the Government's
FY1979-80 budget to cover expected project expenditures.
Implementation
4.09      Administration.  The project would be implemented by the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) which was established within the AAETE for the
first agricultural training project (Credit 288-IND). A decree (No. 66/Kpts/
Org/1/1979) was issued on January 22, 1979 by the Minister of Agriculture to
re-establish the PIU. The decree also provides for the strengthening of the
PIU. Due to the more extensive coverage of this project (54 sites) as compared
to that of the first agricultural training project (30 sites) two deputy
directors were added - one to assist in the implementation of the educational
aspects of this project and the other in implementation of the physical
aspects. In addition, the finance officer, procurement officer and the
architect of the PIU would be provided with qualified assistants. Provincial
implementation committees would also be organized as an implementing arm of
the PIU in each of the provinces where the project sites are located. Each
committee will be composed of representatives of the Provincial Departments
of: (a) Agriculture (Chairman); (b) Public Works; and (c) Home Affairs. The
composition of the PIU would be as follows:



- 33 -
Chart 4.1: ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
Head
AAETE
I
Director
PIU
Deputy *                         Deputy *
(Educational Aspects) a           (Physical Aspects)
4.10 ncPrOffesinacerrvicues.Prfenina  Aervhitcsrqie  frorincivil*
Off icer                                      Project
Implementing
[  X                           X                [ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Committees
b  Accountant* l   co Assistant* a      f         Engineer*  t
The Government is expected to re-appoint the previous PIU staff and appoint
all the needed additional staff at the start of their fiscal year ei April
1979.-
4.10      Professional Services.  Professional services required for civil
works and procurement of furniture under the project would be carried  out
by qualified local consultant architect firms acceptable to the Bank.
Contracts have been signed with four selected firmns. Substantial progress
llas been made in the preparation of site and sketch plans. Under the first
phase project (Credit 288-IND), the late hiring of architectural consultants
delayed civil works implementation by about 6 months. Funds (not exceeding
US$320,000) to pay for these professional preparatory services, prior to
signing of the proposed project, were made available under the Bank's Project
Preparation Facility arrangement.
* To be added.



- 34 -
4.11      Sites.  The Government would provide a minimum of 30 ha for each
new school site and 10 ha for each new training center site. Based on an
analysis by Bank staff of the land requirement of these training institutions,
the area of the sites to be provided would be adequate., Under Credit 288-IND,
the Government provided 50 ha for each project school site and 10 ha for each
training center site as agreed upon with the Association. However, the
Government met difficulties in acquiring enough land for the two new project
schools and additional land for two existing training centers. These centers
eventually were transferred to new sites. This caused a further five-month
delay in construction in addition to the delays already experienced due to
late appointment of architects (para. 4.10). As a result of these two
factors, the project incurred a total cost overrun of about US$1 million
equivalent or 8% over the total project cost estimate at appraisal. To avoid
similar delays in site acquisition, the Governors of each province where the
sites are located were requested by the AAETE to submit written guarantees to
the Government that the sites are available and free from encumbrances. All
the proposed sites were visited either by the FAO preparation mission or Bank
staff. All of the proposed sites were found to be adequate. During negotia-
tions the Government provided assurances that: (a) by December 1979 it would
finalize the acquisition of the necessary land for all the proposed project
sites (30 ha for each school and 10 ha for each training center); and (b) the
necessary access roads to newly opened sites would be repaired or constructed
prior to the start of building construction to avoid delays in project
implementation.
4.12      Implementation Schedule.  Civil works would be carried out in two
phases.  Project construction would start in October 1980 and be completed by
the end of 1982. The Government has modified the master equipment list
developed for the first phase project (Credit 288-IND) in accordance with the
equipment requirements of the proposed project. The list was agreed upon
with the Bank during negotiations. Procurement of equipment and furniture
would start about September 1979 and be completed around March 1983. Fellow-
ship training would start in January 1980 and be completed in mid-1983. The
first technical assistance specialist (naval architect, para. 3.19) would be
hired in October 1979. All specialist services would be completed by mid-1984.
4.13      Procurement.  Contracts for civil works, furniture and equipment
would be grouped to the extent practicable to increase competition in bidding.
Civil works contracts would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally in accordance with Government procurement procedures which
are satisfactory to the Bank; but foreign contractors would be permitted to
submit bids. Indonesia has well developed building industries and foreign
firms not already established in Indonesia are unlikely to bid due to the
relatively small bid packages, averaging US$0.5 million and the scattered
construction sites. Except for vehicles, contracts for furniture and equip-
ment costing more than US$50,000 equivalent would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines.
In comparison of bids for equipment and furniture, local manufacturers would
be given a preferential margin of 15% on the c.i.f. cost of competing imports
or the customs duty, whichever is lower. Except for vehicles, equipment and



- 35 -
furniture which cannot be grouped to form packages of more than US$50,000
equivalent would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally, subject to an aggregate amount of US$1.2 million equivalent. In
addition, miscellaneous items excluding vehicles in packages not exceeding
US$15,000 equivalent and subject to an aggregate total not exceeding
US$0.5 million equivalent, could be purchased off-the-shelf on the basis of at
least three price quotations. Instructional materials and books would also be
procured on the basis of regular government procedures for such items or,
where appropriate, from publishers after negotiations for bulk purchases.
During negotiations the Government advised the Bank that all project vehicles
would be procured locally due to the Government's regulations on the
importation of vehicles. Because this reserved procurement procedure does not
conform with the Bank Group's procurement guidelines, it was decided that
no vehicles would be financed under the proposed loan. Vehicles would be
procured entirely with Government funds. Review of tender evaluation
documents would be required prior to the award of civil works contracts
exceeding US$200,000 equivalent and furniture and equipment contracts
exceeding US$50,000 equivalent.
4.14      Maintenance.  Earlier Bank-financed agricultural training faci-
lities have been reasonably well-maintained. The Government generally
provides adequate budget for acceptable annual maintenance of physical
facilities. During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it
would allocate sufficient funds for the operation and maintenance of the
training vessel (para. 4.04) in accordance with the schedule to be agreed
with the Bank.
Disbursements
4.15      The proposed loan of US$42.0 million equivalent would be disbursed
over a period of five years as shown in Table 4.5. Disbursements would be on
the basis of:
(a) 60% of the cost of civil works;
(b) 100% of the c.i.f. cost of imported furniture and equipment, 95% of
the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured furniture and equipment,
and 65% of furniture and equipment procured locally; and
(c) 100% of the cost of fellowships, expert and professional services.
4.16      To the extent practicable, withdrawal applications would be aggregated
in amounts of US$50,000 or more prior to submission to the Bank for reimburse-
ment out of the proceeds of the proposed loan. Savings from project furds
could be used with the Bank's approval for components related to the proposed
and other World Bank Group assisted education projects. Funds drawn from the
Project Preparation Facility, not exceeding US$320,000, would be reimbursed
from the loan on the date of effectiveness (para 4.10). During negotiations
the Government and the Bank agreed on procedures for an annual audit of project
expenditures. Disbursements (Table 4.5) are expected to be completed by
December 1984.



- 36 -
Table 4.5: SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ 000)
IBRD/IDA                                Accumulated        Uadisbursed
FY & Semester        Disbursement       disbursements         balance
1980   1st               0.2                  0.2               41.8
2nd               0.3                 0.5               41.5
1981   1st               0.4                 0.9                41.1
2nd               0.6                 1.5               40.5
1982   1st               1.5                  3.0               39.0
2nd               3.0                 6.0               36.0
1983   1st               5.0                 11.0               31.0
2nd               8.0                19.0               23.0
1984   1st              10.0                29.0                13.0
2nd              10.0                39.0                3.0
1985   1st               3.0                42.0
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.17      The PIU director and his deputies shall closely monitor project
implementation and periodically evaluate the progress towards the attainment
of project objectives. Any implementation problems with which the PIU would
not be able to cope would be promptly referred to the Head of the AAETE by
the PIU director for appropriate action. The planning and evaluation unit of
the AAETE which would be stengthened under the project (para. 3.20) would
assist the PIU to develop a project monitoring and evaluation plan which
would be carried out during the life of the project. At the end of each
calendar year starting from December 1980 through the year of the project
Closing Date a project evaluation report would be prepared by the PIU in
consultation with the planning and evaluation unit of the AAETE and would be
copied to the Bank. The evaluation reports would be used in preparing the
project completion report (para. 3.21).



- 37 -
5. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
5.01      The principal benefit of the proposed project would be to help
eliminate one of the major constraints to implementation of the Government's
plans for development of the agricultural sector - the shortage of qualified
middle-level agricultural manpower. At full development (1984), about 1,400
additional well-trained middle-level agricultural technicians would be
produced annually by project schools. Including the output of the schools
improved under Credit 288-IND and FAO assistance, the total annual output of
all improved schools would be about 2,400. This would satisfy the following
approximate percentages of the annual requirements of the various agencies of
the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) for specialized staff: 50% in agronomy;
90% in livestock production; 50% in inland fisheries; 25% in marine fisheries;
and 40% in forestry. The remaining annual requirements would be met from
graduates of unimproved schools, who would be given remedial training at the
in-service training centers. Each year about 2,420 MOA staff would be
trained at the project in-service training centers in addition to about 4,900
presently being trained annually in existing centers, most of which were
established under Credit 288-IND. Of the total yearly output of these
training centers (7,320), 5,820 would receive courses in agriculture (includ-
ing livestock production and inland fisheries), 960 in forestry and 540 in
marine fisheries. Also, as the output of qualified agricultural development
school graduates increases, the burden on the in-service training centers to
provide remedial training would be reduced. This would enable the centers to
increase gradually the emphasis of training programs on sharpening the
technical expertise of the staff and keeping them abreast of developments in
agricultural research. At the National Agriculture Training Institute, about
800 administrative staff and 120 agricultural teachers would be trained
annually, an increase of 14% and 100%, respectively, over present numbers.
The benefits of the teacher training program would extend beyond project
schools, as teachers of private schools would be given access to the center
for the first time. The benefits of the new program to be offered by the
center for project managers would be of particular importance by contributing
to improvements in the planning and implementation of development projects in
the agricultural sector as a whole.
5.02      A further benefit produced by the project would be to improve the
distribution of training opportunities among the provinces of the country.
Twenty-one provinces would have adequate pre-service training institutions,
compared to 12 at present and 18 provinces would have local in-service training
centers, compared to 12 at present. Better access to good quality training in
the outer provinces will help to alleviate the serious lack of unqualified
staff in their Departments of Agriculture. This strengthening of the provin-
cial extension services is essential, in particular, in view of the Government s
plans to greatly expand the transmigration program.
5.03      Another of the important benefits of the project would result from
the strengthening of the institutional capabilities of the Agency for Agricul-
tural Education, Training and Extension (AAETE). This further institution
building, which was begun under the first agricultural training project



- 38 -
(Education II, of 1972, Credit 288-IND), would enable the Agency to better
tailor the training programs of the MOA to meet Indonesia's long-term agri-
cultural manpower requirements.
Risks
5.04      No unusual risks are foreseen in achieving the objectives of the
proposed project since it would be essentially a follow-up to the success-
fully completed first agricultural training project. The experienced
implementation unit of the first project which would be re-established and
strengthened would implement the proposed project. Steps have been taken in
design of the proposed project to prevent a recurrence of the problems which
occurred during implementation of the first project (i.e., cost overruns as a
result of delays in the appointment of consultant architects and in acquisi-
tion of some project sites).
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED
6.01      During negotiations, the Bank and the Government agreed on:
(a) a plan for specialist services and fellowships (para. 3.17);
(b) the estimated annual allocation in the Government's FY1979-80
budget for expected project expenditures (para. 4.08);
(c) the revised master equipment list (para. 4.12); and
(d) procedures for an annual audit of project expenditures (para. 4.16).
6.02      During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it
would:
(a) cause the necessary recurrent funds to be provided when the provin-
cial project agricultural development schools become fully opera-
tional (para. 3.05);
(b) cause teachers of all project institutions who had no training or
insufficient training in pedagogy to complete the in-service
teacher training course by June 30, 1985 (paras. 3.08 and 3.16);
(c) by June 30, 1980: (i) strengthen the planning and evaluation unit of
the AAETE with qualified staff as required; (ii) prepare plans for
carrying out the manpower survey and tracer studies and have them



- 39 -
reviewed by the Bank and ready for implementation; (iii) develop the
training program for project managers in consultation with the Bank;
and by June 30, 1981: set up the tracer system in each operating
project institution and complete the manpower and tracer studies
(para. 3.20).
(d) finalize the acquisition of the necessary land for all proposed
project sites 30 ha for each project school and 10 ha for each
training center by December 31, 1979 (para. 4.11);
(e) construct or repair access roads to newly opened sites prior to
start of building construction (para. 4.11).
(f) allocate sufficient funds for the operation and maintenance of
the training vessel in accordance with a schedule agreed with the
Bank (para. 4.14).
6.03      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project constitutes
a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$42 million equivalent to the Republic
of Indonesia for a term of 20 years, including a five-year grace period.



- 40 -
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS                                                 ANNEX I
MARiCH I1, 1979
G  NP/    X GNP  :% TOTAL:%  OF PUBLIC                     I                   :PRI. IAV.PRI.                           :  SEC
*    CAPITA:  DEVOTEDIPURLIC :EDUCATION    :LliER-    P RI. ICOMPLE-  :STU- :SCH.TEACH:PROGP"S-: SEC. :STU- :HIGHER:
*       AT   I TO EDU. I  EXP.    RECJRRENT    lACY         :ENROLLITION        IDENTSISALARK  IN:ION RATE IENROLLIDENTSIENRDLLI
*   MARKET: (PU9LI1CIDEVOTEDIEAP ALLOCATED;   HATE ;RATIO :RATE FRDRPER   :RELATION  :F'RDM PRI.  RATIO :PER   :RATIO 
*POP. :PRICES' EXP.        :  TO    :       TO;       1)% OR   I NET   :PRI.SCH. ITEACH;  TO GNP/ ITO SEC.   :NET  :TEACH- GROSS:
KR:MILLS.I  (US$): ONLY)          EDU. :PRI. SEC. HI.:ADULTS):  (%)  ICKCLE(%)IER                CAPITA   :  (%M (              :)ER     I%()
ADOVA NCED
AUSTRIA          74    7.SF 4.870F    5.3Y   8.5EY  24Y  SlY  15K    Sy               AR         93D      26D       2.00       990       51D      190    15.85Y
CANADA           75  22.9   7.135        7.3    16.7      30    37    26      953      99        97        19       2.0        99        90       18      (6.00
GERMANY F.REP.75  61.9  6.670            5.0    10.2      31EY 64-* 26EY  9Ri          90        99       23EY       .. ,      99V       84V      22C    20.26Y
J APAN           75 111.6  4,450         4.3E  20.7E    4OUY 37UV 11UY  99             99D      990       25        2.08       99C       99KV    20C   24.69Y
NETHEREANDS    75  13.7  5,425           9.4    22.40    21    39   25        STj      95        95       29        2.0         97       s0       20      12.00
NEw, ZEALAND    73    3.IF 4,280F        5.2    . ..      39    24    29      039      99        99       26        ...        99        67       19      24.00
NOPWAY           76   4.0  8.043         7.2    14.4      54   24    15    '.1J        99        99        16        1.5        99E      62       IlI    11.00
SA EB_EN         76   93.2  6.150        8,9    14.0      23   29    12       09j      99        99        16       ...        90?       950      13     30.OOC
L, . " .75  56.0  3.780              7,1    13.9      26   41    19       Sy      99         ...      24        2.0        ...       68       17     21.00K
5.S..          76 214.6  7,950          5.4    15.9    .. .   72=. 28        'iRE    99        99        22        .,.        99        93       19     24. 00'
EUROPE 
GREECE           76   9.i   2,590        2.6    10.4      37    26    2 1     Ube      99        920      31       2.0          70E      80       27      19.00
IRELAND          74    3.IF 2,.49CR      5.1    t3.90    43Y  41Y  14Y    98         109KV      99A       35       . ..        95A       65XY    19      15.47Y
PBTTBGAL         75    9.6  1,570        4.4    17.9      52    27    13      7o      98         55       2 1      3.0         70        29       14      7.60
ROKANIA          75  21.2  1.240         4.0      8.4     36    19    13      9U       101K      ...      2 1      ..          98        49       22     10.00
S PA IN          74  35.3F 2475CR        2.49   15.2A   49Y  22Y  15Y   94A    115KV             . ..     35A         .         . ..     79KV    30       17.68Y
EAF ICE
ALBERIA          77  16.9      9900      7.5    14.3FY  42              I  -2  35      7RX       45       39        4.0        55        26K      13       6.00
BENIN            74    3.iF   13CF       7.2N  36.01    47D  230   10D    11D          44KV      705      53K      25.08       438       11KV    398      0.74V
AC%SRANA         76    0.7     410       4.0    19.2      53   20    14        3       72X       95       32        3.0        60        12       22      0.30
BURU.NDI         74    3.7F   11OF    2.5    19.90   417R  419   138    113            20K       30?      39       0.0        14         2K      19       1.0
CAr/EROON        76    7.7     314       3.7    21.5      33   43    20 o              60        45       52       4.0         2.0        90)    24       0.9005
CA.R.            74    1.8F   220F    3.00   17.00    569   19B...                 .79XV         25       69V      . ..        18         8KV    27BV    0.21K
CHAD       ~75    4.0      120       3.0    10.0      79    22   ...      15      29X9V    30         65EV    15.0          8         2X8V   30       COl1By
CC.DG(5)    ~~~~74    1.3F   SIOF    6.0    19.3      40    32    21I    507    133X        63        63        6.0        49        33X      22      3.40
EGTPT            76  39.2      310       5.9N1    ..      30    32    25      44       76        s0       31         ..        79        45       20       12.00
E T-ICRPI A      77  29.0      100       2.4    12.5    41,    31    14       1Q       26        . ..     59         .         63         9       389       .
GATON            74    0.5F 2,540F       5.05   20.60    250    90  liD    ..    lOOK            25C      46C       5.0         186      31Y      21C     0.29V
CAYS IA          76    0.5      170      3.3    11.5      46    25      6     10       27        90        33      ...         92        13       25
GHANA            74    9.9F   590F       . ..   19.7Y    43Y  22V   2oKO .             60KV      628       30Y     ...          148      35XY    I6CV    10,9Vy
GUINEA           76   4.7       ISOF     4.3N0  ..        30    31    30      .        309       64       45         12 F      86        13X      26      4.00
IVCRY COAST    76    7.0       610       6.9    23.1      33   46    13        96     50        86        43       7.0         47        17XY   28        l.64Y
KIENYA           78  13.8      240       5.9    26.0      67    23    10      40       90?       607      34        6.0        30        IS       27       1.0
.050THO          75    1.2     160      12.05   23.0      49    Is    20      40       95        50       52        7.ON       e1        10       26       1.00
LIRERLA          75    1.5     410       2.4    13.2      27    15    20      7,,     59          .       35        2.0        ...       12       26       1.10AY
MADAGASCAR       74    9.8P    200F      3.2    22.1      SI    24    25       10      69K       30        63      15.0         48         9%     26       1.00
5A-AWI           77   5.6       140      2.2      9.3     40'   7   22    re ,         56K       21        6 1      5.0          9         5K     2 1      0.47
MAX         ~~~~~~75    S.7F    90F  4.2M  33.OF   45?   37F  191i   1OP          22XF       ..       48F      9.5F        SOP        6K      21        ..
/ALJRITANIA      71    1.3F   320F       4.1y  20.0Y5. .            .. .     106ID     17KV      ...       22A        .         ...        3KV    24A
1/AJRITIUS       76    0.98L    690      4.7    12.1      50    26      6     SOC      94        99        24       4.5          90      45       32       1 .50
MOROCCO0         76  18.2      540       8,1    15.2      399  499   13R    2ui        65X       33        40       ...         33        17K     22       4.00
NIBERIA          74  75.oF   340F        4.1DV 24.2DY  23V   16Y  42K    ..            49XY      . ..      34DV                 . ..      10KV    2OCY    0.49K
R,.ANDA          73   4.IF   lOOp        3.2C  29.00........   23                      52        . .      S5.                             2       13      0.23Cr
SENEGAI          76    S.1     390       3.3    26.0      46    34    20      10       32        ..       49       10.0        20        10       21       1.9
SIERRA LEONE  73    3.OF    200P         3.4    23.4      31    36    30      151      34X       45        32       4.0E       68        13X      21       0.53eV
SOMALIA          75   3.2       110      3.79   10.80    490   160   199    501        34X       66        35      10.0        60         3       15      0.10
SITDAN           76   15.9     290       4.5    19.9      49    36    16      20       34        74       33        3.8        33        14       24        1.24
56AZILAND        75    0.5     470       3.9      ---     38   31    19       50       73        71       38        3.83       51        24       22       1.00
TANZANIA         76  15.1      IS0       6.6    17.4      42   21    12    (( 0        93X       81       49        6.6         6         4K      19      0.34
T.N151A          73   S.6F   730F        6.3   23.4       37   43    19       55L      72        91       4 1       6.0        .31       14       2?       3.00
1.33506ND        75  11.6      230       3.4DV  15.70V   34EY 40EY 22EK   25A          53XY      ...       34EV      ...        14A        GXCV   21A      0.5SY
LPPER VOLTA    77    5.8       119       3.4    23.9      31    16    32       bc      13        23       5 1      24.0         19         2      25       1.0
ZAIRE            76  25.6       140      6.0    22.0      49    26    25      15       66X       44       42K       2.0        41        13K      27       1.00K
Z A!B IA         76    5.1     440       6.9    15S.91    54    22    22      39j      97X       80       49        7.0        21        16       23       1.50
CENTRAL AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
BARBADOS         76    0.2  1.620        9.1    22.1      43    31    16      ii      106K       99       21        2.0        99        94X      17
CESTA RICA       75    2.0     960       5.25   22.79    579  256   12B   tISA    109KV          658       299      3.08       598       52Kv     25Y7.S
E.RA       79   ~~~~~~~9.5  9,500  9.0    11.0........ 011~                      99        99        22        2.7        99       65        15     9.00
CO,TINICAN REP.72    4.7F   72CF         3.0    13.9      42    24    22      S~       90s       17        54        3.00       63        13.5    24       7.00
E_SALVADOR    75    4.0      460       3.6    23.9      61      5    22     606      65C       ...       39CV      .          39        13KC    21CV    4.358Y
C_A7EMALA        73    6.3P'   570r      1.9    16.0       55    23    14     47       64        26        25        3.0        69         9      25       4.09y
FAITI            76    4,7     200       1.0      9.0     61    21    11      206      25F       13        56U      3.0         62         4      ...       0.7
I-ONDURAS        75    2.9     3900      4.20   19.60    62G  15G  isG    53           79        30        35        3.0        68        11      17       4.00
.AMAICA          76    2.i   1,070       9.9    16.2      37    33    22      bGE      91        52       39        4.5        94        64       25       7.59
MEXICO           75  59.9  1.050         3.109  12.00Q  51V  26Y  12K    73           1 12KY     31        46        3.0        63        35KV    236      8.97EY
NICARAGUA        74    2.3F    70OP      2.5    14.2      61    13    13      57       65        21        37        2.0        93        17      24       7.00
TRINIDAD 6 T. 77    1.1  2,185           4.5    14.1      46    32    oo      9i,      98        91       30         3.0       49        62       24        ..
S0.TH AMERICA
BO-LIVIA         76    5.9     31SF      5.0    17SF........   39                      7B       29D       24       SR          .. .       48     190
BRAZIL           75 107.0  1,030         5.0    12.4      42E  206    37E  64A         8660       .        27CKY     ..          .        260     15CK    6.009
C-I.-E           75  10.3      990       3.9RV  12.58K   23K   1CY  SOY    . ..    I19K          ..        35Y       ...         .        48XY    .. .   16.55Y
CLO.MBIA         74  23.6F   580P        3.3DY 21.20Y  440K 220K  ITY   73            1055K      20        33K       4.0        90        36XV    149      6.67V
....ADOR         75    7.1     590       3.70   27.7C0..  ..   . bBO                  102KY      . ..      38C       .. .       . ..      39KV    14C      ..
0-YANA           74    0.8F   SloF       5.61N  14.79    47    35    14       833      92X       39        33        8.0        19        62X     24       1.00
P<5AGUAK         74    2.6F   59CR       1.5    11.0      55    13    22      Si       52        26        30        1.9        65        17       12      5.00
REAd             75   15.4      760      4.20Y 21.7Cr   400   22Y  150    72          111KV      36        390Y      3.0        70        48XV    230V   14.41Y
UA..GUAY         75    2.8  1,300        2.5    15.3       46    34    20      94,     935        .        24        ...         3        ...      10
VENEZUELA   ~~~73   12.0P 2,280P     4.6    19.9      300   260  359    B/A        91el        .       33        2.4        .. .      33       .       26C



- 41 -
COMIPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS  (CDNTD)                                   ANNEX I  PAGE 2
MARCH 1, 1979
GNP/   K GNP  :% TOTAL:%  OF PUBLIC                :       1          :PRI. :AV.PRI.                        :  SEC
:CAPITA: DEVOTED:PLU9LIC    EDUCATION    :LITER-   PRI. ICOMPLE- :STU-- ISCH.TEACHIPROGRESS-I  SEC. :STU- :HIGHIER:
:AT  : TO EDU. :  EXP.: RECURRENT    lACY          :ENROLLITION       :DENTS:SALARY INIION RATE IENROLL:OENTS:ENROLL:
:MARKET: (PUBLIC:DEVOTED:EKP ALLOCATED:  RATE :RATIO IRATE FOR:PER  :RELATION :FROM PRI.:RATIO :PER  :RATIO  
POP. :PRICES: EXP.      1  TO    :      TO:      :(% uF  : NET   :PRI.SCH. ITEACH: TO; GNP/ :TO SEC.          NET   :TEACH- GROSS:
YR:MI LLS.:  (US$): ONLY)       EDU. :PRI. SEC. HI. ADULTS):()  :CYCLE(%):ER               CAPITA   :   M          (%)  IER     I()
ASIA A~.D OCEANIA
AFGHANISTAN   77M 14.3    1600         1.8   11.6    47   19   15    12           29X      69       37        3.00        62       B1     17      1.00
BANGLADESH      73  79.5$      91$     1.2   20.2    44Y  22Y  21Y   230          50K      ...      48D       ...        ...      23KD   289        .
CHINR)TAIWAN) 73  16.0$'   930$        3.2   14.0    28   41   22    92           990      94       40       14.0       64        61C    26      20.OOC
INDIA           75 608.1     140      2.6VY .          ...    .....    299       65XY      .. .     43A       .. .      .. .     29XY   2OAY   2.34EY
INDONESIA       76 131.2    240        3.0    11.0    26   32   19    JOB         79EX    43E       30E       2.0       52E       1REX   14E    2.00
IRAN           73  33.4$ 1,661$        3.3   12.6    50B  189  126   SI           77       74A      32        5.06      BOA      24       32      4.32CY
IRAQ            75  11.1  1,250       6.7C  16.3DR....                   2C      9K ...             32.. 2. 9X  ... 2            35XV    26C    6.47Y
JCPDAN          73   2.7$   481$       7.0     8.8    52   18   21    59         911       76       38        9.0       64        50K     22      4.00
KCREA           76  35.9    698        3.0   15.6Q   85   13    B    92$    103X           97       50        2.6       80        84      39   14.4
LEBANON         72   3.2F 1,170$       3.5   16.0    39   40    10    68         96        65       19        2.0       63       26U      25     23.00
MALAYSIA        76  12.6    660        6.7   26.0      42   34   15    610C    98          93        32       3.7       78        48      29      3.00
NEPAL           76  12.6F   11OF    1.1   11.0    29   20   41            19      59       29        31       2.3       64        14      24      0.9
OMlAN           72   1.8F 2,310F    1.7N   3.6    96    -   -             20      24X      99        27$      1.0       0.4X0.4K.9
PAKISTAN        75  69.2    160        1.6   16.2    45   25   lB    21           47X      50       39        2.0       ..        171     lB      6.00
PAPUA N.G.    75   2.9    470          5.6   16.1    38   16   24    32           577      73P      31       11.0       90        12X?   24       0.90?
PHILIPPINES   74  42.3$   380F    2.5   14.8    73   15   12    B?               104K      ...       34      15.0        ...      46X     .. .   21.00
SINGAPORE       74   2.3$ 2,450F    2.7Y   9.2Y   39V  39$  1 7T   75A   109KV             72A      31Y       .. .      99A       446$    24      7.6RV
SYRIA           75   7.4    720        3.6   6.9       39   25   26    53         89       70       35        2.0       92        45      21     12.00
THAILAND        73  41.9$   380$       4.0N$ 20.7$   88       9   15    92        87K      830      32        3.0 U    910        2IE     24      2.00
TURKEY          73  40.2$   811$       5.8CY 20.80$ ... .. .....                  685$     ...       34V      .. .       ...      24$     27DY   5.83Y
YEMEN           73   5.9$   211$       0.5    4.0    45P  21P  23P   10           15K      IB       36        5.0       75         2K     19      0.05EV
YEMEN P.D.R.  76   1.7    280          6.6     ..      57   29      8    2u       99K      48       30        5.0       94        21X    24       0.10
SUMMARY $09 DEVELOPING COUNTRIES:
NUMBER OF COUNTRIES:                   94     90      88   86   95      87       95       74       95          69      77       94       91       94
RANGE:                              (0.8-  (3.9-  (25- (5-  (2-   (3-         (14-      (13-     (19-       (1.9-    (7-      (.4-    (9-       (.01-
12.0 ) 33.0)   96 ) 47)  41)   99)          133K)   99)    69)    25.0 )   99)             90  )  39)   23.0)
QUARTILESIUPPER                      5.1   21.2    54   32   22    73          94        76       46          7       93       36       25      7.0
MEDIAN:                  3.9    16.3    45   23   19    50          76       55        36         4       63        17      23      2.3
LOWER 1                  3.0    12.4    38   lB   12    20          53       30        32         3       43         9      20        .9
SYMBOLS: ... DATUM UNAVAILABLE                A=1970 OR BEFORE            M=CURRENT PRICES                        SOURCES:
-  MAGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE 9=1971                          N GOP----
7  QUESTIONABLE                    0=1972                      P=INCLUDING FOREIGN AID                   COLUMNSI1 AND 2 WORLD BANK ATLAS
*INCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS 0=1973                          U'CENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                         OR 1690 MISSIONS
*.COMBINED WITH PRIMARY           E=1974                      K=MINISTRV 0$ EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY                 3 TO 14 I8RD MISSIONS
***  UNDER REVIEW                     F-1975                     S-MOE AND STATE COVT. ONLY                                   AND/OR UNESCO
1=1976                      TEXCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                    STATISTICAL
U-PUBLIC ONLY                                               YEARBOOK
V=INCLUO1NG PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
I-INCLUDING OVERAGED STUDENTS
Y=UNESCO SOURCES
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION DATA ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION 0$ VARIOUSt EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES OF EDUCATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT BETWEEN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. HOWEVER,oN THE BASIS OF' TTiE PRESENT DATA,CROSS-NATIONAL COMPARISON SHOULD BE APPROACHED WITH
GREAT CAUTION. DATA PRESENTED IN THE ABOVE TABLE HAVE BEEN COLLECTED LARGELY BY THE BANK MISSIONS FROM GOVERNMAENT SOURCES; THE
REMAINDER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES OR DATA $90O1 UNESCC. EFFORTS H-AVE DIEN MADE6 TO STANDARDIZE DEFINITIONS AND WITHIN LIMITS, TO CHECK THE
ACCURACY 0$ THE DATA. NEVERTHELESSESUCH OATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE BANK IS WORKING TO IMPROVE THEM
PROGRESSIVELY ON THE OCCASION 0$ ITS OPERATIONAL 808RK. IN THL USE OF THESE DATA, THE FOLLOWING QUALIFICATIONS SHOULD BE BORNE IN
MIND:
(I)"EDUCATION" AS DEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATIOTN AND TRAINING. FORMAL AND NON-FORMAL;
(2)"PRIMARY EDUCATION REFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LLVEL AND "SECONDARY" EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECONDARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS 0$ TAPE (E.G. GENERAL, TECHNICAL, AGSICULIURAL) I
(3aPLITERACY RATES"(CDL.6) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED FROM COUNTRYT L.LNSUSES. IN MANYCOUNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND IT IS
DOUBTFUL THAT ANY UNIFORMI DEFINITION OF "LITERATE" HAS CALF. FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY;
(4)"PUBLIC EXPENDITURE IN EDUCATION`)COLS.3.4 AND 5) REFER Tu ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOTED TO EDUCATION BY
PUBLIC AND QUAS1-PJBLIC AGENCIES;
(5SyENROLLMENT RATIOS"(COLS 7, 12 AND 14) REFER TO SCHOOL TEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED) FULL-TIME
EN THE APPROPRIATE SCHOOL, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE By LEVEL. TIILY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TO A WIDE MARGIN OF ERROR IN THE DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES OWING TO VARIATION IN THE ACCURACY OF BASIC DATA)I.E. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS). ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREQUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER OP STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN SCHOOL. OVERAGED STUDENTS WHOSE INCLUSION IS INDICATED BY
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS.



- 42 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
Project Institutions (54)
Type         Assistance
Locations                        Administration        (curriculum)     proposed /c
Ac  Agricultural Development
Schools (SPPs) /a
l. Medan, North Sumatra                 National          Agriculture       Additions
2. Padang, West Sumatra                    "                   "                 "
3. Palembang, South Sumatra                "                   "                 "
4.  Bogor, West Java                       it                  "                 "
5f  Yogjakarta, Yogjakarta                                                      ft
6. Malang, East Java                                                             It
7.  Mataram, West Nusa Tenggara                                                  t
8~ Gowa, South Sulawesi                    i'                                   ft
9. Malang, East Java                                     Animal husbandry
1O.  Saree, Aceh                                               it
i1.  Cinagara, West Java                                        it
12.  Banjar Baru, South Kalimantan                         Agriculture           " /d
13O  Ambon, Maluku                          "                   "                   /d
14.  Manokwari, Irian Jaya                                                         /d
15.  Pakanbaru, Riau                     Provincial                          Rehabilitation /d
16.  Kepahiyang, Bengkulo                   ""                                     /d
17.  Padang Mangatas, West Sumatra                  l /b   Animal husbandry        T /d
18.  Magelang, Central Java                         l /b        i" /d
19s  Brebes, Central Java                   "              Agriculture       Relocation /d
20.  Samarinda, East Kalimantan             i tf                                   /d
21. Manado, North Sulawesi                  ft                 ft                  /d
22.  Palu, Central Sulawesi                 i                   ft
23. Kendari, Southeast Sulawesi             i tt                                   /d
24~ Aertembaga, North Sulawesi              "             Marine fishery
25>  Rappang, South Sulawesi                        l /b   Animal husbandry        /d
26.  Jambi, Jambi                           if            Agriculture              /d
/a  Numbers 1 to 14 have been upgraded under the first phase project (Credit 288-IND).
/b Will be converted into national schools.
/c Additions involve provision of additional facilities for new courses and
student boarding.
/d Student places would be increased at these schools.



- 43 -
ANINEX 2
Page 2
Type          Assistance
Locations                         Administration         (curriculum)       proposed
27.  Sidoarjo, East Java                   National          Inland fishery       New SPP
28.  Kupang, E. Nusa Tenggara                               Animal husbandry            s "
29.  Kadipaten, West Java                                       Forestry           "   i
30.  Samarinda, East Kalimantan                                    t   it
31.  Pleihari, South Kalimantan                             Animal husbandry       "   "
B. In-Service Training Centers
(ISTCs) /a
1.  Bandarbuat, West Sumatra              National          Agriculture /b       Additions
2.  Lembang, West Java                       "                    "                 i
3.  Ungaran, Central Java                                        if
4.  Saropadan, Central Java                                      of
5.  Ketindan, East Java                                           it
6.  Bedali, East Java                                             of
7.  Denpasar, Bali                                                f "               "
8.  Binuang, South Kalimantan                                     t"
9.  Samarinda, East Kalimantan                                Forestry
10.  Saree, Aceh                                             Agriculture             "  /c
11.  Tanjung Morawa, North Sumatra                                                   t ft /c
12.  Martapura, South Sumatra                 "                    "                    I/c
13.  Pemetang Siantar, North Sumatra                           Forestry         Rehabilitation
14.  Ambon, Maluku                                           Marine fishery          "  /c
15.  Pakanbaru, Riau                                           Forestry         Relocation
16.  Pakanbaru, Riau                                         Agriculture        New center
17.  Jambi, Jambi                             ""
18.  Yogjakarta                                                                      it
19.  Manado, North Sulawesi                                                          i f"
20.  Kupang, East Nusa Tenggara               ""
21.  Pontianak, West Kalimantan               "                    "t
22.  Cinagara, West Java                                     Animal health           "
C.  National Agricultural Training
Institute (NATI)
23.  Ciawi, West Java                                      Administration &    Additions /c
teacher training
/a  Numbers 1 to 12 and 23 have been upgraded under the first phase project
(Credit 288-IND).
/b  Including animal husbandry and inland fishery.
_c  Student places would be increased at these centers.



INDONESIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1978                  1979                  1980                    1981                  1982                   1983                   1984
IMPLEMENTATION CHART   _
1    2    3    4      1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1-   2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2                 3    4    1        2    3-4
Project Management
1. Planning of Project
Implementation Unit
2. Establishment of
Office
3. Appointment of Staff
Civil VViorks
4. Selection of Architect
Corisultants
5. Preparation of
Architects' Brief
6. Appointment of
Architects
7. Site Survey,Evaluation
and Acquisition
B. Preparation of Site
Development Plans
9. Preparation of
Standard Sketch Plan s
10. Submission of Sketch
& Site Plans to Bank                                                                                                                                                                                         4-
11. Preparation of Final
Design Plans
12. Preparation of Working
Drawings, Specs/Tender
Documnents
13. Submission of Tender
Documents to Bank
14. Prequalification of
Contractors
1 5. Tendering                                                                           mm
16. Bid Evaluation
17. Bank Approval &
Contract Award
18. Construction Period                                                                             WIN                         a I I
19. Liability Period                                                                                                                  mil l am1
Work  Accomplishment         4 4 4 7 7 7 7 7  6 6 6  5 5 5 4 4  3 2 2 2 1                                                                       lb
Expenditure (GOI) %          0 4 4 4  7 7 7 7 7  6 6 6  5 5 5  4 4 3 2 2 2 1                ii
_   I   _   I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I I  I  I      I        I     I            -   l    l           l          l                       j>C
LEGEND:        is   phase of tendering and construction
*mmmmsem2nd phase of tendering and construction                                                                                             World Bank - 19928



INDONESIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
IMPLEMENTAION SCHEDULE
1978                    1979                    1980                    1981                    1982                    1983                    1984
IMPLEMENTATION CHART              --- _
1     2    3     4      1    2                  1F   i 2I            i      2      3   4        1     2     3    4      1     2     3    4            2    '3    4
Furniture and
Equiprment Procurment
20. Preparation of Master
Lists
21. Submission of MasterI
List to Bank                                                                               I
22. Preparation of Specs &
Tender Documents                                                           son IEEh I7r W,
23  Submission of Tendert
Documents to Bank                                                                                 W.. 
24. Tendering                                                                                 *h~~
25. Bid Evaluation                                                                                 losEEE1
26. Bank Approval andI
Contract Award                                                              -                      IiiI
27. Manufacturing and
Delivery                                                                                             IEuE,EEJlJ
28. Guarantee and                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
Liability                                                                                                                 EE*mmhhgeE               I1111
Procurenient of Fishing Vessel
29. Preparation of Plans
and Specifications
30. Preparation of
Tender Documnents
31. Submission of Tender
Documents to Bank
32. Prequalifications of
Boat Builders
33. Tendering
34. Bid Evaluation &
Contract Award
35. Manufacture and
Delivery
36. Guarantee/LiabilitY
Phase 1 (117.8% wt.) Expenditure  80%  10%   10%
Phase 2 (16.8% vvt.l Expenditure                          803%  10%   10%
Phase 3 156% wt.I                                                      80%         10% 10
Boat  Const.ructio n (9.4 % wt.)      50%11                                                                                                                            
LEGEND:                  first phase
I a I I    ,II  Iasecond phase
~rVAAI  third phase                                                                                                                                World Bank -19929



INDONESIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1978                   1979                   1980                    1981                    1982                   1983                    1984
IMPLEMENTATION CHART    _                    -          __
1     2    3    4      1           3]4         1     2    3    4      1     2    3    4       1    2    3    4       1    2      3    4      1    2      3    4
Technical Assistance
A. ExpertsI
1. Naval Architect                              I s UE
2.  larine Fishery
3. Inland Fishery                                                                     ...  ...
4. Forestry                                                                           aaa  ll           ::I1                                        mm
S. Home Improvement                                                                                     no's
6. Ag. Teacher Trg.                                     ones l2S             I on
7. Ed. Planning & Mgt.                                    l   INII*ae_                                                         (2 experts)
B. Fellovships
8. Ph.D. Program                                               as s                                                                                             e ows                                                   4:
9. M.S. Program                                                                                               (20 fellows)                                                                                               I
i   s"g ""||l  _  _Esas1|gXl              T       i  / ~~20 felowvs)  =      I2 llos  t  elw 
C. Short Term Studies                                                                               ***a,ul*u                  i ] ii  ON (1E fellows for each group)
D. Professional International
Seminars and Workshops-a/
E. Project Mgt/Studies
LEGEND   ImhhhIlhIE Selection or recruitment                                                                                                                                                           tA
Service or period of stay
a/ For a total of 10 man-months to be scheduled accordingly.                                                                                    World Bank - 19930



- 47 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDONESIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector or Subsector
1. The organizational structure and working procedure of the Ministry of
Agriculture. Decree of the Minister of Agriculture
No. 190/KPTs/ORG/5/Year 1975.
2. Reappraisal of Forestry Education and Training Needs in Selected
Countries in Asia and the Far East, FAO, 1978.
3. Indonesian Fisheries. Directorate General for Fisheries, Department
of Agriculture, 1974.
4. Marine Fisheries Training Project, Tegal (FAO), 1976 (in Indonesian).
5.  Indonesia:  Country Programme Management Plan.  Summary of Project
Proposals, January-December, 1978. UNDP, January 1978.
6. Draft Second Country Programme for the Republic of Indonesia - 1979-83.
UNDP, January 1978.
7. Indonesia: Draft Livestock Survey Report, FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Programme, 1978.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
1.  Project Completion Report, Credit 288-IND.  July 1978.
2. Preparation Mission Report: Agricultural Education and Training (two
volumes).  FAO/IBRD CP, July 1978.
3. Trained Agricultural Manpower Requirements in Indonesia. AAETE,
Ministry of Agriculture, November 1976.
4. Manual on Organization and Administration of Agricultural Education
and Training in Indonesia. AAETE, Ministry of Agriculture,
September 1976.
5. Conduct of Training for Agricultural Mantris and Field Extension
Workers. Decree of the Minister of Agriculture.
No. 342/Kpts/Um/7/1974.



- 48 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
6. Compulsory Lodging for Students of Government SPMA (Agr-czultural
Senior High School) and SNA12IA (Animal Husbandry High School).
Decree of the Minister of Agriculture No. 505 Kpts/Um/9/1977.
7. Operating policy of Agricultural Education Training and Extension in
the Five Year Development III (1980-84). Ministry of Agriculture.
8. Project: The Expansion of Rural Families. AAETE, Ministry of
Agriculture, March 1978.
C.  Working Papers, Tables, Drawings
1.   Educational Working Papers
2.   Architectural Working Papers
3.   Some Agricultural Statistics
4.   Middle Level Agricultural Manpower Requirements (1980-89) and Supply
5.   Education Financing
6.   Recurrent Financing, Indonesia VIII
7.   Agricultural Labor Force (1979-84)



b>=<_.o sg e ZOwm sf<s  <_>_/ - 
RH  .o    .      ,oZ  )BZ  fcv    
r S > gc <g z   ff > J   ;   m    ;  >    ;    -      !0  ; *g   >
z  m  t >   3;       >         tg         W      1,~~~~~~~~
/ t4 3 F<  )2 . e,D 
S -~~~~~>    XgrD,D
z   ,X,   d   m~~~~~~~~~~~~~s?  S  3--?/,rL_,   D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
b        -A -    -  S    r_    ,1                                  ,        2v
ciX                              
2  4                     >         r              .         t  r,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
t,9 O . .. n , Q z p D ; 0~~~~~
P.PU   NEW GUNEA>



