Document of                    FILE  Copy
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2506-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
SECOND AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
April 12, 1979
|  This document has a restricted distnibutfon Ond may be used by recipients only in the perforance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed withot World Bank authorization. 



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1                   Rp 625
Rp I               -    US$0.0016
Rp 1 million       -    US$1,600
Rp 1 billion       -    US$1,600,000
GLOSSARY
AARD          -   Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
AAETE             Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and
Extension
BAPPENAS     -   National Planning Agency
BIMAS        -   Mass Guidance - a farm input-credit package program
GT            -   Gross ton
INPRES       -   Presidential Instruction - a rural public works
program
IPB          -   Agricultural University, Bogor
MOA           -   Ministry of Agriculture
NATI          -   National Agricultural Training Institute
PIU          -   Project Implementation Unit
Repelita      -   National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I,
1969-74; Repelita II, 1974-79; Repelita III,
1979-84)
SPP          -   Agricultural Development School (senior secondary
level)
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
SCHOOL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



INDONESIA           FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SECOND AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiary:           Ministry of Agriculture
Amount:                 $42 million
Terms:                  20 years including 5 years of grace period at an
interest rate of 7.9% p.a.
Project Description:   The proposed project constitutes the second phase of a
program initiated under Cr. 288-IND to improve the
quality and supply of middle-level agricultural
manpower. The proposed project would: (a) upgrade
12 existing agricultural development schools and three
existing in-service training centers; and (b) establish
five new agricultural development schools and 7 new
in-service training centers. The majority of these
schools and centers would be located in provinces
outside Java. In addition the project would introduce
courses in animal health and rural home improvement in
all agricultural development schools and training
centers. The project would develop and introduce an
agricultural management training program and includes
fellowships and technical assistance for management,
training, procurement, preparation of future education
projects, middle level agricultural manpower survey,
and tracer study. The main benefit of the project
would be to help ease the shortage of qualified
middle-level agricultural manpower. Given the positive
outcome of the first project (Cr. 288-IND), no unusual
risks are foreseen.
Estimated Cost: /1                       Local        Foreign      Total
----------($ milllion)--------
Agricultural development schools    16.82           14.64      31.46
In-service training centers           5.92           5.21      11.13
Technical assistance      )           1.57           4.66       6.23
Fellowship and studies )
Base Cost                        24.32          24.50      48.82
Contingencies
Physical                            2.43           2.45       4.88
Price                               8.55           8.72      17.27
Total Project Cost               35.30          35.67      70.97
/1 Totals may not add up due to rounding.
This docufnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Financing:              The proposed loan of $42 million would cover 64% of
the total cost of the project excluding taxes and
reserved procurement of vehicles (100% of the foreign
exchange cost and 18% of the local cost). The Govern-
ment would finance the remaining 36% from its budgetary
resources.
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY         1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
…--- -----($ million)      -------- - -
Annual           0.5    1.0    4.5   13.0   20.0    3.0
Cumulative       0.5    1.5    6.0   19.0   39.0   42.0
Staff Appraisal Report:       No. 2274d-IND dated April 9, 1979.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR
A SECOND AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $42 million for
20 years including a grace period of 5 years at an interest rate of 7.9% p.a.
to help finance a Second Agricultural Training Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        The latest economic report on Indonesia, "Indonesia:  Growth
Patterns, Social Progress and Development Prospects," of February 20, 1979
(No. 2093-IND) was circulated to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979.
The report's main findings are that:
(a) aided by a massive improvement in the country's resource position
during the early 1970s and innovative policies, considerable
progress has been made towards raising the level of material
well-being for the bulk of the Indonesian population, including
the lowest income groups;
(b) due to a number of new, mostly exogenous circumstances,
including an expected slow-down in the growth of oil production,
Indonesia is now facing a rapidly tightening overall resource
position which will make it more difficult to maintain high levels
of income and employment growth, while at the same time preserving
monetary stability and external balance;
(c) the recent (November 15, 1978) devaluation of the Rupiah from
Rp 415 to Rp 625 to the US dollar, while strongly supportive of
the structural changes required to reduce economic dependence on
oil and to improve long-term development prospects, should not be
regarded as a substitute for efforts needed to remove physical and
administrative bottlenecks and to develop effective support services;
(d) although the Government (because of the structure of its revenues
and expenditures) is a prime beneficiary of devaluation-induced
income shifts from import users to net-exporters, significant
additional public sector resource mobilization efforts will be
needed to prevent a sharp decline in the share of Government
savings in GNP beyond 1979/80;
(e) while the next five to ten years may be difficult because of the
structural changes needed to adjust to a post-oil boom era, Indonesia's
long-term development prospects have been significantly enhanced by
LI Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Third Urban
Development Project (No. P-2440-IND), circulated under cover of R79-1,
dated January 4, 1979, and approved by the Executive Directors on
January 16, 1979.



- 2 -
the Government's successful population policies which have already
contributed to a substantial (approximately 20%) reduction of
fertility on Java and Bali during the past decade. These crucially
important demographic developments will, in due course, particularly
after the mid-1980s, be reflected in reduced and declining rates of
growth of the labor force. Declining labor force growth rates and
the prospects of declining income elasticities of demand for food
justify the hope and expectation that with sound policies, Indonesia
can and will eventually - possibly within the next two decades -
overcome the severe poverty and food security problems that still
plague the country today. The solution of these fundamental problems
through the pursuit of a pervasive employment oriented development
strategy would set the economy firmly on a long-term growth path
towards much higher levels of social and economic development
involving all Indonesians. One of the key components of such a
strategy would be to aim at a high rate of labor-intensive manufac-
turing development.
Social Developments Since 1970
3.        Analysis of data from the National Household Surveys for 1970 and
1976 suggests that while overall income disparities have almost certainly
widened, the rapid overall growth of the economy /1 has contributed to a
considerable improvement in consumption of all income groups, including the
very poor. The data further suggest that increases in per capita consumption
were higher in Java than in the Other Islands and higher in urban areas than
in rural areas. Notwithstanding this, many Indonesians remain extremely poor:
in 1976 when average per capita income was about $280,/2 over 50 million
Indonesians (38% of the population) spent less than $90 (1976 prices and
exchange rate).
4.        Analysis of data from National Labor Force Surveys shows a remarkably
high rate of employment growth (over 4% p.a.) between September 1971 and
October 1976. But during this period, the labor force also grew at a very
high rate and the data suggest that there was a slight increase in the rate
of open unemployment. Since the labor force grew much faster than population
in the relevant age groups, a sharp increase in labor force participation
rates, from 50% in September 1971 to 55% in October 1976, was observed. Thus,
a substantial part of the increased per capita consumption levels is believed
to have been related to increased labor force participation and declining
dependency ratios.
5.        The share of agricultural employment between 1971 and 1976 declined
from 66% to 62%, implying rapid growth of nonagricultural employment - over 7%
p.a. or 54% of the total increase in employment. Within the nonagricultural
sectors, the increase in employment occurred largely in proliferating small-
/1 GDP grew at 8.0% p.a. ks a result of favorable terms of trade developments
during most of the period, GDY grew even faster - about 9.5% p.a.
/2  World Bank Atlas (preliminary estimates for 1977:  $300).



scale enterprises in the manufacturing and service sectors where labor produc-
tivity is thought to be extremely low. This is indicated, inter alia, by the
stagnation of real minimum wage levels which are among the lowest in the
world. Employment growth in medium- and large-scale enterprises, which absorbed
the bulk of industrial investment, was very modest. The broad picture of
rapid employment growth since 1970, though encouraging in many respects, thus
reveals that a relatively large part of the incremental employment has been
of poor quality in residual types of activities.
6.         Much progress has been made in recent years with the provision of
education services. Enrollment rates increased at all levels of education.
For example, primary school enrollment (excluding over-age students) is ex-
pected to reach 85% in 1979 for the 7-12 age group, compared to 60% in 1974;
dropout rates - while still high - declined, and universal primary education
appears to be in sight. A promising nonformal education program has been
introduced to increase the basic employable skills of those who never attended
school (presently estimated at 23 million people) and others who left school
without completing primary education (a further 22 million). Indonesia's
adult literacy rate increased to 62% in 1974, which is much higher than in
India (36%), Pakistan (21%), or Bangladesh (23%), but lower than in Thailand
(82%) or Philippines (87%). Within Indonesia, large differences in levels
of educational attainment between urban and rural areas still exist, but
differences between Java and other parts of the country are relatively small.
7.         In the field of health care services, there has been a tremendous
expansion of physical infrastructure, including medical training facilities.
Almost 3,000 rural health centers, designed to become the principal vehicles
for the delivery of basic health services, were constructed between 1969 and
1977. But much of the new physical infrastructure has so far remained under-
utilized due to personnel shortages, and a range of other factors, including
popular preference for traditional health care services in several areas.
8.         Inadequate sewerage and sanitation facilities are still major
health hazards, especially in crowded urban areas. Even if the various
targets for rural and urban water supply for the Second Five-Year Development
Plan (Repelita II), which ended in March 1979, are fully met, over 100
million Indonesians will still remain without easy access to safe water in
1979. Similarly, housing conditions are generally very unsatisfactory,
especially in crowded urban areas.   Although simple and inexpensive improve-
ments in water supply, drainage, footpaths and community facilities, executed
through Kampung Improvement Projects, including those supported by the Bank
Group, have contributed to better living conditions in several overcrowded
urban areas, specific socio-economic support programs to improve the living
conditions of the urban poor are needed.
The Devaluation of November 15, 1978
9.         The recent devaluation of the rupiah from Rp 415 to Rp 625 per US
dollar was designed to encourage labor-intensive import substitution and
nonoil export growth by reversing some of the adverse relative price shifts in
the economy that had occurred earlier this decade. The opportune timing of
this drastic and unique policy action is believed to be a strong factor



- 4 -
in enhancing the probability of its success. The strongest immediate effects
of the devaluation, however, will be a dramatic increase in budgetary revenues
in local currency terms. Government expenditures will, of course, also
increase as a result of the devaluation but the net budgetary position in
terms of rupiahs should strongly improve. While the recent devaluation will
generally tend to facilitate export promotion efforts, great emphasis needs to
be placed on the importance of developing effective support services and of
reducing administrative obstacles and other unnecessary cost increasing
factors.
10.       A number of supportive measures to prevent an upturn in domestic
inflation eroding the potential benefits of this devaluation have already been
taken. Such measures include the lowering of import tariffs by 50% on a wide
range of intermediate inputs, stringent temporary price controls, and a
temporary increase in budgetary subsidies to initially isolate key consumption
items, such as rice, from the effects of the devaluation. Aside from the
budget's influence on the prices via subsidies, the degree of monetary control
exercised will also be an important factor in minimizing devaluation-induced
inflation. There is likely to be conflict, however, between the needs to
contain devaluation-induced monetary expansion and the need for additional
credit to promote new private investment in line with the structural objectives
of the devaluation. Nonetheless, a sizeable budget surplus in fiscal 1979/80
almost certainly will be needed to assist in neutralizing the effect of a sudden
sharp increase in the rate of monetary expansion following the devaluation.
11.       Prior to the November exchange rate adjustment, balance of payments
projections based on current trends and expectations suggested the probability
that, without special export promotion efforts, a shortage of foreign exchange
would become a binding constraint on development efforts within the next few
years. Although it is too early to make more than a very preliminary and
speculative assessment of the effect of the devaluation on imports and exports,
there is now less ground for the fear that the balance of payments will become
a development constraint. No dramatic changes, however, are foreseen in the
immediate future; the short-term export response, in particular, is likely to
be constrained by supply rigidities. Ultimately, changes in the size and
structure of imports and exports will be strongly influenced by the effect that
the devaluation will have on the overall growth performance of the economy.
Food Supply and Demand Prospects
12.       Despite impressive achievements in rice production, the past
decade has seen a continuing decline in Indonesia's food self-sufficiency.
Between 1968-77, the composite trend growth rates of domestic food calorie
production and availability were approximately 3.2% and 3.7%, respectively./I
These growth rates reflect a growing import dependence on rice, sugar, wheat
and recently coconut oil, as well as a reduction or disappearance of maize,
cassava, meat and coconut product exports. After three years of stagnating
or slow growing rice production due to a combination of poor weather and
/1 The rice trend production growth rate was about 3.5% and the composite
trend for the 5 main secondary staples (maize, cassava, peanuts, sweet
potatoes, and soybeans) was 1.7%.



-5-
pest problems, 1978 showed an unprecedented increase in output (over
10%), but import requirements in 1978/79, though much lower than in 1977,
are still about 6% of total domestic consumption.
13.       Comparison of plausible food supply and demand scenarios suggests
the likelihood of increasing import requirements of basic foods and especially
of rice, wheat, sugar, coconut oil and possibly maize. There is an urgent
need for a comprehensive food production and consumption strategy. In the
case of rice, with the substantial completion of irrigation rehabilitation,
the recent shift in emphasis towards extension of irrigated areas and to
swamp drainage projects will probably somewhat reduce rice production growth
rates, at least through 1985. However, the potential from increasing fertil-
izer and insecticide consumption and from improving the local performance of
the most recent IRRI varieties, suggests that an annual rate of growth of
rice production of around 3% is nevertheless feasible through 1985. The
recent devaluation has provided significant additional room for further rice
producer price increases aimed at stimulating supply.
14.       While slower growth in rice productivity is anticipated, a com-
parison of yields for secondary crops in a number of countries suggests that
these crops offer considerable potential for raising Indonesia's domestic
food self-sufficiency. With proper marketing and other support services, the
rate of growth of secondary crop production could probably be raised from
1.7% to 3.5% p.a. A gradual shift in the overall food production and con-
sumption pattern from rice to the secondary crops would assist low income
farmers in unirrigated areas and reduce the cost and risks associated with
excessive rice import dependency.
Overall Growth and Employment Prospects
15.       Medium-term prospects, as determined by developments already in
motion and by exogenous factors such as the expected temporary stagnation
in oil production, suggest that it will be difficult to achieve an overall GNP
growth rate of more than 6-6.5% during the next 3-5 years. This is consider-
ably less than the average growth performance of the economy during the
past decade. But if the broad pattern of relationships between output growth,
employment growth, and personal consumption growth observed for the period
1970-76 does not drastically change, a GNP growth rate of 6-6.5% could still
be consistent with an overall employment growth target rate of around 3% p.a.
The Government has already announced a GNP growth target of 6.5% p.a. for the
Third Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita III), which started in April 1979.
,8
16.       As the economy is entering a difficult period of adjustment to post-
oil boom conditions involving structural changes in the pattern of production
and the sources of savings, more reliance will have to be placed on agricul-
ture and industry and on the mobilization of Indonesia's most abundant and
inexhaustible resource: people. The devaluation may be expected to facilitate
the structural changes that are needed. With improved incentives for an employ-
ment-oriented strategy and adequate Government investment and institutional
support services for agriculture and small industries, it should in due course
be possible to raise the overall growth rate of the economy to at least 7% or 8%,
which would be a major help in accelerating the further elimination of poverty.



- 6-
External Aid and Creditworthiness
17.       The heavy foreign borrowing in 1974, 1975 and the early part of
1976, together with a hardening of average terms during those years, has
raised the level of debt service payments which reached about $1.5 billion in
1978, or about 18% of projected export earnings. The debt service ratio /1
was 16% in 1976 and 17% in 1977; the ratio is expected to remain below 20% in
1979 and 1980. This is the encouraging result of restraint with regard to
new borrowing in 1976 and 1977 and the recent replacement on more favorable
terms of $575 million remaining payments on cash loans (originally totalling
$1 billion) which had been obtained in 1975 from a number of private banks in
the wake of the Pertamina crisis. Total new loan commitments declined from a
peak of $3.4 billion in 1975 to $2.3 billion in 1978. Most of the decline
was achieved through a reduction in commercial borrowing. This means that
average loan terms have recently begun to soften again, which will be reflected
in future debt service payments.
18.       The Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia (IGGI) continues to be
the principal source of external capital, including Official Development
Assistance (ODA), to the country. Total ODA (bilateral and multilateral)
commitments in 1977/78 (including grants) amounted to about $1.4 billion; the
IGGI (including the World Bank Group and Asian Development Bank) accounted
for over 90% of this amount. The Bank's most recent economic report on
Indonesia recommends that total ODA to Indonesia should reach at least
$1.93 billion in 1979/80, including both loans and grants, of which at least
70% should be on concessional and semi-concessional terms. At the meeting of
the IGGI in May 1978 the indications of probable commitments in 1978/79 made
by bilateral and multilateral IGGI members amounted to $1.6 billion; the
meeting concluded that the Bank recommendations would be approximately
met. As a result of the pattern and terms of external borrowing during
the recent past, net resource transfers from abroad are expected to decline
in 1978/79 to about $500 million, even if the recommended level of new ODA
commitments is reached.
19.       The Bank's overall assessment of Indonesia's external accounts
indicates that the country will be able to finance essential imports of
consumer, intermediate and capital goods and meet its debt service obligations.
The debt service ratio is expected to remain below 20%. Although the November
15 Rupiah devaluation will provide a one time revenue windfall, the Government
will need to raise substantial additional non-oil revenues over the coming
years if the relatively high rate of domestic investment already reached is to
be maintained. The Government has been quite cautious in increasing current
expenditures and there does not appear to be much scope for reducing them
further; expenditures should, in fact, rise in step with the growth in GNP and
inflation, to permit reasonable growth in Government salaries as well as
materials expenditures, a significant part of which is development related.
In view of the expected increase in the pressure on public sector resources,
the devaluation notwithstanding, a limited measure of local cost financing is
considered justified.
L1 Ratio of debt service payments to commodity export earnings, with oil
and gas on a net basis.



- 7 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /1
20.      As of February 28, 1979, Indonesia had received 40 IDA credits
totalling $680.8 million, and 37 Bank loans amounting to $1.903.0 million.
IFC investments have totalled $61.3 million. The share of the Bank Group
in Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of
1977 was about 8%, and the share of debt service about 1.8%. By the end of
1978, these ratios are estimated to have increased to around 12% and 5%,
respectively. Annex II contains a summary of IDA Credits, Bank Loans and
IFC Investments as of February 28, 1979, as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
21.       To date, the Bank Group has financed projects in virtually all
sectors of the Indonesian economy, although there has been particular stress
on agriculture, which accounts for over one-third of all lending. Most of
the loans for agriculture have been for rehabilitation and expansion of
productive capacity, both for food and tree crop development. Several
national programs to provide credit inputs and advice to farmers and to
improve agricultural training and research have also been financed by the
Bank Group. More recently, an effort to aid the Government's transmigration
program has been initiated. In the industrial sector, while the major thrust
has been on expanding fertilizer production on the basis of Indonesia's gas
resources and on establishment and improvement of development finance institu-
tions, a credit has also been extended to finance a small enterprise develop-
ment project. The main emphasis in education has been on upgrading the
quality of education, improving primary and secondary education and manpower
training as well as on expanding non-formal education. In the social sector,
the Bank Group has financed projects for urban development (through neighborhood
improvement programs), urban water supply, family planning, and nutrition.
A major portion of Bank Group financing has been used to rehabilitate and
expand Indonesia's inadequate infrastructure, particularly in the power and
transportation sectors. Credits have also been extended to finance a tele-
communications project and a tourism project. Finally, the Bank Group has
assisted the Government's efforts to prepare and formulate its development
programs and projects through four technical assistance credits and a loan
for a natural resource survey and mapping project.
22.      The discussion in Part I of this report underscores the need for a
development program which will provide increasingly productive work oppor-
tunities and incomes for Indonesia's presently underemployed and growing labor
force and increase agriculture production, particularly of food crops. Efforts
to increase employment through programs directed towards improving the incomes
of the poor and their living standards are expected to be one of the major
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Third Urban
Development Project (No. P-2440-IND), circulated under cover of R79-1,
dated January 4, 1979, and approved by the Executive Directors on
January 16, 1979.



-8-
objectives of Repelita III.  While several of these programs are likely to
be suitable for Bank Group financing, it will be some time before they are
ready for implementation. However, as part of this new focus, a small enter-
prise development project designed to increase non-agricultural employment in
rural areas and small towns, has already been approved by the Executive
Directors, and an integrated rural development project has been appraised and
should be ready for presentation to the Executive Directors this fiscal year.
With respect to agricultural development, projects are being prepared to
further improve and expand research and extension services, rehabilitate and
expand irrigation systems, help replant smallholder rubber and coconut
plantations, assist in watershed management and village development, and
develop presently underutilized land in areas outside Java for transmigrants
and other smallholders. In addition to the family planning program, which
continues to have high priority, other areas of particular importance for
Bank Group assistance will be improvement of urban services through construc-
tion of urban water supply systems and further expansion of neighborhood
improvement programs, and improvement and expansion of higher education
particularly of engineers, accountants and agriculture specialists, as well
as primary and nonformal education. The proposed Second Agricultural Training
Project is another step in supporting these programs. Finally, Bank Group
financing continues to be important for the Government's program of infrastruc-
ture rehabilitation and expansion, particularly in transport and power, which
will continue to require very large investments for many years before these
facilities are adequate to support Indonesia's development. Compared to past
lending activities, many of- these projects and programs reflect the shift of
emphasis in the Government's development objectives from rehabilitation and
expansion to a better balanced and more equitable and employment-oriented
economic growth strategy.
23.       Bank Group lending to Indonesia started in 1968, and between 1968 and
1974, all Bank Group lending to Indonesia was on IDA terms. Following the
rapid increase in Indonesia's oil income which enabled Indonesia to borrow on
less concessional terms, it was decided that all lending to Indonesia after
June 30, 1974, would be on Bank terms. Since 1974, the Government has saved
and invested almost all of the increase in its oil revenues and greatly
expanded its development expenditures which reached about $6 billion in
1977/78. For reasons discussed in Part I above, and notwithstanding the
November 1978 devaluation, both the budgetary and balance of payments situa-
tions may be difficult in the years ahead. Thus, while Indonesia has always
qualified for assistance on concessional terms on grounds of its low per
capita income and the quality of its economic management, such terms are now
also necessary to enable it to maintain a high level of investment without
impairing its ability to service its external debt. Accordingly, starting in
FY78, a portion of Bank Group lending to Indonesia has again been provided on
IDA terms.
24.        The proposed loan is the fifth lending operation presented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year and would bring total lending to Indonesia
this year to $272 million. Projects for rural development, transmigration,
provision of industrial financing through a development finance company
(BAPINDO), water supply, technical assistance, road betterment and power are
expected to be ready for presentation in the next few months.



-9-
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION SECTOR
Development Strategy and Manpower Implications
25.       The success of the Government's programs for the development of the
agricultural sector depends critically on effective implementation of its
strategy to provide more and better support services to farmers. Central to
this strategy are the intensification of research activities and the improve-
ment and expansion of extension programs. Key constraints to accomplishing
these objectives are: (a) the serious shortage of well trained, middle-level
manpower to serve as agricultural technicians for production, research and
extension activities; and (b) the lack of higher level manpower with training
in project management.
26.       Agricultural technicians are at present concentrated predominantly
in Java. However, the urgent need to boost both food production and agricul-
tural exports has underlined the necessity to increase the flow of advice and
diversity of technical assistance to all farmers throughout Indonesia.
Hence, it is desirable that more technicians be trained and their training be
diversified. At the same time, it is also apparent that future agricultural
and rural development in Indonesia will critically depend on improved
efficiency of production in existing areas in Java, Bali and Madura, as well
as through the development of new areas in the Other Islands. Such programs
will require not only considerable financial resources, but also a large
number of well trained agricultural project managers who can ensure efficient
and timely execution and operation of more complex projects.
27.       The existing agricultural education and training system has not
responded adequately to provide the trained technicians required to undertake
these tasks. The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) estimates that within the next
10 years, about 4,000 additional middle level technicians p.a. would be
needed. The shortages of well trained, middle-level manpower are due both to
insufficient output of the senior secondary agricultural schools (called
agricultural development schools) and to the fact that most of the graduates
are poorly trained because of general substandard quality of most of the
schools, particularly those administered by the provincial governments. Of
about 2,880 technicians graduating from the existing agricultural development
schools (99), only about 1,000 received adequate training from the 15 schools,
14 of which were upgraded under Credit 288-IND and one with FAO assistance.
Because of the quantitative shortage of graduates, several extension services
of the MOA have had to meet their staffing needs with substantial numbers of
nongraduates. This situation, coupled with the poor quality of the majority
of existing graduates, has created a substantial need for in-service training.
Such training is also needed to keep MOA staff abreast of technological
developments. The current in-service training programs are inadequate to
meet these needs. At the higher level, manpower with expertise in management
of agricultural projects and extension programs is scarce due to the absence
of appropriate preservice or in-service training programs for university
graduates who fill these positions. Assistance to the agricultural education
and training system is needed, therefore, to increase the quality and quantity
of its output and to improve the relevance of its preservice and in-service
training programs to Indonesia's long-term agricultural manpower requirements.



- 10 -
The Agricultural Education and Training System
28.       Betwee-; 19C0 and 1970, there was a significant expansion of middle-
and higher level agricultural education and training programs. During this
period they expanded from one university faculty of agriculture, one senior
secondary agricultural school and virtually no in-service training, to 46
faculties of agriculture, 96 senior secondary agricultural schools, and an
in-service training capacity of about 1,000 MOA staff per year. However,
this rapid growth was not accompanied by a sufficient growth in financial and
human resources.  Substandard institutions and training centers were the
result. Since 1970, the Government has initiated measures to address these
problems. At the higher level, the agricultural faculties of the country's
two leading universities, Bogor and Gaja Mada, together with foreign experts
provided by USAID, are assisting in upgrading the agricultural faculties at
six other universities. With continued USAID assistance, the Government
plans to extend this upgrading to 14 more universities within the next five
years. At the middle level, the Government, with assistance under the
IDA-financed first agricultural training project (Cr. 288-IND, 1972), has
upgraded 14 senior secondary agricultural schools and 16 in-service training
centers. An institutional framework for coordination and administration of
middle-level agricultural education and training was also established under
the project, with the creation of the Agency for Agricultural Education and
Training /1 under the MOA. Since 1970, FAO has also provided some assistance
at the middle level through upgrading one senior secondary school and one
in-service training center, both specializing in marine fishery. These
improvements in training have been made within the context of an integrated
program for research, extension and training. Bank Group assistance has been
provided for all three components, including, in addition to Cr. 288-IND, the
Agricultural Research and Extension Project (Ln. 1179-IND, 1975) and the
National Food Crops Extension Project (Ln. 1267-IND, 1976).
29.       Administration and Management.  The Agency for Agricultural Educa-
tion, Training and Extension (AAETE) has been assigned the role of centralizing
and rationalizing the planning and management of all middle-level agricultural
education and training programs. To accomplish this task, the Agency's func-
tions include: (a) assessing and planning training programs and prescribing
relevant improvements in curricula for all middle-level agricultural institu-
tions; (b) accreditation of all agricultural development schools; (c) adminis-
tration of the budget of all national agricultural development schools and
all in-service training programs; and (d) preparation and administration of
final examinations to graduating students of all agricultural development
schools to determine their eligibility for graduation. The AAETE consists of
a Secretariat, responsible for the training budget and administrative services,
and three Bureaus: Agricultural Education, Personnel Training and Agricultural
Extension, which are responsible for preservice programs, in-service programs,
and providing guidance and assistance to the Directorates General of the MOA in
planning and carrying out their extension programs.
/1   This was renamed the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and
Extension in accordance with a Presidential Decree in 1974.



- 11 -
30.       Since its establishment in 1972, the Agency has made notable
progress towards achieving its goals. Strengthening of its capabilities is
still required, however, particularly with regard to its planning and evalua-
tion functions. AAETE's current planning activities are focused only on the
immediate training needs of the MOA, with little or no attertion being given
to the long-term development of training programs based on future manpower
requirements. The Agency's capacity in this area could be improved by
further strengthening its planning and evaluation unit with qualified staff
who could assess, on a continual basis, the long-range agricultural manpower
needs and plan agricultural education and training programs accordingly. In
addition, the Agency should develop a better system to evaluate the placement
and performance of the agricultural development school graduates and the
effectiveness of the in-service training given to MOA staff.
31.       Preservice agricultural education is carried out by 99 agricultural
development schools (grades 10-12), which are the principal source of
Indonesia's middle-level agricultural manpower. In total, these schools
enroll about 12,000 students and graduate about 2,800 technicians annually.
Seventeen of the schools are funded and administered by the national govern-
ment and 82 by provincial governments or the private sector. There are two
general types of these schools according to their field of training: agricul-
ture, which includes training in crops, animal husbandry and inland fishery;
and marine fishery. All the agriculture-type schools follow a curriculum
composed of: (a) a core, designed to provide the broad background needed by
workers in the mixed farming system which is predominant in Indonesia (72% of
teaching time); and (b) courses devoted to specialization in crops, animal
husbandry or inland fishery (28% of teaching time). This curriculum was
introduced under Cr. 288-IND. The marine fishery schools follow a cur-
riculum introduced by FAO. At present, no schools provide specialized
training in forestry, a field in which a preservice program is badly needed.
32.       Fourteen national agriculture-type schools and one national marine
fishery school have been upgraded with IDA and FAO assistance, respectively,
and are operating satisfactorily. However, government programs and policies
have changed since improvements to the agriculture-type schools were completed.
The schools lack: (a) sufficient teaching facilities and equipment to offer
needed courses for rural home improvement extension workers and animal
health technicians; and (b) adequate student hostels for all students (they
have hostels for only 75% of the students). Schools are generally located
far from residential areas, and are not served by public transportation.
Consequently day students have to walk long distances to and from school and
are often absent during the rainy season. The two national schools, which
have not been upgraded (an inland fishery and a marine fishery school), lack
sufficient classroom and laboratory facilities and equipment and are poorly
situated for practical training.
33.       Since the national schools can produce only one-fourth of the demand
for graduates each year, the Government relies heavily on provincial and
private schools to produce needed manpower. However, the quality of graduates
they produce is generally poor as most of them operate with substandard
physical facilities, equipment and materials, and inadequate financial



- 12 -
support, with few qualified teachers and with insufficient farmland.
The need to upgrade the provincial schools is particularly urgent from the
standpoint that, at present, only 12 of Indonesia's 26 provinces have
improved agricutural development schools and only five other provinces are
given limited access to them. The provinces without access to good quality
schools are located mostly outside of Java and Bali. For this reason, the
quality of agricultural extension services in these provinces suffers, as it
is difficult to attract well-trained graduates to these areas from Java.
34.       In-service training is currently offered at 23 in-service training
centers which give courses to a total of about 5,650 MOA personnel annually.
Thirteen of these centers specialize in agriculture (crops, livestock, and
inland fishery), three specialize in marine fishery, and six specialize in
forestry. These 22 centers provide: (a) remedial programs to upgrade the
skills of staff with no preservice training; and (b) courses of varying length
to keep staff abreast of technological change in their fields and to give them
additional specialized training in response to changes in emphasis of the
Government's development programs. This longer in-service training comple-
ments the shorter recurrent training to extension staff under the training
and visit system being introduced through Ln. 1267-IND. The average duration
of these courses is two months at the agriculture centers and four months at
the marine fishery centers. The forestry centers offer a ten-month remedial
program in addition to its two-month refresher courses since no preservice
forestry training is available. The remaining center, called the National
Agricultural Training Institute (NATI), conducts courses of two months'
average duration in administration and management for higher-level MOA staff
and provides three-month pedagogical training for teachers of middle-level
agricultural education and training institutions. Sixteen of these centers,
including NATI, were improved under Cr. 288-IND and one has been improved
with FAO assistance; they are operating satisfactorily. However, the improved
agriculture centers do not have sufficient facilities to offer programs for
rural home improvement extension workers and livestock technicians or to
strengthen training in animal husbandry in response to new priorities of the
Government. The six centers which have not been improved (two marine fishery
and four forestry centers) are unable to provide adequate practical training
due to insufficient workshops and equipment.
35.       Not only should the deficiencies in the existing training centers
be rectified to improve the quality of training programs, but there is also
a pressing need to open new centers to meet the demand for in-service
training of MOA's technical staff, which is expected to increase from its
present number of about 25,000 to more than 40,000 within the next 10 years.
New centers, in particular, should be opened to serve nine provinces which do
not now have access to in-service training. These are generally the same
provinces which do not have access to improved agricultural develop-
ment schools and, therefore, have a relatively greater need for in-service
training.



- 13 -
Plans and Strategy in Middle-Level Education and Training
36.       The Government's long-term strategy for improvement of the quality
and for increasing the supply of middle-level agricultural manpower consists
of two phases. The first phase focuses on:
(a) the establishment of a central agency to be responsible for (i)
planning and managing all middle-level agricultural training in
the country; and (ii) administering all agricultural training
programs of the MOA; and
(b) the improvement of selected national agricultural training institu-
tions (preservice and in-service) to meet the country's most
urgent training needs, largely for food crops extension agents and
technicians.
This first phase has been successfully implemented under the First Agricul-
tural Training Project (Credit 288-IND) which has recently been completed.
The major achievements attributable to this project are the establishment of
the Agency for Agricultural Education Training and Extension, which had a
widespread impact on improving the quality of agricultural training in
Indonesia. As a result, all the project institutions (14 Agricultural
Development Schools and 16 In-Service Training Centers) attained enrollment
targets and the drop-out rates of project schools decreased from 24% in 1971
to 2.6% in 1977. Also, all the project schools and centers follow relevant
curricula. Factors which adversely affected the implementation of the
project were delays of 15 months (caused by, inter alia, late appointment of
consultant architects and late acquisition of land) and cost overruns of 73%
over the appraisal estimate (caused by delays and higher inflation rates
than expected at appraisal). The second phase of the strategy, which the
Government intends to implement through the proposed Second Agricultural
Training Project during the Third Five-Year Development Plan Period
(Repelita III, 1979/80-1983/84), would focus on:
(a) establishing new agricultural training programs in fields (rural
home improvement, forestry (preservice) and animal health) which
were not included in the first phase;
(b) establishing new preservice and in-service institutions in pro-
vinces, mainly on islands outside Java, which have inadequate
access to agricultural training facilities; and
(c) further strengthening of the planning and administrative capabil-
ities of the AAETE.
Previous Bank Group-Financed Education Projects
37.       To date, the Bank Group has extended assistance totaling $144.4 mil-
lion to the education sector in Indonesia. Investments have pursued the main
objectives of meeting critical manpower requirements, improving quality and
increasing equity. In the absence of a comprehensive analysis of the sector,
Bank Group lending initially financed three relatively small projects that



- 14 -
met evident educational and manpower needs: the first education project
(Cr. 219-IND) provided an improved quality of technical training at the
secondary level; the second project (Cr. 288-IND), as discussed above,
created a national a3ricultural training agency and expanded output of
middle-level agricultural manpower, and the third project (Cr. 387-IND),
provided textbooks and in-service teacher training to improve the quality of
primary education. Subsequent projects were identified on the basis of a
comprehensive government education study and a Bank sector survey (Report
No. 443a-IND, dated February 5, 1975): the fourth project (Ln. 1237-IND) is
helping to meet manpower requirements by providing vocational/technical and
public administration training; the fifth project (Ln. 1433-IND) aims to
improve primary and secondary teacher training; and the sixth project (Ln.
1486-IND) pursues the equity objective by strengthening nonformal education.
In response to shortages of higher level manpower, the Bank conducted a
subsector survey on higher technical education in 1977. This survey identi-
fied the need to establish a new system to train middle-level technicians,
which is being assisted under the recently approved polytechnic project
(Cr. 869-IND). Future Bank-assisted projects are expected to continue to
support a broad range of activities in the sector through a second project in
higher technical education and repeater projects in such priority areas as
textbooks, teacher training and non-formal education.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.       The proposed project was prepared by AAETE with the assistance of
FAO and consultants. A Bank mission appraised it in July/August 1978, and
negotiations were held in Washington, D.C., from March 5 to 9, 1979. The
Indonesian delegation was led by Mr. Salmon Padmanagara, Head of the AAETE.
Annex III of this report contains supplementary project data. A Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 2274d-IND, dated April 9, 1979) is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Objectives
39.       The proposed project constitutes the second phase of the Govern-
ment's long-term strategy to improve the quality and supply of middle-level
agricultural manpower. Accordingly, the project would pursue the following
objectives:
(a) to upgrade the quality and increase the output of existing
preservice and in-service agricultural training institutions;
(b) to provide good quality preservice and in-service training
facilities in selected provinces outside of Java and Bali
where agricultural training is poor or nonexistent:
(c) to develop new training programs in response to needs arising
out of Government's development plans for efficient management of
agricultural projects; and
(d) to strengthen the evaluation, planning and management capabilities
of the AAETE.



- 15 -
Detailed Project Components
40.       Agricultural Development Schools (estimated outlay: $31.5 million,
excluding technical assistance and contingencies). This component would
upgrade 12 existing agricultural development schools (11 provincial and
one national) and establish five new such national schools. Eight of these
existing schools would be relocated to sites more suitable for providing
adequate practical training. Each project school would have a capacity of
240 students. Eight of the schools would specialize in crops, five in animal
husbandry, one in inland fishery, one in marine fishery and two in forestry.
In accordance with Government's decision to finance fully animal husbandry-
oriented schools, the three schools of this type which are to be upgraded
would be converted from provincial into national schools. To avoid funding
problems at the remaining eight provincial project schools, assurances were
obtained that the Government would cause the necessary recurrent funds to be
provided when the project schools become fully operational (Section 4.03(a)
of the draft Loan Agreement).
41.       The curriculum developed under Cr. 288-IND would be adopted by the
14 project schools of the agriculture type but would be subject to review
and revision, as necessary. At the same time, new courses in rural home
improvement would be developed and introduced at these schools as well as at
the 14 agriculture schools already improved under the first phase project. A
three-year curriculum for forestry technicians would be developed for the
two project forestry schools. The one project marine fishery school would
follow the curriculum used at the school improved by FAO, with revisions
to be made as necessary upon review. A 40-place 100 GT training vessel
would be provided by the project for practical training of students of the
marine fishery school.
42.       Also under this component, the 14 schools improved under Cr. 288-
IND would be provided with additional facilities and equipment to enable
them to offer courses in rural home improvement and to strengthen training
in animal husbandry. They would also be provided with additional student
boarding places so that all students would live on campus (para. 32). At the
same time, the capacities of three of the 14 schools which were designed for
120 students each, would be expanded to 240. This would mean that, upon
project completion, the capacity of all 32 improved schools will have been
standardized at 240 and the output of improved schools will have been
increased from about 1,000 to 2,400.
43.       At full operation of the project, a total of 403 full-time teachers
would be needed for the 31 improved project schools, an increase of 119 over
present numbers. No problems are foreseen in recruiting the required
additional teachers. Since there are no preservice training courses for
agricultural teachers in Indonesia, the Government has provided assurances
that, all full-time teachers of the project schools requiring pedagogical
training, would have completed the in-service teacher training course given
by the National Agricultural Training Institute, no later than June 30,
1985 (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 16 -
44.       In-service TraininR Centers (estimated outlay: $11.1 million,
excluding technical assistance and contingencies). This component would
include the upgrading of three existing in-service training centers (two
forestry and one marine fishery) and establishment of six new agricultural
in-service training centers in provinces where no in-service training is
presently available and, one animal health center to cater to the in-service
training needs of animal health assistants. This would increase the number
of well-equipped training centers from the current 17 to 27, and would leave
only three existing centers in need of upgrading. These three centers were
not included in the proposed project as the Government was considering
relocating them and had not made a firm decision by the time of appraisal.
Under the project, the capacity of three of the already improved centers and
of the National Agricultural Training Institute (NATI) would be increased so
that each agricultural in-service training center, the marine fishery center
and the animal health center would have 60 places; the forestry centers would
have 80; and NATI, 200. When all training facilities are completed, the
training places would increase from the present 1,490 to 2,060, and the
number of trainees per annum from 5,650 to 8,240.
45.       At all agriculture in-service training centers, new courses would
be added for female extension workers (rural home improvement) and for animal
health assistants, and existing programs for livestock technicians would be
strengthened. This would entail provision of additional teaching facilities
and equipment at the 13 agricultural training centers which were improved under
the first phase project (Cr. 288-IND). Two of these centers would be provided
with additional facilities with assistance from the Japanese Government. At
the NATI, a training program in project management would be developed and in-
troduced for MOA and provincial agricultural staff involved in the management
of agriculture projects and extension programs. About 80% of NATI's training
places would be used for this program until the training needs of project
managers are satisfactorily met.
46.       Each in-service training center would have five qualified full-time
staff and would use qualified part-time teachers from the agricultural
universities and senior staff of the MOA as necessary. No problems are
foreseen in recruiting the needed staff for the new centers. As in the case
of the agricultural development schools, assurances were obtained that all
full-time teachers of the in-service training centers who require pedagogical
training, will have taken the in-service teacher training course at NATI, no
later than June 30, 1985 (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
47.       Technical Assistance (estimated outlay:  $3.2 million, excluding
contingencies). To provide support for training programs under the project,
about 10 man-years of specialist services would be provided to assist in
the development and implementation of relevant curricula. A naval architect
(six man-months) would also be provided to assist in preparing the design and
specifications of the marine training vessel. About six man-years of fellow-
ships for short courses and 124 man-years of fellowships for degree programs
would be provided by the project for teachers of the project agricultural
development schools and in-service training centers. In addition, seven
man-years of fellowships would be provided for key staff of the planning and
evaluation unit of AAETE. The Government and the Bank have agreed on details
of the programs for the specialist services and for the fellowships.



- 17 -
48.       Four man-years of specialist services would be provided to strengthen
the educational planning and management capabilities of the AAETE. The
specialists would assist in strengthening the planning and evaluation unit
of the AAETE, in setting up and coordinating a student tracer system, in
carrying out a middle level agricultural manpower survey and a tracer study of
past graduates of the 14 agricultural development schools improved under the
first phase project (Credit 288-IND). In addition, the specialists would
assist in developing the project management training program at NATI. Assur-
ances were obtained that (a) by June 30, 1980:
(a) the planning and evaluation unit of the AAETE would have been
strengthened;
(b) plans for carrying out the manpower survey and tracer studies
shall have been prepared, reviewed by the Bank and be ready
for implementation; and
(c) the training program for agricultural project and extension program
managers shall have been developed in consultation with the Bank;
and (b) by June 30, 1981, the tracer system would have been set up in each
project institution, and the manpower survey and tracer studies completed
(Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
49.       Project Management and Pre-investment Studies (estimated outlay:
$3.0 million, excluding contingencies). The project would also provide
specialist services to assist in procurement, in conducting feasibility
studies and preparing future education projects, and in carrying out project
evaluation studies including the preparation of project completion reports.
Project Cost and Financing
50.       The total project cost is estimated at about $71 million, including
about $3.0 million of taxes. The total cost also includes a contingency
allowance of $22.2 million consisting of (a) physical contingencies estimated
at 10% of the base cost and price contingencies averaging 32% of the base
cost plus physical contingencies. Costs for the technical assistance program
are estimated as follows: $80,000/man-year for expatriate specialist ser-
vices; $13,000 man-year for fellowships for overseas training; $2,000/person
for overseas travel; and $750/person/month subsistence for short-term fellow-
ships. The proposed loan of $42.0 million would finance 100% of the foreign
exchange cost and 18% of local cost, equivalent to 64% of the total project
cost, excluding taxes and the cost of vehicles. Financing of local costs is
justified as this project is of high priority for the agricultural development
program and because of the tightening domestic resource constraints (para.
19). The Government would finance from its own funds the remaining 36%,
including the cost of domestically assembled vehicles, which it intends to
procure under local procedures which do not conform to the Bank's procurement
guidelines.



- 18 -
Project Implementation
51.       The project would be implemented by the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) which was established within the AAETE for the first phase project.
A decree was issued by the Minister of Agriculture on January 22, 1979 to
maintain and strengthen the PIU. The PIU would consist of a Director, who
reports directly to the Head of the AAETE; two Deputy Directors; and qualified
support staff.  Because of the extensive coverage of the project (54 sites),
separate provincial implementation committees would be organized as imple-
menting arms of the PIU for each project site.  These committees would be
composed of representatives of the Provincial Departments of the Ministries of
Agriculture, Public Works and Home Affairs.  All PIU staff would be appointed
in April 1979 when the Government's new fiscal year starts. Professional
services required for civil works and procurement of furniture under the
project would be carried out by qualified consultant architect firms accept-
able to the Bank. The consultant architects have been appointed. Substan-
tial progress has been made in the preparation of site sketch plans. Funds
(about $320,000) to pay for these professional preparatory services prior
to signing of the proposed Loan Agreement have been provided under the Bank's
Project Preparation Facility. To avoid delays in project implementation
because of problems in acquiring sites or inaccessibility of sites, the
Government has provided assurances that (a) by December 31, 1979, it would
finalize the acquisition of the necessary land for all the proposed project
sites (30 ha for each project school and 10 ha for each project in-service
training center), and (b) it would repair or construct, prior to the start of
building construction, the necessary access roads for newly opened sites
(Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
52.       Procurement.  Contracts for civil works, furniture and equipment
would be grouped to the extent practicable to increase competition in bidding.
Civil works contracts would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally but foreign contractors would be permitted to submit bids.
Indonesia has well-developed building industries, and foreign firms not
already established in Indonesia are unlikely to bid due to the relatively
small bid packages and the scattered construction sites. Bidding would
follow government procurement procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
Except for vehicles, contracts for furniture and equipment, exceeding $50,000
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with Bank Group Guidelines. Vehicles would be financed entirely by the
Government (para. 50). Except for vehicles, equipment and furniture which
cannot be grouped to form packages exceeding $50,000 would be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, subject to an aggregate
amount of $1.2 million. In comparison of bids for equipment and furniture,
qualified local manufacturers would be given a preferential margin of 15% on
the c.i.f. cost of competing imports or the customs duty, whichever is lower.
In addition, except for vehicles, miscellaneous items in packages not exceed-
ing $15,000 and subject to an aggregate total not exceeding $0.5 million,
could be purchased off-the-shelf on the basis of at least three price quota-
tions. Instructional materials and books would also be procured on the basis



- 19 -
of normal government procedures for such items or, where appropriate, from
publishers after negotiations for bulk purchases. Review of tender evaluation
documents would be required prior to the award of civil works contracts
exceeding $200,000 and furniture and equipment contracts exceeding $50,000.
53.       The proposed loan would be disbursed on the basis of:  (a) 60% of
the cost of civil works; (b) 100% of the c.i.f. cost of imported furniture,
materials and equipment; (c) 95% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufac-
tured furniture, materials and equipment; (d) 65% of the cost of furniture,
materials and equipment procured locally; and (e) 100% of the _ost of fellow-
ship and professional and specialist services. No disbursement will be made
from the loan against vehicles. Funds drawn from the Project Preparation
Facility, not exceeding $320,000, will be reimbursed from the loan on the
date of the effectiveness of the proposed loan (para. 4 of Schedule 1 to the
draft Loan Agreement).
Monitoring and Evaluation
54.       The PIU Director and his Deputies would closely monitor project
implementation and periodically evaluate the attainment of project objectives.
The planning and evaluation unit of the AAETE, which would be strengthened
under the project, would assist the PIU to develop a monitoring and evaluation
plan and in carrying it out during the project implementation period. At
the end of each calendar year, starting from December 1980 through the
Closing Date of the proposed loan, a project evaluation report would be
prepared by the PIU and sent to the Bank (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan
Agreement). The evaluation reports would be used in preparing the project
completion report.
Project Benefits and Risks
55.       The principal benefit of the proposed project would be to help ease
the shortage of qualified middle-level agricultural manpower, which shortage
has been a major constraint to implementation of the Government's development
plans for the agricultural sector. At full project operation, the output of
improved agricultural development schools would satisfy the following approxi-
mate percentages of annual requirements of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
for specialized staff: 50% in agronomy; 90% in livestock production; 50% in
inland fisheries; 25% in marine fisheries; and 40% in forestry. In addition,
each year, the skills of 7,320 existing MOA staff would be upgraded through
courses taken at the agriculture, animal health, forestry and marine fishery
in-service training centers. About 800 agricultural higher level staff and
120 agricultural teachers would be trained annually at the National Agricul-
tural Training Institute (NATI). The project would also provide better
distribution of training opportunities among the provinces of the country,
particularly in the islands outside Java, Bali and Madura. Furthermore,
institutional strengthening of the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training
and Extension (AAETE) would enable the Agency to prepare and implement middle-
level education and training programs to meet Indonesia's long-term agricul-
tural manpower requirements.



- 20 -
56.       No unusual risks are foreseen in achieving the objectives of the
proposed project, since it would be essentially a follow-up to the successfully
completed first agricultural training project (Cr. 288-IND). There would be a
strong and experienced implementation unit under the AAETE which would be
further strengthened in accordance with a Ministerial Decree already published.
Substantial progress has been made in designing the proposed project to
prevent a recurrence of the problems which occurred during implementation of
the first project, i.e., delays in the appointment of consultant architects
and in the acquisition of some project sites, including building of access
roads to project sites.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii), of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
58.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this report.
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 12, 1979
Washington, D.C.



- 21 -                                        ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
INDONESIA                                                 /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EM.)                                                     - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            1904.3                                                      SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGIIER
AGRICULTURAL      283.8                                  MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    70.0        140.0      300.0            616.0       182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       129.0        120.0     178.0            522.0        88.9        251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                          94.7        117.6     133.5
URBAN POPULATToN (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 14.'           17.5       17.9             30.1        15.0        24.2
ROPULATION DFNSITY
IPER SO. KM.                        50.0         62.0      70.0            156.8        46.8         42.7
I'ER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    337.0         419.0     470.0            794.8       254.1         95.0
PoPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           42.1 /f      44.0      42.1             40.8        43.6         44.9
15-64 YRS.                           55.3 7f      53.5      55.1             55.4        53.3         52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     2.6 /f       2.5        2.8              3.2         2.9          3.0
PO 'ULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
i'OTAL                               2.1          2.0       2.0              2.3         2.4          2.7
JRBAN                                 ..          3.7 /I    2.6               5.1        4.0          8.8
CRUlDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      46.0         45.9      40.3              34.6       44.3         42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       25.4         20.6       19.9              8.7        19.7         12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2.8          3.2        2.5              2.6         2.9          3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..        181.1    1979.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            0.2      13.7              22.1       14.6         14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)               96.5        100.0     102.7            106.8        96.4        104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     89.0         91.0      98.0            108.7        92.3         99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            43.0         43.0      43.8              57.7       50.0         56.8
OF WIHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        15.0 /h      14.0      16.6             17.0        13.9         17.5
CNIILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        ..           ..         ..              4.0         ..          7.5
HEA',TH
L'FE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    47.5           45.0       45.3             59.0       45.8         53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            125.0 /fi       ..      116.0             44.0      102.7         82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE W4TER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          3.0       11.0            21.9        26.4         31.1
URBAN                                 ..         10.0      41.0             58.3        63.5         68.5
RURAL                                 ..          1.0       4.0              9.8        14.1         18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 *-         12.0      15.0             28.6        16.1         37.5
URBAN                                 ..         50.0      60.0             66.6        65.9         69.5
RURAL                                 ..          4.0       5.0             14.8         3.4         25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           41380.0 /i  26830.0   16930.0            4103.1    13432.7        9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..       7770.0 /j 7310.0 /i        1520.2      6983.3       2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITA6t BED
TOTAL                             1370.0       1670.0    1430.0            657.1      1157.6        786.5
URBAN                                 ..       1130.0        ..            145.5       183.3        278.4
RURAL                                 *-       1890.0        ..           1011.8      1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..         ..            19.0        19.5         19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                4.4          4.8        ..              5.2         5.2
URBAN                                4.9          5.3        ..              5.2         4.8
RURAL                                4.3          4.7                        5.4         5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..          1.5        ..
URBAN                                 ..          1.6        ..               ..         1.8          2.3
RURAL                                 ''          1.6        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..        63.5         ..             39.1       25.9         28.3
URBAN                                 ..        75.5         ..
RURAL                                 ..        39.1         ..               ..         8.7        10.3



- 22 -                                            ANNEX I
rage 2 of 5
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROLUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
INDONESIA                                                 /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 lb ESTIMATE Lb        REGION /c   GROUP Id    GROUP fe
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  67.0         75.0       81.0             95.6        62.9         75.8
FEMALE                55.0         70.0       75.0             93.7        45.9         67.9
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   6.0         15.0       18.0             43.3        14.4         17.7
FEMALE                 3.0         11.0       13.0             38.6         8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 20.0           22.0       21.0             11.3         6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             39.0         29.0       30.0             30.0        38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                           14.0         13.0       15.0             25.4        19.8         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         47.0 /k      59.0       62.0 fk          84.0        36.7         63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.0          2.0        3.0              9.3         3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           7.0           ..       39.0             97.6        31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          0.7         ..             21.8         2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..           ..       16.0             25.9         6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..         ..              4.6         1.4          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    34600.0        44200.0   48430.0 LI
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    27.9         31.0       34.2             33.2        24.2         28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               75.0         69.0       60.1             48.4        60.7         54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   8.4          9.7        8.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 54.1         49.9       52.6             38.9        39.8         37.8
MALE                                  79.8         68.7       73.8             48.6        53.3         50.3
FEMALE                                29.4         32.1       36.8             28.4        19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4          1.3        1.2              1.2         1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         33.7 ft      ..             17.3        20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           52.0O/       ..             45.6        45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          6.8 ft      ..              6.5         5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         17.3 ft      ..             17.3        16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      125.0            140.8        88.5        155.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..       95.0            112.8        71.9         97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..               ..       100.8        143.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..       55.0             76.8        42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       55.0             27.7        46.0         22.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..       59.0             40.4        48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    East Asia & Pacific;   /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income ($281-550
per capita, 1976);   /f  Excludes W. Irian;   /R  1961-71;   /h  1961-63;   /i  1962;  /1  Including
midwives;  /k  Aged 10 years and over;   /1  Excludes rural areas in East Nusa Tenggara, Maluku and
Irian Jaya;  /m  Income recipients.
September 1978



- 23 -
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                         ANNEX   I
Page 3 of 5
S2Un: The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric meana, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform. Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Eiporters and indicators of access to water and eacrets disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. km)                                                                 Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters.                           urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                    available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                       habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                                at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                     cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical os-
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                  sistant, nurte, midwife, etc.) wh'ch offer in-patient accommodatinn and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                                 provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                       from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                      HOUSING
Average size of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                               A household consists of a groap of individuals who share living quarters
Total population, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                      and their main meals.  A boardec or lodger moy or  ay nout be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                              the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                        hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                     Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of data among countries.                                                                   ber of persoos per room  in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                           dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  sq. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                      unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                          Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per as. km. agriculture land - Computed as alove for agricultural land                      Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                      of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-                 EDUCATION
year population.                                                                       AdJusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                      Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                          at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                      populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                         different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
.id-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                       cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                        above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                       Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as abone; -econdary edoca-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                      tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                             vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                      usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                          excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                    Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                            clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate indcpcndently
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                           or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                   Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled is
planning program.                                                                          primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                           sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                 Adult literacy rate (percent) - literate adults (able to rend and write) as
devices to all married women in same age group.                                            a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and ov-r
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                       CONSUMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970=100) - Index number of per                     Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars co-prise notor cars
capita annual production of all food commodities.                                       seating lees than eight per-ons; ecludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                    vehicles.
energy equivalent of net fond supplies available in country per capita                 Radio receivers (per thousand Population) - All types of receioers I-o radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less                 broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; enclndes unlicensed
eaports, and changes in stock.  Nat supplies e-clude animal feed, sands,                -eceiwers in countries and in years when rngiatratico of radio nets woo in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                    effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since cost countries
quirements were estimated by PAO based on physiological needs for nor-                  abolished licensing.
mal activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                    TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to generai
weights, age and sea distributioss of population, and allowing 10 per-                     public per thousand ,-pulation; exsludes unlicensed TV receivers in ous
cent for waste at household level.                                                         tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                    Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average cir-ula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                       tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                     cation devoted primarily to recording general sews.  It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                      be "daily" if it appears at least four times a w-nk.
Of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.               Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Basod on thc curler of tickers
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                      sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cines.as and .obile
23 grams of anisal protein as an average fur the world, proposed by                       units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food                EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                      Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                    forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students,  tc.  Defioi-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                                 tions in various countries are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                     Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hu.ting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth  (years) - Average number of years of life                          as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                   Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufa-turing and
and 1975.                                                                                  electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                    Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, cod
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                  fexaae labor force as percentages of their respective popiastons.
Access to safe water (Percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                     These are ILO's adjusted participation rates reflectiog age--no
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                       str,.crore of the population. snd long tine trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                    Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to
uncontaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                       the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                      INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters froe  a house may be considered as being within rea-                   Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) receivod by richest 5
sonable access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                      percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                        of household.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                          POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to excreta disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and                    Estimated absolute poverty incce level (US$ per capita) - atb-a and r-ca  -
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excreta                         Absolute poverty income level is that income level below whsch a 'inic-.i
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Excreta                          nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-fond requiremeots in not
disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                          affordable.
treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-borne Systems                      Estimated relative poverty income level (US0  per capita) - urban en  rtoal -
or the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                       Relative p-oerty income level is that income level less than ose- cord
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                         per capita personal income of the countrv.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                         Estimated population below  povorty income level (perrooc) -            -rIas and rral -
Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of                              Percent of population (arbor and rtoal) who ore either "bsolutr  -.oor" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                          "relative poor" whichever is greater.
assistant nurses.
Ec .n..c and Sooie1 .c divuio
EcnmcAnalysis, cod Perioctiors Po -t ur -et



-24-                                  ANNEX  I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT In 1977 -                                           ANNUAL RATE OF GRO0.irH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.        %                          1960-65             1965-70        1971-77
GNP at Market Prices            44,386        100.0                           1.9                 4.9             7.8
Gross Domestic Investment        8,667         19.5                           3.3                11.5           13.4
Gross National Saving            8,448         19.0                           5.8                 5.1           16.9
Current Account Balance        -   725      -   1.6
Exports of Goods, NFS            7,592         17.1                           1.5                 7.8           10.0
Imports of Goods, NFS            7,489         16.9                           0.2                10.9           18.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
2/
Value Added                     Labor Force-                     V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.     _%                    Mln.        %                     US--$ 
Agriculture                     11t624       31.1                  35.3       62.6                   329          49.7
Industry                        12,672       33.9                   4.7        8.3                 2,696         407.3
Services                        13,043       35.0                  13.4       23.8                   973         147.0
Unallocated                       -            -                    3.0        5.3
Total/.verage             .
37,339     100.0                   56.4       50.                    662100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
CENTRAL GOVERN}INT
(Rp. Billion)       _                                     % of GDP
1976/77             1977/78                             1976                 1977
Current Receipts                2,877                3,535                             18.6                  18.6
Current Expenditure             1,610               2,149                              10.4                  11.3
Current Surplus                 1,26.7              1,387                              8.2                   7 .3
Capital Expenditures            2,044               2,157                             13.2                  11.3
External Assistance (net)         784                  773                              5.0                  4.0
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                    l972           1973         1974         1975         1976         1977
(Ti1lion Rp  outstanding end periodT
Money and Quasi Money                         695           987        1,452        1,978        2,631        3,147
Bank credit to Public Sector                  129           153          209          990        1,051          865
Bank Credit to Private Sector                 524           932        1,186        1,376        1,737        2,063
(Percentages or Index Numbers.)
Money and Quasi MToney as % of GDP             15.2          14.6         14.8         16.3          17.0         16.5
General Price Index (1966 = 100)              807         1,9281       1,370        1,640        1,873        2,094
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                            25.7          27.4         33.3         19.7         14.2         11.8
Bank credit to Public Sector                  -14.0          18.6         36.6        473.7          6.2        -17.7
Bank credit to Private Sector                  65.3          77.9      . 27.2          16.0         26.2         18.8
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Conversion at an exchange rate of Rp 415 = US$1
2/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.  "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
not ayEilable
not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
Feb:uary 28, 1979



ANNEX I
-  25-                                  Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMgENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                      MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1975      1976     1977(Provisional)                                      US $ Mln    %
(Millions US $)
Exports:                       4,738   6,183    7,592                  Oil                                  2,906      57.1
Oil (net)                    2,921   3,567    4,243                  Timber                                 605      11.9
Non oil                      1,817   2,216    3,349                  Rubber                                 461       9.1
Imports                       -5,533  -6i,352   -7,489                 Palm Oil                               117       2.3
Resource Gap                -  795  -  169        103                Tin                                    107       2;1
Factor service:               -  462  -  646   -  828                  Coffee                                 104       2.0
Interest                    -  178  -  362   -  473
Investment Income           -  284 -  284   -  355                     All other commodities                791     15.5
Balance on Current Account  -1,257  -  8T-   -  75                            Total                         5,79T-    UQ,0
Direct Foreign Investment        497      329       286                EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1977
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements               2,395   2,327    1,988                                                              US $ Mln
Amortization               -  322  -  625   -  826
Subtotal                    2,073   1,702    1,162                    Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               11,391
Capital Grants                                                           Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)           -2,250  -  205        474                  Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i             -   46  -  604                             T      o    a         Db
Increase in Reserves (+)    -  983        736    1,197                 DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977 
Gross Reserves (end year)        590   1,494    2,494
Net Reserves   (end year)        490   1,226    2,423                    Public Debt, inel. guaranteed               17.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                               Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                          93     119        28
of which:  Petroleum          89      114        26
Exports
of which:  Petroleum       2,921   3,567    4,243           IBRD/IDA LENDING, (Feb. 28, 1979)(Million US $):
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                            IBRD         IDA
2/                Outstanding & Disbursed               596.1       490.7
Through    Aug. 1971             Since  -  19717                   Undisbursed                         1,306.9       189.0
US $ 1.00 = Rp375               US $ 1.00 = Rp 415                 Outstanding incl. Undisbursed    1,903.0          679.7
Rp   10Q0= US $2.67             Rp   1000 = US $2.41
1/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services, with oil exports on a net basis
(i.e. excluding factor payments and imports of the oil companies).
2/  Since 11/15/78
US$ 1.00 = Rp 625
Rp 1000 = US$ 1.60
not available
not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
February 28, 1979



- 26 -                      ANNEX II
Page 1 of 20 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of February 28, 1979)
US$ million
Loan/                                                                 Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                  (less cancellations)
Number   Year                  Purpose                        Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
One Loan and seventeen Credits fully disbursed                50.0  228.1        -
220      1971    Third Irrigation Rehabilitation                      14.5      0.2
259     1971    Tea                                                   15.0      0.7
260      1971    Second Highway                                      34.0       0.2
289     1972    Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation                     12.5       0.2
300     1972    Population                                           13.2       3.2
318     1972    Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation                     8.5       2.0
319      1972    Fourth Agricultural Estates                         11.0       2.0
355      1973    Beef Cattle Development                              3.6       0.2
358      1973    North Sumatra Smallholder Development                .5.0      0.8
387      1973    Third Education                                     13.5       4.7
388     1973    Third Highway                                        14.0       0.1
399      1973    West Java Thermal Power                             46.0       4.8
400      1973    Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                    7.8      6.3
405      1973    Sugar Industry Rehabilitation                       50.0       0.8
428     1974    Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                        16.5      I0.1
436     1974    Private Development Finance Co.  of
Indonesia (PDFCI)                                10.0       0.7
451     1974    Fourth Technical Assistance                           5.0       1.9
479     1974    Bali Tourism                                         16.0      10.7.
480     1974    Fisheries Credit                                      6.5       2.1
514      1975    Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                      30.0      22.4
785     1978    Small Enterprise Development Project                 40.0      35.9
827     1978    Rural Credit                                         30.0      30.0
869      1979    Polytechnic /a                                      49.0      49.0
1005    1974    Railway                                      48.0               3.9
1040    1975    Jakarta Urban Development                    25.0               2.5
1049    1975    Five Cities Water Supply                      14.5              8.5
1089    1975    Second Fertilizer Expansion                 115.0               1.6
1100    1975    Sixth Irrigation                             65.0              49.8
1127    1975    Fourth Power                                 41.0               4.7
1139    1976    Fertilizer Distribution                       68.0              1.5
1179    1976    Agricultural Research & Extension            21.5              19.2
1197    1976    National Resource Survey & Mapping            13.0    -         8.5
1236    1976    Fourth Highway                              130.0             100.2
/a. Not yEt effective.



- 27-                      ANNEX II
Page 2 of 20 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                  Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                  (less cancellations)
Number   Year                  Purpose                        Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
1237    1976    Fourth Education                              37.0              31.2
1250    1976    Second Shipping                               54.0              46.7
1254    1976    Third Fertilizer Expansion                    70.0              14.3
1259    1976    Fifth Power                                  90.0               76.7
1267    1976    National Food Crops Extension                 22.0              15.8
1268    1976    Seventh Irrigation                            33.0              21.5
1318    1977    Transmigration and Rural
Development                               30.0               23.2
1336    1977    Second Urban Development                     52.5               22.0
1337    1977    Tanjung Priok Port                            32.0              23.9
1363    1977    Second Private Development
Finance Co. of Indonesia
(PDFCI-II)                                15.0              12.5
1365    1977    Sixth Power                                  116.0              86.9
1373    1977    Nutrition Development                         13.0              12.9
1433    1977    Teacher Training-Fifth Education             19.0               17.8
1434    1977    Eighth Irrigation                             63.0              61.1
1435    1977    Ninth Irrigation                              35.0              31.2
1437    1977    Development Finance Co.
(BAPINDO III)                            40.0               26.6
1472    1977    Second Population                             24.5              23.9
1486    1978    Non-Formal Education                          15.0              14.4
1499    1978    Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I           65.0               61.7
1513    1978    Seventh Power                                109.0             108.4
S 009   1978    Bukit Asam Coal Mining and Transport
Engineering                                10.0                9.1
1578    1978    Tenth Irrigation                            140.0              139.7
1579    1978    Eleventh Irrigation                           31.0              29.0
1604    1978    Nucleus Estates and Smallholders II           65.0              65.0
1645    1979    Irrigation XII /a                            77.0               77.0
1653    1979    Third Urban Development /a                   54.0               54.0
Total                                             1,903.0  679.7   1,495.9
of which has been repaid                           13.8    0.0
Total now outstanding                             1,889.2  679.7
Amount sold                                28.1               0.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b                 1,861.1  679.7
Total undisbursed                                1,306.9  189.0   1,495.9
/a Not yet effective.
/b Prior to exchange adjustmenf.



-28-                   ANNEX II
Page 3 of 20 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of February 28, 1979)
Fiscal                                Type of                    US$ million
Year         Obligor                  business             Loan    Equity    Total
1971    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               10.6      2.5        13.1
1971    P.T. Unitex                   Textiles              2.5      0.8         3.3
1971    P.T. Primatexco
Indonesia               Textiles              2.0     0.5         2.5
1971    P.T. Kabel Indonesia          Cable                 2.8     0.4          3.2
1972    P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.            Textiles              4.5      1.5        6.0
1973    P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism                 11.0      -          11.0
1973    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement                5.4     0.7          6.1
1974    P.T. Primatexco
Indonesia              Textiles               2.0     0.3         2.3
1974    P.T. Monsanto Pan             Electronics           0.9      -          0.9
1974    P.T. PDFCI                    Devel. Fin. Co.        -      0.5         0.5
1974    P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles              2.4     0.6         3.0
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement                5.0      1.5        6.5
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement                 -       1.1        1.1
1977    P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.            Textiles              0.3      -          0.3
1977    P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles              1.4     0.1         1.5
Total                                                50.8    10.5         61.3
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                  29.2      1.8        31.0
Total held by IFC                                    21.6      8.7        30.3
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)          -        -



-29-                    ANNEX II
Page 4 of 20 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Agriculture                                                                  Pages
Irrigation (Cr. 289, 514, Ln. 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,
1579 and 1645/2)                                               5-6
Other Agriculture Production (Cr. 259, 319, 355, 358, 400,
405, 480, Ln. 1318, 1499 and 1604)         6-9
Agriculture Support Services (Ln. 1179 and 1267)                            9-10
Agro-Business and Credit (Cr. 785 and 827)                                   10
Education (Cr. 387, 869/2, Ln. 1237, 1433 and 1486)                          11-12
Energy (Cr. 399, 1127, 1259, 1365 and 1513)                                  12-13
Industrial Development and Finance
Fertilizer Production (Ln. 1089 and 1254)                                  14
Industrial Estates (Cr. 428)                                              14
Development Finance Companies (Ln. 1437, Cr. 436 and Ln. 1363)             15
Coal Mining (Ln. S-9)                                                      15
Population and Nutrition
Population (Cr. 300 and Ln. 1472)                                         15-16
Nutrition (Ln. 1373)                                                      16
Technical Assistance (Cr. 451 and Ln. 1197)                                 16-17
Transportation
Fertilizer Distribution (Ln. 1139)                                        17
Highways (Ln. 1236)                                                       17
Marine Transport (Cr. 318 and Ln. 1250)                                   18
Ports (Ln. 1337)                                                          18
Railways (Ln. 1005)                                                       18
Tourism (Cr. 479)                                                           19
Urban Development (Ln. 1040, 1336 and 1653/2)                               19-20
Water Supply (Lnx. 1049)                                                    20
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weakfiesses in project executions
/2 Not yet effective.



- 30 -                  ANNEX II
Page 5 of 20 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 289 Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation: US$12.5 Million Credit
of March 9, 1972; Effective Date: May 5, 1972; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979.
The construction program has escalated in cost by 150% over the
appraisal estimate, due to an increase in the magnitude of the works and
unexpected inflation. The project is expected to be completed shortly.
Feasibility studies included in the project have been concluded and ground-
water investigations are nearing completion.
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: US$30 Million Credit
of October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Initial organizational difficulties and late awarding of the
first construction contract have caused a delay of about 2 years in the
project schedule. The first construction activity started in February 1977
and contracts for over 70% of the project works have been let. Based on bid
prices for the first contract and revised quantity estimates on the basis of
detailed design, total project cost is now estimated to be about 140%
over the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  US$65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Good progress has been made on the rehabilitation works, but
construction of new works is behind schedule because of delays in preparing
contract documents. The two largest contracts have still not been let.
Substantial cost overruns are anticipated due to unavoidable major changes in
the design of the Sampean Baru dam and unit price increases in other compo-
nents. These will be verified as bids are received for the major contracts.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  US$33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The implementing agencies have engaged the consultants. Construc-
tion is underway in the North Sadang and tertiary development areas, and
studies being funded under the project are expected to be completed shortly.
The mapping program is progressing satisfactorilye Disbursements are ahead
of schedule.



-31-                     ANNEX II
Page 6 of 20 pages
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  US$63.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
Disbursements are somewhat ahead of schedule, and the project is
being implemented satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  US$35.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
1977; Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
While delays have arisen due to inadequate mapping in the Sungai
Dareh-Sitiung area, the project is ahead of schedule and progressing satis-
factorily. Some tender documents have been prepared and contracts are
expected to be let this year. Disbursements are ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  US$140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Initial delays in hiring consultants and in preparing tender
documents are slipping the start of project construction behind the appraisal
estimate.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  US$31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
A smooth start has been made on some components but two components
are behind schedule due to unforeseen technical problems and delays in
drawing up tender documents.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  US$77 Million Loan of December 29,
1978.  Not yet effective; Closing Date:  March 31, 1984.
Consultant contracts are being finalized and a smooth start to
project implementation is being made.
Other Agriculture Production
Credit No. 259  Tea:  US$15 Million Credit of June 24, 1971; Effective Date:
September 17, 1971; Closing Date: August 31, 1979
Nearly all the targets set at appraisal have been achieved one year
ahead of project completi-6ni but factory &&paci6y still has to be expanded



- 32-                    ANNEX II
Page 7 of 20 pages
to take account of the increased production which exceeds appraisal estimates
by about 6,000 tons, or 30%. Financial, technical and managerial performance
has been excellent. Inflation and additional construction and equipment
costs are expected to increase project costs by about 17% above appraisal
estimate, but the economic rate of return is good and is expected to be over
20%.
Credit No. 319 Fourth Agricultural Estates: US$11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective Date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Progress of the project continues to be good, with planting of
rubber and oil palm ahead of appraisal estimates and in excellent condition.
The project has been expanded to 15,000 ha (originally 11,400 ha). The
remaining area to be planted is about 3,500 ha, of which 2,300 ha have been
cleared and are ready for planting. Technical problems exist in processing
and equipment maintenance, but construction of the oil palm mill will be
accelerated and additional capacity for crumb rubber production will also be
provided. Profitability and cost of development at PNP X are satisfactory,
while the capital structure of PNP X is to be improved during the course of
the Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I Project (Loan 1499-IND). PNP X is
also participating in the Transmigration and Rural Development Project
(Loan 1318-IND).
Credit No. 355 Beef Cattle Development: US$3.6 Million Credit of
January 31, 1973: Effective Date: May 30, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
Several problems seriously delayed project implementation. The
Government's budget allocation was insufficient, and financial management and
coordination were weak. Changes in the scope and design of the project,
from one of breeding and fattening of beef cattle for export to that of
production of improved cattle for domestic sale as draft and breeding
animals, were approved by the Executive Directors in June 1977. The project
was reviewed in November 1977 and May 1978 and is now being implemented
satisfactorily.
Credit No. 358   North Sumatra Smallholder Development:  US$5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973:
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Progress continues to be satisfactory, and the expected program of
planting rubber and oil palm by smallholders was accomplished at the end of
1977. By 1981, when the project is completed, these plantings will have been
brought to maturity. The Government has decided not to expand the project in
its present location Vecau-se of the extensi>ive guppbrt- already being given to
North Sumatra Province tirough this; and other' ghkk-s4p'&rted projects;



-33 -                   ANNEX II
Page 8 of 20 pages
instead, the Government is seeking the Bank's assistance for smallholder
development projects in other Provinces, including Aceh, Jambi, Riau,
S. Sumatra, W. Kalimantan and S. Kalimantan.
Credit No. 400   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea:  US$7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Since smallholders and estates prefer a heavier concentration on
replanting and less on rehabilitation, the mix had to be changed, thereby
reducing the overall area from 13,200 ha to about 10,200 ha. Although
production will not be affected, since yields from replanted tea are higher
than from rehabilitated tea, costs will exceed appraisal estimates by about
77%, since replanting is more expensive than rehabilitation and costs have
generally increased because of inflation. Delays were experienced in imple-
menting the institutional framework for long-term lending, a new venture for
Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI). Because of this, and difficulties in involving
the private estates in the project, disbursements are behind appraisal
estimates. A major review of the project is currently being undertaken by the
Resident Staff in Indonesia. While the project has experienced difficulties,
it is estimated that, because of the project-induced spin-off effects, an
area at least equal in size to the project is being improved. Over 500
farmers' groups have been formed to improve tea production supported by a
project training program presently involving nearly 4,000 farmers. These
developments have been helped by a surge in tea prices (2-1/2 times appraisal
estimates). Considerable investment in factory and field development is
taking place outside the project, largely financed by short- and medium-term
loans from BRI and by private investors.
Credit No. 405   Sugar Industry Rehabilitation:  US$50 Million Credit of
June 26, 1973; Effective Date: April 22, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The rehabilitation of two sugar factories and the construction
of one new factory, financed by the Credit, have been completed on schedule
and trial runs are taking place. The research part of the project is slow in
materializing; the sugar research station still requires a major consultant
input. The two PTPs involved in the rehabilitation process are both in a
particularly weak financial position, and this problem requires attention.
The Government has started an evaluation of the financial status of the
industry, but progress of this study is slow.
Credit No. 480 Fisheries Credit: US$6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
After some initiai delays, the overall ffoJ66t is now about
18 months behind seAeddP4. Qonstrut'ion of shore faciifti6s at A6bon is



- 34 -                  ANNEX II
Page 9 of 20 pages
virtually completed. Boat construction is under way and all related equip-
ment is on site, ready for installation. While the quality of fishpond
lending has suffered some deficiencies in the past, remedial action taken by
Bank Rakyat Indonesia is gradually improving the situation.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  US$30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Settlement and construction are lagging about a year behind ap-
praisal estimates, partly because of the initial delay in project effective-
ness and weak project organization and management. Nonetheless, 1,300
migrant families have been settled at Baturaja and are successfully growing
food crops. Initial incomes are satisfactory in spite of inadequate fer-
tilizer supplies and poor seed supply, although one third to one half
originates from construction and rubber planting. These incomes are substan-
tially above incomes the transmigrants received in Java. As evidence of the
relative attraction of the Baturaja community, 485 spontaneous settlers have
already been attracted to the site. In the existing settled area at Way
Abung, there has been little improvement in incomes because fertilisers are
not available on site and delayed road construction limits marketing of cash
crops. Experience to date highlights the need for improving project manage-
ment and ensuring that agricultural support services and input supply systems
are in place as settlement proceeds.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholder I:  US$65.0 Million
Loan of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
This loan became effective in January 1978. Project implementation
has started slowly, due to inadequate budgeting of local funds and appoint-
ment of key consultants. Land clearing is in progress and planting material
is being distributed to smallholders.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder II:  US$65.0 Million
Loan of July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
This loan has recently become effective.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179 Agricultural Research and Extension I: US$21.5 Million Loan
of December 19, 1975: Effective Date: February 23, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Due to prolonged negotiations over selection and terms and condi-
tions of employment of consultants, including Afehitects and engineers, the



- 35-                   ANNEX II
Page 10 of 20 pages
project is about 18 months behind the appraisal implementation estimates.
Design of all civil works has been completed, construction of extension
information centers is progressing well and expected to be completed in FY79,
and the Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD) plans to let
contracts for the remaining civil works shortly. At the present projected
pace of implementation all components, except fellowships, could be completed
by the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1267 National Food Crops Extension; US$22 Million Loan of June 4,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
Good progress is being made in the field and, despite organiza-
tional difficulties, an effective extension service is being created. Ap-
pointments of extension staff are ahead of schedule and the project director-
ate has been strengthened by the appointment of three additional Assistant
Directors. Civil works have been resumed and, after recent approval of
prefinancing requests for 1977-78, the training program has been started.
Disbursement is lagging in every category due to prefinancing difficulties
and delays in submission of withdrawal applications with supporting documen-
tation for equipment and furniture. The new procedure for prefinancing
(outlined by the Finance Ministry in October 1978) is expected to help solve
the problem and speed up project implementation and disbursement.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: US$40.0 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
This credit became effective on August 17, 1978. Despite start-up
difficulties, Bank Indonesia (BI) is making good progress in revising lending
procedures and establishing new lending approaches to serve the medium-term
credit needs of small entrepreneurs. Training of BI and handling bank staff
is progressing and preparation for studies is on schedule.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: US$30.0 Million Credit of June 23, 1978:
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1985.
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallhold-
ers, primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical
assistance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for program development, training,
credit procedures and accounting and management information systems. BRI,
the implementing agency, is in the process of evaluating proposals for
project consultancy and preparing the lending program for the first year
(April 1, 1979 to March 30, 1980).



- 36-                    ANNEX II
Page 11 of 20 pages
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387   Third Education:  US$13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project finances the production and distribution of 138 million
primary school textbooks in four subjects, and related in-service training
for 350,000 primary school teachers and 2,800 supervisory personnel. About
90 million project books have been printed and 3,800 tutors and administra-
tors and about 400,000 teachers (114% of the project target) have received
training nation-wide. Despite the remarkable quantitative achievements,
problems of management, distribution, technology and pedagogy make the
project less effective than it could be. The training program, although on
schedule and making good progress, is out of phase with book production,
which is almost one year behind schedule due to delays in paper procurement.
Textbooks and teacher manuals would benefit from better design, organization
and illustrations, and their content is limited by the national curricula.
In response to Bank proposals, the Government has started a major review of
the project to focus on its relation to other ongoing Government textbook
programs and overall future needs for production of instructional materials.
Credit No. 869   Polytechnic:  US$49.0 Million Credit of December 29,
1978; Not yet effective; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The project is designed to help the Government meet demand for en-
gineering technicians and trained accountants. It will introduce a new system
(polytechnics) for training technicians at the diploma level by establishing
a Technician Education Development Center and six polytechnics in Java and
Sumatera, and improving the quality of accountancy training by establishing
four accountancy development centers in existing universities.
Loan No. 1237 Fourth Education: US$37 Million Loan of April 15,
1976; Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Initially, all three subprojects - under the Ministry of Education
(MOE), Ministry of Manpower (MOM), and National Institute of Administration
(LAN) respectively - suffered an eight month delay due to late signing of
the Funds-in-Trust (FIT) Agreements with the UN Agencies providing technical
assistance, as well as contracts with the consultant architects. Further delays
have occurred in the tendering and awarding of civil works contracts for the
Manpower and LAN components. Overall, the project is about 1-1/2 years
behind schedule. About 70% of civil works, 40% of furniture, and 100% of
technical assistance have been contracted. Implementation of the technical
assistance programs of all subprojects is in line with the FIT Agreements.
Overall, the Ministry of Education and LAN components are going well, but the
Ministry of Manpower has had diffieulty iii ianaiThg its diverse program of



-37-                  ANNEX II
Page 12 of 20 pages
establishing 17 training centers. Delayed implementation may require post-
ponement of the Closing Date by about six months.
Loan No. 1433 Teacher Training: US$19.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Implementation of the project closely follows the appraisal sched-
ule. The first and second phases of the program to train 160 Indonesian
educators in ways to improve teacher training and develop new curricula have
been carried out successfully. Curriculum development work is making good
progress, production of learning material is under way, and the research
designs for studies included in the project have been completed. Civil works
are on schedule, but equipment procurement is delayed by about nine months.
There are no specific implementation problems at this stage.
Loan No. 1486 Non-Formal Education: US$15.0 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project aims at strengthening the nonformal education programs
of the Department of Education in seven Provinces. General progress in
project implementation is satisfactory. Renovation of two existing provin-
cial centers was completed on schedule, construction contracts for four new
centers are being awarded, and furniture and equipment is being tendered.
The technical assistance component is about nine months behind schedule due
to late signing of contracts and the November 1978 devaluation; however, the
training aspects of the project are on schedule. Recruitment of foreign
experts and domestic consultants is accelerating satisfactorily; initial
staff training, learning materials development, and evaluation activities are
being carried out. It will be another two years before the project can be
expected to make a significant impact on field activities.
ENERGY
Credit No. 399 West Java Thermal Power: US$46 Million Credit of June 22,
*1973; Effective Date: August 28, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Project implementation was initially delayed due to the necessity
of making additional financing arrangements to meet much higher costs of
equipment resulting from rapid inflation in 1974/75. However, implementation
is now progressing smoothly. Both 100 MW generating units have been syn-
chronized with the grid and are being loaded slowly.



-38 -                   ANNEX II
Page 13 of 20 pages
Loan No. 1127   Fourth Power:  US$41 Million Loan of June 17, 1975; Effective
Date: October 23, 1975; Closing Date: June 30. 1980.
Construction of the third 100 MW unit at Muara Karang is pro-
gressing satisfactorily. The scheduled commissioning date of February 1980
is about seven months behind the appraisal target, but no further delays are
expected and there is a good possibility that some of the delays may be
made up. The loan disbursement is proceeding as scheduled in the appraisal
report.
Loan No. 1259 Fifth Power: US$90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976; Effective
Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
All equipment required for the project is scheduled to be procured
in three lots. Nearly 75% of the equipment which was covered by Lot 1
(valued at $13.6 million) has been received; orders for equipment covered by
Lot 2, (amounting to $32.4 million) are now being placed. The project
suffered an initial setback of about one year in procurement action but is
now progressing satisfactorily. It is expected that loan disbursements will
be completed prior to the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1365 Sixth Power: US$116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Implementation of the project, consisting of 2 x 200 MW steam
generating units at Muara Karang, is progressing satisfactorily. Orders for
major electrical and mechanical equipment were placed during the period
December 1977-February 1978. So far progress is on or slightly ahead of
schedule. Currently, estimated commissioning dates for the units are about
four to six months ahead of the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1513 Seventh Power: US$109.0 Million Loan of February 3, 1978:
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; ClosinR Date:
December 31, 1983.
Tenders for major electrical and mechanical equipment required for
the 200 MW unit, including turbine generator, steam generator, cycle equip-
ment, electrical equipment and power transformer, were opened on August 21,
1978. Bids have been evaluated and the Bank indicated no objection to the
recommendations for award of contracts on February 6, 1979.



-39-                    ANNEX II
Page 14 of 20 pages
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Fertilizer Production
Loan No. 1089 Second Fertilizer Expansion: US$115 Million Loan of
February 28, 1975; Effective Date: April 29, 1975;
Closing Date: August 31, 1979.
The project (PUSRI III) was commissioned April 9, 1977- one month
ahead of schedule. During the eight months of operation in 1977, the project
operated at 66% capacity utilization, which increased sharply to about 92% in
1978 with the overcoming of initial technical problems. Certain auxiliary
facilities, now being installed, are expected to be completed by mid-1979.
The project is not expected to show a cost overrun.
Loan No. 1254 Third Fertilizer Expansion: US$70 Million Loan of May 20,
1976; Effective Date: August 15, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The project (PUSRI IV) was commissioned November 26, 1977, about
four months ahead of schedule. During 1978, PUSRI IV produced nearly 470,000
tons of urea, reflecting a capacity utilization of 83% in the first year
of operation. Some auxiliary facilities are planned to be expanded by
1980. The project is not expected to show a cost overrun.
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: US$16.5 Million Credit
of September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The estate is progressing satisfactorily. Of 430 ha of raw land
earmarked for acquisition, 313 ha has been acquired and acquisition of
another 31 ha is under negotiation. 119 ha of developed land have been sold
to 99 firms. Employment in these firms at full capacity will be around
19,000 and an estimated 1,400 persons are employed on the average in both
factory construction and land development. Overall, operations are profit-
able. The return on capital investment, which is now projected to be 22%, is
significantly higher than the appraisal forecast of 13.4%. This is due to
developed land values rising faster than the cost of raw land and development.
The project's development has been slower than forecast at appraisal, and the
Closing Date has been postponed to December 31, 1980.



-40                     ANNEX II
Page 15 of 20 pages
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1437   BAPINDO III:  US$40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981.
At the time of loan appraisal (October 1976) BAPINDO was facing
many problems, including high portfolio arrears and slow loan processing.
Accordingly, the Bank sought and reached understanding with BAPINDO and the
Government on a comprehensive Program of Action designed to remedy BAPINDO's
weaknesses and achieve further improvements. A recent Bank mission found
that BAPINDO has effectively implemented the Program and achieved satisfac-
tory progress.
Credit No. 436 Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia (PDFCI):
US$10 Million Credit of November 2, 1973; Effective Date:
March 6, 1974; Closing Date:  June 30, 1979.
This Credit is fully committed.
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI:  US$15 Million Loan of January 28, 1977;
Effective Date: April 21, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Coal Mining
Loan S-9         Bukit Asam Coal Mining and Transport Engineering:
US$10.0 Million Loan of May 19, 1978; Effective Date:
December 22, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
This loan became effective on December 22, 1978, and consultants.
are in place.
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Credit No. 300  Population:  US$13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The Indonesian national family planning program appears to have
slackened somewhat.  As of October 31, 1978, 30.0% of eligible couples in
Java and Bali were estimated to be currently using contraception; the
comparable figure for the 10 provinces of the Other Islands covered by
the program is 8.2%. These figures as of March 39g 1978, were 30.1% and
9.6%, respectively.  Iowever, during the J*fiod c6f&Vfd theid have been
some problems with daft coliecti6n, which may be part of the reason for



-41-                   ANNEX II
Page 16 of 20 paget
the decline. The report of the consultant engaged to determine the needs for
in-house computer facilities for the National Family Planning Coordination
Board (NFPCB) is now being evaluated. Of the construction component, the
remaining two paramedical training schools are scheduled to be completed by
August 1979. No completion date has yet been estimated for one provincial
office building, which was destroyed by fire in September when it was half
completed. Other project activities which remain to be completed, including
the fellowship training program and several research studies, will also be
completed by August 1979.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population:  US$24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date:
April 30, 1983.
Considerable progress has been made on the civil works and procure-
ment aspects of the project. Of the 21 facilities, contracts have been
awarded for 20, and design drawings for the remaining building approved. The
provincial offices and training centers are scheduled to be completed by
September 1979, and the National Family Planning Training Center (NFPTC) by
May 1980. Development of the national population education program and the
national family planning training program is proceeding well.
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development:  US$13.0 Million Loan of
March 14, 1977; Effective Date: March 31, 1977; Closing
Date:  March 31, 1982.
Initial progress under the project is satisfactory. The Nutrition
Intervention Pilot Project, the anemia control and home gardens components,
as well as the fellowships program, are proceeding with minor delays. The
Nutrition Academy has increased its student enrollment from 100 to 160, and
48 graduates are expected this year, compared with 25 prior to project start.
Construction of the Nutrition Academy was completed in February 1979. The
Food Technology Development Center is about 50% completed, and the Center for
Research and Development in Nutrition about 63%. While monitoring and
evaluation units for each component have been operational for six months, the
central monitoring and evaluation unit of the Project Secretariat is just
starting to be staffed.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: US$5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Progress under the project is §&fisfactor:Y and the bulk of the
funds have been committed.



-42-                   ANNEX II
Page 17 of 20 pages
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  US$13.0 Mil-
lion Loan of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The BAKOSURTANAL complex at Cibinong is now structurally completed,
and most of the cartographic, photographic processing, and printing equipment
required to produce maps has arrived and is being installed. Resource evalu-
ation activities, including the compilation of data for Southern Sumatra
and a study for the Directorate-General of Estates of coconut lands to be
replanted in Sulawesi and Lombok, are also proceeding in the new complex.
Recruitment and training of new staff, particularly junior operatives,
has accelerated. The new photography financed under the Canadian parallel
project will shortly be available, by which time BAKOSURTANAL hopes to have
installed color photo processing equipment and to have fully trained special-
ized teams of operatives in the various map production fields.
TRANSPORTATION
Fertilizer Distribution
Loan No. 1139   Fertilizer Distribution:  US$68 Million Loan of
July 10, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project has been substantially completed at a cost 20% below
the appraisal estimate. Work on the five original port depots is completed
and the sixth depot, which was approved by the Bank in 1977 as an extension
financed from project savings, is nearing completion. All four ships,
including the additional ship approved in 1977 and paid for from project
savings, have been delivered and 52 of 58 inland storage depots are com-
pleted. All the ships, port depots and storage depots are operating.
Shipping operations have not been as cost effective as they could be, due to
some extent to existing large stocks of fertilizer requiring ships to be used
for longer distances for exports. Costs have also been increased because of
delays in ship turnaround time caused by the need to clear customs on inter-
island voyages and the cumbersome procedures involved. These matters are
being taken up with PUSRI and improvements are expected.
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  US$130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Virtually all key activities in the initial implementation schedule
agreed with the Government have been completed, although with delays of up to
one year. Construction of 1,200 km of roads has been started. Some problems
in executing the road works have been revealed on contracts started in 1976
and delays were encountered in awarding some contracts in 1977, causing a
slovef rate of progredd thdn schedul§d.  The proj&et 1b About 25% complete.
The delay , eombined With slow prkf§gs, indicate that the project Wili
probably be completed about 15-18 months after the Closihg Date.



-43-                   ANNEX II
Page 18 of 20 pages
Marine Transport
Credit No. 318 Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation: US$8.5 Million
Credit of June 28, 1972; Effective Date: October 19,
1972; Closing Date: September 30, 1979.
Due to sharply increased costs and lack of creditworthy applicants,
just over half the tonnage of shipping expected at appraisal will have been
rehabilitated.  The Credit has been entirely committed and is expected to be
fully disbursed by the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  US$54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Delay in the appointments of a number of consultants has caused a
slow start to the project and slowed project implementation and disburse-
ments. The acute financial problems of the State Shipping Company (PELNI)
have been tackled by the Government and new management is instituting a
recovery plan. The project entity (PANN) has committed, and the Bank has
approved, $22.3 million of subprojects; the Bank has disbursed and made
qualified agreement ta reimburse, funds totalling $6.0 million as of
December 31, 1978. The recent change in exchange rate may adversely affect
this project in the future and slow disbursements further. This matter is
under study and being reviewed with the Government.
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port Project:  US$32 Million Loan of November 4,
1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Slow progress on the construction of Government-financed works
has delayed construction of the first component, but progress is being
made and these works are scheduled for completion in July 1979. The first
construction contract for Basin III back up facilities has been awarded and
work is underway. The regional berths component has been delayed by slow
withdrawal of the Army, which was using the site for storage. However, 90%
of the land has now been released, the old buildings are being demolished,
and a contract for the new works has recently been awarded. These delays
will probably postpone overall completion of the project to mid-1981; it is
too early to estimate the full effect of delays on project cost. The Govern-
ment intends to establish statutory agencies (PERUMS) during 1979 for ports
and dredging, functions which are currently administered by government
departments.
Railways
Loan No. 1005   Railway. US$48L0 } tlion-LoatL-f J,   14, 1974;
Effec teqt   Date: August J§  Jtg4.- Closing Date:
June 5C, 1979.
Project execution is behind schedule due to initial slow procure-
ment and execution of works. Procuremeat is now weil under way and all
contracts have been placed or are about to be placed. Freight and nassenger



-44--                   ANNEX II
Page 19 of 2'0 page&
traffic declined in 1976, due largely to poor service. However, some
improvements have been made since the first half of 1977 following the
arrival of new locomotives and rolling stock, and operations improved
with the aid of consultants. The financial performance of the railway
continues to deteriorate due mainly to increasing costs, including a large
wage raise in early 1977, to low traffic levels, and to inadequate tariffs
for major freight commodities. The Government is completing the reorganiza-
tion of the railway as a Government Department. It has undertaken to review
the role of the railway and determine which traffic should be carried at a
profit and which should be subsidized.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: US$16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date:
August 31, 1979.
Construction of major infrastructure and related facilities for
the Nusa Dua tourism estate is under way and scheduled for completion in mid-
1980; construction of the hotel training school has been completed. The
completion of project components outside the estate (i.e., roads) is scheduled
for December 1980, about two years later than planned at project appraisal.
Visitor traffic to Bali has been growing; it rose by 8% in 1977 to 286,000
visitors and by a further 11.5% in the first eight months of 1978. Air
access is improving with the introduction of new international flights from
Singapore. At present, three potential hotel projects for Nusa Dua are under
consideration; however, while no final commitment has yet been made, changes
in the project description (recently approved by the Executive Directors)
which would allow use of savings in credit funds for hotel construction may
encourage hotel investment. It is unlikely that a first hotel at Nusa Dua
could be completed in 1980 to coincide with completion of the infrastructure.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1040 Jakarta Urban Development: US$25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1974; Effective Date: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The kampung improvement part of the project is substantially
complete. Some 2,080 ha have been upgraded, compared with the original
plan of 1,980 ha. The sites and services component is about 75% complete.
Problems which have arisen with regard to the standard of materials and the
procedures to be utilized in allocating the plots were resolved last year.
About 2,000 settlers have moved on the site and the remaining plots are
currently being allocated.



-45-                   ANNEX II
Page 20 of 20 pages
Loan No. 1336  Second Urban Development:  US$52.5 Million Loan of November 4,
1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980.
The progress of civil works is ahead of schedule, and costs are
generally within appraisal estimates. Although land acquisition is causing
some delays, efforts are being made to speed up procedures. Progress is
being made in developing Government capabilities to undertake a nationwide
kampung improvement program in the future.
Loan No. 1653 Third Urban Development: US$54 Million Loan of January 31,
1979; Not yet Effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The national kampung improvement program has been expanded in this
project to include Ujung Pandang, Semarang and Surakarta, as well as follow-
up components in Surabaya and Jakarta. The latter includes a new solid
wastes component, and will stress drainage and maintenance.
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049 Five Cities Water Supply: US$14.5 Million Loan of
October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Due to administrative and managerial problems the project is now
running 24 months behind schedule. This delay, together with higher rates of
inflation than anticipated, is expected to increase project costs about 15%
above the appraisal estimate. Detailed engineering and preparation of tender
documents have been completed, and contracts for all equipment and for major
civil works have been signed. The project has reached the construction
phase. The reorganization of the Directorate of Sanitary Engineering has
been completed, and the establishment and development of local water enter-
prises is proceeding satisfactorily. In September 1978, the Government
issued an interministerial decree defining relationships betwee.. the vario-us
Ministries and the Water Enterprises, which is expected to expedite current
and future projects in the sector.



- 46 -                              ANNEX III
Page I
INDONESIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: six months;
(b) Project preparation coordinated by: the Ministry of Agriculture
with the help of FAO;
(c) First presented to the Bank: February 1978;
(d) First mission to consider project: February 1978;
(e) Departure of appraisal mission: July/August 1978;
(f) Completion of negotiations: March 9, 1979;
(g) Planned loan effectiveness: July 1979.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Funds amounting to $320,000 from the Project Preparation Facility
for architectural consultancy services and equipment procurement consultancy
services have been provided to help prepare the project and accelerate its
early implementation.
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government is:
(a)  to cause the provision of the necessary recurrent funds when the
project schools become operational (para. 40);
(b) to ensure that all full-time teachers of the project schools and
in-service training centers who require pedagogical training
will have completed, no later than June 30, 1985, the in-service
training course given at the National Agriculture Training
Institute (paras. 43 and 46);
(c) (i) to strengthen the planning and evaluation unit of AAETE;
(ii) to prepare the plans for carrying out the agricultural man-
power survey and tracer studies, submit them to the Bank for review



- 47 -                          ANNEX III
Page 2
and make the agreed plans ready for implementation; and (iii) to
develop and introduce by June 30, 1980, a training program for
agricultural project and extension program managers in consultation
with the Bank by (para. 48);
(d) to set up the tracer system in each project institution and complete
the manpower survey and tracer studies by June 30, 1981 (para. 48);
(e) to finalize the acquisition of all the necessary land for proposed
project sites (30 ha for each project school and 10 ha for each
project in-service training center) by December 31, 1979 (para. 51);
(f) to construct or repair access roads to newly opened sites prior
to the start of the building construction (para. 51); and
(g) to cause the PIU to prepare and send to the Bank a project
evaluation report on an annual basis starting at the end of 1980
(para. 54).






IBRD 14062
=   0;.~.   % THAILAND      O.5                                                                                                               7                                                  A     9INDONEIA79
-;LS                < ./ J>qR                                                          ,PJ       S <             L_       DHILIppHINES                            \ONDAGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
MALAYS A  h
2 '   i MALAYS A   ;                     )e a             Q        EMALAYSIA                                                           K .4- t  .ER                       O
' ~ >                                                                                                                                                           RARIAS   0 ; b  6DOO *ompu   ;  '<i  v  >  0  L. r /e b ea  S y G   y  * #<f;b31D,IL
Q;    ;    q    0_.    0T   ndurbucA   ,   0   t  s  _  <<<  <  / *, , > <r bvi G ,_, 0 *IC9I DLTURLL TRLltdt lATl1;L l~~~~=ICLTURAIIRAIN~
SINGAPORE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4FRSR
75                                                                                   -                                             ti nu0) / 8 3 t j t ;;  FY  >  /  ss  Lw,LUft  t3L5Vlh;:L2  ATIOAAI 0R15 
' >        75                                     K   9790 00i9/v  5  >_9  9   ) dNrnk L  _L    M  f N   _, jN ,,    |   , :   J    4     ( I MA  N     _
4                             _j2 6                K                                                                   U I  -r
7-~~~~~~~~-
C      tNWU                                                                                        ,O a  /   25  44 a5\        :                                     k0t00      w  $0>0.x   1&
; ?O'AE~ S                 > 1, 8waef0-G    t            d5    4      /                                 12
Y 24    5 UL A W ,U/~~~~AW 
I  ERl,~                 7 09Sl         77/j6                                          ~                              21                            W             4150<   047 91
2; NOT 9T09AT7 elv  \E                                                            INT TO                      jRHooY (~l                                                  K    oaa   "               
2  EST. SUMATRA                                                                                                                                        A 11E5  U-  K 
5--StIMTAM/I                                                                                                                                  l
6 SCTOTMATATA  -                        8If 
=UNA   9                                                                                                        IITA1  1, 9  ' '  ;>- ,                                                                     w    --. -
9271 JORATAl  WM  -~W                              VA    ¾
13 515UTRjAAA^b1;>m0e.                                                                                                                                                                 : .-    ::,d<- >e: Y'  -;S i -R    I,  - °Ml0es3ef
TAT'., .               - ,                            10'                      0 34 4 
I 149 SAEL A 9lb199                                                   719                                      ~7
16  TAO  199U   TTT59  A-  - ---                            Wg0.     I  SoQ-
17  IRAN 799-                                                                                                                                         <Z1ST7'                                                         -
1 ETOTT  899'7R1           -    ---                                           1L   Y    A                          7000      -
19  TOTH9AAW99UF10                                                                                                                                       0ll99O991~
RA3O=t HKATIILIA-1S'                                                                                                       ITPW    T  .             tE 1991191010 10   0   0  30  990 900
799T                                                                                                                             -                   90790,97910799
TTAL0999TA0                                                                                                                '991990919
26-FETTOTRT9                                                                    TTSA917AOAs,KtM9$
-  ~~~99l7ST19TI909T ~1 n   3   . 
2  =-T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FZA                                                                                                      p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~99,7~9ll1
IF                                 O                             9949                                                      AWT07



