L -z        -1Z   R  T,/  -    / '-
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 9365-MAG Type: (SAR)
BLAY, PAUL/ X34013 / J10159/ AF3PH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
MANPOWER TRAINING PROJECT
MAY 15, 1992
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
South Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALE
(March 1992)
Currency Unit       =     Malagasy franc
US$ 1.00                  FM 1800
FM 1000             =     US$ 0.55
SDR 1               =     FM 2458
FM 1000             =     SDR 0.41
SDR 1                    US$ 1.36555
MEASURES
Metric System
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR FISCAL YEAR
1 January - 31 December
ACADEMIC YEAR
October - June
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BPE         Education Project Office
CNFTP       National Technical and Vocational Training Council
CRESED      Education Sector Reinforcement Credit (Credit pour le Renforcement du Secteur de
l'Education)
DET         Department of Technical and Vocational Education
ENFAR       National Civil Service Training School
FAC         French Aid and Cooperation Fund
ILO         International Labor Office
INPF        National Vocational Training Institute
IST         Higher Technological Institute
MEF         Ministry of Employment and Training
MIP         Ministry of Education
MIU         Ministry of Universities
TEFISO      Public sector vocational schools
TUT         Sales tax
TVET        Technical and Vocational Educati  and Training
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Madagascar in November-
December 1990. The mission members were Messrs. Paul Blay (Mission leader, Economist),
Cung Tran-Luu (Technical Educator), Andres Rigo (Lawyer), Jean-ChristopheLaederach Implementation
Specialist). Messrs John Middleton, Arvil Van Adams, and Manuel Zymelman were lead advisors and
reviewers for the operation. This report was prepared by Messrs. Blay, Tran-Luu and Laederach.
Ms. F. Duchesne and Ms. K. Li Tow Ngow assisted with the preparation of the report. Mr. Francisco
Aguirre-Sacasa and Mr. Alain Colliou are the Department Director and Managing Division Chief
respectively for the operation.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MADAGASCAR
Table of Contents
C,REDI AND PROJBER            SUMMARY ................................ Hii
I. INTRODUCTION   ...................................................   I
II. EMPfLOYMENTAND TE7=lHMAL AND VOCAA1[ONAL TRAINING
SYST-EM   ... .................................................   2
A:      ,LABOR MARKE-T  ...............................................   2
B:       TRAINING INSTT=ONS  ............................................  4
Technical and Vocatonal Education and Training  ......................................  4
Agricultural Educaion and Training ..........................................  6
Civil Service Training  ..............................................  7
C^:      SECTO-R DEVELOPMENT ISSUES  .............7
Public Sedor TVET   ..................7
INPN......................                                                              10
Labor Market Ibformation ................ 11
Costs and Financing   ........                          ......... 11
D:       GOVERNMENIT TRlAII=NG SRTATEGY   ....................................  13
E:   BANK ASSISTANCE: PREVIOUS SECTO IN,VO-LyEMENT AND
PRESENT STRATEGY  ..........................................   14
mH.  THE POET...................................................    15
A.       PROJECT OBJECTT-VES  .....................................   is
B.       PROJECT CONPOSM  ON  ............................................ 16
Conmponent I: Support for CNFIP  ....................................   17
Coimponent II: Restructuring and Strnteigo  TVET sse   .............................2
Component II: Improving the System of Labor Markret Information ...............................  23
Component TV: Agrictlture Education and Traninlg ....................................  23
Component V: Training for Middle- and Senior-Level Civil Servants  . ..  24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
|of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.|



-ii-
C.    PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN  ......                ............  24
D.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATON  ..........                 ...............  27
IV. BENEFITS ANDRISKS  .....................................  30
V. AGREEMENTS REACH  .................................... 33
ANNEES
1.     Government Strategy Letter
2.    Govermnent Macro-economic Policy and Employment
3.     Labor Market Sector
4.     Labor Supply
5.     Technical Education Statistics
6.     Private Training Capacity
7.     Organization, work!ng procedures of CNFTP
8.    Terms of Reference, Technical Assistance to CNFTP
9.     Terms of Reference, Technical Assistance to DETP
10.   Terms of Reference for Evaluation of Agricultural Training Sector
11.   Terms of Reference for Study on Financing of Training
12.   Supervision Plan
13.    Cost Tables
14.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
15.   Project File



- Ili -
MADAGASCAR
MANPOWERltAINNGPOJC
IDTr AND PROJECr SMMARY
Borrowe:             Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Beneficar:           National Technical and Vocational Training Council (CNFTP), and
through it, private, NGO and public training institutions; Ministry of
Education (MIP); Ministry of Employment and Training (MEF);
Ministries of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry; National Vocational
Training Institute (INPF); National Civil Service Training School
(ENFAR).
Am:=:                SDR 16.7 million (US$22.8 million equivalent)
Term:                Standard with 40 years maturity
9bixmW=:             To make technical and vocational education and training (TVET) more
responsive to the needs of employers and the labor market, to give a
more important role to the private sector (both NGO and
commercilWly-run schoois) in provision of TVET, to promote cost
recovery In TVET and thus to provide funds for increased levels of
Uaining without increasing the burden on public expenditure, and to
increase quality and efficiency of public sector TVET.
Ro n:D               (a) Developmen of the National Counci of Technical and Vocational
Education and Trainin¢ (CNFTP), the principal agency responsible for
TVET strategy and policies; for promoting training and coordination
among TVET sub-systems, and strengthening linkages between the
training system and employers at national and local level; improving
financing for training through cost sharing and cost recovery measures,
and through increased private sector participation; and supporting the
public and private training sectors, including training delivered by
employers and NGOs. CNFTP will fince training sub-projects.
(b)           g and    g_h_     of ToET Lu=  to make the
public TVET system more responsive to labor market requirements,
and to improve its quality and cost-efficiency by (a) support for the
Department of Technical Education (DIEM), (b) reform of secondary
technical education, including introducing short-cycle courses with
employer financial support and other revised training programs,
(c) rehabilitation of technical lyc4es, (d) establishing a center for
upgradiog trainers, and (e) support for INPF.



- Is, -
(c) Labor Market Information System. Improving the system by
which information about the labor market and training needs is made
available, by developing an "employment observatory" in the Ministry
of Employment and Training (MEF), with regional antennae.
(d) Agricultural Education and Training. A detailed evaluation of the
agricultural education and training sub-sector, including of the need for
reform and rehabilitation of training institutions, leading to
development of sub-sector policy measures and financing of
agricultural education reforms and training activities.
(e) Training for Senior Civil Servants. Development and quality
improvement of the civil service training school (ENFAR) together
with a continued analysis of civil service training needs.
The project will help the training system to respond more efficiently
to the needs of the economy, upgrading training capacity and
strengthening institutions, to meet skill needs more efficiently, to
Improve the quality of trained manpower so reducing a constraint to
the economy, and to make a better allocation of scarce public and
private resources. It will encourage employer participation, improve
cost recovery, and relevance of training courses. It will build on and
complement the sector management reforms developed in the context
of the Education Sector Rehabilitation Project. The project will
provide flexible, market-based instruments to manage training, to
identify and to respond to emerging training needs.
Risks:              (a) If economic growth prospects are not met, reduced demand for
trained workers may slow the project, and employers may be less
ready to contribute financially.
(b) The private sector may be reluctant to play the active role
envisaged in the CNFTP and the technical schools, although employers
say they wish to do so if their participation can be genuine. It will be
essential to launch training programs that are of high priority to
employers early in the project so that employers see the advantage of
cost snaring.
(c) There are political risks related to implementation of policy
measures. Regional pressures may make it difficult to close inefficient
schools, or to modify the technical baccalaureate.
(d) Polidcal unrest has delayed staffing of some project agencies
which may hinder those components. A new Trainig Ministry was
created in December 1991, and divided rerponsibiities may harm the
project if Government does not unify them as it has undertaken to do.



v-
Esimated Costs
1. CNFTP and Training Fund           3.5       5.7        9.2       34
2. TVET                              2.8       10.3        13.1     49
3. Labor Market                      0.2       1.0         1.2       5
4. Agric. Educ. and Training         0.4       0.6         1.0       4
5. ENFAR                             0.5       1.2         1.7       6
6. Project Implementation            0.3       0.3         0.6       2
TOTAL BASE COST (1-6)1/              7.7       19.1       26.8     100
7. Phy. Cont                         0.4       1.2         1.6       6
8. Price Cont                        1.3       1.8         3.1      12
TOTAL PROJECT CoSr (1-8) 1/          9.4      22.1        31.5     118
MDA                          3.9        18.9         22.8          72
UNDP                         0.3         1.3          1.6           5
France                       0.3         1.9          2.2           7
Government and beneficiaries  4.9    _               4.9           16
Total [/                     9.4        22.1        31.5          100
.1/   Including taxes of US$1.7 million equivalent but excluding dudes of US$2.4 million
equivalent.



Estmated IDA  isbursm
- US$ ndinon -
Fisea year          FY93      FY94    FY9S       FY96       FY97    FY98
Annual               1.5       3.5      5.0        6.0       4.0       2.8
Cumulative           1.5       5.0      10.0      16.0      20.0      22.8
Rate of retrn:      Not applicable
Mm:                  No. IBRD 20035R



STAFF APPS      LRAISA
DEhMORA=I REPUBLlC OF MADAGASCAR
MANPOWER TRAlbUNINi PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1   Madagascar has a population of about 11.5 million growing at over 3 percent a year. Per
capita income was estimated to be $230 in 1990 putting Madagascar among the poorest countries
in the world. There was modest economic growth from independence in 1960 to 1970; stagnation
between 1970 and 1980;- is followed by a sharp deterioration, stabilization, and then again slow
overall growth. From 1972 to 1987 per capita Income declined steadily, but 1988-90 at last saw
real growth in per capita income, although it was disrupted by political unrest in 1991.
Consecutive devaluations made Malagasy production more competitive in many areas; combined
with the government's more liberal attitude towards the private sector the new situation has
started to attract investment, and to produce growth in employment. Employers complain
however of a lack of technical skllls in the labor market, even among those who have graduated
from the public technical education system.
1.2 Government and employers wish to reform the vocational education and training sector,
to increase its efficiency and to make it more responsive to requirements. The need for improved
t-chnical skills is rising as the economy starts to recover. New productive sector enterprises want
skilled workers, while existing firms need skill upgrading and improved quality of training both
for their own workers and for those they recruit.
1.3 During preparation of the education sector reinforcement credit (Credit 2094-MAG -
CRESED approved in 1990), a report on Technical and Vocational Education and Training
(TVET) was drafted by a Malagasy working group. It was subsequently decided that TVET
should be supported by a separate project; a team of Malagasy officials was set up, assisted by
consultants financed by an IDA project preparation facility advance, and by France, to formulate
a sub-sector reform program and to identify priority investments. The project has been prepared
under the coordination of this team, to support the reform and rehabilitation program for TVET
institutions, to improve knowledge of the labor market and training needs, and through support
for training activities by private and public sector and NGO training instit"tions, to help
Madagascar to meet its training needs in a cost-efficient manner. It will help to develop
institutions which will ensure employer participation in decision making and in financiny of
TVET.
1.4 Project cost is estimated at US$31.5 million, including US$1.7 million in taxes on local
expenditure (but excluding about US$2.4 million import duties paid direcdy by the Ministry of
Finance), with a foreign exchange component of US$22.1 million. Government and employers
are expected to contribute about $4.9 million equivalent. UNDP has agreed to contribute $1.6
million equivalent; France has contributed substantially to financing project preparation and will
contribute about $2.2 million to the project, as well as financing complementary activities in the
sector. The proposed IDA contribution is $22.8 million, to be disbursed over five years.



-2 -
H. EMPLOYMENT AND THE TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING SYSTEM
A:    LABOR
2.1   Major labor market issues were analAzed in an sector report prepared by a consultant with
French Trust Fund support (Madagascar: Employment and Vocational Training Secto: Note, May
1990), taking account of previous work by International Labor Office (ILO) and French
consultants. The National Census of Establishments and Preliminary Employment and Training
Survey, published in June 1989, which covered most establishments in the formal sector, provides
useful information regarding training in both formal and informal sectors, although information
on the informal sector is less accurate. Labor market information has however in general been
impressionistic, based on surveys and analysis of the patchy statistics available from, for example,
the social security system. The Ministry of Employment is now finalizing a new series of
statistical informaticn on the labor market.
2.2   Economic Backgrougd. The formal sector labor market in Madagascar is slowly coming
out of a long period of stagnation, during which it was dominated by the government and
parastatal enterprises. Since the early 1980s, Madagascar s macroeconomic and industrial
policies have been re-oriented, reversing the state-dominated economic management of the 1970s.
The new policies emphasize market-based price signals and reliance on private sector initiative
to develop an efficient production structure, with a more outward orientation, rationalizing the
public sector, winding down unproductive state enterprises, and seeking to give the system
sufficient flexibility to adapt to shifting economic conditions.
2.3   The macroeconomic, trade and industrial policy reforms have significantly improved the
structure of incentives in which the Malagasy economy operates. In 1988-1990, Madagascar
registered sustained real growth per capita for the first time since the beginning of the 1970s.
The supply effects of the adjustment program are manifested in the increased outward orientation
of the manufacturing sector. The devaluations and the liberalization of imports and exports have
stimulated a significant shift in orientation toward external markets, and to new export activities
which are typically labor-intensive.
2.4 Despite the negative economic impact of the 1991 political turmoil, and of the political
transition which is still taking place, the modifications in government economic policy during the
late 1980s have had encouraging underdying effects on the economic environment. A notable
change in the economic environment was evident at the beginning of 1991, with an increase in
industrial capacity utilization by 15 percent since 1987.  Increased competition led to
rationalization of production. Competitiveness had increased as described above. A further
indicator for the recovery of the economy is the number of new firms being established.
Although total unemployment has risen, several thousand new jobs have been created in some
sectors, mainly in export-oriented activities. The number of tourists coming to Madagascar has
increased and hotel capacity is being expanded. Artisanal products have been shown in
exhibitions in Europe, and exporters note increasing overseas demand for their piLuducts (see
Annex 2).
2.5   In the medium term, substantial growth in production and employment are expected in
the industrial sector (mainly in textile, agro-industry and sub-contracting industry), in
construction, in the hotel and tourism business and in the artisanal and small and medium
enterprise sectors.



-3 -
2.6    Demand for Skilled Labor and Training Needs, Government policy, the incentive
structure it creates, and the response of the economy will determine the size and nature of ikills
reauired. Both through work by ILO and through surveys of varying kinds during project
preparation, skill and training needs, in the short and medium term have been identified in
'ndustry, hotel and tourism, conmtruction and public works and in the informal sector
(see Annex 3).
2.7   In the long-established industrial and service sectors there Is a worsening lack of
technicians, higher technicians and supervisors, as well as of technically qualified specialists like
maintenance mechanics, electricians, reftigeration workers and car mechanics. The firms
expected to be operating in the export processing zones now being established will require skilled
workers in installation and maintenance, technicians, higher technicians and supervisors.
Training for human resource management and office personnel, and management training for
small and medium size enterprises are of high priority. In construction and public works, critical
shortages have been noted of technicians and of skilled and semi-skilled workers: although the
training institutions set up t ler CRESED and the Seventh Highway project should help in
training higher-level technicians, basic skill training in the construction industry leaves much to
be desired. In the informal sector, training is required in management and administrative skills,
and in technical skills including the use of new machines and new technology. In particular for
artisans producing for the export and tourist markets, skills are required in designing new
products, market analysis, and quality control.
2.8   Thus as the economy starts to recover, increasing demand for qualified manpower, and
concern over the quality of trained staff available, are becoming apparent. It is essential that the
economy find qualified workers, which requires a training system that can respond flexibly to
training needs.
2.9   Suy of Empoym . Of total employment estimated at 6.6 million in 1988, formal
sector employment was about 370,000. Of these, almost 109,000 were in the civil service, and
other types of services accounted for another 100,000. Formal sector industrial employment was
less than 50,000. Of the informal sector labor force, about 6 million are in agriculture or
fisheries, and about 70,000 in artisanal manufacturing (see Annex 4). The occupational structure
of formal sector employment is characterized by a low proportion of skilled workers and middle
management, and a high proportion of semi-skilled and unskilled workers compared to
industrialized and even some developing countries. This indicates a weakness, both in quantity
and quality, of the training and experience of the labor force, iL particular at the skilled worker
and middle management levels.
2.10 As in any developing country, unemployment is a difficult concept to define: although
no statistics on underemployment or informal sector unemployment are available, it is clear that
substantial numbers of people are inadequately employed, both in town (especially the
overcrowded capital) and country. Generally it is difficult for agriculture to provide employment
opportunities. Despite the apparent sparseness of population of Madagascar's countryside, it must
be recognized that much of the country's unsettled land is unsuitable for agriculture, at least
without investments in irrigation or to improve soils for which the landless lack the resources.
Fertile land is intensively cultivated in most of Madagascar; landless people are under-employed
in rural areas or leave for the towns. Thus urban population growth (6 to 8 percent per annum)
is far faster than the growth of formal sector employment. Liberalization of commerce in the
1980s has facilitated growth of informal sector employment (a development which is evident to



- 4..
any observer of the Malagasy economy, although statistics are lacking), but the supply of people
seeking work continues to outstrip the growth in jobs available.
2.11   lfo l Secto. Information about training for the informal sector in Madagascar is
largely anecdotal. Nonetheless, there are several issues concerning the sector which warrant
greater attention. First, most primary and secondary school leavers for many years to come will
work in the informal sector. Second, the productivity and earnings of many informal sector
workers could be enhanced through skill upgrading programs which are not now available to
them. Third, the Informal sector itself is an important source of apprenticeship training, whose
potential contribution to meeting skill requirements must be taken Into account.
2.12   Ayallabljiiy of Skills. A high proportion of the graduates of the public TVET system
who are seeking work have weak practical skills. In addidon, many industrial employees
received training of relatively low quality, which limits their productivity. It is clear that there
is a need to upgrade substantial numbers of skilled and semi-skilled industrial workers, although
survev data on the number and type of these workers are incomplete and unreliable.
2.13 Employment Rggulations. Labor market regulations are restrictive, making it in theory
difficult for employers to fire unsatisfactory workers or to reduce their labor force when
necessary, and imposing a complex and rigid structure of minimum wages for different level jobs.
While in practice regulations do not seem to be enforced, and existing employers do not complain
of them as a serious handicap, they may well constitute a barrier to potential new investors,
especially from overseas. An analysis of labor market regulations is being carried out in the
context of industrial sector and macroeconomic adjustment lending.
2.14 Women and Employment. Generally women suffer less discrimination in Madagascar
than in most sub-Saharan countries. Female and male education enrollment rates are broadly
similar, and training institutions accept female students alongside males. Women suffer less
discrimination than elsewhere when entering the labor force, either in the formal or informal
sectors: for example, almost half of primary school teachers and 40 percent of doctors in public
service are women. Women account for about 15 percent of the modern sector work force, and
20 percent of government jobs. Given the high level of integration of women into the labor
force, Malagasy women now face 'second generation" work force problems, such as
discrimination in promotion and lower pav than men for similar work. The training council to
be established under the project (Chapter IHo) will stimulate access to training for women.
B:    TRAINING INSIUTIONS
Technical and Vocational Education and Training
2.15   Technical Education. The public technical education system is currently in transition.
In principle there are three types of technical schools at secondary level, under the supervision
of the Ministry of Education (Ministbre de l'Instruction Publique, MIP):
(a)    18 two-year post-primary vocational schools (rEFISO 1) for training semi-
qualified workers mainly for the rural areas and informal sector, recruiting
students at age 16 with at least a primary school certificate;



-5 - 
(b)    21 two-year vocational schools (TEFISO 2) with entry after grade 9, for those
aged at least 18 with a lower secondary school leaving certificate;
(c)    9 technical lycees, requiring for entry a lower secondary school certificate, and
providing both (i) three-year courses leading to the Technical Baccalaureate,
allowing access to the university Schools of Engineering (Polytechniques), and
(ii) two-year technician-level courses;
(d)    15 secondary technical schools, smaller schools operating in a manner similar to
the technical lycees but not offering technician courses.
2.16  If the structure of the system itself is outwardly logical, the objectives proposed for each
level are ambivalent and unclear, and the content and duration of training for semi-qualified and
qualified workers are too rigid to adapt to local labor market needs. Resources in trained staff,
teaching materials, and operating funds are inadequate to provide quality training. Despite the
low pass-rate in the technical baccalaureate, even those students who do pass and go on from the
technical Iycees to university education have a high failure rate in the first year, with as few as
5% going on to the second year of university.
2.17   At post-secondary level, the government is in the process of establishing, as a pilot
operation, two Higher Technological Institutes ([ST), with IDA finance from CRESED, under
the supervision of the Ministry of Universities. The ISTs will have competitive entry, requiring
baccalaureate qualificadons; they will train higher level technicians and supervisory staff, initiallv
in mechanical and electrical maintenance, in building and civil works, and in business studies.
2.18   Vocational Training. There is no network of public vocational training centers beyond
that run by MIP (and a few youth training centers run by the Ministry of Population and Youth).
However, several ministries and parastatal organizations sponsor in-service training programs for
their staff, which also serve to train people who subsequently go elsewhere in the economy (many
electricians, for example, have been trained by the center run by the electricity and water
coimpany, JIRAMA). In addition, the Ministry of Employment and Vocational Training (MEF)
operates a vocational training center, the Institute of Training and Work Promotion (INPF,
paragraph 2.42).
2. 19   &ivae Secor. NGOs and private owners run numerous technical and commercial
schools throughout the country (Annex 6), mosdy in urban centers, although enrolment is
concentrated in Antananarivo. The quality of the training provided is variable. Most .each
commercial subjects or service trades. A few schools, mostly confessional, teach short courses
in industrial trades, or in other technical subjects such as agriculture or building trades. Wh;le
they tend to have limited capacity, and to lack resources, many efficiently combine production
work and training adapted to local labor market needs; trainees from most such centers are well
accepted by employers. It is however important to note that their graduates often fail to pass
trade certificate examinations organized by MIP, which emphasize academic subjects rathei than
professional and practical training.
2.20 A recent survey of employers showed that about 1,200 of about 31,000 formal sector
establishments in Madagascar had training programs, mostly in the form of on-the-job training.
A little over 300 enterprises sent their workers to training outside their own establishment.



-6 -
2.21    nrollment. Annex 5 shows enrollment and staffing figures for 1988-89, the latest
figures available. There were about 15,500 students enrolled in various secondary technical
instiutes all over Madagascar: 850 in the TEFISO I and 620 in the TEFISO II, almost 7,000 in
the public technical lycees and secondary technical schools, and another 7,000 in private
secondary technical instiutes. Thus, 45% of technical students were enrolled in private sector
technical schools, although many of these students are probably over secondary school age. The
public sector employs a total of 1100 teaching staff in these schools, giving low student: teacher
ratios, due mainly to low enrollment in a number of TEFISO.
2.22   The public technical education system accounts for roughly four percent of total public
expenditure on education. The cost per student is relatively high: expenditure per student in 1987
was FMg 389,000, compared to FMg 58,000 per student in other public level I institutions and
FMg 181,000 in general public lycees. The high cost per student is largely due to high staffing
ratios: over 80 percent of total expenditure is on personnel, high compared with TVET elsewhere
(because of the greater amount of equipment and other materials required) although lower than
the proportion for Malagasy general education. Teacher/student ratios ranged from 3.3 in the
TEFISO I to 8.0 in the public lycees. They are however as high as 26.5 in the private schools.
The private schools employ fewer overhead staff, in contrast to the public sector where almost
40% of staff are in administrative categories.
Ag[icultural Education and Training
2.23   Formal agricultural education is provided at two levels: (a) by the Agriculture Department
of the University of Antananarivo, under the Ministry of Higher Education; and (b) by six
agricultural lycees, managed by the Agricultural Education and Training Service of the Ministry
of State for Rural Development. The Service also manages an in-service training center for the
ministries of agriculture and of livestock, forestries and fisheries, and three pilot agricultural
training centers intended to train farmers. Switzerland and UNDP support forestry and fisheries
training, respectively.
2.24 The university agriculture department accepts students on a selective basis. It provides
courses in agronomy, veterinary sciences, agricultural technology, forestry, and rural
development, including education in biometry, statistics and experimental design up to MSc level
supported by the IDA-financed National Agricultural Research Project (Credit 2042-MAG).
The department also has French and US assistance; it has a good reputation, and could develop
into a regional center of excellence.
2.25 Each of the agricultural lycees specializes in training technicians in a particular discipline
(agronomy, livestock, forestry, fisheries, and agricultural engineering). They accept students
with a lower secondary diploma, following a national entry examination; in practice competition
for entry is such that many students already have a general baccalaureate. Training is for three
years. Entry into each lycee is very small, fewer than 20 per year, numbers being limited by
resources and by low labor market demand. Buildings and equipment are under-utilized and in
poor condition, the courses lack practical work, curricula are out-dated, students are isolated from
the communities where the lycees are situated, and above all operating funds, teaching materials
and staff training and motivation are inadequate. Students receive grants and are housed and fed.
2.26 A demand does exist from public and private sector employers, and from the agricultural
bank, for graduates of the agricultural lycees. Thus they have a useful role, but are operating



-7-
inefficiently. Government intends to carry out an evaluation of agricultural education and
training, and to review actions needed to strengthen them.
2.27   Agricultural training for small farmers is not provided systematically. Three small
publicly-financed centers have no impact beyond their immediate area; funds do not exist to
create a network of such centers and there is no reason to think that such a development would
be cost effective. On the other hand several NGOs, mostly linked to religious organizations,
operate rural training centers, many of which are reportedly successful. The most effective
means of developing training for farmers and rural skldls will be the strengthening of the
agricultural extension network, which is now under way with donor support including through
projects financed by IDA, together with support for the NMOs.
Civil Service Training
2.28   Surveys conducted in November 1989 by the Madagascar National Institute of Statistics
showed substantial training needs in public administration. There are about 800 high-level civil
servants, of whom nearly 400 will retire in the next ten years, while half need to improve their
qualifications to meet requirements for their current assignment. In addition, implementing
administrative decentralization at the regional level, as planned, would require 400 additional
high-level staff.
2.29   Civil servants are trained in two agencies: one for lower and middle level administrative
staff, and the other, the Ecole Nationale de Formadon des Administrateurs Rdvolutionnaires
(ENFAR) for senior officials. ENFAR was established on paper in 1978, but only activated in
1989. It is the only institution responsible for training high-level staff in public administration
(except for economic planning, which is the responsibility of the Institute of Madagascar for
Techniques of Planning, IMaTeP). ENFAR has dynamic leadership, and some donor support
(mainly from France and Canada). However it faces a number of problems: (a) it is located on
the outskirts of Antananarivo, with poor public transport; (b) it has no boarding facilities to house
students, who are recruited through national examination from all regions of Madagascar; (c) its
training capacity is stll weak and mostly limited to pre-employment training, while requests for
in-service training are numerous and urgent; (d) its training programs need updating to meet a
wide variety of demands from different ministries. The lack of boarding facilities is a serious
impediment to providing in-service training for relatively senior civil servants, given the
extremely difficult housing market in Antananarivo, even if transport access to ENFAR were
easier: it would be politically and technically undesirable to limit re-training to officials already
living in the capital.
C:    SECTOR DEVELOPMENT ISSUES
Public Sector 1VET
2.30 The TVET system in Madagascar today faces a number of critical issues. The effect of
these problems is that the system does not produce in sufficient numbers and to an acceptable
standard the skilled workers, technicians and professionals required by either the modern or the-
informal sector, while there is, at the same time, over-production in fields of study where
employment prospects are poor. The underlying problems, however, are those of the TVET
system itself: (a) it is poorly administered and planned; (b) institutions are inefficient and rn
programs of low quality, not sufficiently geared to labor market demands; and (c) there is a lack



- 8-
of systematic cost reduction, cost sharing and cost recovery policies, coupled with a shortage of
funds.
2.31   Administration and Planning of Training. The administration and planning of training
in Madagascar suffer from a series of problems which constrain the operation of existing
programs and the development of new ones. At the most general level, there is a lack of
coordination of manpower and educational planning activities among the ministries involved in
training. In addition, the ministries lack capacity to collect or analyze data on education, training
or manpower requirements.
2.32   The potential employers of the trainees of the TVET and agricultural training system are
not sufficiently involved in planning, formulating and evaluating training programs. The public
training system was developed without adequate attention to labor market requirements. Under
social and political pressure, the number of training centers grew fast, but few if any prior studies
were conducted of economic, financial or technical feasibility. Eighty percent of the students in
public secondary training or technical schools are in the six technical lycdes, whose main
objective has been to prepare the technical baccalaureate for entrance to the university engineering
schools, underlining the priority given to academic education. In principle, the TEFISO 2 should
operate a skills program leading to the labor market, but in practice many of these schools have
also been used inefficiently to prepare for fiurther studies. The system has placed little emphasis
on job-oriented training, on to diverting pressure from entry to higher education.
2.33   The planning of public expenditure on training suffers from the excessive emphasis on
TVET offered within the formal education system, to the detriment of other types of training.
Little importance is given to apprenticeship. In addition, there is little formal contact between
the public system and the major training centers run by NGOs or within industry, although some
such technical schools are recognized by employers as excellent. There is no coordination
between the public training system and the good quality training centers operated by the major
parastatal railway, electric power, and shipyard companies, and by the Ministry of Public Works.
This has led to duplication and overlapping of training activities.
2.34 The administration and planning of training are also constrained by the budgeting and
accounting systems which do not permit planners to determine the total costs or unit costs of
specific training programs, to estimate the most cost-effective means of meeting identified training
needs, or to make medium-term plans on the basis of available resources. This weakness is due
both to administrators' unawareness of financial considerations, and to their lack of knowledge
in the fields of management, procurement, and the administration of training programs.
2.35   Action is needed to improve the planning of the training system if it is to be cost-
effective. First, clear priorities must be set between levels of the system and between different
types of education and trainig programs. Second, government must base future efforts in
training on more diversified modes. Rather than looking mostly to the technical lycdes and
TEFISOs, the government should examine the various training roles that industry, apprenticeship
programs, and in-service and in-plant training programs can play in meeting priority manpower
requirements. Third, employers need to be direcdy involved in the formulation, monitoring, and
evaluation of skill training programs. Finally, there is a need to improve the coordination of the
many agencies and ministries which carry out educational planning, manpower planning, and skill
training.



2.36  T[aining Coogdnation. At present, there is no single body responsible for coordinating
training services in Madagascar. In February 1992 Government published a decree establishing
a national training council (CNFTP, paragraph 3.3), with the responsibility of bringing together
all the parties who are involved with training: government, employers, trainers, and labor unions.
There was an urgent need for such a coordinating training council in Madagascar, to stimulate
development of appropriate training activities and to serve a wide range of other useful
purposes,10 such as the analysis of labor market information needed to identify training
requirements (a function which will aiso be carried out partly by MIEF); definition of roles and
responsibilities of the various training institutions; trade testing and certification procedures;
establishment of training standards; and provision of linkages with employment services.
2.37   A further problem relates to the ministerial responsibility for public TVET schools. Until
1991, they were administered by MIP. However after political changes in 1991, a new ministry
of employment and vocational training was created, with few staff and unclear responsibilities
concerning TVET. It would not be practical to transfer administrative responsibility for the
system directly to the new ministry, but the split responsibilities threatened to undermine the
unified strategy on which the project is based. A joint committee of the senior staff of MIP and
MEF has accordingly been established to manage the transition; planning and curriculum
oversight will be transferred to MEF by December 31, 1992, and full responsibility will be
transferred by June 30, 1993. Responsibility will thereafter remain in the hands of one ministry
(paragraphs 2.52(b) and 5.5).
2.38 Ouality and Efficiency of public TVET. Despite substantial foreign assistance over the
years, primarily from France, TVET has been neither sufficiently responsive to labor market
demands, nor effective in preparing young people for career occupations. First, the unclear
objectives of public technical secondary education limit external efficiency. Training programs
at all levels tend to be more academic than practical, hindering the acquisition of job skills.
Partly this is due to the lack of workshop equipment and materials, to teachers' weak practical
skills in TVET, and their preference for academic teaching. But it also stems from the fact that
many people see the prime purpose of public sector technical education as to provide access to
higher education, rather than to the labor market. This is a perversion of technical education
objectives. Compared with general secondary education, technical education is a costly and
inefficient way to enter higher education; at the same time academic TVET does little to improve
the skills available within the work-force.
2.39   Second, quality of training is poor. According to a survey conducted during project
preparation in the Antsiranana Province - selected for its economic potential and the variety of
training offered - less than 30% of students enrolled in the first year of the technical lyc6e in
1984 had passed the technical baccalaureate three years later. And 94 percent of the technical
1ycde graduates who did pass and entered the university, failed to go on to the second year.
Reasons for poor quality include:
(a)    Curricula have remained unchanged for ten years, are examination driven, and
not aligned with industry needs.
(b)    Many training facilities are dilapidated, lacking equipment, consumable materials,
and other teaching aids. Nearly half of the equipment, except for that recently
supplied to three technical lycees by French bilateral assistance, is broken down,
old or obsolete, and differs from what is generally used in industry. Most
buildings are in need of repair and renovation to protect valuable equipment



- 10-
against theft and weather. In the Toamasina technical lycee in mid-1990, for
example, half of the machines were out of service due to short circuits caused by
heavy rains (urgent repairs have been carried out since appraisal with PPF
funds).
(c)    About 80 percent of teaching staff have no training in teaching methods; few, if
any, have industrial experience. In-service teacher training is practically non-
existent. Pre-service training started recently, but as yet only for technical lycEe
teachers in technical mathematics and electrical engineering. Teachers' guides
are scarce and those available are outmoded.
(d)    MIP and MEF staff lack the means to visit schools. There is no system for
regular maintenance of buildings and equipment, nor for supply of necessary
training materials.
2.40 Training provided in public TVET is standardized: the same courses are provided in most
institutions, regardless of their location and regional economic activities. Although the main
objective of the TEFISO 2 and technician-level programs at technical lycees is to train workers
and technicians for the labor market, trainees have the option of taking academic examinations
rather than those for trade skill and technician certificates, underscoring the low priority given
to trade skills. Most of the graduates from these programs go on to further study.
2.41   The TEFISO-1 program also faces serious problems. Due to inadequate links between
training provided and local labor demand, demand for entry to the TEFISO-1 is very low. Even
though unqualified trainees (that is, without full primary school education) are accepted, some
TEFISO-1 have more administrative and teaching staff than trainees. In 1989, only four of the
18 TEFISO-1 had a trainee/trainer ratio higher than five (that is, five trainees for one trainer).
Only 4 had more than 50 students, and several are effectively closed.
2.42  INPF was created in 1974 as a financially autonomous agency, with a tripartite
(government, employers, trades unions) administration council presided over by a representative
of MEF. It provides two types of programs: (i) pre-employment training for youth in industrial
and commercial trades, the duration of which varies from 4 to 9 months; and (ii) upgrading
training for industrial employees, including enterprise-specific training delivered in factories.
Both trainees and employers pay for training. For pre-employment training, trainees are selected
competitively on a national basis. The number of applicants increases yearly: although tuition
fees are relatively high (about the monthly wage of a skilled worker), eight times more students
apply than can be accommodated. In addition, candidates increasingly possess qualifications
which exceed the stated minimum, the lower secondary leaving certificate: 20% of trainees in
1988-89 had the baccalaureate. Employers' contributions to the upgrading training program
accounted for over two-thirds of INPF revenue in 1988-89, the balance coming from student fees,
other services to employers, and government.
2.43   INPF has received extensive donor support over the years, but in spite of generally good
quality in the training it provides, it has experienced severe problems. It was originally intended
to play a policy role at national level, but has operated in a sub-optimal manner, and in fact
restricted its activities to training limited numbers of students. The unclear relations in past years
between the Ministry of Civil Service and Employment and INPF's board resulted in the board



- 11 -
often being overruled by the Ministry; INPF remains over-staffed (50% of staff are
administrative), and lacks an adequate management and control system. One-third of its teaching
staff needs retraining. INPF lacks training equipment for some specialties strongly requested by
industry, and it generally plays a smaller role than originally intended when it was established,
being no more than a relatively small training school in Antananarivo. If adequately reformed
it could be a lead agency in supporting other training institutions, in developing curricula and
training modules, and helping to train teachers.
2.44 UNDP, INPF's main donor, stopped financing it in 1988, pending a global performance
evaluation by government, UNDP and ELO (executing agency for UNDP). Following this
evaluation (which took place in 1989 and in which IDA staff participated), government took a
number of decisions to overcome the institutional, administrative and technical weaknesses. As
part of the overall TVET strategy (paragraph 2.51 below), the government is strengthening INPF
through: (a) increasing participation of employers in its board from one-third to one-half of the
total; (b) increased delegation of authority to the board; (c) implementation of a management
control system to control personnel costs and make training costs more competitive; (d)
improvement in competency of trainers (a unit responsible for training methods is being created
to improve the quality of training) and administrative staff; (e) expansion of regional activities
in marketing and training in support of businesses outside Antananarivo, which will also increase
revenue; (t) increased efforts to provide training and support to small-and medium scale
enterprises, and (g) completion of workshops and laboratories. INPF is expected eventually to
develop regional antennae, and to play an expanded role in developing the national training
system. UNDP and ILO recommenced their support in October 1990, and complementary
assistance will be provided under the project.
Labor Market Information
2.45   A precondition of an effective training system is the availability of reliable labor market
information. Until recently the labor market information system operated by the Ministry of
Employment provided poor coverage of employment trends, and an inadequate basis for analyses
of labor force characteristics such as earnings, turnover rates, patterns of mobility, profiles of
unemployment, and detection of skill shortages. Although raw data are available from a variety
of sources, they are not collected regularly and processed, analyzed and disseminated to
concerned agencies. The service lacked trained staff, and inter-agency coordination was poor.
Labor market information could not be used for planning by training institutions, nor was there
any system to orient students or the unemployed towards employment priorities. There was a
need to develop systems by which information about labor market requirements could be made
available to sector decision makers and to those seeking training or jobs. A start to this end was
made by the establishment of an employment information system, intended initially for those laid
off from public sector companies, under the Ministry of Employment, financed by the Social
Action and Economic Management Project, Credit No. 1967, and UNDP. With UNDP finance
and as part of the present project, a more extensive labor market information system
(Employment Observatory) is now being set up.
Costs and Financing
2.46 The financing of TVET is at a critical juncture. As does general public education, public
TVET suffers from chronic, intense shortage of the funds it would need to operate satisfactorily,
as well as from inefficient use of those funds. However, unless new financing methods can be
identified, the funds available to TVET for operation and development over the next decade will



- 12 -
remain severely constrained. Cost and financing issues must be addressed urgently if the system
is to meet its basic objectives. As a first step, government intends to establish targets for: (a)
enrollment growth by level and type of training so as to limit growth to the numbers that can be
financed and absorbed by the labor market; (1) improvements in quality and relevance of
programs; and (c) proper funding of the priorities chosen. Failure to set priorities, to establish
new approaches to restructuring the TVET system, or to define the new responsibilities of
employers in cost sharing, would lead to an increasing share of public resources being spent in
inefficient ways.
2.47  In any event, the public sector cannot and should not be seen as the main source of
resources for TVET. Even if fully implemented the above measures could not permit a sustained
growth of training to respond efficiently to labor market demand financed by the resources the
public sector could make available. Alternative sources of training finance and/or modes of
training delivery must be sought. Increased access to training, greater competition and better cost
distribution between the public and private sectors are needed. Strategy must include both
encouraging private sector training, and shifting financial responsibility to employers and trainees.
A study will be conducted by the training council (paragraph 3.10) under the project to assess
how best to develop new sources of finance for TVET.
2.48   Traiing provided by private schoo  appears to be expanding.  Except for some
confessional schools with a high reputation, a major problem in expanding private TVET is to
ensure that quality is adequate. If expansion of the private sector is encouraged to reduce
enrollment pressures on public systems, mechanisms are needed to make technical assistance and
guidance available to improve private TVET programs. Analysis is needed of how the
development and effective use of these schools might best be encouraged. It may be that public
funds should contribute to partial program financing and/or tuition grants for students who
receive training that is unavailable from other sources. Another critical issue is expenditure by
enterprises on training. With some notable exceptions, the contribution of the business sector to
training has been so far inadequate, although they are in better position to fine-tune basic
industrial skills and to provide training responsive to their own needs. Dialogue with employers
on cost sharing has therefore been initiated. Adequate incentives are needed to encourage firms
to develop enterprise-based training, and/or pooling of training activities among several
enterprises of the same sector, and/or to pay third party institutions for the training of their
workers.
2.49   The introduction of fees for public training is another difficult issue, as public education
remains, by and large, free in Madagascar. The public financing of the direct costs of training
for the few who happen to enter the public TVET system is distorting from the point of view of
allocative and internal efficiency. It will take time to develop a more equitable system, given the
traditions and political pressures within which it operates. However, INPF has had successful
experience with a partial cost recovery system, making charges to employers and trainees who
have shown that they are ready to pay for training they perceive to be useful. As a first step, this
practice would be extended to short term training programs being introduced in public technical
lycees. Two lycees, in Antananarivo and Antsiranana have made contracts with local employers,
and are providing training programs at their request; the employers are providing materials and
financing salary supplements for teachers, who are badly paid compared to industrial technicians.
As described below, the legal statutes of the TVET school system have just been modified to
permit them to enter into such arrangements. Appropriate arrangements will be adopted in other
lycdes, as staff are retrained, and advisory committees established.



- 13 -
D:    GOVERNMENT TRAINING STRATEGY
2.50 The government's education and training strategy was revised in 1987 following the
deliberations of a National Committee of Education, and further developed during project
preparation. Govermnent recognizes that the system requires fulrther restructuring, and has
developed a sector strategy in discussion with IDA, as expressed in the strategy letter in Annex
1, which responds to many of the issues described above. It has also taken steps to implement
this strategy.
2.51   The strategy recognizes the needs (a) to establish a strong institutional framework which
would provide TVET policy guidance and increase coordination among, and reshape the functions
of, key parts of the TVET system; (b) to involve employers in developing TVET policies,
curricula, and evaluation of training programs; (c) to strengthen planning and management
capacity for TVET institutions; (d) to develop an improved information b2se on TVET and the
labor market to guide policy makers, training institutions and individuals; (e) to increase internal
efficiency in each of the TVET sub-systems and to improve the matching of supply and demand
both for training and for the graduates of the training system; (f) to base future efforts in training
on diversified modes, by examining the various roles that apprenticeship programs, in-service and
in-plant training programs can play in meeting manpower requirements; and (g) to contain costs
of public TVET by limiting numbers of students studying for the technical baccalaureate, so
resources can be used for more practical training. The strategy also recognizes the need for cost
recovery, and cost sharing by employers and trainees, including financial contributions by
employers through direct subsidies and training contracts.
2.52  Recent Reforms. Government has now taken several important measures in line with the
above strategy.
(a)   In February 1992 it created a representative body, the National Council of
Technical and Vocational Education and Training (CNFTP), consisting of
representatives of government, employers, trainers and trades unions, with equal
representation for public and private sector (paragraph 3.3 et seq).
(b)   In April 1992 a decree was published decentralizing the technical administration
of public TVET establishments currently managed by MIP. The decree
establishes administrative and advisory committees with joint state and employer
representation to manage the schools, and the courses taught. It provides that the
schools may receive, keep and spend funds from employers and other private
sources to carry out specific training courses meeting local industrial needs
(paragraph 2.37).
(c)    Government has decided to monitor and regulate admission to public vocational
and technical schools to reflect labor market trends, starting from the school year
1992-93. About two thirds of the TEFISO-1 will stop recruiting new trainees,
while a study by a local consulting firm will define a strategy for the TEFISO to
adapt training better to local labor market demand. For the technical lycees,
several actions have been taken: (i) reduction of first year enrollment by about
25 percent; (ii) shifting many students to vocational programs; (iii) the number
of optional subjects in the baccalaureate were reduced from 17 to 12 in 1990,
with further reductions envisaged; (iv) introduction of selection criteria for entry
to those lycde sections which give access to higher education, thus regulating



- 14 -
flows and ensuring that students have the basic mathematical and scientific
knowledge they need; and (v) introduction of short-term training programs, in
discussion with local employers, where equipment and teaching staff are
available.
2.53   The government's strategy addresses the right issues and deserves support as an integral
component of Madagascar's broader education reform program. Although it has shown
determination to start the needed reforms, further controversial measures will need to be phased
over years, to continue the switch from formal technical education to employment-oriented
vocational training. They will call for firm commitment and support from all parties, both public
and private, and also close coordination among donors. IDA will work with the government in
monitoring the development and application of this strategy, both through annual reN ew of a
public expenditure program for TVET, which will be prepared with the help of CNFTP,
(paragraphs 3.11, 3.36 and 5.5), and in the annual and mid-term reviews of project and strategy
implementation (paragraphs 3.39 and 5.5).
E:    BANK ASSISTANCE: PREVIOUS SECTOR INVOLVEMENT AND PRESENT
STRATEGY
2.54   Previous Involvement. Three operations in the education sector in Madagascar have
received Bank Group support: a Bank loan (No. 510-MAG) in 1967 for teacher training and
technical education, a credit in 1976 (No. 663-MAG) for education quality improvement, and an
on-going credit (2094-MAG), for education sector reform. Two training projects have also been
financed, Credit 1155-MAG in 1981 and the ongoing Credit 1661-MAG in 1986, supported inter
alia creation of an accountancy training center, and its subsequent expansion into a high level
accountancy and management training institute. Project completion reports were issued on the
first two education projects in 1976 and 1987, and on the first accountancy training project in
1991. The on-going projects are proceeding satisfactorily.
2.55   Lessons from Experience. The completion report on the second education project drew
attention to the need for a clear definition of the responsibilities of the project implementation
unit, a lesson which was applied in the 1990 education sector reform project. It also commented
on the importance of coordination between the physical and educational components of the
project, and for good control of building implementation. The report on the first accountancy
project found it to have been a success, and commented inter alia on the under-estimation of
technical assistance costs, which led to an under-estimate of the start-up costs of the school. Also
it noted that the on-lending arrangements to the other project beneficiary, a public-sector auditing
firm, were too costiy; the firm could not absorb the full costs of technical assistance and remain
competitive in local markets.
2.56   CRED. The main vehicle by which IDA is supporting rehabilitation and reform of
the education sector in Madagascar is CRESED, the Education Sector Reinforcement project (Cr
2094-MAG). CRESED helps government to implement strategies to increase internal and
external efficiency and to improve quality, including (a) for primary and secondary education,
reorganizing MIP to create a Pedagogical Unit responsible for educational quality, and planning
and statistics services, regulation of student flows to concentrate resources on primary education,
development of programs to improve administrative efficiency and use of personnel, reduction
of primary school repetition rates, replacement of national service temporary teachers by qualified
staff; and (b) for the universities, preparation of action plans on cost and financing issues,



- is -
administrative reforms, and curricula modernization. The project provides for: (a) reform and
strengthening of administration and planning in MIP, including an analysis of the administrative
system, supply of equipment, and training; (b) quality improvement of basic and lower
secondary education, including teacher support services (training and travel costs for inspectors,
advisers, and head-teachers); pre-service and in-service training for teachers (setting up 6 primary
and one lower-secondary teacher training colleges; and re-cycling existing teachers); producing
and distributing school books; upgrading secondary school laboratories; and (c) strengthening
higher level education: setting up two short-cycle higher technical training institutes; establishing
an employment information service for students; and developing action plans to modernize
university curricula, to improve university administration and to rectify the cost/financing
imbalance at university level. CRESED is being implemented with UNDP and French co-
financing, and has made a satisfactory start.
2.57 Bank Group Sector Strategy. During project preparation, the government and IDA have
conducted an active dialogue to analyze key TVET issues and to develop policy options. A broad
convergence of views has emerged. The Bank Group should focus its lending and public
expenditure review program for the TVET sector on helping the government to translate the
sector strategy outlined above into concrete policy measures and well-targeted investments. By
focussing on basic policy issues as reflected in the need for a legal framework to strengthen
institutional coordination and private participation, better labor market information, improved
management and planning of TVET, strictly controlled growth of public TVET, and increased
cost sharing and cost recovery, the present project would help to create a framework for
management and finance of training that makes more efficient use of available training resources,
both public and private. The project would probably be followed by additional operations in
areas such as training for informal sector employment, for agriculture, and tertiary-level
specialized training, placing emphasis on close links with employment needs. The ongoing
CRESED and accountancy and management training projects, together with the proposed
operations described above, and substantial sectoral training components included in other
operations (for example in agriculture, transport, energy), would enable the Bank Group to
contribute to reducing constraints on development in Madagascar due to human resource
limitations, and would be an essential complement to an array of IDA-assisted projects aimed at
economic restructuring and policy reform.
III. THE PROJECT
A.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.1   The project's objectives are to support a program of reform to make technical and
vocational education and training (TVEI) more responsive to the needs of employers and the
labor market, to give a more important role to the private sector (both NGO and commercially-
run schools) in provision of TVET, to promote cost recovery in TVET and thus to provide funds
for increased levels of training without increasing the burden on public expenditure, to increase
quality and efficiency of public sector TVET, and to improve training of civil servants. Specific
objectives are:
(a)    To establish a system that will develop TVET policy, and promote, coordinate
and finance training, by private and public training institutions and employers,



- 16-
so as to meet the needs of the economy, making an efficient use of the limited
public and private resources available;
(b)    To establish a system to provide information about the labor market and about
TVET needs;
(c)    To rehabilitate and to reform the public TVET system, and to increase its quality
and internal and external efficiency;
(d)    To commence a process of reform of agricultural education and training;
(e)    To develop the training system for senior level civil servants.
B.    PROJECT COMPOSIMOQN
3.2   The project would help the government implement the TVET sector strategy oudined in
Chapter II. The strategy comprises reforms that are expected gradually to change Madagascar's
inefficient and costly TVET to a system that is more relevant and cost-efficient. Project
components are:
(a)    Development of the National Council of Technical and Vocational Education and
oaining (CNFTP). The Council will be the principal agency responsible for
formulating and advising on TVET strategy and policies; for promoting training
and coordination among TVET sub-systems, and for strengthening linkages
between the training system and employers at the national and local level;
establishing a larger and more stable base of financial resources for training
through cost sharing and cost recovery measures, and through increased private
sector participation in financing of training; and providing support for the public
and private training sectors, including training delivered by enterprises and
NGOs. A training fund will be managed by the Council to finance TVET
activities.
(b)    Restructurine and Strenrthening of TVET system. The project would aim to
make the public TVET system more responsive to labor market requirements,
and to improve its quality and cost-efficiency by (i) support for the Department
of Technical Education (DET), which is being transferred from MIP to MEF
(paragraph 2.37), (ii) reform of secondary technical education, including
introducing short-cycle courses with employer financial support and other revised
training programs, (iii) rehabilitation of technical lycdes, (iv) establishing a center
for upgrading trainers, and (v) support for INPF.
(c)    Labor Mrkt Information System. Improving the system by which information
about the labor market and training needs is made available, by developing an
"employment observatory" in the Ministry of Employment, with regional
antennae.
(d)    Agricultural Education and Training. A detailed evaluation of the agricultural
education and training sub-sector, including of the need for reform and
rehabilitation of the training institutions, leading to development of sub-sector



- 17 -
policy measures and financing of agricultural education refonrm and training
activities.
(e)    Training for Senior Civil Servants. Development and quality improvement of
ENFAR, together with a continued analysis of civil service training needs.
ComDonent I: SupDort for CNFTP
3.3    To help initiate and implement the reform of the public TVET system, the project would
support the establishment of CNFTP, which was set up by prime ministerial decree in February
1992. CNFTP has: (a) a governing body, comprising representatives of government, employers,
trainers (private and public sector), and trade unions; (b) a small secretariat; and (c) an executive
committee, with parity representation of private sector and government.   CNFTP,
administratively attached to MEF is financially and operationally autonomous. It will have
regional offices.
3.4    The Council has the following main objectives:
(a)   to propose strategies and policies and to act as a catalyst to identify and set
priorities for development of TVET activities;
(b)   to stimulate development of training programs, and to provide technical
assistance as required to employers and trainers to this end;
(c)   to constitute a legal framework for provision of large and stable financial
resources for training, including the progressive shifting of financial
responsibility to employers and trainees; and
(d)   to manage a training fund to be financed initially by the contributions of the
government, and donors, and subsequently substantially by employers.
3.5    When it is fully operational, the Council's functions will include: (a) to assess training
needs; (b) to assess training capacity of existing institutions, including private vocational training
schools and in-plant training centers; (c) to promote and advise on implementation of new training
programs, and on suppression of inappropriate courses; (d) to provide technical assistance to
employers and others in developing training programs and assessment of staff training needs;
(e) to assess proposals for financing training courses or investment in training capacity, and to
decide on the use of the training fund to this end, and on the conditions of financing; (f) to define
levels in the training sector in correspondence with qualifications needed by the private sector;
(g) to advise on optimizing the use of existing facilities and setting priorities for a national
rehabilitation program of training centers, depending on the real needs of each region; (I) to
participate in implementing a national trade testing system, to ensure uniform standards; (i) to
define means to associate potential employers with the establishment of training policies and the
financing of their implementation; 0) to elaborate strategies for increasing resources for training
through cost recovery and sharing by enterprises, and (k) to propose actions to increase private
sector participation in financing training.
3.6    More details on CNFTP objectives, internal structure, organization and staffing are
provided in Annex 7. The statutes of the Council were prepared with the assistance of specialists
financed under a PPF advance and by the French Ministry of Cooperation, and were reviewed



-18 -
during appraisal. The agreed text was published before negotiations, and CNFTP's executive
director was appointed. Nomination of CNFTP's executive committee and chairman will be
conditions of effectiveness (paragraph 5.3). CNFTP's working procedures, including criteria for
access to the training fund (see below) have been established following review with IDA.
Appointment of a senior adviser whose qualiflcations and experience are acceptable to IDA would
also be a condition of effectiveness (paragraph 5.3); the adviser is being recruited following
international advertisement (see Annex 8).
3.7    Iaining Fund. The main objective of the training fund is to finance training activities
in critically needed skill areas, and to help implement the proposed reforms. More specifically,
it aims: (a) to encourage greater involvement of employers in building up their own training
capacity; (b) to help develop the private training sector; and (c) to provide incentives for
introduction of new cost-efficieuit modes and types of training, including apprenticeship training
programs. An amount of US$4.5 million will be allocated from the propo:sed credit to the fund
for the five years of the project; France is also contributing the equivalent of about US$500,000.
Beneficiary institutions (employers and private, NGO, and public training institutions) would
together contribute about US$2.1 million to the sub-projects to be financed by the training fund.
3.8    CNFTP, through its executive committee and secretariat, will appraise and contribute
through the Training Fund to financing of training sub-projects. Training may be provided by
public institutions, private intermediaries such as the enterprises themselves, independent trainers
on a contractual basis, or NGOs and other private training institutions. Training activities eligible
for financing under the Training Fund include: (a) training for placement in an enterprise;
(b) training for installation in an independent economic activity; (c) in-company training including
upgrading and retraining staff; (d) apprenticeship training, where firms which have an
apprenticeship scheme that satisfies the criteria may receive funds from the CNFTP to give them
an incentive to provide suitable training; and (e) regular training programs delivered by
institutions either public or private. Each eligible training sub-project is defined in terms of
objectives, beneficiaries, content, implementing institution, costs (both investment and operating),
financing arrangements, and expected results. Eligibility criteria have been designed to allow the
Council to identify and select sub-projects within reasonable discretionary limits. They have a
common set of general considerations, which include the cost, quality and adequacy of training
to be provided, in terms of organization, teaching staff, programs and instructional materials.
There are also specific criteria for each group of training activities. CNFTP can contribute to
financing both recurrent training activities that meet these criteria, and investment requirements,
up to reasonable limits, needed to enable training institutions to provide such training. Main
criteria for access to the training fund are described in Annex 7(b). These criteria are included
in CNFTP's procedures manual, which has been agreed with IDA and which will be incorporated
in the CNFTP implementing agreement (paragraph 5.3).
3.9   Some employers fear that project funds might be diverted to components other than
CNFTP, and that the training fund might be used so as unduly to favor public sector institutions.
The strength of employers' representation on CNFIP, the means by which this is to be
implemented, and an appropriate management framework for CNFTP to prevent uneconomic use
of the training fund, are all key questions. There will be parity between employer and
government representatives on the CNFTP executive committee, although the chairperson, elected
by the committee members themselves from among the representatives of the sector providing
the larger part of financing for CNFTP's activities (that is, initially the government and
subsequently the employers), would have a casting vote. Consultants were used to identify
suitable candidates to represent employers on the executive committee, and as executive-director.



- 19 -
In order to ensure that adequate shares of project resources are allocated to the training fund, and
from the fund to NGOs and the private sector, CNFTP will prepare annual work programs for
its activities, together with a report on activities in the past and current years. The work program
would be consistent with the principle that in any year at least 25 percent of the credit would be
disbursed for the CNFTP, and that minima of 10 percent of disbursements through the braining
fund would be reserved for training sub-projects sponsored by NGOs. The government and
CNFrP will discuss the CNFTP work program annually with IDA (paragraph 5.5). CNFTP and
the training fund will be analyzed in detail at the mid-term review of the project (paragraphs 3.39
and 5.5), and modifications made If necessary in the statutes and working arrangements
(paragraph 5.5).
3.10   CNFTP and the government must develop means by which the council can in the medium
term finance its activities (including the training fund) without substantial recourse to the
government budget. To this end CNFTP will carry out a study (under terms of reference whose
broad lines were agreed during negotiations. Anex 11, and which will be finalized by December
31, 1992, paragraph 5.5) on the most acceptable means of raising the necessary funds. The study
would be completed by June 30, 1995 (paragraph 3.36 and 5.5).
3.11   Public ExDenditure Program and Studies. CNFTP will assist the Government in its
undertaking to prepare and review annually with IDA a public expenditure program for TVET
(paragraphs 2.53, 3.36 and 5.5). The program would include an analysis of public expenditure
in the past year, and proposed expenditure in the following three years. CNFTP would also
undertake studies as need arises, in addition to the analysis of the financing of the training system
(paragraph 3.10). Studies would include, for example: (a) the establishment of closer links
between training and employment, (b) better knowledge of the capacity of the training system,
including privately-operated and in-plant centers, and (c) incentives for private expenditure within
a comprehensive strategy for private investment in training. Other important subjects for study
would be the training needs of the informal sector, and means of developing the apprenticeship
system.
3.12 In addition to financing training sub-projects through the training fund, the project would
finance for CNFTP 'partly with IDA funds and partly with French co-financing): (a) purchase
of office equipmeo-t and vehicles, (b) rehabilitation of buildings, (c) operating expenses for the
first 3-year period, ,.) studies, surveys and data collection through the training fund, (e) regional
and national seni1uaTs on training policy development, and (f) 42 staff-months of technical
assistance to help cai y out the above activities. CNFTP would make as much use as possible
of local consultants, wa~ back-up from overseas consultants as necessary (See Annex 8).
3.13   The project would provide direct support, through the training fund, for the organization
and the delivery of training under the conditions mentioned earlier. Sub-projects estimated to
cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more would be submitted to IDA for prior approval. The
training fund would finance 40 to 90 percent of training expenses (instruction, material, small
equipment) of each approved sub-project, the precise proportion (specified in the criteria)
depending on the nature of the project and the beneficiary institution, which would have to ensure
provision of the remaining costs of the sub-project. CNFTP would verify that the balance of
funds for each sub-project were in fact contributed by the sponsors or other financing partners,
and its verification would be subject to audit. In order to increase training capacity of NGOs and
private training institutions (including entev?rise-based training), the training fund would fince
upgrading of training centers that contract with CNFTP to provide training in accordance with
the selection criteria (paragraph 3.9). Such investment financing would cover up to 50 percent



-20 -
of additional equipment cost and not exceed in any case US$100,000. The fund would also
finance rehabilitation and additional equipment for some public sector training institutions,
following the same criteria, to help them adapt to changing training requirements. Grants would
also be provided to make studies on pilot programs and/or new systems of training administration
(e.g. sklll testing, occupational analysis systems) with emphasis placed on developing
methodology and testing the model, and disseminating information about the experiment to other
training centers. Students would be expected to contribute to the costs of training except where
their costs are borne by employers.
Component 11: Restructuring and Strengthening of TVET system
3.14 The project would contribute to improving the quality of TVET through ref9rming
training programs, evaluation of training, in-service teacher training, provision of instructional
materials, and rehabilitating buildings and upgrading workshops and laboratories for the seven
main provincial technical lycdes.
3.15 Component 11 (a): Strengthening DET. The project would assist in developing planning
and management of public training, centrally and regionally, to coordinate the provision of
training programs with trends in labor market demands. In particular, DET would be
restructured and strengthened as follows:
(a)    A small planning and policy unit would be established in DET (see Annex 9),
working closely with the MIP education planning department. Its functions
would be: (i) to analyze data on training rveds, based on information from and
in liaison with the employment observato.-y, CNFTP and sector ministries and
agencies; (ii) to plan enrollment and output targets for the public technical
education institutions to ensure the best match between training and estimated
labor market needs; (iii) to analyze the capacity of public TVET schools in terms
of facilities, equipment and teaching staff; (iv) to analyze training costs for
different levels, specialties, duration and types of training, in liaison with the
DET finance unit and the provincial technical-vocational administration councils
[paragraph 2.52(b)]; (v) to establish a coherent medium-term plan for public
TVET activities, and for accompanying policy measures, that would take account
of demand as well as capital and recurrent costs; and (vi) to help CNFIrP prepare
a mn:lti-year public expenditure program and to identify measures to generate
necessary financing. The unit would stimulate development of tracer systems
linked to individual training institutions. Periodical surveys would be conducted
by the planning unit on personnel, equipment and school facilities. The policy
unit would prepare, for submission to the Malagasy authorities and IDA for joint
review, a report on execution of the MIP/MEF components of the project, and
on present and proposed enrollments in Wr!P/MEF TVET establishments
(paragraphs 2.52 (c) and 5.5).
(b)    Support would be given for effective management of secondary technical school
personnel, to control personnel costs, and to promote cost-effective resource use
and training modes.
3.16 The project would assist in implementing: (a) a DET personnel data management system
(related to that being developed for MEP as a whole under CRESED) to allow the best use of
manpower available and the planning of in-service training activities; (b) a data-processing system



-21-
for inventory control of training equipment in MIP/MEF schools, including accessories and spare
parts; and (c) establishment of maintenance units at both central and provincial levels to help
organize efficient maintenance and procurement programs.  The project would finance
strengthening of the planning and management capacity for training institutions through:
(a) expert assistance (24 man-months) for planning, and (6 man-months) for training cost-
analysis; (b) microcimputers and software packages; (c) furniture, office equipment and supplies;
and (d) vehicles for the maintenance and planning units. It would also finance: (a) 24 man-
months of fellowships and study trips, (b) 24 man-months of in-country training in management,
accounting and information systems, and (c) surveys and seminars, including staff allowances,
transportation costs, salaries for local consultants, for identification of training needs and
implementation of the equipment maintenance and inventory control systems. UNDP is also
financing complementary technical assistance provided through UNIDO consultants in relation
to development of industrial maintenance, who are advising DETP on development of inventory
control systems and the maintenance of training equipment.
3.17   Component II (b): Reform and Rehabilitation of Technical Education. The objectives of
secondary technical programs are being redefined, to make clear-cut distinction between sections
preparing entry to higher education and those preparing for jobs. Practical training will be
emphasized over theoretical teaching. Entry examinations will be introduced for sections giving
access to higher education, to regulate flows and at the same time to control scientific knowledge.
For the expanded pre-employment training sections, training programs would be tested in pilot
units before being implemented. Traditional single-skill courses of long duration would be
replaced by modular, short-course formats, giving flexible delivery in response to labor market
needs. Programs would be prepared with the help of employers (see paragraphs 2.52(b) and
3.21), who are also contributing to training costs.
3.18 The component would include a tracer system to evaluate training programs. Each
training institution would in addition seek feedback from graduates and their employers on the
quality of training. Methodology and guidelines would be developed by technical assistance, and
training provided to staff to help implement the tracer system across the country. Information
gathered from the system would be analyzed at the local and national training committees, and
used to update curricula and to adapt course content to changing labor requirements.
3.19   Component I (c): Rehabilitation of Technical Lyce. The rehabilitation program would
help strengthen training capacity in the seven main technical lycees (two in Antananarivo and one
in each other provincial capital), which will implement pilot training activities identified in
critically needed specialties. The program would include rehabilitation of buildings and
equipment, including especially of workshops and laboratories, for a total of about 800 places.
Rehabilitation of dilapidated buildings is urgently needed to protect valuable equipment from rain
and cyclone damage, and has started with PPF finance. Buildings of almost all training centers
in Madagascar have been deteriorating rapidly: the component has been designed to provide
financing for those schools for which machinery rehabilitation investment needs have already been
defined, and which will be used in close support of the policy measures now being implemented.
Expenditure on rehabilitation of, and training activities in, other, smaller technical lycees and
TEFISO would subsequently be eligible for financing from the training fund after a case by case
examination by CNFTP on the basis of its standard criteria (paragraph 3.9).
3.20   The advisory committees to be set in each region, are expected to encourage participation
of potential employers in training activities in the technical lyc6es, particularly in identification
of training needs, operating cooperative programs, evaluation, and placement of graduates



- 22 -
(paragraphs 2.52 (b) and 3.18). Under the newly issued statutes, the lycees can receive, retain
and use financial contributions from employers. An improved system for maintenance of
buildings and training equipment and for the supply of training materials would also be
implemented by DET.
3.21   French Cooperation wIll continue to support the technical lycees, through provision of
technical assistance, equipment and funds for training activities. Their efforts are focussed on
restructuring three technical lycees (2 in Antananarivo, 1 in Antsiranana). In addition they are
financing short-term training, delivered at the request of local employers, for about 300 qualified
workers in metalworking and auto-mecbanics for 1991-93; long-term regular vocational training
will also be introduced in close coordination with employers in place of the existing technical
education sections which are intended to lead to higher education. The specifications of the
training equipment to be supplied by France were redesigned to reflect the main orientations of
the reform.
3.22   Component II (0: In-service Training for Trainers and Administrative Staff. Most
trainers have no pedagogical training or industrial experience. The project would accordingly
support an in-service teacher training center, which is being set up in a former technical lycee
which will be rehabilitated for this purpose. About 350 teachers would be retrained under the
project, with an emphasis on teaching methods, curriculum development, the concept of
competency-based training modules, and workshop organization. Trainers would receive some
industrial experience. To this end, joint agreements would be reached between the in-service
teacher training center and industrial employers. Over 100 staff (directors, administrators and
workshop supervisors) would also be trained in facility management and administration of training
programs. The training center's statute was published in April, 1992, following review by IDA.
It will allow payment of salaries adequate to attract suitably experienced trainers, which the center
could not do if set up on the same basis as a regular teacher training college.
3.23   The component would establish and support an Instructional Materials Unit within the
Training Center, to increase the supply of instructional materials and teacher guides, which are
in short supply. Professional committees would evaluate manuscripts submitted by trainers,
propose improvements, and do controlled testing before reproducing on a small scale. Where
necessary the project would also finance purchase of books.
3.24   The project would finance: (a) 84 staff-months of specialist services in vocational teacher
training (36 staff-months for the coordinator and 48 staff-months of consultants for specific
support); (b) furniture, office equipment, audio-visual aids, printing equipment and supplies, and
vehicles for the teacher-upgrading training center; (c) operating costs for seminars and training
evaluation including local consultant salaries, staff allowances, transportation costs and supplies,
and (d) local specialist services to help revise new curricula. It would also finance: (a) civil
works for rehabilitation of seven technical lycees and the teacher upgrading center, (b) local
services for renovation of equipment, and (c) the government contribution to a UNDP project
being executed by UNIDO to assist in rehabilitation and maintenance of training machinery.
3.25   Component n (e): Support for INPF. The project will complement the assistance which
UNDP is financing, with ILO support, to help INPF meet the objectives of the TVET reform
strategy and the internal policy measures it is implementing following the 1990 evaluation
(paragraph 2.44). INPF will expand and strengthen the in-service and initial training it provides,
developing especially its regional activities to provide tailored programs within companies.
Special support for small artisanal enterprises will be provided by reduced charges for those



-23 -
unable to pay the full cost but who otherwise jusdfy training, although all trainees will continue
to be required to contribute to the cost of training.
3.26   Close coordination will continue on this component among different donors, in particular
between UNDP and the Bank. UNDP is financing (a) 36 staff-months of specialist services (18
staff-months for a specialist in training management, and 18 staff-months for a specialist in
curriculum development and training methodology); (b) local consultants to develop a cost-
analysis system and train administrative staff in accounting, and to reinforce INPF's capacity in
marketing and in vocational selection and guidance; (c) 8 staff-months of overseas training for
higher-level staff; and (d) office equipment and audio-visual aids. To complement the UNDP
financing, the proposed IDA credit would finance (a) additional equipment for electro-mechanic,
plumbing and hydraulic workshops; (b) micro-computers and software packages for business
training; (c) repairs to broken equipment; (d) instructional kits, mobile training stations, and
vehicles to help INPF deliver training and technical support for enterprises distant from
Antananarivo; and (e) rehabilitation of a dormitory to allow INPF to take students from outside
the Antananarivo area.
Component m: Improving the System of Labor Market Information
3.27   On the basis of a study carried out by an ILO consultant, the government has set up a
system to provide information on the labor market (an "employment observatory"), in the
Department of Employment and Manpower in MEF. Making use mainly of existing information,
it is gathering and analyzing statistics on employment and unemployment, on training needs,
wages, and other relevant data. It will work with the government statistical services to improve
the systems of labor market data collection; close relations will be developed and maintained with
employers so that their views on training needs and employment trends can be made known to
decision makers and planners. It will have close links with CNFTP. Initially this component of
the project, financed by UNDP with ILO as executing agency, consists of a central office in
MEF, and one small regional office to obtain information at a local level; further regional offices
will progressively be created over the life of the project, based on experience with the first one.
The Observatory will carry out labor market studies as necessary.
3.28   The Observatory component will be financed during the first two years of the project by
UNDP, through funding which has already been approved. It is expected that UNDP support
will be renewed after the two year financing comes to an end, but if not, IDA would contribute
to continued technical assistance and operating costs, following an evaluation of the component.
Component IV: Agiculture Education and Training
3.29   This component will be executed in two phases. The first phase will consist of an
evaluation of the quality and cost effectiveness of agricultural education and training, as well as
certain minor activities in support of improving quality of training (paragraphs 2.23-2.27 and
Annex 10). If this evaluation leads to appropriate reform of the agricultural training sub-sector,
the project would in a second phase finance actions in support of such reform. The adoption of
an appropriate training program (including suitable policy measures) and agreement between the
government and IDA on it and on its implementation (including the content of suitable sub-
components) would condition disbursement in support of public sector agriculture training
(paragraphs 3.43 and 5.4). In the meantime, CNFTP will be able to finance proposals presented
by NGOs for providing agricultural training if they meet the standard criteria. Terms of
reference of the evaluation have been agreed, and it will start with PPF finance: the study will



-24-
require about 8 months of technical assistance (including 6 months of local expertise), together
with flnance for the costs of working party activities, and other related costs. The evaluation Is
estimated to cost US$100,000; an amount of US$900,000 would be reserved for activities to be
financed under the second phase of the component.
Component V: Training fbr Middle- and Senior-Level Civil Servants
3.30 The objectives of the component are to enable ENFAR: (a) to help government
departments assess priority training needs for senior level civil servants, (b) to provide good
quality training to respond to the priorities established, and (c) to develop in-service training
courses so that its capacity will be used equally for initial and in-service training (paragraphs
2.28-2.29). From the start of its operations in 1989, ENFAR has worked with central and local
government departments to assess training needs, and drew up a preliminary program which
allowed it to start training its first classes. Work on needs and priorities will now be intensified,
since few ministries are equipped to analyze their needs adequately, and not all have responded.
On the basis of a more detailed needs analysis, ENFAR will refine its programs, and select
priority training courses in accordance with the principles of the civil service reform under the
Public Sector Adjustment Credit. During project preparation, a French training institution with
French finance has helped ENFAR review some of its programs and priorities; France will
continue to support the instiution, by providing documentation for teaching staff, computers and
software packages, and short-term consultants for teaching in specific areas.
3.31 IDA financing would complement French assistance to ENFAR to assess needs, to plan
training priorities, and to develop its capacity. It would assist in: preparation of a medium-term
training plan, developing and implementing in-service training programs, and strengthening initial
training programs; construction of boarding facilities; vehicles to transport teaching staff and
students; teaching equipment; in-country seminars and overseas training for teaching staff and
management. About 12 staff-months of consultants' services would be included in this
component. In-service programs would be provided for about 150 high-level civil servants during
the first three-year period.
C.    PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLA
3.32   Priect Cost. Total project cost is estimated at US$31.5 million equivalent, including
US$1.7 million taxes on local expenditures, and with a foreign exchange cost of US$22.1 million
(74 percent of tax-free cost). Base cost estimates are at mid-1991 prices. Project cost estimates
(Annex 13) are summarized in Table 3.1. Duties on imported goods estimated at US$2.4
million, which are expected to be paid directdy by the Ministry of Finance following standard
practices in Madagascar for donor-financed projects, are not included in the above project costs.
3.33   Contingec Allowances. An average of 6 percent (US$ 1.6 million) has been applied
to base project costs for physical contingencies. Local costs have been calculated in US$
equivalent and price contingencies are based on the implementation schedule and annual price
increases estimated at 3.7 percent in both foreign and local costs (measured in US dollars).



- 25 -
Table 3. 1: Project Cost Summary
-FO~~~OS
1. CNFTP and Training Fund            3.5        5.7         9.2       34
2. TVET
a) Strengtiening DETP and            1.0       1.3         2.3       9
reform
b) Rehab. Lycees                     1.1       5.6         6.7       25
c) In-service Training              0.4        2.5         2.9       11
d) INPF                             u          0.9         12        4
Total TVEr                          2.8        10.3        13.1      49
3. Labor Market                       0.2        1.0         1.2       5
4. Agric. Educ. and Training          0.4        0.6         1.0       4
5. ENFAR                              0.5        1.2         1.7       6
6. Project Implementation             0.3        0.3         0.6       2
TO)TAL BASE COST (1-6)                7.7        19.1        26.8     100
7. Phy. Cont                          0.4        1.2         1.6       6
8. Price Cont                         1.3        1.8         3.1       12
TOTAL PROJECT COST (18)1/             9.4       22.1         31.S     118
3.34 Einancing Plan. An IDA Credit of SDR 16.7 million (US$ 22.8 million) is proposed.
UNDP has already approved financing of approximately US$1.6 million for INPF and the
employment observatory. Government and beneficiaries (employers, NGOs and other training
institutions, and trainees) will provide the equivalent of $US3.2 million, mostly in the form of
contributions to the sub-projects to be financed by the training fund, as well as financing taxes
(in total, US$4.9 million). France (FAC) will provide the equivalent of US$2.2 million. France
has also provided complementary financing and technical assistance for various TVET activities
and for preparation of the CNFTP and public TVET components.
1/    Including taxes of US$1.7 million equivalent but excluding duties of US$2.4 million
equivalent.



- 26 -
Table 3.2: Financing Plan
LOCAL    WOREIN TOTAL   % PROJECT
IDA                           3.9           18.9      22.8          72
UNDP                          0.3            1.3       1.6           5
France                        0.3            1.9       2.2           7
Govermment and beneficiaries  3.2            -         3.2          10
Total ecsduding taxes         7.7           22.1      29.8
Taxes                         1.7            -         1.7           6
Total ncluding taxes          9.4           22.1      31.5         100
3.35  Customs and Taxes. Government has decided that for goods imported in the framework
of the project, all relevant import and custom duties and taxes will be paid directly by the
Ministry of Finance, following standard practices in Madagascar for donor-financed projects.
Government has stated that (a) the goods will promptly be released from customs, and that (b)
the budgetary provision made for the public sector parts of the project will be adequate to cover
the domestic sales tax on locally purchased goods and services, in addition to the government
contribution to the non-tax costs of the project (on average approximately 5 percent of total tax-
free expenditures for the public sector components). Counterpart fund project accounts will be
established as conditions of effectiveness, from which sales and other taxes on local purchases
and contracts will be paid (paragraph 5.3).
3.36  Recurrent Cost mplication. Recurrent cost implications for the government budget will
be minimal in the medium term; they will be monitored by the CNFTP in its analysis of the
public expenditure program (paragraphs 2.53, 3.11 and 5.5), and reviewed annually with IDA.
The technical education schools will operate more efficiently following the project (and some are
likely to be closed); their charge on the budget will be minimized by the policy measures being
undertaken to reduce costs, which will balance the increased needs for operating funds. They
should also benefit from cost recovery for their short-cycle courses both directly and through
financing from CNFIP. INPF is expected to maintain its good cost recovery record. The
permanent staff of the employment observatory are provided from existing Ministry personnel.
Measures will be introduced, following the training financing study, to make the CNFTP largely
self-financing by 1996 (paragraphs 2.47, 3.10 and 5.5), except to the extent that government
decides to subsidize certain forms of training, such as for the informal sector. If CNFTP proves
successful it is likely to attract further donor financing. ENFAR is already providing training
for about 150 students: no substantial increase in capacity is planned. There will be small
additional expenses in the ENFAR component from use of educational materials to increase
quality, which will be more than justified by the improved quality of government administration.



- 27 -
D.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.37   S                 Detailed working papers and terms of reference for all components
have been prepared, and further architectural work needed before contracts for rehabilitation of
buildings can be let is under way. The legal statutes and working arrangements of the CNFTP
were reviewed during and subsequent to appraisal, its statutes have been issued, a first list of sub-
projects for It to finance has been reviewed, and although the final preparations for it to begin
its activities were hindered by the political unrest in Madagascar during 1991, CNFTP is now
in a position to appoint staff and to start work. Appointment of CNFTP's managing committee,
its chairman, and a senior technical adviser are conditions of effectiveness. Terms of reference
for the evaluation study of agricultural education and training were approved in general during
negotiations, and final arrangements for it to be carried out will be agreed jointly with the
government and the French Cooperation by an IMA mission in July 1992. The agricultural
evaluation study would also develop the reform measures necessary if IDA is to finance
rehabilitation or development in the sub-sector, and prepare appropriate sub-components
(paragraph 3.29). Implementation agreements between the government and the three autonomous
project agencies (CNFTP, INPF, and ENFAR) were reviewed during negotiations, and will be
signed before effectiveness (paragraph 5.3). The program for supervision by IDA is shown at
Annex 12.
3.38   Proect Administratio. The project will be coordinated by a committee under the
chairmanship of the Minister of Vocational Training (MEF). The administration of each
component will be the responsibility of the agency concerned. General administration of the
credit (including credit accounting, coordination of procurement, and management of
disbursement procedures) and logistic support will be provided by the education project unit
(BPE) which also manages CRESED. The BPE wUI receive funds under the credit to increase
its local staff, support, and equipment as necessary to enable it to carry out the extra work
involved. Establishment of the project coordinating committee is a condition of credit
effectiveness (paragraph 5.3).
3.39  Annual Work Programs and Mid-term Review. The Coordinating Committee will ensure
that each implementing agency prepares an annual report on project execution and compliance
with covenants, and an annual work program. The Committee wIll then prepare an overall
project execution report and work program, and submit it to IDA. Local consultants may if
necessary be used to assist in preparation of these documents. The reports and programs will be
reviewed annually between the project authorities and the co-fimancing partners, taking account
of past and present activities. Particular attention will be paid to the working of the CNFTP.
The government and project authorities wIll prepare a mid-term report of project execution about
two years after credit effectiveness, and no later than June 30 1995, and review it with the co-
financing partners by October 31, 1995. The review will pay particular attention to the
relationship between the public expenditure program and the government's TVEr strategy, to the
working of CNFTP and the training fund and the adequacy of CNFTP's statutes and procedures,
to the reforms in the public technical education system to make it more responsive to the needs
of the labor market, to the implementation of policy measures by INPF to make it autonomous
and self-financing, the performance of the employment observatory and the implementation by
ENFAR of activities to identify priority training needs of the civil service. The annual work
program for the year following the joint mid-term review will need to reflect the
recommendations of the review (paragraphs 2.53, 3.9 and 5.5).



- 28 -
3.40  Procuemnt. Project procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.3.
ale 3.3 PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Prcurement Method (USS million)
Project Element                   ICB    LCB    Other   n/a    Total Costs
Civil Works                        -      3.1      -       -        3.1
-     (2.7)     -       -       (2.7)
Equipment/Mat/Vehicles            7.0    1.2      0.5    1.9        10.6
Furniture                        (7.0)   (1.1)    (0.4)    (-)     (8.5)
Technical Assistance               -       -      2.5    1.6        4.1
and Studies                        -       -      (2.5)    (-)     (2.5)
Training                           -       -      8.1    2.7        10.8
=      -      (8.1)    (-)      (8.1)
Incremental                        -       -      1.2      -         1.2
Operating Costs                                  (1.0)              (1.0)
Total                             7.0    4.3      12.3    6.2      29.8 Z/
(7.0)   (3.8)   (12.0)   (-)     (22.8)
Note: The figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by 1DA.
3.41   The bulk of civil works consists of rehabilitation and small extensions; the items to be
financed are small and scattered geographically. Contracts will be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding (LCB), adverdsed locally and conducted in accordance with procedures
acceptable to IDA, up to an aggregate total of US$3.1 million equivalent. Contracts for
furniture, goods will be awarded on the basis of ICB if they cost the equivalent of US$200,000
or more each (US7.0 million). Contracts costing less than the equivalent of US$200,000 may
be awarded by LCB, up to an aggregate total of US$ 1.2 million equivalent. LCB will include
public bid opening, no requirement for a firm to be registered with the Ministry of Commerce,
and no preference for local bidders. Foreign bidders who wish to participate will not be
excluded. Items suitable for ICB will be procured in accordance with the 'Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (May 1985). When ICB procedures are used,
domestic manufers of goods will be allowed a preference of 15 percent over the c.i.f. price
of competing foreign suppliers or the existing applicable rate of import duties, whichever is
2/    Excluding taxes (US$1.7 million equivalent)



-29 -
lower. Items that cannot be grouped, or groups of items, estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of US$100,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount of US$500,000 may be
purchased on the basis of a minimum of three quotations in accordance with the international and
local shopping procedures outlined in the Guidelines. Experts and consultants will be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures acceptable to IDA on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" (August 1981).
3.42  IDA will review preliminary plans of construction work, master lists of furniture and
goods, text of notices to bidders, experts' terms of reference, and draft bid documents, including
groupings and cost estimate updates. Items will be grouped to the extent practicable to encourage
competitive bidding and bulk procurement. IDA review of bid evaluation documents prior to
award will be required for contracts estimated to exceed US$200,000 equivalent for civil works
and US$100,000 for goods.
3.43 Disbursement. Disbursement will be made on the basis of 100% of expenditures for:
training sub-projects; civil works; equipment, vehicles, and supplies; consultants' services and
traiing; and incremental operating costs, including salaries of CNFTP and BPE non-civil service
staff. Disbursement on any expenditure for public sector agricultural education or training (other
than for the evaluation of the sub-sector or other related studies) will be subject to a condition
of disbursement that the government and IDA have agreed on an action plan for reform of the
sub-sector (paragraphs 3.29 and 5.4). The closing date would be June 30, 1998. Measures to
simplify government procedures relating to disbursement were decided during appraisal and
negotiations (paragraph 3.44-45 and 5.3)
3.44  Sei&jal Accounts. To ensure that funds for the education project unit will be available
when needed, two special accounts in US dollars will be established in a local commercial bank
under conditions acceptable to IDA, as conditions of effectiveness of the Credit (paragraph 5.3).
One, with an initial deposit of US$200,000 will be in the name of CNFTP, and the other, with
an initial deposit of US$1,000,000, will be in the name of BPE. The amounts have been
estimated to cover about four months of expenditures, and would be withdrawn from the credit
account after credit effectiveness. CNFTP and BPE would have the right to draw directly on
these accounts for project expenditures without prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. Two
signatures would be required for each payment, from among three people designated by the
Ministry of Finance from the staffs of each of BPE and CNFTP on the nomination of the agency
concerned. The special accounts would be replenished on the basis of documentary evidence,
provided to IDA by CNFTP and BPE, of payments made from the accounts for goods and
services required for the project that are eligible for financing under the credit. However,
contracts for civil works amounting to US$100,000 equivalent and US$20,000 equivalent for
other goods and services may be claimed on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). All
supporting documents will be retained by CNFTP and BPE and made readily available for review
by periodic Bank supervision missions and external auditors.
3.45  Proect Accounts. The Government will open a project account in the Central Bank, and
pay into it its budgeted contribution to the project for 1992 equivalent to $150,000. It will open,
in a commercial bank, two advance accounts in local currency, operated by CNFTP and BPE,
with initial deposits from the project account equivalent to $25,000 and $75,000 respectively, to
cover the government's contribution to project expenditures. Evidence of the initial deposits is
a condition of credit effectiveness (paragraph 5.3). The project account will be replenished by
the government at least every quarter, to ensure that its balance will at no time be lower than



- 30 -
about US$30,000 equivalent. The advance accounts will be replenished regularly from the
project account on the basis of appropriate evidence of payment for the purposes of the project.
3.46   Auditing. CNFTP and BPE will maintain separate accounts for all project activities, in
conformity with national accounting practices, which are fully acceptable. The accounts will be
audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, including a special audit of
expenditures under statements of expenditure and the special accounts. The auditor will also
examine the execution by the agency responsible for each component of the activities under that
component, and certify conformity with procurement procedures and accountancy practices. A
separate independent audit of CNFTP will be conducted, which will include certification that
CNFTP has verified that sub-project sponsors have contributed appropriate amounts of financing
to the sub-project in question. All audit reports will be furnished to IDA within at most six
months following the end of the fiscal year, which ends December 31 (paragraph 5.5), and every
effort will be made by the project agencies to furnish audit reports within four months. The
Malagasy accounting sector, which has been strengthened with the assistance of IDA (Credits
1049 and 1661), has shown itself competent to provide good quality audit reports of complex
projects. BPE, which will coordinate credit and project accounts, uses accounting systems which
were prepared by a local accounting firm ) help it control the education sector project, and
experience has been good to date.
3.47   Environmental Impau. The project has no direct environmental impact, and consequently
no environmental analysis has been conducted.  Project civil works consist mostly of
rehabilitation of or minor expansions to existing buildings. In evaluating sub-projects for access
to training funds under the project and as specified in its working procedures, CNFTP will ensure
that suitable environmental analysis is conducted.
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.1   Benefits. The project's benefits will come from the restructuring of the system of TVET
to make it respond to the needs of the economy. By making possible implementation of the
government's new training strategy, upgrading training capacity and strengthening institutional
capacity, the project will help to meet the economy's skill needs more efficiently, and respond
to employers' perceptions that the poor quality of trained manpower, especially of skilled workers
and supervisors, is a constraint to economic development. Project objectives are to increase
internal and external efficiency of the existing training system, to improve the quality of training
and thus to improve allocation of scarce resources. By encouraging employer participation it will
lead to improved cost recovery, and improved relevance of training courses.
4.2   The reform of the training system will support the Bank's overall strategy for
Madagascar, of promoting economic restructuring and liberalization, by removing human
resource constraints and helping to raise productivity in the industrial, commercial, agricultural
and administrative sectors. The project will contribute to a better use of government resources,
since the public sector TVET components will strengthen the public expenditure program process.
It will build on and complement the sector management reforms developed in the context of the
education project (CRESED), and will allow the government to tackle the difficult public
expenditure problem of the expensive and inefficient public technical schools. The project will
complement the retraining component of the Economic Management and Social Action Project



-31 -
and the pilot operations under CRESED which are establishing short cycle post-secondary courses
(IST) to train higher level technicians.
4.3    Building Institutional Capacity for Flexible Management. The level of uncertainty in the
Malagasy economy has increased substantially in the recent past, as Madagascar undergoes a
structural adjustment process and moves to an open, market-oriented economy. Market signals
and economic management through incentives have become more important. Further, urban
population growth is rapid, leading to a substantial demand for urban employment. The effects
of demographic change, adjustment, transition from a protected to open economy, and
technological change, will have impacts on employment and the skills required. However, the
data base on the labor market is weak. Under conditions of uncertainty and lacking statistics, the
types and quantities of skills demanded wIll be difficult to predict. Thus the project will provide
more flexible, market based instruments for training management, required in order to Identify
and to respond flexibly to emerging training needs. Close linkages between the training system
and the labor market wIll be established in order to obtain information on skill needs and to
increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the training system.
4.4   In addition to aiming at a more efficient use of public funds devoted to technical
education and training, one project objective is to develop cost recovery mechanisms: means of
ensuring that TVET is not financed solely by the state. The new regional administrations for
public TVET developed during project preparation will be able to receive and use funds from
employers for specific training purposes (employers have already started to pay in this manner
to meet their needs for courses in two lycees). For the longer term, analyses will be conducted
during project implementation to assess the means of financing TVET which would both be most
effective and most acceptable to employers. One such means which might be envisaged is a
traming levy, introduced by the end of the project, to be paid by enterprises as a financial
contribution to the training fund.
4.5   The justification of the individual training projects to be financed from the training fund
will be assured by their review by the CNFTP and IDA to ensure that they respond to the criteria
agreed. The review procedures to be applied by CNFrP are therefore crucial: they have been
prepared with support from IDA and French Cooperation, and their application will be carefully
monitored during project execution. The annual and mid-term reviews will pay particular
attention to whether the criteria and procedures are appropriate, and whether they are being
applied properly; if not they will be changed (paragraphs 3.9, 3.39 and 5.5).
4.6   The civil service training component will complement the civil service reforms currently
being designed with IDA assistance. In-service training, made possible by the project, will
provide a means of up-grading senior officials, in greater numbers and at lower cost than has
been possible by sending them overseas for training, as has been the practice in recent years.
It can thus be expected to have positive effects on many aspects of the Malagasy economy and
society which are currently hindered by inadequate public admiistration. About half of existing
middle and upper level officials are expected to retire in the coming ten years, and most of the
others have had little training to fit them for their tasks; the strengthening of the quality of
ENFAR's programs under the project will permit the civil service to replace those who retire by
people with an appropriate training. ENFAR has a policy of providing initial training only to
the numbers needed to fill vacancies which exist or are forecast to occur in the near future.



- 32 -
4.7    The project, through its support to CNFTP and the financing it is expected to provide to
NMOs, wIll make a start in meeting training needs for the informal sector. Further analysis will
be carried out during project execution to assess how these needs can best be met in future.
4.8    RWisk. The project faces several risks. If economic growth prospects are not achieved,
a reduced demand for trained workers may slow the project, by making it more difficult for
TVET trainees to fmd jobs after training. Poor economic performance may also make employers
less able to contribute financially to training. The private sector may possibly be reluctant to play
the active role in the training system which Is envisaged in both the CNFTP and the regional
TVET advisory committees. It will be essential that the training programs launched early in
project implementation include those which are of high priority to employers, so that enterprises
may be convinced of the benefits of the system and the desirability of establishing a cost sharing
arrangement (such as a training levy) by the time the project is finished.
4.9    There has been a tendency, for political reasons, for some public officials to be reluctant
to consult with employers to the extent government had indicated it would. The risks associated
with a lack of dialogue between public and private sectors were addressed during project
preparation. Employers consulted expressed a strong desire to participate in the preparation and
design of the project, and to play an active role, so long as training institutions are set up in a
way that permits their genuine participation. To ensure that employers feel that they are properly
represented, and that the government for its part is not faced with employers who might use the
CNFTP as a political platform rather than for its true purpose, the process of identification of
employer representatives to serve on the executive committee of CNFTP was launched before
negotiations. A mechanism was established as part of the CNFTP statutes to ensure that the
members of the committee would be chosen for the personal capacities they bring to their posts,
and be genuinely representative of the interests concerned.
4.10   There are also political riski related to implementation of the policy measures linked to
the project. Some officials are, for example, concerned that regional pressures would make it
difficult for them to close some of the most inefficient TEFISO I, or to modify the technical
baccalaureate (which is seen as a passport to the university). Government will need to resist
political pressures that might otherwise lead to expenditure on inappropriate, costly, technical
education or training, as a palliative for unemployment. These sensitive political areas will
require carefil handling by the authorities, supported by the public expenditure programming
process.
4.11   A further risk concerns the delays, due to political unrest in 1991 in Madagascar, in
staffing project institutions.
(a)    Establishment of CNFTP and the technical teacher training college is well
advanced, their directors (both of whom were involved in project preparation)
have been appointed, and buildings are available. However, both directors lack
staff with whom to work, and will have to move rapidly in recruiting suitable
people, with technical assistance from France and financed from the credit. It
would not have been desirable to delay negotiations and Board presentation to
enable them to progress further in recruiting staff since this would have been
harmful to other components. The project will need close supervision and
support from IDA in its start-up phase.



- 33 -
(b)   The transfer of responsibility for vocational training to a new ministry also
carries risks, although these risks will be minimized by the transitional
arrangements agreed prior to negotiations and by the government's confirmation
that it will unify responsibility for TVET in a single ministry (paragraphs 2.37
and 5.5).
4.12   Despite the above risks, there is a clear desire at high levels of government and the
private sector for a development of the TVET system in the dir.tion of the strategy which has
been defined. Senior officials recognize the need for a re-orientation of the system, for the
private sector to play an expanding role, and for a professionalization of the training provided.
This desire is a sufficient basis for believing that the conservatism of some parts of the
administration can be overcome, and that the project can work as designed.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED
5.1   Prior to negotiations the statutes of CNFTP were approved by IDA and published
(paragraph 3.6) and CNFTP's executive director appointed. The draft working procedures of
CNFTP and in particular the revised criteria for access to the training fund (paragraph 3.8) were
reviewed with IDA and agreed, and a list of sub-projects presented to CNFTP as the first year's
work program for the training fund was reviewed.
5.2    During negotiations a draft sector policy letter was finalized (Annex 1), which has
subsequently been signed and sent to IDA.
5.3   Special conditions of effectiveness would be (a) the appointment of an executive
committee, election of its chairman, and appointment of the principal technical adviser for the
CNFrP (paragraph 3.6); (b) signature of implementing agreements between the government and
CNFTP, INPF, and ENFAR (paragraph 3.37): The CNFTP agreement will incorporate the
procedures manual and eligibility criteria for training sub-projects (paragraph 3.8);
(c) establishment of the project coordinating committee (paragraph 3.38); (d) establishment by
government of a project account and deposit therein of $150,000 equivalent, and opening, in a
commercial bank, of two advance accounts in local currency, operated by CNFTP and BPE, with
initial deposits from the project account equivalent to $25,000 and $75,000 respectively, to cover
the government's contribution to project expenditures (paragraph 3.45); and (e) establishment of
special accounts in US dollars in a local commercial bank under conditions acceptable to IDA,
of which one with an initial deposit of US$200,000 will be in the name of CNFTP, and the other
with an initial deposit of US$1,000,000 will be in the name of BPE (paragraph 3.44).
5.4    A special condition of disbursement would be that, for the public sector agricultural
education and training system, expenditure could be financed only after adoption by the Borrower
of an agricultural training program and arrangements for its implementation, both acceptable to
IDA (paragraphs 3.29 and 3.43).



- 34 -
5.5   The following agreements have been reached between the government and IDA:
(a)   the government will transfer responsibility for public secondary technical and
vocational schools to its ministry responsible for vocational training. For
planning, enrolment of students, investment expenditure, course content and the
opening and closing of such schools the transfer will be made by December 31,
1992, and for other elements by July 31, 1993. Thereafter administrative
responsibility for TVET will be maintained under a single ministry (paragraph
2.37);
(b)   terms of reference for the CNFTP financing study, to be carried out before June
30, 1995 have been agreed in general terms. They will be finalized by
December 31, 1992 (paragraphs 3.10 and 3.36);
(c)   an annual review of project execution will be carried out, following preparation
by BPE of an annual report on project execution and annual work programs for
the project, including especially for CNFTP activities and for enrollment in
public TVET institutions. The work programs would reflect the principle that
at least 25 percent of disbursements in any year should be for CNFTP and its
sub-projects, and that of CNFTP disbursements at least 10 would be for training
activities by NGOs (paragraphs 3.9, 3.15 (a), and 3.39);
(d)   a sectoral public expenditure program would be prepared by government with the
assistance of CNFTP and reviewed annually with IDA (paragraphs 2.53, 3.11,
and 3.36);
(e)    a mid-term report on project and sector progress will be prepared by the
government not later than June 30, 1995, and reviewed jointiy by the
government, project authorities and the financing partners by October 31, 1995.
Government will then take necessary action to remedy problems identified
(paragraphs 3.9, 3.39 and 4.5);
(f)   project accounts and the accounts of CNFTP will be fully audited following
standard procedures (paragraph 3.46).
5.6   With the above assurances, agreements and conditions, the project is suitable for an IDA
credit of SDR 16.7 million (US$ 22.8 million) to the Democratic Republic of Madagascar.



- 35 -
ANEXli
Page 1 of 3
SECTOR POLICY LETIER                                            CONFII)ENTE
REPUBLIOUE DpEMOCRATIOE DE MADAGASCA
le 13 mai 1992
Le Ministre de l'Emploi et de la Formation
et le Ministre de l'lnstruction Publique
Monsieur Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
Directeur
Departement des Pays des Grands Lacs
et de l'Ocean Indien
Banque Mondiale
Monsieur le Directeur,
obiet: Stratdgie our 1'Enseignme  Techniue et
lFationPressiom
J'ai l'honneur de vous faire part de la stratede de la Republique Democratique
de Madagascar en matiere d'Enseignement Technique et de Formation Professionnelle ('ETFP).
Cette strategie s'insere dans le cadre de nos strategies fondamentales de developpement
Economique et social. La stratEgie sectorielle de I'ETFP complete celle du secteur de l'education,
qui est a la base du projet sectoriel de l'education (CRESED), et harmonisera la politique de
l'ETFP du secteur public avec la strategie nationale de l'education dans son ensemble. La
strategic aura pour objectifs l'adequation entre la formation et les besoins du marche de l'emploi,
ainsi que l'amelioration de la qualite et de l'efficacite de l'EFTP, en meme temps que la ma9trise
de la croissance des ddpenses publiques et l'utilisation officace des ressources qui y sont allouees.
L'execution de la strategie n'entrainera pas une augmentation, dans l'ensemble,
des depenses publiques (en termes reels) consacrees a I'ETFP. L'augmentation des depenses pour
les objectifs prioritaires sera compensee d'une part par les contributions des employeurs aux
formations qui leur sont utiles, et d'autre part par des economies resultant des mesures indiquees
ci-dessous pour augmenter l'efficacite du systeme. Un programme de depenses publiques de
l'ETFP sera prepare tous les ans en conformite avec la strategie de 1'ETFP comme celle-ci est
exposee dans la presente lettre. Ce programme sera coherent avec le programme global de
depenses publiques et avec celul du secteur de l'education generale. Nous comptons discuter de
ce programme annuellement avec la Banque Mondiale at avec nos autres partenaires qui
participent au financement du secteur. Nous avons l'intention d'utiliser le programme de
depenses comme instrument de gestion du systeme, et pour la preparation du budget de l'Etat.



ANNEX 1
-36-                            Page 2 of 3
L'operation actuellement I i'Etude, le Projet de Renforcement de l'Enseignement
Technique et de la Formation Professionnelle (PREFrEC), qui beneffcierait du soutien d'un
credit de l'IDA, a ete congue en conformite avec cette strategie, et fournira des moyens d'appui
pour aider I sa mise en place. Le PREFTEC permettra la reorganisation de I'ETFP public, et
integrera les actions necessaires I la realisation des mesures specifiques en vue d'accrottre
l'efficacite interne et externe du sous-secteur.
L'exdcution de la stratdgie necessitera des efforts I la fois du Gouvernement et
des autre. partenaires sociaux. Par consequent elle a deux axes paralleles qui comprennent le
renforcement et la restructuration de l'ETFP public, d'un cOte, et de l'autre cOte le
developpement de l'ETFP fourni par le secteur prive: les ONG, les employeurs, et les ecoles et
les autres etablissements I caractere commercial de l'ETFP. Les deux secteurs, public et prive,
se completent et representent la capacite de formation du pays; Us sont appeles I jouer ensemble
les rOles essentiels economiques et sociaux qui sont les leurs. Les financements qui seront
obtenus de l'IDA et d'autres bailleurs de fonds pour l'EFTP seront ainsi repartis judicieusement
entre ces deux secteurs, afin d'en facliter une utilisation efficace, et d'encourager les
Etablissements privds et ONGs I participer de facon concertee avec le secteur public au
developpement de la formation professionnelle. En favorisant ainsi les centres (tant publics que
prives) qui ont fait preuve d'efficacite, la poursuite de la strategie limitera les depenses publiques
consacrees f la formation, et aidera I mobiliser les ressources du pays et des bailleurs de fonds
A cet effet.
La mise en oeuvre de la stratdgie de l'ETFP, ainsi que la coordination et la
promotion des actions de l'ETFP, seront la responsabilit6 du Conseil National de la Formation
Technique et Professionnelle. Le Conseil National (le CNFTP) aura parite de representation du
secteur public et des employeurs du secteur prive dans ses organes de reflexion et de decision,
afin de favoriser la participation des employeurs I l'orientation de la politique de formation. Le
CNFTP aura acces auy. ressources financieres et techniques qui lui permettront de promouvoir,
d'aider, et de participer au financement des actions dans ce domaine. Le CNFIP participera au
financement des actions de formation qui correspondent aux objectifs de la strategie nationale de
l'ETFP, comme celle-ci est exposee dans la lettre actuelle et sera par la suite developpee par le
CNFIP; des critbres detailles d'attribution du financement ont ete elabores, que nous avons
examines conjointement avec les bailleurs de fonds concernes.
Le financement de l'ETFP depend actuellement de facon trop importante du
budget de l'Etat et des bailleurs exterieurs de fonds. Ceci constitue une ponction importante sur
le budget, mais ne foumnit suffisamment de ressources ni pour le fonctionnement efficace du
systeme ni pour en permettre la croissance. Pendant la periode du projet, le Credit de l'IDA
apportera une contribution majeure, mais il est essentiel de prevoir le financement apres
l'achevement du projet. Pour mieux favoriser l'efficacitd dans l'ETFP et la disponibilite d'un
financement adequat a moyen terme, le CNFIP examinera d'ici le 30 juin 1995 des propositions
de mise en place des systemes de financement convenables, en tenant compte des possibilites et
volontes des forces vives de la nation I contribuer I 'iETFP. Un systeme adequat de financement
- par exemple, les contributions des beneficiaires, etlou des contributions des entreprises - sera
par la suite mis en place, pour prendre la relbve du PREFTEC. Nous sommes neanmoins
convaincus que dans le cas ob le nouveau systeme donne des resultats satisfaisants en faisant ;es
prouves d'efficacite, I'appui des baileurs de fonds exterieurs nous sera acquis pour completer le
financement interne.



ANNEX 1
37 -                          Page 3 of 3
La priorite de la strategie, qui sera suivie dans toute operation d'ETFP qui
beneficiera d'un financement public, sera la conformite aux besoins de l'economie et du marche
de l'emploi. Des cadres institutionnels seront crdes qui permettront aux responsables de la
formation, tant au niveau national qu'aux niveaux decentralisds et des etablissements de l'ETFP,
de se renseigner concernant les prioritds du marche de l'emploi, et de determiner les priorites des
formations qui repondent h ces besoins, et qui favorisent ainsi l'acces des diplomes I l'emploi.
Des mesures favorisant la qualite de la formation et de l'enseignement seront adoptees, telles que
la formation initiale et en cours d'emploi de formateurs et d'enseignants, le renforcement de la
formation pratique, et la disponibilite des materiels didactiquer ainsi que l'etablissement des
cadres permettant de mieux associer les employeurs a la definitiht a dJe nrogrammes de formation.
Now procedons I une professionnalisation progressive de 1'enseignement fourni
par les etablissements de 'ETFP public. Les activites I l'interieur des lycees comprendront des
filibres de la formation gnr4rale technologique qui donnent acces au baccalaureat technique, et
celles qui donnent accbs I l'emploi. Au fur et I mesure que les formations professionnelles
seront mises en place dans les lycees techniques, nous serons amenes I reguler et le nombre des
elOves et le nombre de specialites dans les filibres technologiques. En outre les etablissements
formeront des etudiants I la requte des employeurs: pour financer les ressources en materiels
permettant aux etablissements de fournir de tels cours, la rdglementation sera modifiee pour quo
les etablissements puissent recevoir des contributions des employeurs et affecter et utiliser ces
ressources I cette fin. Des mesures seront adopt6es pour assurer que les etudiants I l'entree de
la fllibre generale technologique aient acquis les connaissances de base en mathematiques et
sciences qui leur permettent de poursuivre des etudes donnant acces au baccalaureat et par la suite
(pour ceux qui sont regus) d'avoir les meilleures chances de reussir leurs etudes universitaires.
La mattrise des flux d'elbves I l'entr6e du systeme, en correspondance avec les ressources
financibres disponibles et les demandes du marche de 1'emploi, sera une partie importante de la
strategie.
Le Gouvernement examinera de fason detaillee le niveau d'utilisation des
Etablissements de l'ETFP publics. L'allocation des ressources etatiques se concentra la oh les
Etablissements peuvent en faire l'utilisation maximale en termes de coOt/efficacite, donnant une
formation adequate au plus grand nombre d'etudiants, et oh il existe un comite integrant des
employeurs de la localite.
Le renforcement de la gestion du syst&me constitue une partie importante de la
strat6gie. Des mesures seront prises pour faciliter l'autonomie des centres de formation assortie
d'une rigueur dans le contrBle de leur gestion.
Veuillez croire, Monsieur le Directeur, & 1'expression de ma haute consideration.
LE MINISTRE DE L'INSTRUCIION                   LE MINISTRE DE L'EMPLOI
PUBLIQUE                               ET DE LA FORMATION
FULGENCE FANONY                               BRUNO BEARIVO



- 38 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
MADAGASCAR MANPOWER TRAINING
Govelacn Mro-economic Policy and En,oomnn
1.    Starting in 1985, govermnent eliminated most industrial price controls, reduced controls
on profit margins, eliminated export taxes on manufactured products, and promulgated a new
Investment Code. The economic liberalization and privatization program continued in 1988-91.
Among other measures, a liberal new investment code and fee-trade zone legislation were
Introduced in December 1989 to attract local and foreign investment. The informal sector and
the development of small and middle size enterprises have high priority in economic
development. Production for both the export and the local market is being promoted. In
infrastructure, the Government's main objective is to support productive investment, maintaning
systems, rehabilitating the road network, developing urban services and strengthening insdtutional
efficiency.
2.    Tourism has become a priority sector, with government projections of potential demand
of 250,000 to 450,000 tourists per year (although it would be impossible to achieve anything like
these figures without substantial investment, and 50,000 annually is a more realistic aim in the
near future). The aim is to compete on the international tourist market, where Seychelles and
Mauritius annually attract 77,000 and 240,000 tourists respectively.
3 .    Resoonse of the Economy.  The recent effects of the new policy on economic
performance and exports are encouraging. Individual enterprises are reacting favorably to the
changes they perceive in their environment. A notable change in the economic environment has
become evident:
(a)    Effects on capadty utilization. Since 1987, industrial capacity utilization has
gradually risen by about 15 percentage points, and according to some estimates
is now as high as 60 percent on average. Increases in capacity utilization have
been helped by growth in exports. The garment subsector, which is driven by
export demand, increased its capacity utilization from 50 percent in 1986 to about
85 percent in 1988.
(b)   Export orientation.  The most impressive change in the economy is the
increased outward orientation of Madagascar's traditionally import-substituting
industry. Export-led growth has stimulated private sector development in the
garment and knitwear and the food processing industries. These are the most
dynamic subsectors, taking full advantage of low-cost labor.
(c)    Rationalization of production. Increased competition resulted in rationalization
of the production process, aiming at reducing production costs and improving the
q7iality of the final product. Small enterprises are on the whole more advanced
in  usting than larger.



-39 -
ANNEX2
Page 2 of 3
(d)    Labor costs. Since the 1987 devaluation, hourly compensation rates for workers
had a competitive edge over the Asian miracle countries by a factor of five and
over neighboring Mauritius by a factor of three. This margin is sufficient to
compensate for the skill differentials.
(e)    Flrm entry.  Firms are attracted from Mauritius due to pressures on the
Mauritian labor market. Further, some firms have shifted from Reunion and
Asian countries. Of six newly approved enterprises to the EPZ in Madagascar,
one quarter of the capital is French, 16 percent from Mauritius, and 34 percent
from Hong Kong (mainly British and American capital). Locally, in 1988 alone
296 enterprises were newly created. More than half of them were established in
commerce, 14 percent in industry, and almost 9 percent in agriculture. In
industry, 43 enterprises were established mainly in food-processing (19), wood
and wood products (5), textile and garment (3), metal industry (3).
4.    In the industrial sector, since 1985, 415 dossiers had by mid-1990 been submitted to the
Ministry of Industry for approval to set up enterprises under the Investment code, with a forecast
employment growth of about 29,000 jobs. The main sectors are food-processing, textile and
garment, chemical sector, construction, electronics and mechanics. So far, about one third have
been approved with a stated employment creation of 7,755 jobs.
5.    During the first 5 months after the promulgation of the new investment code in December
1989, 27 existing enterprises and 15 foreign investors submitted their dossiers for approval and
installation in the export-processing zones. The foreign investors are in textile and garment,
food-processing, assembling of electronic and electro-mechanics and in services. The six new
enterprises in the garment industry, whose installation has been approved, are expected to create
4,700 jobs.
6.    Emnlvment. Import-substituting manufactring firms generally employ sufficient labor
to absorb increases in capacity utilization without hiring. Thus, employment growth is expected
to come in the near term mostly from export-oriented activities. The increased export orientation
allowed the garment subsector to increase production threefold and total employment by about
5,000 jobs between early 1987 and 1989.
7.    Touism. The mnmber of tourists coming to Madagascar is increasing and has reached
a total of 40,000 visitors in 1989. The shortage of hotel capacity has already led to a number
of private initiatives to rehabilitate and expand hotel capacity. Further, several multinational and
national companies have shown their interest in investing in the tourism sector. South African
Airways has reopened service to Madagascar, enabling the tourism market in the specialized area
of Nosy Be to redevelop.
8.    In the informal sector, the adsara sr has responded very positively. The export of
artisanal products is promoted. So far, demand for ardsanal products (horr, stones, wood
carving, embroidery) mainly comes from France, and from sales to tourists. However, in 1990
representatives of the artisan sector are participating in exhibitions in France, Germany, Italy and
Mauritius.



- 40-
ANNEX&2
Page 3 of 3
Medigm Term PrMsects
9.    In the medium term, a major source of growth is expected from a further increase in
capacity utilization. Further expansion is likely to result, both in industry and in the other
sectors, from the rationalization of protection and the gradual improvement in credit availability
and in the efficiency of the banking system. Investment should grow substantially, with a
transitional increase in public investment on sound infrastructural activities and a gradual but
steady rise in private investment.
10.   High growth rates are expected in industry. The industrial sector accounts for only 15
percent of total formal employment but for 17 percent of GNP and this proportion is expected
to grow to almost 19 percent until 1992. The export processing zones are expected to attract
more textile and sub-contracting industry. In textiles an average of 3,000 new posts per year is
expected to be created during the next ten years. The new investment code will promote the
development of small and medium firms. They may be related to activities in the EPZ through
backward or forward linkages, producing for the local or export market.
11.   The Ministry of Transport and Tourism estimates (perhaps rather optimistically) that
12,000 new jobs in the hotel business will be created by 2000. Further, the development of
tourism is expected to create indirect employment, mainly in construction, furniture, paper,
decoration, food-processing, packing, chemical products, artisanal products, recreation activities,
transport, maintenance.
12.   The informal sector has a high potential. Favorable factors are the low cost of the labor
force, improved availability of inputs, unsatisfied demand of local markets and increasing demand
of tourist and external markets. Urban artisans constiute the most dynamic and promising branch
in the informal sector. In addition, branches related to construction and construction material are
also considered of high potential. Further, many informal sector establishment have the potential
to develop in the short term in to small and medium size enterprises as in agriculture, industry,
construction and commerce, both horizontal and vertical integration exists.



- 41 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
Madagascar Labor Market Sector
Skill and Training Needs
1.    On the basis of questionnaires and discussions with employers, industrial training needs
have been identified mainly in food-processing, textiles, electro-mechanics, construction, and
maintenance. In the traditional industrial sector a lack of technicians, higher technicians and
supervisors is apparent. In addition, technically qualified specialists like maintenance mechanics,
electricians, refrigeration workers, and car mechanics are in high demand.
2.    Firms operating in EPZ and under the new investment code, mainly in textiles and sub-
contracting industry, will demand numbers of machine operators and semi-ski1led workers,
although experience in other EPZs shows that they typically prefer to train their own staff. In
addition, skilled workers in installation and maintenance (electricians, plumbers), foremen,
supervisors and maintenance personnel (technicians and higher technicians) will be required.
3.    In meetings with 50 employers, sectors which expressed high priority for training were
food-processing, metal industry, textile and garments, furniture, printing, wood, paper, and the
chemical industry. In a survey of 20 enterprises, employers indicated that 1,500 cf their workers
would need initial and continuous training during the coming year. Training of supervisors and
foremen, training in informatics, maintenance (mechanics and electro-technics, refrigeration,
plumbers), human resource management, secretaries and office personnel, and management
training for small and medium size enterprises are of highest priority.
4.    The shortage of higher technicians seems to be critical in some sectors. Some companies
are sending their higher technicians for several months training courses to France as there is no
training capacity available in the country. Among firms producing highly sophisticated, top
quality garments for the export market, some pointed to the lack of skilled workers as the main
obstacle to further expansion and improved productivity. In the garment industry, training is
required in cutting, reading of drawings, designing, and maintenance. One firm has contacted
trainers at a textile training institute in France. They have been invited to Madagascar to train
workers for several months.
5.    Hotel and tourism demand for qualified labor will increase very rapidly if high quality
in products and services are to be achieved. Hardly any qualified personnel now exists outside
the main hotels, and very limited training potential is available. Training needs for the period
of 1990-1999 have been estimated by the Ministry of Tourism. In total, over 2,000 persons need
to be retrained, 80 at the management level, 180 at middle management level, and the rest at
skilled worker level. Further, initial training of new employees will be important: over 100 at
management level, 650 on middle management level and 3,500 on skilled workers level. In
addition, short training courses for semi-skilled workers will have to be provided.
6.    In the construction and public works sector, skilled workers will be needed in the short
and medium term as the modern construction sector will probably expand rapidly. In the short
term the lack of qualified labor in the sector will become a bottleneck. One indicator is the



-42 -
ANNEX3
Page 2 of 2
increase In rents which have already quadrupled within the past two years in the capital. There
is a high need for technicians and higher technicians. Since 1972 no training has been provided
on the level of technicians and higher technicians in the sector. The stock available does not
exceed 40 higher technicians and 2,000 technicians. This lack of middle level labor force will
have strong negative repercussions on the development of the whole sector. The IST being
established in Antananarivo under the CRESED project is intended to address this problem.
7.    Annual growth of employment in the informal sector is estimated at 5 percent due to the
limited absorption in the formal sector and the high population growth rate. The main growth
sectors identified in the informal sector are wood, iron and metal works, basket making, stones,
embroidery, leather, ceramics, agricultural tools, local stoves, building material, construction.
8.    Training needs for artisans are identified in metal-work (forge, ironworks), wood-work
(cutting, sawing, joinery, carpentry, cabinetmaking, wood-carving marquetry), agricultural tools,
catwright, and textiles (weaving, basketwork). The main sectors with high potential for export
and for the local tourist market are in leather, textiles, garments, and stone. However, there is
no training in the country for artisans working in these branches. Training is required in
management, organizational, and administrative skills, in technical skills (use of new machines
and new technology like in cutting of stones, production of jewel, making of horn products).
Further, new skills are required in design of new products, market studies, and quality control
in order to meet the demands of the export market. In addition, productivity can be enhanced
through skill upgrading programs which are not now available. So far, training in the informal
sector is provided in traditional apprenticeship and very limited training is provided by CENAM.



-43-
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 1
Labor Qaly
1.    Only limited statistics on population and the labor market are available. In 1990, total
population was estimated at 1 1.5 million with 25 percent in urban areas. Annual population
growth is estimated at about 3 percent, and 5 percent or more in urban areas.
2.    In 1987 the labor force was estimated at 6,221,000 people. The number of wage
earners in the formal sector was about 370,000. In the public sector, 112,000 people were
employed. Of the remaining 258,000 wage earners 27 percent were in agriculture, 22 percent
in industry, 11 percent in building and constructioL and 40 percent in services. The labor
force in the formal sector is projected to grow by 60,000 in rural areas and 80,000 in urban
areas between 1990 and 1994.
3.    A study by the ILO in 1986/87 analyzed the employment structure in the formal
sector. The most important sectors in terms of employment are the food-processing industry
(14.4 percent), textiles (14.4 percent), transport (7.4 percent). Of total formal employment,
39 percent is offered in frms with more than 1,000 employees, 17.7 percent in firms with
employees between 500 and 999 employees; and 37.3 percent in firms with 10 to 499
employees.



-44-
Annex S
Page 1 of 1
Madagascar: Mangmer Trainine SMR
Technical Education Statistics (1989-90)
............   ..... 21ca
Number of establishments                           31        25        49        74
Number of students                              1,780    7,842    7,547    ;;,389
Number of teachers in class                       291       782      309      1,091
Student: teacher ratio                           6.12    10.03    24.42       14.11
Percentage female students                       42%       29%       S0%       39%
Total students in general upper secondary                42,198   29,862    72,060
education
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .    ....,,.  .. .-..-  ..._
Note: TEFISO are public sector pre-vocational schools.
Source: MINESEB
Annuaire Statistique, 1989-1990



-45 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 2
Miadia~azc
Non-Governmental Organizations. Madagascar has registered 500 NGOs of which 49 mention
training in agriculture, crafts, health etc as one of their objectives (inventaire des NGO A
Madagascar, August 1988). They provide technical and vocational education and training in
workshops and in apprenticeship training centers. About half of these NGOs provide only short
training courses in various fields, generally responding well to the training needs of the informal
sector and the rural population. In addition 28 NGOs have been identified which have built up
substantial vocational training capacity. The training provided by most of these NGOs is well
recognized by employers. Of these 28 NGOs, about 10 have well established training centers and
workshops wlth apprenticeship training programs lasting for two to three years. Most of them
are run by Catholic Church agencies.
Most training programs, both for employment and self-employment, are provided in
agriculture and live-stock (16 programs), wood-work (10), iron and metal-work (10), tailoring
(7), artisanal products (6), embroidery (4), shoe making (3), weaving (2). Others are in pottery,
hairdressing, home economics, maintenance, car mechanics, radio repair, locksmith, construction,
masonry, accountancy, and typing.
Training capacity of NGOs is small and provided only for a very limited number of
trainees. However, contacts with NGOs have shown that there is the potential and willingness
to expand their training capacity.
[nformal sec. Training for the informal sector and for artisans has been generally neglected
by the Government. Only recently has the importance of the informal sector been recognized.
Projects are in preparation to organize artisans and to provide them with technical and financial
assistance.
Training in the informal sector is mainly provided through traditional apprenticeship.
Most apprentices stay with an artisan between 3 and 7 months in order to acquire skills.
According to studies by the ILO, apprenticeship training in the informal sector in Madagascar
is less important than in other countries in Africa. Though training is limited to practical skills,
the potential contribution to meeting skill requirements must be taken into account. Skill
upgrading programs which are not now available to them could improve workers' productivity.
Private Schools. In the private school system, some Catholic and Protestant colleges provide high
quality technical education and vocational training. They mostly provide training in management,
electronics, electrotechnics, mechanics, wood, iron and metal working. These schools have been
operating in the country for many years and they have a high potential in contributing to meet
the skill needs of the country.
E=rdses. Training in enterprises is limited. Some in-company training centers exist which
are generally recognized by employers as excellent, like the ones of the Railways, Electric power
and water company, Shipyard and Ports parastatls and the Ministry of Public Works.



-46-
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
In a survey (Recensement National des Etablissements et Enquete Preliminaire Sur
l'Emplol 1985-1987, Ministere de la Fonction Publique, du Travail et des Lois Sociales), which
encompassed 30,845 enterprises, only 1,208 enterprises (85.7 percent of all firms with more than
500 employees) provide training, while only 2 percent of enterprises with less than 10 employees
train.
Several training modes are applied. Apprenticeship training is provided by 276 firms,
mainly the small ones. Sixty percent of all firms providing apprenticeship have fewer than 10
employees while only one with more than 500 employees is providing apprenticeship training.
861 firms (71 percent) indicate to provide training within their firm or in their own training
centers. Training in their own training centers is basically provided by firms in electricity, water,
banks and insurance, transport and supply of public services. Only 123 firms train exclusively
outside their firms. The remaining 141 firms use several modes of in-service and exterior
training.



-47 -
ANNX 2 (a)
Page 1 of 8
ZMadagtacair- Manipa=e 3raininLMR
Conseil National de Formation Technique et Professionnelle
DOCUMNT PREPARATOIRE ELABORE PAR LE COMTrE DE COORDINATION
CHAPITRE 1 - SrATUT DU CNFTP
Selon la loi N° 020 du 05 ao0t 1991 et le d6cret N° 92/279 de fevrier 1992 rappelons que:
Le CNFTP est un etablissement public dote de la personnalit6 morale et jouissant de
l'autonomie administrative et financiere. II a pour objet d'orienter la politique de formation
technique et professionnelle en cohdrence avec les besoins de l'economie et les exigences du
marche de l'emploi.
Afin de degager les moyens ncoessaires t I'accomplissement de sa mission, le CNFTP
dispose d'un Fonds d'Intervention, specialement cree a cet effet, et a partir duquel il peut
apporter un concours financier a la realisation de toute action de formation professionnelle
contribuant I cette politique.
Le CNFTP est place sous la tutelie administrative du Ministre Charge de l'Emploi et sous
la tutelle financiere du Ministre Charge des Finances et du Budget. l dispose d'un budget
autonome.
Le CNFTP est compose de trois organes (cf. organisation institutionnelle annexe NO 1)
- L'Assemblee Generale,
- Le Comite de Gestion,
- Le Secretariat Executif.
1.1   L'Assembl&e GEnerale
Associant l'Etat, les employeurs, les organismes de formation et les travailleurs,
l'Assemblee G6ndrale est composEe outre le prdsident, de 26 membres, presidde par le Ministre
Charge de l'Emploi.
Sur la base des donnees relatives h 1'emploi, aux besoins de l'dconomie, aux exigences
de la politique gouvernementale et aux capacites de l'offre de formation, l'Assemblee Gendrale
Elabore pour le Gouvernement des propositions d'orientation en matibre d'enseignement technique
et de formation professionnelle, fixe pour le CNFTP le programme d'actions prioritaires en
termes d'objectifs qualitatifs et quantitath et alloue les moyens financiers n6cessaires par
l'approbation du budget, prdparE par le Secretariat Exdcutif et votE par le ComitE de Gestion.



-48 -
ANNEX 7 (a)
Page 2 of 8
1.2    Le Comite de Gestion
Compose de 8 membres, le Comite de Gestion associe paritairement l'Etat et les
employeurs.
Le Comite de Gestion deflnit les conditions d'application des directives de l'Assemblde
Generale en particulier en ce qui concerne les criteres d'acces au Fonds d'Intervention auxquels
les projets de formation soumis I financement devront satisfaire.
Le Comit6 de Gestion a pour objet de traduire en termes operationnels les programmes
d'intervention du CNFIP definis par l'Assemblee Generale notamment en decidant des
financements t accorder aux actions de formation professionnelle entrant dans ces programmes.
11 vote le budget du CNFTP, en contrOle son exdcution et arr8te les comptes financiers
et le bilan de fin d'exercice.
1.3    Le Secretariat Ex6cutif
Le Secretariat Exdcutif constitue l'organe d'execution des decisions prises par le Comite
do Gestion.
Compose d'agents permanents, i est placd sous t'autoritE d'un Directeur Executif nomme
par le Comite de Gestion.
Outre les pouvoirs qui peuvent lui 8tre delegues par le Comite de Gestion, le Secretariat
Executif est plus particulierement charge:
- d'assister et conseiller les entreprises et les organismes de formation dans 1'6laboration
de leurs programmes de formation;
- d'6valuer les requtes de financement en fonction de criteres arr&es par le Comite de
Gestion et de les soumettre & ce dernier pour decision;
- d'assurer la gestion administrative, comptable et financiere du Fonds d'Intervention;
- de prEparer pour le Comitd de Gestion, le budget et le programme d'action annuel qui
sera soumis I I'Assemblee Gen6rale;
- d'entreprendre des etudes et des activites d'animation et de sensibilisation.
A partir des orientations politiques et des criteres d'Eligibiite d6finis par I'AssembUe
GEndrale et le ComitE de Gestion, le SecrEtariat Executif procede I Ie6valuation des avant-projets
et les transmet pour dEcision au ComitE de Gesdton avec un rapport de presentation et de synthese
des evaluations.



-49 -
ANNEX I (a)
Page 3 of 8
La decision d'allouer ou non un financement et le cas echeant, d'en fixer le montant, est
subordonn6e aux rdsultats de l'evaluation, au programme d'actions prioritaires, aux ressources
financieres disponibles (etat des engagements) et aux accords particuliers conclus avec les
bailleurs de fonds.
Tout projet retenu fait alors l'objet d'un contrat d'execution conclus au nom du CNFTP
par le Secretariat Executif et le promoteur du projet.
Ce contrat fixe en particulier, les conditions d'execution du projet, les resultats attendus
et les modalitds de financement.
Le Secretariat Executif en assure le suivi, veille au respect des clauses contractuelles,
assure les rbglements financiers et evalue les resultats.
CHAPITRE 2 - STRUCTURE ORGANISATIONNEILE DU SECREFARUAT EEUTEF
2.1   Lesfonctions
On peut identifier quatre fonctions dans le Secretariat Exdcutif placEes sous la
responsabilite du Directeur Executif:
(a)    une fonction administrative dont les tlches principales sont notamment:
3 I'administration des affaires g6nerales,
* la gestion du personnel et de la logistique,
* de concevoir et proposer des amEliorations du systbme administratif du
CNFTP,
* de traiter les problemes juridiques et les contentieux entre le CNFTP et ses
partenaires,
* de veiller au respect des procedures administratives et contr8ler leurs
applications.
(b)    une fonction financibre chargee notamment:
* de la gestion des ressources financibres du CNFTP,
* d'assurer le financement, le suivi et le contrOle financier des projets de
formation,
* d'assurer la comptabilite (gEnerale et analytique),



so -
ANNEX 7 (a)
Page 4 of 8
* de produire les etats financiers par pdriode et d'en faire les rapports
pdriodiques,
* de veiller au respect des proceddures financires et contr8ler lours applications,
* de concevoir et proposer des ameliorations du systeme financier du CNFTP.
(c)    une fonction technique qui consiste a:
* I'ingenierie de la Formation Professionnelle,
* former et assister les promoteurs de projet de formation,
* instruire les dossiers de demande de contribution selon les procedures etablies
I cot effet,
* soumettre au Comitd des Directours les dossiers de demande de contribution,
* suivre et contrOler l'execution des projets de formation,
* dvaluer la rdalisation des projets,
* concevoir et proposer des amEliorations des procedures d'evaluation des
dossiers de projets de formation.
(d)    une fonction d'etudes ot de developpement quW a pour tiches essentiellement:
* la recherche des possibilitds de financement de la formation professionnelle,
* I'etude de rentabDite economique et financiere des systemes de formation
professionnelle,
* I'identification des besoins de formation des entreprises et des secteurs
economiques,
* d'animer des sdminaires d'information et de sensibilisation des partenaires
sociaux sur les rOles dEvolus au CNFTP,
* de developper des systemes d'informations et des supports mediatiques sur la
formation professionnelle et technique,
* d'assurer une documentation et des informations acualiseos str la formation
professionnelle en crdant et en mettant & la disposition des autres services une
banque de donnees approprides.



- 51 -
Page 5 of 8
2.2    Les Directions (cf. Annexe 2: Organigramme du Secretariat Executif)
(a)    Une Direction Generale dirigde par un Directeur Executif qui applique la
politique gendrale decidee par le Comite de Gestion. II s'agit notamment:
* d'expliciter la mise en oeuvre de la strategie par une planification strategique
et operationnelle,
* d'organiser les diffErentes activitEs du CNFTP,
* de doter le Secretariat Executif de personnel approprie,
* de gerer les ressources humaines, financieres et materielles du CNFrP,
* de superviser et de contrdler la realisation des objectifs pdriodiquement,
* d'assurer le maximum d'efficacite et d'efficience dans l'ensemble des activitds
du CNFTP.
(b)    Une Direction Administrative dirigee par un Directeur charg6 de la fonction
administrative, composee de trois unites:
- I'unite chargee du personnel et de la logistique,
* I'unite chargee de la realisation et du contentieux (cette unite pourra faire appel
h des specialistes selon les besoins),
* l'unit6 chargEe des affaires generales.
(c)    Une Direction Financibre dirigee par un Directeur charge d'assurer la fonction
f.anciere composEe:
* d'une unite chargee du financement et du budget,
* d'une unite charg6e de la comptabiite,
* d'une unite chargde de la tresorerie.
(d)    Une Direction des projets de Formation dirigee par une Directeur charge de la
fonction technique, composee - selon les besoins des activites de la direction - de
spdcialistes charges de projeta, qui sont responsables de l'analyse, de l'evaluation
et du suivi des projets. La composition des specialistes sera dEfinie par le
directeur des projets de formation.
(e)    Une Direction des Etudes et du Developpement dirigee par un Directeur, charge
de la fonction etudes et ddveloppement. Cette direction est aussi organisee de la



- 52 -
ANNEX17a)
Page 6 of 8
m6me fagon que la direction des projets de formation, c'est-a-dire par projets ou
missions.
Dans ces deux directions, I'autorite bierarchique permanente est assuree par le directeur.
Des autorites fonctionnelles exercees par certains specialistes, chefs de projets, sont etablies
suivant les besoins des projets. Certains projets peuvent etre confies a des contractuels a dur6e
determinee.
Une fiche decrivant les objectifs, les taches, la dur6e, les lieux et les ressources
(materielles, financiares et humaines) necessaires, les partenaires et les principales relations entre
les intervenants du projet ou de la mission, specifiera chaque projet de formation, d'etude ou/et
de recherche.
Les diff6rents unites ou projets enum6res ci-dessus seront ouverts au fur et & mesure de
l'dvolution des activites du CNFTP. Durant la periode de demarrage, les unites ou projets dont
le volume d'activite reste encore assez faible, seront regroupes en tant que de besoin selon le
principe de la gestion par equipe.
CHAPITRE 3 - GESTION DU PERSONNEL ]DU CNFTP
Le Personnel participant I la realisation des objectifs et des activitds du CNFIP, sous
I'autorite du Directeur Exdcutif par le Code du Travail (cf. Annexe 3: Reglement Gendral du
personnel).
Toute personne reunissant les conditions prevues par l'article 6 du reglement general du
personnel peut participer au concours de sdlection organise par le CNFrP en vue de doter en
personnel les differents postes dont l'ouverture est prevue dans le budget.
Les modalites des concours seront definies par les differents responsables du CNFTP au
fur et I mesure des besoins.
Les contrats de travail peuvent etre, soit I duree dEterminde, soit I duree indeterminee.
Cependant durant la periode de demarrage, tous les contrats seront etablis I duree determinee.
Des systemes d'evaluation du personnel seront mis en place pour orienter, definir et
specifier le deroulement des carrieres au sein du CNFTP.
Enfin, la resolution des eventuels differents entre le personnel et entre le CNFTP et son
personnel se fera par reference au reglement general du personnel et I la culture de
l'etablissement dans leur spEcificitE et I la legislation du travail en vigueur I Madagascar et I la
culture malgache dans leur globalitE.
En ce qui concerne la formation du personnel, une des tAches de l'assistance technique
prevue pour le CNFTP est de former le personnel en vue de le prdparer I la maltrise des
principales operations de gestion de l'etablissement.



-53 -
ANNEX 7 a
Page 7 of 8
CHAPITRE 4 - LA GESTION FINANCIERE DU CNF7P
Trois catdgories de budget composent le systeme de gestion financibre du CNFTP:
-     le budget de fonctionnement du CNFTP,
-     le budget d'investissement propre au CNFTP,
-     le fbnds d'intervention de la formation professionnelle FIFP).
*     Le budget de fonctionnement du CNFTP:
11 est fonde sur:
Une comptabilitE budgetaire des charges de fonctionnement de l'Assembl6e
Generale, du Comite de gestion, du Secretariat Executif et de ses differents
services. Elle est mise en oeuvre par le Directeur Executif apres approbation du
Comite de Gestion et de l'Assembl6e Generale.
*     Le budget d'investissement propre du CNFTP:
qui est egalement fonde sur une comptabilite budgetaire des investissements, mise
en oeuvre par le Directeur Executif apres visa et approbation de l'Assembl6e
Generale et du Comite de Gestion.
Ces deux categories de budget sont annuelles et ajustees semestriellement. Les
procddures detaillees de mise en oeuvre seront elaborees et precisees par le Directeur Executif
des sa nomination et son entree en fonction.
*     Le Fonds d'Intervention de la Formation Professionnelle :IEP)M:
Les principes de mise en oeuvre de ce fonds sont presentds et precisds dans la
deuxitme partie intitulde 'Fonds d'Jnterventlon de formation professionnelle",
dont l'utilisation est autorisee par le Comite de Gestion et mise en oeuvre par le
Directeur Executif.
D'une manitre generale, ces categories de budget auront chacune des etats financiers
distincts lesquels seront ensuite agreges et consolides au niveau du CNFTP dans son ensemble.
Cette organisation necessite donc:
`'elaboraion et la mise en place d'un plan comptable propre au CNFTP, dans le
cadre du plan comptable gednral malgache 1987,
I'elaboration et la mise en oeuvre d'un manuel de procddure des achats, du stock
et de la comptabiite matibre,



-54-
ANNEX 7 (a)
Page 8 of 8
-     I'elaboration at la mise an oeuvre d'un programme informatique de gestion
comptable, financlere et budg6talre,
-     I'Elaboration des procedures d'appel d'offres fixees et arr&Ees par I Comite de
Gestion, dont les principes sont dejk enonces dans colles de la Banque Mondiale.
Ces activites seront effectuees par le Directeur Executif, aide par les Directeurs de
Departement, des leur nomination et leur entrde en fonction.



- 55 -
AiNNEX 7 f
Page 1 of 2
CNFTP: Criteria for Truining SubProJects
The main criteria for a sub-project to have access to the CNFTP training fund are:
(a)    Training for placement In an enterprise: (i) training duration not to exceed 9
months; (ii) prior commitment by a company to employ or to continue to employ
trainees upon satisfactory completion of training requirements; and (iii) provision
of an acceptable quality of training ensured by a qualified trainer/training
institudon or by the company itself.
(b)    Tralning for installation in an independent activity gr recruitment by an informal
sector e omplo:   (i) application for training sponsored by a financial
organization, or an association of business people in the sector, or by an NGO
which can show that a substantial proportion of its trainees are appropriately
employed; (iV prospect of development for the sector related for which training
is provided; (iii) identification of the specific skills required to set up the
business; and (iv) soundness of the training program, including management
training for an independent craftsman.
(c)    In-mpn  training/xeion services: the company must have prepared an
application including staffing situation, training plan, training objectives, the
iraining activities planned, costs, and results expected in terms of organization
and productivity.
(d)   Armenti shi2 program: (i) existence of an apprenticeship agreement between
the employer and the apprentice, (ii) related classroom instruction included in the
training program; (iii) soundness of the training program, which should cover a
variety of actual operations found in the trade; (iv) ratio of apprentices to skilled
workers; and (v) supervision of training delivered by a competent third party.
(e)    Regulr. training prograo m: For traini  programs in public TVET institudons
(technical lycdes, TEFISO 2, INPF), continuing activities identified under
Components 11 and IV (see below), or for NGOs or other private TVET schools,
criteria would include: () that training activities are in line with the proposed
reforms in the public system (Intoduction of vocational training programs in
place of those leading to higher education); (Hi) that programs reflect local
training needs identified by employers and/or the Employment Service of the
Ministry of Labor and Employment, and/or through surveys or studies on
development projects retained for investment; (iii) size and durability of training
needs; (iv) the readiness of employers to partcipate in training; (v) cost-
efficiency and adequacy of investment for rehabilitation and equipment, and
(vi) adequacy of financial contributions from other sources.



- 56 -
ANNEX 7An)
Page 2 of 2
(f)    Training of women: As specified in its working procedures, CNFrP will ensure
that sponsors of sub-projects take all practical measures to favor training of
women both as part of their general activities and through the sub-projects in
question, and include a reference to such activities in its annual report.
(g)    Finanae of investment: Investment in equipment and civil works would be
eligible for finance if: (1) the training they are to provide and the institution meet
the above criteria, (ii) the equipment remains the property of CNFTP, (iii) it is
Judged technically appropriate for the training to be provided, and competitive
procurement procedures are followed to ensure the best value for money.



-57 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of S
TPRM DE REFEENCEK
Assistance Technique
au Co=nell National de ia Formation Technique et Professionnelle
DESIGNATION:             Conseiller Technique Principal, specialiste en politique de
financement de la formation technique et professionnelle
DUREE:                   24 mois (renouvellement possible de 12 mois)
LIEU D'AFFECTATION:  Conseil National de la Formation Technique et Professionnelle
(CNFTP), Antananarivo, Madagascar
A. CADRE INTENTIONNEL
1.    Gdndralit6s.  Dans le cadre de la politique de developpement de l'Enseignement
Technique et Professionnel preconise par le Gouvernement de la Republique Democratique du
Madagascar, il sera cr66 un etablissement public denomme Conseil National de la Formation
Technique et Professionnelle (CNFTP), dot6 de la personnalite morale et jouissant de l'autonomie
administrative et financibre. Le CNFTP a pour objet d'aider I orienter la politique de formation
technique et professionnelle, d'assurer en consequence la coordination, le suivi et le contrOle des
projets de formation finances par l'etablissement danm le cadre de cette politique. A cet effet, il
dispose d'un Fonds d'Intervention, aliment6 au d6part par des contributions exterieures, en
particulier le Credit IDA du projet Renforcement de l'Enseignement Technique et de la Formation
Professionnelle. Le CNFTP se compose de 3 organes: I'Assemblee Gen6rale, le Comite de
Gestion et le Secretariat Technique. Le CNFIP est place sous la tutelle administrative du
Ministre charge de l'Emploi et sous la tutelle financibre du Ministre charge des Finances et du
Budget.
2.    Comite de Gestion. Le Comite de gestion associant en nombre egal l'Etat et les
employeurs, est compose de 8 membres. La Presidence du Comite de gestion est assureo par le
reprEsentant du Ministere charge de l'Emploi et la vice-prEsidence par un des representants des
employeurs.
Au plan techniQu , par d6Elgation de 1'Assembl6e GenErale, le Comit6 de Gestion est
charg6:
de fixer les criteres de selection des projets susceptibles d'8tre financEs par le
CNFTP et d'examiner et d'approuver en consequence les etudes et projets
sollicitant un financement du CNFTP,
d'assurer le bon deroulement et le suivi des projets retenus,



-58 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 5
de determiner les moyens I mettre en oeuvre pour leur realisation,
de commanditer toute etude specifique ou assistance locale ou exterieure
necessaire & la bonne realisation des projets finances par le CNFrP.
Au plan administratif, le Comite de gestion est investi de tous les pouvoirs necessaires
au bon fonctionnoement du Conseil.
3.    Secretariat Technique.  Le Secretariat Executif constitue l'organe d'execution des
ddEcisions du Comite de gestion. Le Secretariat Executif est place sous la responsabilite d'un
Directeur Executif nomme par le Comite de gestion.
B. DESCRIPTlON DES TACHES
Place aupres du Directeur Executif, 1'expert aura, entre autres, les tfches suivantes:
(a)    aider b definir une politique et une strategie de financement de la formation, sur
la base des orientations strategiques definies par le Gouvernement pour le
secteur, I savoir: le developpement de la formation en relation etroite avec les
besoiDs de l'economie tant nationale que regionale; la maltrise des depenses
publiques (investissements et depenses de fonctionnement); la participation des
employeurs et/ou beneficiaires au financement; I'amelioration du rendement tant
interne qu'externe du systeme de la formation; I'appui aux actions de formation
organisees au niveau regional; I'amElioration du facteur co8t/efficacit6; et l'appui
au developpement des localites decentralisees, des petites entreprises ainsi que de
l'auto-emploi;
(b)    aider I la mise en place de la politique preconisee, par la mise en place des
mesures d'incitation visant: (i) le developpement des differents modes de
formation rentables et efficaces au plan tant economique que financier, qui sont
complementaires I la formation formelle dispensee dans les ecoles publiques;
(ii) le developpement d'une capacite nationale en matiere de formation, laquelle
devra inclure, outre les dtablissements publics, les centres de formation en
entreprise et les etablissements de formation assures par le prive et les ONG et
(ili) I'appui I la mise en place de la reforme du systbme public. L'expert devra
developper un cadre methodologique permettant d'.valuer l'impact de chacune
des mesures d'incitation, ainsi quo d'identifier des probl&mes rencontres, et de
proposer des ajustements necessaires;
(c)    aider I promouvoir la politique mentionnee prec4demment; I cet effet, 1'expert
devra aider I organiser, et animer des debats, seminaires et reunions avec des
employeurs et operateurs economiques sur le financement de la formation;
participer et/ou aider I coordonner des etudes sur la contribution financibre dee
employeurs I la formation, sur I'auto-gestion des etablissements publics, sur



-59 -
ANNEXB
Page 3 of 5
l'introduction de nouveaux modes de formation, et sur le developpement tant
quantitatif que qualitatif du secteur de l'enseignement prive;
(d)    fournir un appui methodologique et organisationnel aux entreprises et/ou
organisations professionnelles dans la ddfinition de leurs besoins en formation,
et dans la formulation des projets de formation susceptibles d'etre finances par
le Fonds d'intervention;
(e)    developper un cadre methodologique et renforcer la capacite technique du
Secretariat Executif dans I'evaluation des projets de formation aux plans tant
economique, financier que technique; k cet effet, collaborer avec des organismes
de planification de l'Etat, l'Observatoire de l'Emploi et des cellules de
planification de 1'enseignement technique et de la formation professionnelle;
proposer des demarches et outils permettant d'exploiter systematiquement des
statistiques en matlbre de besoins en main d'oeuvre; encourager la creation ou
l'arr8t des filieres de formation en consequence; analyser les moyens materiels,
humains et financiers existants au niveau tant central que regional, et etudier des
mesures d'incitation permettant aux differents centres de formation de se
completer, d'exploiter et de coordonner d'une facon judicieuse des moyens et
ressources disponibles; proposer des etudes et/ou participer aux etudes visant la
definition des normes de coOts d'investissement et de fonctionnement; proposer
des etudes et/ou participer aux etudes visant l'amelioration de la qualite de la
formation, en particuller la definition des normes pedagogiques, l'amelioration
des tests d'evaluation de la formation en relation avec les normes de
qualifications professionnelles reconnues par les groupements d'employeurs et de
professionnels, la production des documents pedagogiques, et enfin l'instauration
d'un systeme de suivi et d'evaluation des formations financdes par le Fonds de
Formation;
(f)    aider I la mise en place du Secretariat Executif, I cette fin, developper les profils
do postes, aider dans le recrutement des cadres en vue de garantir une addquation
entre profils professionnels et qualifications requis; participer k finaliser les
procedures de travail internes, en prEcisant les relations fonctionnelles entre les
differentes unites ou cellules techniques ou administratives ainsi que les
responsabilites et ttches de chaque poste; participer k la mise en place d'un
systeme de gestion; mettre au point les documents ou procddures utilises pour le
transfert des informations, leur circulation et leur classement et le controle
interne de fonctionnement; Eablir les procedures de controle interne I etre
utilisees par les differentes unitEs du Secretariat Executif pour toutes activitds
touchant la gestion technique et financiere des sous-projets de formation financds
par le Fonds de Formation; participer, avec l'aide des consultants du projet, a la
mise en place d'un systeme de gestion des sous-projets par informatique, de
facon k garantir non seulement une fiabilite mais egalement une rapidite et une
souplesse de gestion; produire periodiquement des tableaux de bord et mettre en
dvidence les dcarts entre prEvisions et realisations, les coats unitaires de
formation ainsi quo l'etat d'implantation de chaque sous-projet; participer k



- 60 -
ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 5
ameliorer et developper continuellement l'organisation du Secretariat Executif et
le niveau de competence du personnel;
(g)    aider I produire periodiquement des rapports sur la situation et le bilan general
de la formation professionnelle au regard des besoins de l'dconomie tant nationale
que regionale; evaluer les activitds du CNFTP et du Fonds de Formation, ainsi
que son impact sur la reforme preconisee par le Gouvernement; analyser des
contraintes d'ordre lnstitutionnel entravant notamrnent la participation des
employeurs au financement de la formation, le developpement du secteur prive
de la formation, le rendement interne et externe du systeme public, et
l'introductionde nouveaux modes de formation; proposer, enfin, des programmes
d'action visant a atteindre les grands objecti£t d6finis par le projet, y compris
un cadre reglementaire permettant d'assurer la releve progressive de la
contribution du Credit IDA et d'autres bailleurs de fonds au Fonds de Formation;
(h)    animer et aider I coordonner l'equipe des sp6cialistes nationaux et internationaux
affectes au CNFTP; aider le Directeur Executif I evaluer la qualite du travail
produit; preparer un plan de formation I l'intention des specialistes nationaux;
participer I la realisation de ce plan soit par l'organisation des seminaires
internes et externes, soit par la formation par compagnonnage; en dvaluer
periodiquement les progres pour garantir l'achevement d'un des objectifs majeurs
du projet, & savoir le developpement de la capacite de reflexion du Secretariat
Executif sur les grands problemes de la formation.
REsultats attendus
Un Secretariat Executif fortement structure et organise, dote de procddures de
travail fiables et de moyens de travail appropries, et anime par des agents
qualifies et motives. Le Secretariat Executif aura une capacite confirmee: dans
la formulation et l'analyse des politiques de developpement pour le secteur de la
formation professionnelle; dans le traitement des statistiques de l'emploi; dans
l'aide I la prdparation des sous-projets de formation en relation avec les besoins
de l'economie tant centrale que regionale; dans l'evaluation et le choix des sous-
projets de formation en correspondance avec l'esprit de la reforme preconisee par
le Gouvernement; dans I'analyse des coats de formation tant d'investissement que
de fonctionnement; dans la conduite des etudes destinees I fournir un appui I la
reforme, notamment l'introduction de nouveaux modes de formation tels quo
l'apprentissage, la formation continue, la formaion en entreprise, I'adoption de
nouveaux tests d'evaluation des formations dispens6es en etroite correspondance
avec les normes de qualifications couramment adoptees dans les milieux
professionnels. Enfin, un cadre reglementaire sera propos6 pour ddfinir la
contribution financiere des employeurs I la formation, en concertation etroite
avec des differents intervenants. Au plan organisationnel, les manuels de
procedures de gestion seront mis au point; les liaisons fonctionnelles entre les
differents postes, Etablis ainsi que la definition des instances de decision quant
au niveau et I la nature des dossiers de financement I traiter; le systeme



-61 -
ANNEX a
Page S of S
d'informations de gestion etabli: flux d'informations, modalitEs de transmission
et production des tableaux de bord; le systeme de contr6le de qualite elabord et
testd; des documents techniques et financiers (situations comptables mensuelles,
rapports financiers, tableaux de bord, bilans annuels) produits selon un calendrier
prevu et ayant une qualite reconnue par un audit externe.
C. QUALIFICATIONS REQUISES
(a)   formation universitaire de tres haut niveau (ingdnieur, economie, gestion);
(b)    experience confirmee en gestion et en organisation, a niveau de cadre superieur,
notamment dans les entreprises;
(c)    experience souhaitable du fonctionnement des ConseDls d'administration ou de
gestion des entreprises;
(d)    experience confirmde des problemes de ddveloppement economique et social,
notamment des probltmes de ressources humaines;
(e)    mattrise des differents modes de financement de l'education, et de I'analyse des
cofits de la formation, et connaissance approfondie des differents cadres
reglementaires adoptds dans des pays developpes et en voie de developpement en
la matibre;
(f)    solide experience dans le choix et la formulation des politiques et strategies de
developpement de l'enseignement technique et de la formation professionnelle;
(g)    activite professionnelle ininterrompue d'au moins 15 ans dans le secteur de la
formation professionnelle dans la planification, la preparation, 1'execution,
I'evaluation des projets de formation, de preference des projets financ&s par des
organismes internationaux;
(h)    experience confirm&e  des diffdrents systbmes de formation (formation
professionnelle initiale, continue, apprentissage, formation d'insertion, de
reconversion et de qualification);
(i)    aptitude et experience en communication et animation des sEminaires et debats;
(j)    aptitude et experience confirmee dans la conduite des equipes multidisciplinaires
et internationales;
(k)    maitrise de la langue frangaise parlee et ecrite obligatoire; connaissance de
l'anglais souhaitable.



- 62 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 3
DEMOCRATIC REPU-BLIC OF MADAGASCAR
TECHNICAL ASSISITANCE TO  EP
Outline of Terms of Reference
Objectives
1.    The objectives of the technical assistance to the Direction des Enseignements Techniques
et Professionnels of MINESEB (DEW)) are to assist in: (a) strengthening DETP's capabilities for
planning and managing training activities centrally and regionally, and coordinating the provision
of training programs with trends in labor market demands; (b) improving professional
qualifications for the administrative and teaching staff in both the public and private training
sectors; and (c) developing and implementing a cost accounting system, and a management system
for the inventory and maintenance equipment for the technical and vocational school system.
Technical Assistance Program
2.    The technical assistance will consist of:
Man/months
(a)  training planning specialist          24
(b)  teacher training specialist           36
(c)   short-term consultants               48
Total                               108
Oualifications and Job Description
3.     Each expert should have:
(a)   fluency in spoken and written French;
(b)   work experience in a developing country;
(c)   education commensurate with the position to be occupied; and
(d)   training experience in his field in order to facilitate the process of technology
transfer.



- 63 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 3
(A)   Training Planning Specialist
4.    He/she should have at least 10 years of experience in planning of training activities, a
substantial part of which in dealing with training issues in a developing country. He/she will
have to provide assistance to DETP to:
(a)    analyze data on training needs, based on information from and in liaison with the
employment observatory, CNFIP and sector ministries and agencies;
(b)    plan enrollment and output targets for technical and vocational training centers
to ensure the best match between training and estimated labor market needs;
(c)    analyze the capacity of MINESEJ training in terms of facilities, equipment and
teaching staff;
(d)    analyze training costs for different levels, specialties, duration and types of
training in liaison with the DEIP Finance Unit and planners at the provincial
technical-vocational schools;
(e)    establish a coherent medium-term plan for MINESEB TVET activities, and for
accompanying policy measures, that would take account of demand as well as
capital and recurrent costs;
(t)    help prepare a multi-year public expenditure program and identify measures to
generate necessary financing;
(g)    assist in establishing in DETP a small planning and policy unit, which will work
closely with the Ministry's overall planning department; and
(i)   help organize periodical surveys on personnel, equipment and school facilities.
(B)   Teacher Training Specialist
5.    He should have at least ten years of experience in teacher training, a substantial portion
of which in dealing with training issues in a developing country. He will have to provide
assistance to DEW to:
(a)    assist in establishing and operating a teacher training center;
(b)   identify, in liaison with the planning unit, occupational categories in industries
and in commerce with a view to establishing priority training needs;
(c)    plan and schedule pre-service training and in-service upgrading for administrative
and teaching staff to help adequately implement the vocational and technical
training development plan;



- 64 -
ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 3
(d)    help develop training technology, establish and operate the audio-visual center,
and produce training aids and supporting materials;
(e)    assist in developing training methodology, with an emphasis on the concept of
competency-based training modules;
(f)    establish a procedure for the continual evaluation and revision of the curriculum
to ensure that viable training programs are offered at all technical-vocational
schools,
(g)    perform research, surveys and studies as needed to determine whether the
vocational education offered in the public sector is relevant and effective;
recommend revisions and changes if necessary;
(C)   Short-Term Consultants
6.    The project will provide for 12 man-months of short-term consultants to DET who will
mostly assist in training costs analysis (6 man-months), and in materials and spare parts inventory
(6 man-months). The specialist in cost analysis will assist the planning unit in: (a) analyzing
taining costs for different levels, specialties, duration and types of training; (b) setting up a price
costing system for training activities; (c) maintaining records for each training contract with
private enterprises; (d) implementing a reporting system and procedures for all vocational-
technical schools; and (e) training the personnel assigned to these tasks. The specialist in
materials and parts inventory will have the following duties: (a) planning DETP's needs for
supplies of spare parts and materials for its training activities; (b) management of inventory and
distribution of spare parts and materials; (c) management of warehouse through implementation
and operation of a specific computerized management system; and (d) in-house training of staff
involved in procurement and warehouse operations.
7.    The teacher training center will receive 36 man/months assistance of trainers in wood-
working, electricity, auto-mechanics, sheet-metal and welding.
NM: In addition to the above, DETP will continue to need technical assistance from UNDP
and French Cooperation to strengthen its eahing staff and to carry out specific tasks in
equipment rehabilitation for its training centers.



- 65 -                            ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 14
BPUBLtQUE DEMOCRATIIOE DE MADAGASCAR
ET DaS BACX ET PORES
t S        Ds LIAMCUQLTM  ST    PATPMTM m?Un r    R
mARO5Y.
PROJET DE RENFORCEI'ENT DE LA FORMATION
PROFESSIONNELLE ET TECHNIQUE
COMPOSATE AGRICOLE
LLLJ I:  Tsm  do z4ff4m     et modalfit  d.zxiition de 1 dvaluation du
Sytis de Iam, macyclag. *t d. la P6=ticn Agri-
Cal"e prdaorrs den  VaLds-inoire  d la aLision d'4waluation
-s la que Nodiale en date du 20 Dbmrhre 1990.
Ca pmojet de dcumat a 4td dlabov  con joLntmnt pa  a
la MJ.A.3.V., 1e IMRS, 1. R.R..T.D., ie MnLSUP et de-
Cm grVe de travail a 4t& dirigi par Ue  deux DLze@-
tims de la Psqz_rtio6  du MPAIF et du MINAGRI          1's
zs6mau.dd l'aide-udeoire cLte on objet.



- 66 -                       ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 14
R* CADaZ GENEAL
L'Enseignement et la Formation Agricoles, dan  la premi&re pdriode de so
hlstoire, avait pour r8le, d'une pert, de fournlr dos fonctionnaires (cadres
mnyenul pout V, structures dtatiques d'encadrement de l'Aqriculture, et d'autre
part, de former des J unes aux techniques amdliordes de production danw  lo but
de les initier au mdti.r d'Aqricult&ur moderne. Les Collqes et Lycds Agricolos
dttaient chargds do la formation des techniciens-fonctionnaires, at les Contreas
de Formation Professiannelle Aqricole assuraient la formation des lounes (ruraux
dans la majoritd des cas).* Les probidmatiques de 1linsuffisance des postes bud-
g6taires dlsponibles au niveau de la Ponction Publique et la non motivation des
Jeunes aux activitds agricoles entratnaient le blocaqe du syst&me.
S Sur le constat de cetto situation et des bosolns en formation aqricolo
dlctAs par les nouvelle organisations de 1'Iducation Nationale (loi 70.040)
et paLr llimportance do 1'Agriculture dans 1'domceie nationals, le S&dmnaire
National de Juin 1985 - (finaned par la PAO ot ot 10 Ddpartemonts miniatiriela,
des organismes internationaux, des organismes d'oneadrement et de production,
des oryanismes non gouvernenrtaux ant partieipd) - a difini les nouvelleo orien.
tations de la politique de l'onseignement et de la Formation Agricolas dana
reco  mazations.-
LESRR&LISAT5ONS         -              -
Les activitdo de formatiLon, uendes proqressivenent par diffdrents organxs_-
mee suivant lea moyens a leur disposition, concernent les diffdrentes cibles s
cadres supdri.urs, technicions, jeunes socolalres, producteurs. Elles sont multi-
plea et vari6es aussi bien dans leurs objectifs quo leurs formes.
* Auivwau du MflESTP
L'Scol. Supdrieure des Sciences Agrononiques, un des sept Atablissements
d'Eoselgement Supdrieur qui forment l'Universltd d'Antananarivo, assure la for-
mation des cadres sup$rieurs ndcessaires & I'encadrse_nt de la Production Agri-
cole qul n'est pas toujous dtatique.  lle coaprend einq ddpartrienta ou options
de formatLon t Agriculture, Agro-Hanagement, Saux et Forats, ElevagO, Industries
Agricoles et Alimentaires. Ell. vient de porter & cirn ans apre le Bace l- cy ld
de formation(adsission our concours auquel de 2 200 bdcheliers en oyenne par an
prennent part pour l00 places mis & concours) Elle est habilLtde I ourir en son
soLn un enseignement de 3e cycle unLversitaire pour la formation des cherche'
et formateurs.
La nor maStriso doe donndes relatives aux Zngdnleurs en oeur' d'ezploi et
aux possibilitds d'emplois, ainsi que 1'lnsuffisance des moyens no permottent
pas & cotte structure de proeder .& une dvaluation de son svstbme et .1 la mise
en place d'nn systIme de formation continue.



ANNEX 1 0
-67-                  Page 3 of 14
Une Unltd do Formatlon 6updrieurU HalLeutlIue (UFSH) rattachd  & I'Unlver-
.oit4 de Suldar, prpwr les cadres supdrieurs pour les besoins du Sectour P1che
ot oe & partir des Xngdnieurs au titulaLres de la baltrise as-Scienes.
, Au nLveau du MINESEB
Dans le cadre d'un objectif global do sensibilisation la population scolaLr.
aux aspects sclentifiques de 1'Aqriculture 1) un programme d'action vlsant V'lt-
gration de 1'Agriculture dans les prograrmes d'enseLgnement et la relance des Jar-
din sacolairss a he entrepris.
Wi) des TOERANA FZBIAZANA SOSXALISTA
(TE.l.50). actuellement mis ea voilluse, prenalent en charges la formation pro-
fesloannelle agriocle de base des Jeunes
iii) la prdparation au Baccalaurdat Agri-
cola  st fonctionnallc au niveau d'un Lyce de PlvondronanarFanduianat Les rdsul-
tats sont largument en dessous des performancealfautres fili&res de l'enseignemant
#ndral et technique.
raisant suite & cotte sdrLo d'actions & la base de 1'onsegaenaont, ls Mi-
nist&res chargEs do 1'encadrement de la productLon agricl-e et ls ONG oant mis en
place des structures pour afflner la professLonali6ation des diffdrentes cibles.
*   nv tedsds es tde Iieaca             e    e la     ctLon
I) - LA P0RMAIO  DES TEEN!C5ENS s est rdalisme au alveau des Ecoles d8'Appll-
cation des Sciences et Techniques Aqricoles (E.A.S.T.A.) qll sont au nom
bro de 6 actuellement (1 par FarLtany).
A la dLfference de la formation qu 'on a miise en oeuvre dans lea anclons
collle&s et Lyceos Agrlcoles, cell mondo par les E.A.S.T.A. me vout
Stre pluw pratique t vlse beauooup plus le sectour privd qua 1- fone-
ticnnarlat d.vonu une dventualitd secondalre do d4bouchas. La paLtii-
pation du mllieu professaonnel & 1'Elaboration des programms de forma-
tion et rdalisation d'une part, la mise en oeuvre du systie pEdaaoql-
que modulaire et par objoctifs et la partiLcipatLon des dl&vew, 'Ome sym-
bolique, aux frais d'laternat et la pries en charge an ontLer par eux-
m6mws de leurs fournltures *colaLrs, d'autro part, sont dGe slgn.. po-
sitLfs tradulsant ces efforts do tendre vers les *octeurs prlvf . Ainsi,
la majorLtd des elives sortant de la lere promotion (90%) *ont wlbauc&i"
par des organismes para-Etatiques ou privds (les tochnlciLm en Agrlcul-
ture *t Elevaq mont plus demandds quo pour lea autres *p&cLalisatlons,
LUs techniclens on Piche soot les mains demanddes.
L'admlsslon dana les EASTA se faLt par vole de concours, orga-
nlsd I 1'Echelon natlonal. Le nombro do places mis & concours ost find
a 100 par promotion. 32 000 4eunes de to & 30 mns t{tultw4r' A CFfPCCS
(ex BEPC) ont pris part aux trois concours organists jusqu'k maintenant.



- 68 -                     ANINEX 10
Page 4 of 14
Llinsuffisance des moyens, rdsolus en partie par lea projets d'appui
rdalLsa et en cours de rdalisation, d'une part, la non mattrise des diffdrentes
donn6oo aocio-6conomiques pouvant intervenir dans le proces;us de formation Jes
techniciens d'autre part, sont pr6juduciablos eux efforts pour la performance et
pour la qualitd.
2 ) - LA PORMATION PROFESSIONMnELLE SPECIALISER
Elli concerne des fili&res tr6o sp6cialisies et organisd. dans des Cen-
tres de formation comme i
- I. CENTRE DE FORMATION 4ACHSNZSHE AGOICOLE (CFA.4A) pour le machinisme
agricole   .IZNaGRI)
- le CENTRE DE PORMATION TECHNIQUE DELEVAEME (CFTEL) pour 1. ldevag. bovin
dans le nord (MPAEF)
- les CZEmzS DE FORMATION PROSmSIONNELE !ORESTIERS (2) pour l'*xplol-.
tation forestiire ('WAEF)
Les cibles visdes sont lee Jeunes et des adultes en quite de perfection.-
nesent dans leurs entreprises.
La non maItrise des doindes our lea besomLs an formation U4. aux potent!
litds rigionales et au nLveau de la production, limLtent dnormdment les activi-
tds de formatLon de cas divers dtabUssements et leur extension dventuelle.
3)  LA FORMATON DES PRODUCTEZRS-
Elli eat entr.prise par la Vuliarisation dans son ensebsle en co qul concer-
na les paysans. Des Centres de Formation sont mis our pied, dont las activitds
vLennent on aide et en proloagment des activitds entreprises p r la vulgaris.-
tion dana le but de consolider lea acquis et modifLer le comportment des produe-
tours pour tendre vera  elui d'un professuonnel.
- La vulgarisation, base de la formation des paysans, concerns lea deux
Minist&r. cdergds de 1lencadrement de la Production Aqricol (%MMUAGR et MPAEF).
Elle prdsent. plusieurs mdthodologies d'approche variant suivant les objectifs,
lea mayoNs et las lntervenants. Son efficacitd est fonction *ti partLe des comp4-
twnces et aptitudes de ses encadreurs de base tant au point de vU4 technique
(production et communication) qu'au point do vue relation  humalnes.
- Le Centres t
5 Centres sont fonctlonnels actuellement a
1 Centre de Formation des Picheurs
1 Centra de Formation Foresti&re
. 3 Centres de Formation Professlonnelle Agricole.
Les activitds des deux premiers Contres sont lides A la rdalisation des
projets relatifs solt I la piche soit au Reboisement Villageois.



ANNEX 10
Page 5 of 14
LAs 3 autre nt des anciens Centres de Formation Professioanelle Agricole
qfl ftnt drms la phase d ddmrrage do l'Appui-Formation s formation par module at
organsiad  en session ? partlr des besalns indentifids des producteurs.
Los actioos des Centres sont & leur phase de d&narraqe.
4") - LA 70WMTX& N PEr    ..NO
ElI  est organisde I  'lintention des cadres en cours d'emploi at dens
1s cadse des projets d'opdration.
Le Centre de Formation Permanent. du Service de 1'Znseiqnement, du Re-
cyclaqe at de la Formation Aqrioles est dans sa phase de ddmarrage.
Le manque dw stratd#qe pour co type de formation ne permet pas son or-
ganisation rationnelle pour dynamiser les activitds de terrain.
5) LE SLEZ!Ic1D  421N T  DU                                        AGIC0LES (SERFA)
- 1 east sous tutelle administrative du MPAEF at est rattachd au Secrd-
tariat Gdiiral. I1 travalle dqaluennt ean dtroite collaboration avec les autres
MinistArex et erganismes du ddveloppement rural.
- X1 eat chear   d'assurer la formation profesainaa lle Cb. cades  may-ng
et des producteurs pour les seoteurs. publics, para-p'blics et privds.
P Pour ce faire, il a pour objectifs spdcifiques s
a) Coordomner at orgaic.,r 1a activitis au  nivean  des dtablissimnts de formation
professimoulle agricole
b) Supervisor et organiser 1'dvaluation de la formation ot apporter lea modifica-
tiona ddcoulant des rdsultats de l'analyse.
c) Elaborer et attre au point un programme de formation des formateurs et ean as-
surer la :da14iation.
4) Supervisor la gestion des domaines de production et 49'applicattion rattachds aux
dtablissonwwts relwvnt du SERFA
e) Ddvelcpper des m6thodes de sensibilisation pour la valorisation du mdtier de
producteur agricole.
f) Crder et d4velopper les Centres de Documentation destlnds & appuyer la formation
et la pratlqu du mdtLer dans le secteur agricole.
L insuffisanoe des moyens thumains, financier, matEriel) limite ondrWd-
ment le SERF dans la rdalisation de ees dbjectLfs.
Au niveau des ONSG
Leos OG, la plupart du tomp" confessionnelles, s'intdressont I la formation
des Jeunes, & l'encadroment et & la formation des adultes.
Compte teun do leurs objectifs respectifs, alles ont crd6 des Centres de For-
nation rural. pour fpra:r 4es cadres de mouvaemnts de Jeunes et des paysans pilotas.
Cos Centres, allant des fermes-dcoles mdnaqares non classiques en passant par des
Centres *rtisanaux ou des Fermes de dd-onstration. sont foaroL1ds dans les Diff$-
rentes regions de l'Ile, sont gSr5s par diff£rentes entit6s.



-70 -                        ANNEX 10
Page 6 of 14
L 'enacdrent et la formation des adultes sont des activitds r4oentes on-
treprises par les OG,, toujours dans la cadre de la r6alisation de leurs obj*ctifs
propres. Ils utilisent des mdthodes d'approche trbs varides couprenant entre autre,
la formatio  dans les Village., la formation on salle de class. et en ateliers, las
sessions, lei d4monstrations, los cours par correspondance.
Des Contres de vulgarisation sont crids au fur et & mosure des mayens dls-
pcni les et des bosoins zmanant des ruraux (formatlon-vulgarisation effectude en
fonctlon des bosons et des priorites des paysans).
Des activitds des ONG dans lo cadre de la Formation Agricole sont en nette
croLsance *es dernibrs s andes. Mais les insuffisances des moyens & lour disposi-
tion no permettent pan & c@s organisams de rdpondre aux demandes de formation et
dleneadrnent qul leur sont xprimdes.
- LZs.ignament et la Formation Agricoles (EPA) bien qu'il soLt tr&s cor-
plexe au niveau de ss cibles et son organisation, eat aussL important quo les au-
tres fiUl&res de formation technique et professionnelle pour lea besoins du ddve-
loppment du pays dont l'Agriculture constitue la base de i'dconomie.
- Do multiples et variables activitds sont entreprises deas 1 cadre de
1EcPA par divers organismes. te manque de coordination et la non maltrLse de ces
* dlfdgezta  actvitde am- pmesttent pan uwn gesttin r.tionnelle du systam.
- iEVA, faLsant jaztie int nte de la politlque et des stratdgies du
d4velcppiomnt rural, doit avoir ses efforts cohdments aux grandes options et orien-
tations du secteur agrlcole dans son ensemble.
Aus$i, *et-il uan ndeCssitd a
- de cadzrr 1 'EA aux nouvelles orientations de la politique gouvern men-
tale oopte tenu des *volutions socio- donomiques et dos diffdrents pro-
9rasmes d'ajustement.
- d'actualiser en oamakuence le beasoins au point do viu cibles (qualit4
ot quantLtd). adthods et programmes.
- d'dtablitr un plan d'actions prioritaires compte tenu des moyess dLspo-
nlbl".



-71-                         ANNEX 10
Page 7 of 14
zU. 
2.1. -.gamTs   on L*=DE
Cott* dtud aura pouw ebjctifs t (L) de roddfinri  1. rol de
1 '3s.Lgaint at de la Fozition Agniools (MA) dame la stratEgie d'en-
sf1b  de acetions d .ucadient de la Prdution AVx1cola et de 1'uZvw-
onnment urtal, (iU) d'analyser Is systha actuel de 1'27A et d'actualU-
*er 1 'existaut pour mieux ripondr  aux exigeam  du r8le ainsl reddfini,
(IL) d'Etablir un programe d6action devant rdpoadre a an sende 6  ida-
U_., (IVd 6dfinir Is z8le de  difde1tas aetitis cancers par
'BM  (00 et ONG), (V) de ddfsi leas acion.pmrioritairs A entraprands
-   ~  dens 1imddiat.
2.2. -       NS        D    SRAVAM:
2,.2.2 - Cadre GUnEral de 1'EPA
a - S iopdgnwr des polt.ques at stratoges d ensem2a d's ac-
tiom  d'encadreot aglole  t  o 1'lo mnt rural au
niveau des diffents ML4aLst&s conorndes (IPAZF, 4ZNA=,R
:RSTD,-I) et am 05.
b - S'impger es polLtlims et stratEges d'enssqanwnt et
d'ducation pour miaux situ r les nivoaux d'intervention de
Ims (mfino, Ma=S).
a - S'limprgE r des poltiques at stratEgis on msatib, de ges-
tLon de rzasourao et 6.  l'.ldi pour  ltabUr one ¢ohdm
co entra lea offres at la dmnd. d'1wploi (quantitd t qua-
XltE) - (14570) .
4 - S luprEper de l situation Ems flnanom pubUque at des
allocations budg4tairzs actueli" at prA lbles powr le li-
nnenment du fonUction_et de 1l  seaignnt *t de 1 foz-
matlon agricol s  EAw, ainLL qua des pmsdbitE  de finen-
cm_t pr d'autres souross (e.plqWewr, bailleurs de fonds.
ftudiants oux- , *et . .) . X 
* - Analyse: 1. rseoursc  humaLues dlspmntbles (ou prdvisSbles)
an syst&ae do L 'EPA pou agir on tant quo forinaters dans
des Etabllsseents praponed.
- Exploiter Ios rdsultats des etudMs *t  4OLD&aizs Offcft-;'
dans 1. cadre 6. I'EVA.



-72-                         ANNEX 10
Page 8 of 14
g) - Identifier, inventorier les diff4rents crdnaux et doamiines ndcessi-
tant 1'intervention de 1'EPA et analyser les bescins en formation
(quantitd et qualitd) des diff4rentes cibles pour ddgager le cadre
global d'actions, en d4autres termes d4gager la politique, lea stra-
t4gies et los objectLfs en mati&ire d'EFA c'est & dire estimation pr4-
visionnelle des ebsoains en type de formatlon (cible)
Redefnir le r8le de 1EFA dans la stratdgie d'ensemble des actions
d'eneadrement do la production agricole et de l'environnement rural.
Pour co faire s
g..  Identifier et inventorier ls diffdrents domaines ndcossitant
'lintervention de 1'EPA.
g. ii Identifier les cibles concern4es rdpondant aux besoins de cha-
quo domaine.
.ii Identlfier les. bsoina qualitatifs en formation. des diffiren-
tes cibles.
. Lw faire une estimation prdvisionnelle des besosin quantitatifs
des diffdrentes cibles.
g.v  En ee qul concerns la formation des Cadres et Agents en cours
d'uMplol dans le Secteur Agricole.
a) - Sur le plan qualitatLf, 1'6tude devra ti) structurer les
=lmeuts d6'iformation et d'appr6ciation recusillies au-
pza des int4re.sds et des emplyeuras (ii) mettre en 6vi-
dence leA dcarts 1QS plus signaflcatLfs entre lea capaci-
tds r&quises et les capacLtds diaponiblisa (MLi) expliquer
co  dcarts en terme de connaissances, do savoir-faire -ou
d'attitude et des causes posaibles notamment en uati&re de
gestion des ressources humaines.
b)  S 8ur le plan quantitatif, l'dtude devra 6tablr apr&s en-
qutm et eutretiens aupr&s des employeurs, une estimation
prdvisainuell des besomns an formateur permanent des ca-
dres et agents du Secteur.
g.vi our la bas des diffdrents domaines, cibles et besomns (qualLta-
tlfs et quantitatifs) en formation, proposer le cadre global d'ac-
tion, c'est & dire la politique, les stratdgies et lea cbjectifs
en mati&re d'EPA.



ANNEX 10
73                     Page 9 of 14
2.2,2. -       dia    tsystim  exstant-
Par rapport au cadre global ainsl ddfini, procdder au diagnostic du
syst6ma existant. Pour ce faire s
a - Recenser les diffdrentas streutures intervenant dans la syatbme (struc-
tures centrales, structures publiques ou privdes) s'occupanr d'ensei-
gnement et de formation agricoles * formation d'Ingdnieurs, formation
des techniciens, formation des Jeun*s, formation eas producteurs, for-
mation permanente et inalyser leurs activit-s respectives en d4qageant
lea atouts et lea contraintes sur le plan du contenu de formation, de
la m4thodologie d'approche, des moyens (humains, .atdriel, domaines
d'exploitation financier) de l'organisation et de la structure de ges-
tion.
b) Analyser l'adequation t$) profil et posts en ce quL concerne lea forma-
teurs, (ii) profil des cibles et objectifs et programues d. formation
fixds, Ciii) - cible et mdthodologie d'approche,Q(v)moyena et program-
mes de formation.
c) A Analyser le coGt/efficacitd de formation dans chaque structure, 4d-
gager les flux et lea ratics  permettant d'4valuer l'efficacitd intarno
. et externe de chaque structure de formation.
2.2.3. - Uaboration d'amdllorat$on et
dfinnition du r8le des diffdrentes entitds concernds par l'EFA (OG,ONG)
Au vu des rdsultats des diagnostics at sur la base du cadre global
d4fLai au point (g) du paragraphe 2.2.1.
a - Faire une analyse d'opportunitd de chaque type de formation en fonction
des besomns actualisds et proposer des schdmas de structures pour rd-
pondre aux besoins de cheque cible et de chaque entit4 responsable avec
I" modnitds de recouvrements des coflts de formation.
*b3- pairs des propositions de ronforceaent, d'actualisation, d'orientation
ou d crdati Oou de suppression) de types de formation.
c - Faire une analyse d'opportunitd de mise en place d'lne structure cen-
trale de 1 EPA pour une msilleure gestion du syst6ae.



~ 74     ~             t  ANNEX 10
pagel Jof 14
d) - A partir des points a et b, dtablUr un programe d'actions devant
rApodr* & un soucl de rdaliame s entre autres en cohdrenes avec lea
frograoe d'actions du prochaLn Plan 1992 - 1995 dons la Sectinn
AgrlColo et lea prog?ammes de ddpenses publiques (PdP) qul les soutien-
nent l.tJ programmes nationaux de vulgarLsation et de recherche agricolo-
Los actions & ontroprendre sont & concrktiser par type de formation
et de propoitlon d'orientation sur les objectifs, les cibles, le con-
tenu do la formation, la mdthodoloql* d'approche, les moy.ns & mettre
on o uvre, 1lorganlsation et la structure do oestion,  'lidentifLcatLon
des ontLtda sesponsables avec la dEfinition de lour r6le reapectif
(intorvonanta, publics, priv4s et autres   . ), la proeddure de mise en
oeuvr .
2.2.4. - Dffinition des actions PrLoritaLres
Pr*oriser les actions prdvues dans le proqramme et ean  valuer lei
coOts. Cola consiste a (1) d6finir et justifiar les crlt&res de prLorisa-
'tion, (ii) tradulre lee actions prloritairos en prolet et en 4valuer lee
coOts (iii) - Etabli: le calendrler et les modelitds de leur ms. eon oeu-
212.5.     re national our l'eazesiament et la formation acrlicoloes
.~ ~ ve                . . 
Sur la base du rapport prov1soire de cotte 4valuation,un Sdminaire
nationa4 sur i 'oseeignoent ot'la formation agrlcoles sera organis  en rE-
pliquo du sm&uiaIre organis on 1985. Co sdminaire verra la participation:
- ass Ddpartemnts et lnstitutLons concernas
- dos ONCG ouvrane dana 03 domalno on ralson notament de lours actlvlt4s
toujougs croasantes on matiro d encadrsuent ot de formation du monde ru-
=si. et de lour inddpendaieo, des uns ot des autres, du point do vue poll-
tiqus, stratdgique at mdthodologiqueg
-. do baillours de fonds ddj& impliquds dans cette action ou susceptLbles
d'y apportor lour soutLong
- dco organlsatlons professionnolles utilisatcoLs des eadres agrloolost
- des oranisations et groupements do oroducteurs du condo rural.
Le S4bdnaLro oxaminera le bllan dlaqonstdc ,los propowitLons d'oriWn
tation polotique, strat6qique ainsi quo le proqranme d'actions prioritaires
prdsontde par l'etude ot formulera se  observations et recoummdatLons or:
eons.gueno .
Li 4dminaire veillera en particulLer & verifler la cohErence entro
los conclusLons et procosLtions de l'etude avGa Los contraintes et bosoims
idols.



-75 -                          ANNEX 10
Page 11 of 14
Le rapport d4finitif A soumettre au 'couvernement et & la BanQue
Mondiale sera rddigd on tnant campte dRs ob5ervations et reoommandations
du Sia4na4re.
Ce rapport sera communiqud A tous lea participants et aux organis-
mes et Institutions qu'ils reprdsentent.
ZZZ. EQUIPE DETUDE
Compte tenu de la sp5cificitd du domaine & dtudier la mission sera confide
I une .duipe pluridisciplinaire cowipode d'experts expatri4s et des consultants
nationaux.
Les experts expatrides appartero=t oar"ntiellematt *"ur exp$rience et leur
expertise dans le doma'ne de l 'enselgnement et de la format.-on agricoles surtout
dans les pays en voie de ddveloppement.les consultants nationaux veilleront &
1 'intdgration harmonieuse de 1 'analyse et des propositions au contexte parti-
culier do Madagascar.
Un groupe, 4qalement pluridiscipllnaire (le grou)e wvolet agricole" du
PREFTEC), compdcs do reprdsentants des Ministbres concernEs et des ONG, assU-
raront le suivi de la r4alisation de la mission.
3.1.    o ltants -atrids
- On Agro-pddagogue et un Agro-doonomiste.
. sachant parler et dcrire correctement 1e frangais
. ayant des expdriences posLtlves sur 1ldvaluatLon et m3.se en place
d'un systOae a 'm cohdrent aux objectifs globaux de d&voloppement
. capables de faire des analyses de cohdrencs et de relation entre lea
;olitiquen at stratEgies du secteur agrLcole et celles de 1'EPA.
* cipables d'assurer l'addquation dynamique de la formation aux possi-
bilitis d'emplois.
. ayant le sens d'initiative et de travail d'Equipe
. auvorts aux dlalogues.
3.2. -  onsultants natlonaux
- 6 consultants (niveau universitaire) ayant . des expEriences dans 1 E?.
ou dans l'encadrement du monde rural,
. des connaissances en deo-
nomle et sociolocie rurales en particulier.



-76-                         ANNEX 10
Page 12 of 14
IV. MODALUTM ET DELAIS D°EXECUTION
4.1. - Modalit4 d'ex4cution
i   Le travail devrait 4tre fait en enuipe dirigd car le Chef de Mis-
sion qui sera I'Agro-P60agogue, consultant expatri, et assurera
pendant toute la duree de l'dtude la coordination technique et mE-
thodologique de 1'Etude. Les autres membres seront des experts as-
socids.
Ui. Le 'groupe Volet Agricole" du PREFTEC en assurera le suivi et 1'4-
valuation. A rappeler que ce groupe se compose de reprdsentants du
:4PAEF, du MINAGRI, MRST1, MINESUP et des ONG.
iii. L'equipe de travail (1) soumettra aa groupe "volet agricole* (ii)
.e programse de travail et la proe6dure d'execution.
iv. Les consultants, aussi bien expatrids quo nationaux, seront recru-
tds per appels & la concurrence, suivant les "directives pour l'em-
ploi de consultants' Banque Mondiale Aoet 1981 et Les r4gles de
passation des marches publics A !4adagascar. Les candidatures seront_
souiiOSe  & l'approbation des deux parties (Qouvernement et Banque
., .)       -    -.. 
Mondials).
V.  Le recrutement dventuel des enqufteurs sera decidd en fonction des
besoins en cours d'Etude.
4.22. - Ddlais et resyonsables d'ex4cution
. La mise en place de l'Equipe comportant le lancement des appels d'of-
fre, le ddpouillement et le recrutment durera 1 mols et a. fore dans
les conditions ddcrites au point (iv).
. 1* mise en oeuvre de 1'Etude durera 4 mois et comprend s



77 -                         ANNEX 10
Page 13 of 14
I N T I T U L E                      Durde              Responsables
) - Etablissement du programme, de la pro-                Equipe d'dtude (consultants expatriis
cddure      .......                      1 a -  j      et nationaux)
) - Approbation du program                         I 3    Groupe de suivi
) - Travaux d'dtude s
. Etude du cadre gEndral de 1'EPA        4 s          Consultants nationaux
. Etude diagnostique du syst6me exis-
tant.
- RecueLls des donndss ...........    2 a            Consultants nationaux
- Analyse                  .. .        3 a           Consultants nationaux et Expatriis
Elaboration des reocmmoadations et
ds programmes d'amdlioration .... 
*Dfinition des actions prioritairos    1 s                         -_
- REdactLon du rapport provisoir- ....     1 s 
- SEiinaLre                                     23       Groupe d'4tude + groupe de sulvi 4+
autres participants
- R4daction rapport final                  2s + 5        Consultants expatriEs
* : 6 saiainesf
Entre la ri-4a du iapport provisoire un dElaL de 3 & 4 semaLnos east program-
mE pour la prparation matdrielle du suina4re laquello sera a la charge du aroupe
'volet agricoleo du PREVTDC.
. I'approb-stLon du programe (2), l'dvaluation & mi-parcours *t 1'Evaluation
avant rdeeptton so ddrouleront on sdances t discussions et changes do point de vue
*ntre I. gxpupo do consultation et l group de suivi.
. L  s lnaLre *st programed pour doux au trois jours et snra anim par 1'4-
quip* ddavsluationw ot le groupe  volot agriLole' du PREPTC.



_mu TABLEAU DW DEROUIEENT DES TRAVAUX
T       R A V A U X                       a  B  N  A  I N  8  5                                         RSESPONSADLES
(suivant ordre chron o-         ---   - _               T --  -- r -    T .
logique)            '1   2   3   4 5    6  7 a 8 9 10  11  12  .13 14..17  18  19  20
iS   Etablissement du pogrer a                                 .                                        - 8       d       Il.
ea, proeddure...........                                                                             nationaux).
2'  Approbation Prograome                                                                              - Groupe ds sulvl
3*   Etude du cadre gdn6rak
db l'EFA ..........................  -  _  _   -                                                  - Consultants nationau
4O Etude diagnostique du
systbne existant
- Recuells des donnes.
Co ultants nationat
- Analyso ........                                  .                                             - Consult. N. et Exp.
SO   Elaboration des recomwan                 I                           I _
datlons et des progranr                   ..
Res damrAlloratloa .......                                                                                      . . . -1  .  co ItF " 
6-  bWiLnitLon des actions                        I               I
prioritalres . ......*|T--    "
7'   R6daction du rapport
provIsoire
SO   PrOparation Sdmlnalre....                                                                           Nationaux
9*   S^d*il.re       G**, .                                                                            - Groups d'6tude + gro
pe de suivi + autres
participants.
10   RWdaction du rapport                         |
final ..*  C...........                                       _                                   - Consultants expatrld
1'¢1~~~~ 1- 1                                                                                 I-



- 79 -
ANNEX1 1
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC DEMOCRATIC OF MADAGASCAR
SNUDY ON FINANCING DE
Outline of Terms of Reference
1.    Objectives.  The Manpower Training project has as its principle objectives the
development and financing of training activities that correspond to employment needs, and to
transform public technical education progressively so that it will be linked to regional labor
market priorities. As a major component the project supports establishment of the Conseil
National pour la Formation Technique et Professionnelle (CNFTP), which will analyze training
needs, propose training strategy, advise on training programs, and finance appropriate training
activities. CNFIP will be financed during the period of project implementation (1991-95) by
IDA and French Cooperation.
2.    Thus during the life of the project, finance for training activities will be provided by
donors, through CNFTP. But it is essential over the medium term to identify suitable
mechanisms for financing technical and vocational education and training (TVET) that will not
place an unrealistic demand on the national budget or on donor financing, and that will take over
financing of the activities of CNFTP.
3.    Accordingly under the project a study will be carried out on the medium and long term
options for financing of TVET. Public TVET suffers from chronic, intense shortage of the funds
it would need to operate satisfactorily, as at present organized. It suffers also from inefficient
use of the funds available. Unless new financing methods can be identified, the funds available
to TVET for operation and development over the next decade will continue to constitute a severe
constraint on the quality and quantity of training available, and thus to the growth of the
Malagasy economy.
4.    Sce of work. The central objectives of the study would be to analyze how best to
increase financing available for training and to diversify the sources of finance. The national
budget cannot and should not be seen as the main financier of TVET. Alternative sources of
training finance and/or modes of training delivery must be sought, as increased access to training
and more diversified training programs, responding to expanding needs, increase the overall
costs. Partly the increased availability of finance will be linked to a growing role for the private
sector in providing training, while necessary competition and better cost distribution between the
public and private sectors will increase efficiency. But there is need in the medium term for an
institutional source of finance for TVET, which should be provided, if the project is a success,
through the CNFTP. The objective of the study will thus be to identify means of ensuring the
establishment, by 1995 at the latest, of a means of funding CNFTP and the training activities
which it will support, that does not depend on the national budget.
5.    The study should accordingly (a) assess the level of training expenditure desirable, (b)
recommend the level of training charges needed, and (c) analyze the advantages and disadvantages
of alternative financing means. Among others it should in a first phase examine the possibilities
below, and present recommendations for a system to be adopted. In a second phase, after a



-80-
ANNE11
Page 2 of 3
decision by the authorities on the system to be adopted, the study would prepare all details of the
measures necessary to Introduce the system, including draftng all necessary legislation.
6.    Systems to be analyzed might include:
(a)    payroll levies on enterprises, offering a means of mobilizing funds otherwise
inaccessible to the public sector;
(b)    a charge on the value of enterprise output or value added, or some other form
of ear-marked business or personal taxation (for example, an ear-marked
consumption tax);
(c)   introduction of fees for public training;
(d)    voluntary contributions by enterprises who wished to benefit from the services
of CNFTP;
(e)    a combination of the above.
7.    In carrying out the study particular emphasis would be given to the legal and economic
issues raised by the options, to the implicadons for public finance policy, and to the political and
social constraints to implementing new concepts in training finance. lhe study's conclusions and
recommendations would provide a sound basis for preparation of a strategy and investment
program for development of training services through the 1990s.
3.    MainIssues. The issues to be addressed include:
(a)    Earmarking of taxation.  From the perspectives of training management,
earmnarking of levies or other taxes has obviously the advantage of predictability,
stability and independence from discretionary delays in the budget cycle. From
society's perspective, an objection to this form of earmarked finance is the
potential for inefficient allocation: it can distort expenditure if TVET activities
were, by this device, to receive greater resources than required.
(b)    Another objection to the payroll tax concept is that it increases the cost of
employing labor: there may therefore be a disincentive to employment, which
may limit the creation of new jobs.
(c)    TuMnyerlevy. This variation has the advantages of the payroll levy without the
disincentive effects on employment, but might be perceived by employers as
merely an additional tax rather than a charge linked to provision of benefits.
(d)    Another critical issue which should be addressed is the level of expenditure by
enterprises on training. With some notable exceptions, the contribution of the
business sector to tining has been so far inadequate, although they are in better
position to finance training responsive to their own needs. Adequate incentives
are needed to encourage firms to develop enterprise-based training, and/or



- 81 -
ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 3
pooling of training activities among several enterprises of the same sector, and/or
to pay third party institutions for the training of their workers.
(e)    Full   recovery for public TVEI.  Public education and training in
Madagascar has so far remained free. The advantage of this system is that direct
school-related costs are not a discentive to attendance for the poor. However,
the chief disadvantage of subsidy of the direct costs of education and training are
the negative effects on allocative and internal efficiency. First, full financing of
expensive vocational programs absorbs needed resources for other promising
parts of the system. Second, in periods of tight budgets, the lack of cost-
recovery through charges contributes to the increasing imbalance wherein
personnel costs rise to a disproportionate share of total expenditure, at the
expense of much needed materials, supplies, maintenance and repairs. Third, the
lack of charges distorts the demand for services.
8.    In carrying out the study, those responsible with ensure wide consultations with the
business community, with government leaders and with representatives of employees and other
interest groups, to ensure that a large selection of views are expressed, and that the study's final
recommendation is perceived as having been fully discussed. The advantages and disadvantages
of systems of training finance in operation in a variety of different countries will be examined,
and the writings of public finance specialists on questions of this kind examined.
9.    Recommendations and Action Plan. On the basis of analysis of the above mentioned
Issues, the study will present recommendations for a comprehensive medium and long term
strategy of resource mobilization for training. Taking into account of any sensitive political and
social issues pertaining to new concepts of finance, the study will propose: (i) measures to correct
negative effects for each option; (ii) a realistic action plan to implement the proposed strategy and
to gradually shift financial responsibility to employers and trainees, (iii) a legal framework, if
necessary, which would define financial contribution from employers such as earmarked taxes
on public and private enterprise payrolls combined with levy grants for piiority training
programs; and (iv) measures to support for the growth of the private sector both quantitative and
qualitative.
10.   Man-months of Services. The study is estimated to require 12 man-months of external
and internal expertise. It will be carried out by the CNFIP working with the assistance of a
foreign consulting firm familiar with different modes of mobilization of resources for training,
including a public finance economist, and working with a (national) legal expert familiar with
public finance.
11.   Time-frame. Consultants should be engaged by December, 1992, and the first phase of
the study should be completed by June, 1993. Government will need to take a decision on the
scheme to be adopted by December, 1993, so that the second phase can be completed by mid-
1994.



- 82 -
Page 1 of 2
MAGASCAR
MANPOWER TRAIMNGY PROJECT
1.    The heart of the project is the innovative training fund, to be run by CNFTP: a new
institution, responsible for the selection of sub-projects and the allocation of credit resources to
those operations that meet agreed criteria. The operations of CNFTP and of the fund in
particular will need close supervision and support from IDA staff, especially during the first years
of project execution. In addition, implementation of policy reforms in the public technical
education sub-sector will require constant support from supervision missions, while the work of
ENFAR in analyzing training needs of the civil service must be coupled with our civil service
reform work and will require a different kind of (specialist) supervision from the rest of the
project. The Resident Mission wIll provide some non-technical support to the project, probably
from a locally-recruited long-term consultant. Nonetheless, most of the proposed supervision
support will have to be provided by Bank staff or consultants recruited by the Bank on a recurrent
basis, to ensure continuity.
2.    The unit (BPE) in Madagascar responsible for coordinating execution of the ongoing
education project (CRESED - Cr 2094) will assist in execution of this project, so facilitating both
Malagasy implementation activities and IDA supervision. The government has also shown itself
ready, during project preparation and the execution of CRESED, to allow project funds to be
used to finance consultant missions at the suggestion of IDA to contribute to diagnosis and
resolution of implementatikn problems. The use of this practice to some extent reduces the cost
of supervision to IDA, since it allows a consultant who knows the project to complement the
implementation support provided by supervision missions. The participation of France as a
project co-financier should also mean that the supervision burden can to some extent be shared.
3.    The agricultural training evaluation will be supervised by the agricultural educator/trainer
who is responsible for supervising IDA's work on agricultural extension in Madagascar, thus
ensuring that there is complementarity between the two activities.
4.    Supervision of the cell in ENFAR which will analyze civil service training needs, and the
implementation of the training aspects of the ENFAR component will need to be coordinated with
IDA work on civil service reform. These aspects of the project will require specialist supervision
from a civil service reform expert. It is also hoped that bilateral technical assistance for ENFAR
would complement IDA institutional support for the civil service analysis of training needs and
training programs under the project.
5.    Annual work programs will be prepared for the project and for CNFIP, to be agreed
with the government during annual reviews. A mid-term review will be held, joindy with the
project authorities and the co-financing partners, about two years after credit effectiveness, that
is in FY 1995. This review will require a larger than usual IDA supervision input.



83 -
Page 2 of 2
6.    A project lach workshop wil be held hi about October 1992, durIg which IDA and
Malagasy staff responsible for project eecutdon will emin dhe project work pograms ad
implemention procedures. This workshop will require pacipadon of the IDA ad goveramet
team who have worked on project participation, together wih the project managers.
7.    It Ii proposed that in each year of projet execution thar be about the supvision
missions, Involving staff working on technical education and vocatonal trani, archtectu
supervision, civil service taining and agriculural education and training. In the first ful year
the supervision work should involve 18 stff-weeks In the fildd, together with about seven stff-
weeks of reguar supervision work, for a total of 25 sff -wee. In subsequt yar an average
total of 20 staff-weels should be programmed, appoximatdy divided between 15 staff-weeks in
the field and 5 staff-weeks in the Dank.



a EPeaL   IOU   BE9 NADA a         Ao s CAR
Tabia 10. CNFTP
Deailled Cost table
Totsls Including Conti ganJos
buanlity                                         Base Cotst  in $                       Totals Including Contingencies                             Ws$ Io")
Unit   93   04 9         6 9    oa    ntCa              3      94      0      96      91   Total      93      94      91     96      97   Total       93       4      91     9       9?    ot
I. *uuSTmuT consi
A. 108803
6.nt.Civile             ISA                                             $32       14     21       --                    31       29     46                              is - 7   1I     26       -               -
ftiIiac                 IN                                            $4.                  -                                                  -000       -      0        0        -      0       -       -      0
tqupIDA                I A                                            $210        -     53      13      so     18    223         -    114    III    131    140        we6        -      63     e6      71     18    2
Vabigules               I I       I               I           2         520       21       -      -      21             42       44       -      -      49       -       3       24       -      -      27       -
lqiuip lC               780-$3SW                                                          16     I6       -       -     32        -     34      35       -       -      70        -      to     20       -       -
5sl-oleI 1O0*13                                                                      31      90     so      so      S8    331       73    391    154    164    140        141       40    106      86    102       78    4
116?                      ISA-113                                                   10     10      10      Io     10      50      21      23      21     27      29      124       12     13      14      II     Is
*A". clin               ISA      12  12  12       4    2    42   SI3tmias        IS      III    I%I      11     27    17        327    342    357    124       6  11.215        182    190    198       69     36    6
Foria a   ut            JosA-164                                                   -     49      49      49     49    191              100    104    104    112        424        -      6      S8      s0     62    2
Iom  lcc                ISA-596                                                    -     21      25      21     25    100               5 4     17      61     P5      23?              30      32      34     36    I
Sulo-Total IOU1WIO                                                                  161    238    238    129    101    871         327    495    118    293    242   1.875         182    271    288    163    134  1.0
fin IDAID 304-5m.    943    943    943    943    943  4.716   1.6GU   1.6SU   1.698  1.608  1.698   8. 489                                                                      943    943    943    943    943  4.?7
I inI(AC                IDA-SOBa be                                               01    10  1 lO        101    lOS    124       189    189    189    lag    Ieg        942     lOS    105    lOS    20  10SO          S  I
fin. Industries         UN1-92. an                                               419    419    419    419    419Z 02.6          ?S1    751    765    751    755   3.773         419    419    412    419    419  2.0
SibTotal FM   08 FOWL                                                             1.467  1. 467  1.467  1.461  1,467  7.336   2.641  2.641  2.641  2.641  2.641  13.201   1.467  1.463  1.46?  3.467  3.467  7. 3    .
L FElIS ETC K8 F1111.
II d CUFIP.             ISA-9- 36                                                  1      7       7       7      7      3?       1s     1s      17      Is     20       67        8      9      10      10     It
Sec.Esecutif            IDA-5210s                                                 12     12      52      52     12    218       104    112    121    130    140        607       Ss     62      67      72     18    3
Dhlcaments              IDA                    -578.1                             Is      Ie     16      16      16     82       33     31      31      39     42      In6       18      19     21      22     23    I
emntrat. Vsi,I         ISA-5- 4.6                                                  1      -       -       -       -      5       t0       -      -       -       -      10        1       -      -       -      -
Carburaait              IDAk--$4.8                                                 I      5       5       1      5      21       10      It     II      12     13       57        6      6       6       I      7
Fow,mituae              IDA--          .$130                                      28     28      28      28     28    138        51     57      59      61     63      294       30     31      33      34     3  1I
Si-Total fRAIS ETC K8 F1119.                                                        113    108    lob    108    108    145         22?    231    245    261    278   1.242         126    128    136    145    354    6
7. 111                     IDA-112IS                                                 16      16      36     16      Is     82       35      37     40      44      47     20        19      21     22      24      26    I
Total IKIIN    OT                                                                     1.806  1.930  1.909  1.810  1. 761  9.215   3.323  3.622  3.623  3.449  3.37?  17.394   1.846  2.012  2.013  3.916  1.876  9.6
ApiI& 13 M8 091:23



RE P  U       B L  IU e  u   HAD IAGA SC AR
VET
Table 21. CEIP-RENF.ET REfORI0£
Detiled Cot table
Ifll6 Nllton)
Totals Including Contingancias
giantity                                   Bass Cots in S                Totals Including Contingpncls                     UJS$ I   000
tinit  93   94   95   96   97  Total   Unit Cost   93   94   95   96   91  Total    93    94         95     96     97   Total    93   94   95   96   97  Total
ccc:  £stat as::  :: :: c::::  :::c:::: as:cat    aacc :c c: tscc :S:: :::: cast stats:  ta:: 5::: ttt::::::::   ::::::: .5555         =:: s::::  ==c::  :=: .::
I. IIESINIET COSTS
A. C_ ST1CTIIS
_sbKlhamin   IUt                - 3---                            "35.8          19  19                37            41     44                    aS         23   24                47
Sib-Total CONSIICTID4S                                                         -   19  19    -    -       37      -    41      44      -       -     85     -  23   24    -    -       47
L  TOT                  I-                                                      I    1    I    I    1      6      2      3      3      3       3     14     1    1   2    2    2        8
C. N0I31I3E
Sbbil3wr r-                            --                         $23.6      -    - 25    -    -       25      -      -     59              -     59     -    -   33    -    -      33
Transot             It$4. -    -                                                            -                 -       -     32             -      32 .        -    7    -    -       7
Sb-lotoal OIV iER                                                                        29    -    -     29      -      -     71      -       -     71.   -    -  39    -    -        39
0. TIUT                 3I                                  -                   I      I I    I    I       4     2       2      2      2      3      11     I    I    I    I    1       6
C. EQUIPENEUI
3ft deS.uau          3-                                           5 96.8  21 2321 21   21    303   43                44     46     48     49    229    24   25   25 .26   27    127
N4int dn  T           M I     -                                     $91    96    -    -    -    -    96   200         -      -      -      -    200   oil    -    -    -    -    III
Nthasina             IM-                                          $74.2    79    -    -    -    -      79   163       -      -      -       -    163    91    -    -    -    -      91
Vahiculas           3- -220  1106   06   21    -    -    233   220    228                                                   47      -      -    496   122  127   26    -    -    275
ransport            IDM       -28                                           -       -      30    -    30      -       -      -     69      -     69      -    -    - 38    -        38
Installation       I3--                                            $333     -    -    -  1la    -       8la   -       -      -   273       -    273      -    -    -  353    -    153
atiJ. pr_ nn S   ID3M--                                          $12/an    13   13   13   13   13      63    26      27     28     29     30    342    iS 3 5 3    6   16  17    79
Sub-Totcl EQUIPENENII3                                                       314  139  54  181  33    722   653    300    122    418         80  1.572   363  167   68  232   44    873               $5
F. TOV 3T-                                                                    22   22   S2   22   22    308    46       50     54    5s      62    269    26   28  30   32   35    IS0
G. ASSIST. TECIIN.
Planiication        IDA     12    6    6    -    -    24        $13/an    14    -    -    -    -      14   27        -          -         -     27    IS    -    -    -    -       IS
Glntion             IDA       -   12    6    6    -    24        $13/an    14    -    -    -    -      14   2?        -                          27    IS    -    -    -    -       IS
Sib-Toltl ASSIST. IECH.                                                       27    -    -    -    -      27    55       -      -      -      -     55    30    -    -    -    -       30
I. FOUIAIICS
E t rangr           II--S3l5                                                -  30   30   30   30    122       -     63      65     67     70    265          35   36   37   39    347
tocal               IDiA-                                          S2.6     -    I    I    I    1       3     *      2       2      2      2      7      -    1       I       1     4
ftint                IU- --                                       513.2     -    3    3    3    3       14     -      7      8      a      9      33     -    4    4    5    5      la
Plnfiicatlon        It                                  -        529.6     -    8    8    a    8      31      -     17     38     19     20      73     -   9   03 10              41
11lot.              IDiA-                                        $166.5     -  43   43   43   43    173       -     93      99    106    113    411      -52 55    9   63    228
Pars. eig.          IDA--                                          1972     - 252 252  252  252  '.0r0             542    578    638    660 2.398           301  321 343  367  3 332
Sib-lotal fORIlAit3                                                             -  338  338  338  338  1.352      -   723    770    820    874  3.186       -  402  428  455  485  1.770
Total 3UW!STNT COSTS                                                            365  520  464  542  395  2.286   758  1. 38  1.064  1.301  1 022  5.263   421 621 591  723  568  2.924
11. UECOIMET COSTS
. .._..... .....
Pormonr.l Ax 7        NJI                                     fag- S.B 2r/an  5    5    5    S    5      23     9      10     it    12       13    55      5    6    6    7    7      31
Total ItECURBENT COSTS                                                            5    5=5        5    5     23::          30 I:    12 s  sr                   5    6    6    7    7      31
Total                                                                            370  524  469  547  400  2.310   767  13129  1.075  1.313  1.034  5.318   426  627  597  729  575  2.954             00
April 13. 1992  09:28                                                                                                                                                                                  a



Tabl 22. 313*8 TUtES
Mbailed Coat Table
Totals l.cludlag Co.Aingmuia
COmiy                                      ame Cotta in S                     totals Incluading Cmntlaguaees                        onS low3
nilt  ;6 Be Os95            9   lo6toI   Unit Cout   63    94    6             61  total    63        H4     Ss     96     6?   lotal    63    64    65        66    Sp  lots,
..S.352  Sale 52:8 Sa..Su   S.   S=* ... :,in#g age c sent n.S.  8atn : .45 cSa.. Stages l5   aSX-22 :58a5* Stm   flt...      aSI2tS:  ..SS ..3Z.  Sate. atflt S..... ....
s. imusimit COST
tt/bmts*rwAae             8IMSgO                                                3      3       3      3      3     87        1      1      6      £      6       46     4      4      4      6 
to/ Iemame                 83 INglb                                             9      9       9      g      6     46       89    20      281    236    249    108    18      to    32       83     13'
1818h"Ajap"                836                                      BalO        3      83     13     83     13    63       2?      26     30     it    33       I4"    is     16      is    87    la
to/fl8aoeraateo            I"l10                                               SO      g0     l0    to      30    52       22      23     24     26     27      823    12     13     84    14    Is
Il/loliara                 836-                                      fg4        S      S       5      5      S     2?       83     82    13    14        14      64     6      1      1      a      a
tl/*3aabia/In              IS         --                            8.91gb     13      13     13     13     13     66      26      29     33     33     34      154    85     is    8?       to    is
SMn ipesap8t./Taam    IN              --                              946       6      S       6      6      6     26       12     13     13     t4    Is        67     i      7      I      a       a
IaU6C A.ilogaffanm    I3             ..                             0966      8  10         10 I   10      10     so      28     22     23     25      26     I8?    82      82     83    14      is
Iclausee  836      --                            legOb    13~~~~~~~~~~~6    Ss  U5  13  65    326      837    844    l52     ot    170      713    16     80     13     13    69    4
lnstag..leete388'gees-                   -   -620.    46                        46     48     U      4     242      303    301     83    M2   .125       56?    58    56      63      66     70    3
Instal. olmotr. 4l1Yue    813..                    .     .$860  33                    33     33      33     33    16?      70     24    7is      13     U      3633           41     44     46      462
lab-Total UEIiB £11111                                                           21?   28?    2I?    21?    287  .0ON         455    460     08    53?    568  '. 547   253    26?    232    266    3158.4
Clasasa             336-688In                                            -       -     89      -             to8      -      -    4?        -      -      47     -      -     26       -      -
transport ~ ~ ~ I 83.3.7                                                                4      -       -      4       -                    -I                                  S         
III                 136.~~IN .              . .8.                                1      I      I       I     3        I      2      2      2       2       9     1       8      8      I      8
la-TotaS S8BILIfa                                                                   I      8    24       1      8    2?         8      2     56      2      2       Os     I      8    22        I      I
2.  098. IDA                                                                                                                                                                                                   10
pra  grand?.               IDA.164                                              -  8.000       -      -      -  8.000           2.85W      -      -           2.153     -  1.8I681     -      -      -1.
Transpiar leftIDA                                                       433*   -      171      -      -      -    III        -    388      -      -      -      368     -   204       -       - 
2. tran an 3bI  618590                                                          -            5652    562    562  1.686       -         81.255  1.301  1. 346   3.906    -      -    66?    M2    750  2.8
transp.2m                  IN3-6.-6-00 -S                                               -    95      65     65    286        -      -    213    228    229      663     -      -    Its   m2    827    3
Smb-total EQUIP9. 80*k                                                                 1 .810    131    651    65?  3.142       - 2.523  1.466  1.W22  8.S79   1.060       -  1.400    816   846    Pn   3.69
a  9.ID                                -    - 8--1                               89.      H4    64      94     64    418    200    216    233    252    272   8.113   818    820    130    840    858    6
E. 10388. F*2
lqalpmt                    F*2-nu62                                                  228    228    228    228    684              492    S80    529    S46   2.080      -    213    283    294    305  8.8i
transpot                   F*C.$812.4                                           -     48      46     46     46    183              SO    102    106    180      416           Ss5   57      66      61   2
lab-Total EQUIP, 862                                                                -   214    214    214    214  8. 000        .    500    682    635    668   2.496      -   328    340    353    366  8.3
8. KM883 Equip
*st tectwaPM.  988.30188S&    254                                                                 -       -       413     336    528       -      -       -    643   175    293        -      -           4
Plgem  dsec.               888*.$ .                                     4010  212    ISO      53      -      - 424        440    342    188        -           2003246    390        66       -       
lab-lotal 6188  EQUIP                                                            310    413    53        -            3?      ?55    610    88                   1.744   420    464     66       .      - 9
IL38 TO                       IA6..               .                               31      23     8a                   62       66     53     89                    133    36     29      18
Total 8UVIST3E8I COSTS                                                               183  2.193  1.32 1,8243  1.243  6.189   1.4??  4.132  3.016  2.948  3.076  IS. 252   828  2.629  1.676  1.638  8.710  8.4
lotal13  2.863  1.321  1.243  1.243  6.719   1.471  4.132  3.016  2.948  3.079  1S. 252   828  2.629  8. 616866 1. &                                                                                     1710  8.4
Aprl8 13. 89v2  49:28                                                                                                                                                                                        09
a



a IPU a IIQIIE  of HI*AD AaAsCAR
WEI
Table 23. RECYCLACA
Detailed Cost Tabl
Totals Including Conti gencis
Que*ttlt                                Base Costs in $               Totals Including Contingenies                  fuss Iwo)
Unit   93694619 6 ? 9 Total UlnitCost    93    64 95  96 9?total                      63     94      95    96 St1Tota        93    94 9595691   Total
55 uS...ut  St.: asun  tutu    ....  .u ....ulS as 55S:u:  uS   :   tn           n: ..t:X .tt...    Sn  I:-  S5t-:=S=:.a us:: tn                 .-Sus 
I. INWESTIENT COSTS
IL CUSIUCTIOUS
Italib  elIios   IDA-                                       Slat.1       -        9IS   -   -    190        -      -   44S              445       -    - 24?               24?
flowo.a&rcbit     10*-                                         $20       110    S    -   -    21           10    22      12        -    45        6  12    7                25
Sib-Total CIUSIAIUCIUS                                                      1   10195    -   -   211          10    22    457    -  -   490          6   12 254    -  -   272
8.lOBItIEl
NKilier           10*--                                       10.4       -     -   II    -   -     II       -            26    -   -     26        -        14    - -       14
Transort          I 0A--                                       2.1       -    -   2    -   -       2        -                  -   -      1       -    -    3    -   -       3
Sib-Total mlU8ltl                                                           -    -13    -   -         13       -      -     31   -   -    31         -.   -   Sy    -   -      17
C.Toy                IDA-0a                                                      0    0    0  0        2       I      I      1    Ii         1       0    0    I    1   1       3
0. 41EhfIFEEU
O*t. debureau    IDA-                                        $3.1a                      a   a      34             is1    19  20  20      77        -   to10 II  II          43
Centre  80*-                                  ~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~~~~$429  455    - - --  415  9415                        945      525           -      -    25
Vehlcales         IDA-560                                                -84    -           -      64       -    13?               -    13?        - 76                     is - 7
Eq, Glcyclop      IS--                                                 265         --            268      55?         -        -        55?     309    -    -         -    309
Si-Total EOUIPMIET                                                        723 72      O A a   a      20   1.502    115      is920  20 1.16           24  86  1111  It   953
E. oh                IDA--                                                 25  252525 25             123      12    16      61 66   It   306        22931 34   31 39    110
F. ASSIST TECIM.C
Cmormm.teur  10*R      6  1212    A             38    13&eis       62 165 16   62  -    494          164    342    3111686   -1.04 O         St190168 103 -    S82
laterv.,pme.     ID I0  8 48St   4    - 48   $l3/mia                  lot32916565-    656               218   683    317 124   -1.382          121 380 198   69   -   16
Sib-Total ASSIST haUOL                                                    192494  329  137   -  1.153        38   1.025    113  310   - 2.431    212  S69  396  112   -  1.350
CmnaC. tl         log 10      -StIO                                    115    -    -    -   -    115    241        -      -    -   -   241      134    -     --    134
flobiaeo          10*--                                         so      8a    -                    a       la      -      -    -  -      Is      10to                 -     10
Equipgments       IVA--                                       560      621    -                  Vs - 62    1.299  -      -    - -  1.29        M2                    -    M2
fae onIlm~ent    IDA--                                          so       8a   -                    a       I?      -               -     Ii       9    -     -        -     9
Sib-Total PAOIC $11I                                                      751, -           - -       51,  1.515       -      -    -   -  1. 575    875    -    -    -   -   8M
total IUWSTMUT Costs                                                       1.702  601 S11  III 33  3.019   3.522  1.260  1.282  397  93  6.S53   3.951?  700  Mt  220  5I  3.641
total                                                                       1.10M  601 S71  III 33  3.019   3.522  1. 250  1.28M  397 93  6.553   1.957  700  712  220  St X.641
*11t is. 1682 OtlA
00



R f P U B L I e u E  DE  N A   4 A  * S C A R
VET
Table 24. INfP
Octailed Cost table
(fER MltlIioni
Totals Including Contingencies
Quattity                                 Base Costs in $            Totals Including Conting  ncies                 (USS  000)
unit   93   94   95   96   97  Total  Unit Cost  93   94   95   96  97  Total    93   94    95    96   97  Total    93   94   95   96  97  lotal
*:S=  =:2:  cc::S  5:';:-s ccc: 222:::  :s:::c::S  ::2  :::: :::: ::2: ::: 2:::::   ::2: :::: :::::: S:::  ::::a ::::    ::   ::=:           -:,    ::
1. INVESINENT COSTS
_ ...__. . _......
A. REiNW IATO
... . _ _ .
1estaurant          IDA       -    -    -    -    -             fq49                 28    -         -  28    -                                    -    -3 1         -        37
Internet            IA        -    -    -    -    -       -     fq4        -    - 23    -   -         23     -    -      54    -    -      54      -    -30        -   -      30
Exteans             IDlA            -    -    -'-lq75                          44    -    -   -       44      -   97      -    -    -      97      -  54    -    -   -        54
Honoraires archl   ID--                                          lugi5.    8    -    -          -             6    -       - -    -         16     9    -                      9
Sub-Total 9REIU  IVATO                                                        8   44   52    -   -    103    16   97    121    -    -    233          9   54   67    -   -    130
il. TI                  IDA      -          -                -                3    3    3    3   3       IS      7    7       8    8    9      38     4    4    4    5  5        21
C. 8NAB IVATO
gO hor$e$V.         ID4A-                                       1q3d       -    -  40      -   -      40      -    -      0                90      -    -  50      -   -      50
Outilstc            101       -    --   fq66.m3                            -    -70        -   -      70      -    -    1t7    -    -       t57    -    -  87      -   -      87
Abdie Viiel         ID04SA-                                      'q        -    -28        -   -      28     -    -      62    -    -      62      -    -   34    -   -       34
linfoamtilque       IDA       -S                                           -    -  53    -   -        53     -    -    118    -    -    118        -    -   66    -   -       66
Electroa  uto       10- -                                     fql4.2       -    -   IS    -   -       1       -    -     34    -    -      34      -    -   19    -   -       19
Voitwa              IDA       -    -45                                         48    -          -     48         103      -                303     -57    -    -              57
Sub-Total REiUB IVAIO                                                         -   48 206    -   -    254         -  103    461    -    -    563       -  57  256    -   -    313
P. IUI                           --                          - t                    8    8    8 8        38    16   17       19   20   22      95     9   10   10   11  12       53
E. M8 El Mr!.
Rstarant            IDSA-   f g8.6 G                                       -          2    2-          5     -    -       6    6    -       12     -    -    3    4   -        7                      aw
Equipeinnt          IS- -    - - -            -9.-                         -    -    6    6           12     -           13   14           2?                 I    a 7    8-  IS
Sub-lttal 18B El MiU.                                                          --        8    8   -      17      -    -      19   20    -      39     -    -   11 tI       -     22
f. ITUI                 IDA      -                                            0    0    0    0   0        2      1    1       1    1    1       6     1    1    1    1   1        3
GL folU IIU             IDA      --    fgt8e    -   26   26   26  26    104                                      -  56       60   64   68    247       -   31   33  35  38    137
U. ASSIST TEDNII.       PiUS--                                        5540   57  171  I71  171   -    570   113  355    370  387    -  1.225    63  197  206  215   -    681
Total INVESTMIET COStS                                                          76  299  474  216  3?  1.103   153  636  3.058  500  300  2.447    85  353  58   278  56  1.359
Total                                                                            76  220  474  216  37  1.103   153  636  1.058  500  100  2.447    85  353  588  278  56  1. 359
. . _ . . _ . . _ _ . _ _ . _ _ _ _ _ .C _ . . _... .C. . .                                  .. .  .     zmz -  = . .==     = -==     Cvz  . .  =.  Z ==     ==Z=
April I1. 1992 00 28
Dk
o
.0



IEPUBLI auaE K NA AoAscAl
VET
Table 30. 30. 0SEt  E I EIP1OI ET 40.  FOl ilIC
Detaild Cost lable
tFIIG llt Il ion)
totas IncIusing Continipetso
Owntity                               Base Coats in S               leols Including Cont i_bmce.                   IlSS  g001
_ _ *__ _ *--------------                --------------------  -_-*----  *------------ --------- ------  -_  -_---- *-- ---- --*--_--------*----_-__*-*-- _ __-
tint   U   64   95   S6   97 lotal Cost    93    94  9f    96   97  total              93    94          96   91total        93    H    95   S6   97 lotal
3323 3333 3333 3333 3323 3333 :3:33 3333 33333 33fl 333 3333 2323 :::::: 3:3::: ::: 322 .::: :::3 33333 3:: :::S: 3::: ::: :::3 ::::::::
1. IUWESIEU  COSTS
F. CSE#&ll9ECEI ElO
____      _____.;a   ._  __ a __
1. flmuCtmI---
Pll          -                                      -          -SW00        211 211    -    -    -    422         420 436      -    -    -    818       233 243    -    -    -    477
lIA                       IDA                                  -11n0          -    - 317  3111IS         792        -    -  686 716  374  1.775           -    - 3S1  35S  206    986
Sm*-lotel fmcatiaMaEu                                                           211  211  317  317  158  1.214       420  438  6U6  716  314  2.633        233  243  381  38  208  1.463
Sib-total OSSEauATOaa m  I ESPLOI                                                  211  211  317  317  ISS  1.214       420  438  686  716  374  2.633        233  243  381  39S  206  1.463
L fOULl AGRIC
---ia-- --c
Evau sect                    la        --                                       165    -    -    -    -    165       334    -    -    -    -    334        185    -    -    -    -    ISS
Equlp St mt.                 10        --  S200                                 212    -    -    -    -    212       440    -    -    -    -    440        *4S    -    -    -    -    24S
--hIsab.                     10-- $IS  IS     - -                                                                    329  -                  - 329  lal - -  - -  183
training                     IDA--  5200                                       208    -    -    -            20S     418    -                -    413      23.    -          -    -    232
Assst tacL                   1         -               --  S250                 264    -    -    -    -    264       525    -    -    -    -    52S        29      -    -          -     923
S-lotal FOI. AGNIC                                                               1.005    -    -    -    -  1.005   2.046    -    -    -    - 2.046   1.137    -                         t -    -  8.137
ltotl  UVESIKSENI COsTs                                                             1.217  211  317  317  158  2.219   2.466  438  686  716  374  4.679   1.370  243  381  398  208  2.600 0
Total                                                                                1.217  211  317  317  1I8  2.219   2.466  438  686  716  374  4.679   t.370  243  381  398  208  2.600 0o
===:::~~~as _::: :===z _:::= :::: :::=    =::== ==   _== ==:: ::::::  ::::::- :::: mass mass :::  ====
Spi I 13, I992 0: 28
QQ
CD
c
40



BE PDA L4I BVE KUAOSA6AS CAI
table 10. 611F9
Best iled Cost table
totals Includinlg Coutitsagm.e
ty                         one~~~~ba   Caost  in S     Totals Including Coti gswina                    0.559m0
Nall   53    4912      1 91 OfTotal  UnitCOst  93394 95   98     91  Total   9392415                      96    91  Total   93394 95   96          91   Total
statSag one.   3.22 act.  &..a fl 22525  323fl32222  228 US..  sags ...s sa* ....ss  .  ls....:38 -ass 35 3-2 .... t33=   8X5 9-9.22.*S  ..fl  Sn:5X
I.hWSTfhII COSTS
A. IIWESTISSEMIIUS P. 91
Ionstructlmt              IDA                                         fmA9OQ      -    -116 349  58           523    -    -212    863152 1. 28                     151 479365    115
Eqat bturtel              IDA                                         Fmg48Qm    -    -    -  238    -    236    -    -    -    S48    -    546    -    -    - 303    -    303
Webicules                  6*A                                        1 lag0      -ISO       -    -    -    19    - 342         -       -    -    242    -130    -    -    -    190
Otmaps                    lb                                           Fmg9ft           -41          -         41    -    -10S             -       los       -  -     18   -           1
EqadpAudio VI             IDA                                          1.g0*            -26        -    -      26    -    -186          -           18    -     - -32      -     -     32
lnfomiitqmasID lb-1lS0*                                                                 -44  44         -     8      -    -93         102    -    201    -      - -  s151             112
bti qraaslio              130--                                        3.0           __- -_24  24       -      41    -    -53          55    -    101    -      - -2930          -     60
Sib-biase  INWEShISS8MUTS  P.33                                                           S - 9217 652   58 1.122        -  342  586  I. 565  152  2. 646    -I0  321  810   85  1.410
A. JUT                        10*--34   34   34   34   34    169   12   71   84                                                           90   97    420   40  -43   46   50   54    234
C.ASSIST IECN  p.43           IDA--                                      flglibt      -   25 2626  26            lOS    -55  51           60  62    234    -30  32   3335                 130
0. 10308110
Cadres Atin               IDA                                          I   0*        18  11        -    -      35    -36  38            -    -      14    -20  21          -    -      CI
oiwotions                 IDA--                                        1gS0*    3    9    9    9    -          29    6 81     19       20    -      62    31010  11              -     35
Sib-loWe  FOSITIW                                                                        21  21       9    -      65    6  545?7          20    -    136    330  31  11             -
Total liUSTNEIT COSTS                                                                   31  246  344  121  1I8  1.466   78  529  184  1. 135  312  3.431   43  29A  435  964  113  1.910
.Ag...  .s. 23t   ss:s ZZ :::   =. 5:5555  5: -  ::::  5-   ===:   == -_5:::::                                                a
HI. lEO3U3T COSTS0
IL COOTS IECUI3NTS
Vibiculos                CIT-     fagIBe    -    9    9    3    9                                            35    -1920              2132         as    -10  1112  12                41
Selairs                  CVI-   Fugl2.4m    0    I                                          1 I        -       I    0    I    3       12    -      1l    0    I    2      71    -      9
loan lsefsol             awl-                                        1.92.4m    -    -    -       1 I      I  I        - .     -       2    2       3    -    -    -    I    1         2
Fomm.itmwee              CVI-                                         NONE0      -          2    3    3       a    -    I    4         1    1      20    -    I    2    4    4        II
Prodwits almnot          awl-- I-                   -          -    h59.4m             -    -    -   34      34    -    -    -         - "         ea8   -    -    -    -   49        49
Eait ieat.               awl-fugaf                                                  -    ---  ----    I        I    -    -    -        -    3       3    -    -    -    -    2         2
Sub-Total COUTS BECOMNTS                                                            0   10   12   11   48        81    0   21   21       411t23    213    0   12   II   23   68    118
A. [UT                      611-3    3    3    3    3                                                            13    6    6    6        I    a      32    3    3    4    4    4        I8
Total KCUUI3   COSTS                                                                     3   13   14   20   10    100    6 27   33           48 130    245    3   15   18   21   12    136
Total                                                                                   40  218  358  741  I69  1.166   81  556  Si?  1.783  442  3.682  _46  309  454  991  246  2.046
April It. 1992 09:28
I'd



REP USlt IO UE BE NA DAGAS CAR
VET
Table 60. AlINlStItR^ION DU PROJET
Detailed Cost table
(F$II   i 11 ion)
Totals Including Contingencies
quatity                            Base Costs in S           Totals Including Continencies                 WUS$ '000)
~~~~~Unit-
Ut   93   94   95   96   97  Total  Cost   93   94   95   95  97  Total   93   94   95   96   97  Total    93   94  9f   96   97  Total
C at- *s te  Ota   t :31  a:: : : .... Ct- -                  :3 *.    .:: _::a -Z  *s CZ.  -:  :::= CC=-  =====z  __:_ C-  ==  =_== ==== azt:
I. ItVESTIIENT COSTS
A.  .Il  Du MOl
Saies              ID       -    - --       -    -      -   5S0    31   31   31   31  31   155    63   67   72  78 4     364    35   37   40   43   47   202
Equip_ent          IDA      -    -       --$140    45   45   30   30   -   148    88   92   63   66    -    309    49   Sl   35   36    -   172
Fonctioban_t   18D         I    I    I    I    1       55  40    42   42   42   42  42   208    84   89   95  101  107    475    46   49   53   56  59   254
Sub-total MIN DU PRWEI                                                II? 117I    102  102  73   512   235  248  230  244  191  1.148   130  138  128  136  106   638
.II       .           ID4                                   -          ISIS    IS   ISIS    77    33   35   38   41   44    191    18   20   21   23   25 106
total INVESTHENT COSTS                                                   133  133  118  118  88   589   267  283  268  285  235  1.339   148  I57  149  158  131   744
==== 3332 ....  .. 0  -            ====_  ==== ===  ___ 3====   ===  ==== ===- -z=  === ===s=
4friI I) IN2 09:28
OQ
(D 
O 
to'-
'-WA



RE PUB LI   0 U       E  1 NAR DGA SC AA
VET
Sumry Accounts by V?ea
tFIIG 14i II ioolf
base Costs                     foreign EXchaNr
93      94      95       96      97   lots         *    Aount
fist..: nsa... S.=,==Sfl    == 055:..; fi :;:z= Osfi:  0:  .:s.35=
1. INVESTNEIT COSTS
.  EINIE ClVIL                   918     540   1.069   1.018    495   4.041       55.7    2.251
B. EUIPE1NENT
fqImlpamntA/It. JFourr      3.565   3.285   2.526   2.S98  I .6  13.,32    100.0   13. 832
V*icules                      229     477       38      38      -     782    100.0       782
Ordintowurs                             -      80       80      -      159    100.0      1S9
Swb-Total EGUIPEIIENI          3.794   3.762   2. 644   2. 716  1.856  14.773    100.0   14.773
C. NOBILIER                       IS       0      123       4      0      142     30.6       44
S. cOSUtT8WTS
Consultant Intern           1.934   2.379   1.814   1.271    382   7.780      85.4    6.641
Consualant Nat.                 9      19       9        -      -      37      20.5        8
Etudes                        297       -        -       -      -     297       0.0        0
Sib-lotal C141USIlTANS         2.240   2.397   1.824   1.271    382    ;114       81.9    6.649
E. IOATIO_
Formtlion Ext.                  5     190      190     159    143     687    100.0       687
foration Localn               374     645     64S      645    645   2.955     30,6       904
fond de Fore.               2.641   2.641   2.641   2.641  2.64   13.205      60.7    8,014
Sub-Total F8OlI*II             3.020   3.477   3.477   3.445  3.429  16.847    S.0    9.605
F. OPIATIONS
Natariel etc                  130     130      103     103     S0    S5S    100.0        515                                                                                                     '
Slaires                       171     171     171      IIIt I7        853      10.3      8B
Genral                        13?     131      135     144    200     748 *   40.7       304
Sib-lotel OPERATIONS             438     432     408      418    420   2.116      42.9      907
G. lUT                           475     461      433     419    419  2.207        0.0        0
Total INVESINEUT COSTS           10.900  11.069   9.977   9.2m   7.001  4A.240       71.0   34.229
Totl BASElINE COSTS               10,900  11.069   9,977   9.292  7.001  48.240       71.0   34.229
Physical Contingencies            673     660      580     540    357   2.810      77.0    2.I64
Price ContirngncIes               485     927   1,268   1.559  1.376   S.614       58.8    3.300
Total PECT COSTS                  12.058  12.656  11.825  11.391  8,733  56.664       70.0   39.693
.S:=:ls: :555::: s:1:5:: :::::  s:::  : :::- 5      ::s  :::::::
foreign ExchnW                  8.753   9.461   8. 173   7.820  5.405  39,693       0.0        0
------~-----------------~---~--r------__----------_---_--- --_______-,____,________--,___,,_,_,-,
ipril 13. 1992 09-28
00
0i



R      E P U 8 t I    U E  DE  N A D   A G A S C A R
VET
69E15Bl OF SUUART ACCOWNIS
iUSS '0001
Base Costs                    Phyical Contingencies                  Prico Contingencis                     Totol Irc). Coant.            Physical
____,,__,,,,,,_,,,,,,,,,----------    ---------------------------------    ---------------------------------    -------------  --------------------    Cant.   Plus  ease   Cots
Local                                 Local                                local                                Local                     Prico Cont.   * Price
tExcl. Buttes A                       IExcl. Buties *                      (Excl. Duties a                      IExcl. Duti es A          on Physical   Cont. on
For. Exch. Taxesl  Taxes   Total    For. Exch. taoxs)  Taxes   Total   For. Exch. Taxsl  Taxes   Total   For. Esc.L Taxes)  Taxes   Total                Cant.     Base Costs
1. INESTKEUT COSTS
A. GENIC CIVIL                     1.251    994         -   2.245          125     99         -    225          173    270         -    443        1.54S  1.364         -   2.913           265       2.648
L EUI PEilTUT
EquipemntfAt./Fourn.           7.684       -         -   7.684          768      -         -    763          993      0         -    993       9.445       -         -   9.445           859       AU7
Vehicules                         435      -         -     435           43      -         -     43           39      -         -     39          517      -         -     Si?            47         470
Brdinaterts                         s      -         -      88            9      -         -      9           14      0         -     14          112      -         -     112            10          101
Sub-Total EQDIPKEIIT               8.207      -         -   8.207          821      -         -    821        1.047      0         -  1.047       10.074      -         -  10.074           916       9.159
t .NBILIER                            24     55         -      79            2      5         -      8            3      14        -     I           30     74         -     104             9           95
B. COUSULTATIS
Consultant Intern              3.690    633              4.322          184     32         -    216          415    135         -    550        4,289    799         -   S,089           242       4.846
Consultant lt.                      4     16         -      21            0      1         -      I            0      3         -      3            5     20         -      25             1          24
Etudes                              -    165         -     165            -      8         -      8            -     12         -     12            -    185         -     285             9          177
Sub-Totol CUSUITMTS                3.694    814         -   4.508          185     41         -    225          416   ISO          -    566        4.294  1.005         -   5.299           252       5.047
E. FOR114TI1i
fomtion Ext.                      382      -         -     382           19      -         -     19          58       -         -     58         458       -         -     458            22         437
formaion   tocal.                502  1 139          -   1.642           25     57         -     82           72    328         -    400          600  1.524         -   2.124           ICI       2.023
fond de For..                  4,452  2. 884         -   7.336                   -                -            -      -                -       4.452  2.884          -   7.336                     7.336    I
Sub-lotal FIRII*tIBN               5.336  4.023         -   9.359           44     57              o0t          130    328              457        5.510  4.408         -   9.918           123       9.795   w
F. OPERtATIONS
Nateril *Ic                       286      -               286           14      -         -     14           34      0         -     34          335      -               335            l6         319
Salaires                           49    425         -     474            2     21         -     24            7    215         -    121           S8    561         -     619            29         589
Gsnrol                            169    246         -     415            B     12               21           24     71               96          202    330         -     532            25         506
Ssi-Total OPEMIIONIS                504    671          -   1.175           25     34         -     S9           65    186         -    251         594    891          -   1.485            71       1.415
G. TUT                                 -  1,226         -   1.226            -    123         -    123            -    337         -    337            -  1.686         -   2.686           153        1.533
Total INVESTNENT COSTS               19.016  7.784         -  26.800        1.202    359         -  1.561        1.833  1.286         -  3. 119      22.052  9.428         -  31.480         1.789      29.690
Total                                 19.016  7.784         -  26.800        1.202    359         -  1.561        1.833  1.286         -  3.119       22,052  9.428         -  31.480         1.789      29.690
April 13. 1992 09.28
tv
00
'pt



REPO   8LI Q U E  DE  HAD AG A S CAR
VET
Suary Accounts by Vean
Totals Including Contingencies                 Totals Including Contirencios
If8 lHlllon)                                     lISS '000)
93      94      9S       96      97   Total      93      94     95     96     97   Total
1. INVESTHEVI COSTS
A. GENIE CIVIL                 1.070     665   1.390   1.400    720   5.243       594    369    772    778    400   2.913
8. EQUIPEIIEI
Equipsment/Nht. Fourn.      4.114   3.932   3,135   3.344  2.47?  17.001   2.286  2.184  1.742  1.858  1,376   9.445
Vehicules                     264     571      47       49      -     931      147    317     26     27       -     517
Ordinstesws                     -       -      99      102      -     201        -      -     5S     57       -     112
Stb-lotal EQUIKENEIT           4.378   4.502   3.281   3.495  2.477   8. 134   2.432  2.501  1.823  1.942  1.376  10.074
C. I8ILIER                        I8       0      164       6      0      188      tO      0     91      4       0     104
D. CONSitIANTS
Consultent Intern           2.137   2.742   2.18S   1.596    501   9.159   1.187  1.524  1.213    887    278   5.089
Conultant Not.                 10      22       12       -      -      45        6     12      7      -       -      25
k.uda                         334       -       -        -      -     334      t85      -      -      -       -     185
Sub-Total CSIIIUtANTS          2.481   2.765   2.195   1,596    501   9.538   1.378  1,536  1.219    887    278   5.299
E. FORNATIOI
Formtion Eat.                   6     217     225      195    182     825       3    121    125    too    101       458
Formlion tocale               418     770     821     877    937   3.823      232    428    456    487    520   2.124
Ford de Form                2.641   2.641   2.641   2.641  2.641  13.205   1.467  1.467  1.467  1.467  1.467   7.336
Sd>-lotal FIIIUTION            3.065   3.628   3.688   3.713  3.759  17.853   1.703  2.015  2t049  2.063  2.089   9.918
F. OPERATIONS
Neteriel etc                  143     148      122     127     63     603       79     82     68     70      35     335
Sa lires                      191     206     222     238    257   1.114       106    114    123    132    143      619                                                                            1
Genral                        153     156      170     194    285     957      85      87     94    loe    158      532
Stb-Total OPERATIONS             488     S10     513      558    604   2.674      271    283    285    310    336   1.485
G. IUl                           559     586     595      622    672   3.035      311    326    331    346    373   1.686
Total IllVESTIIENT COSTS         12.058  12.656  11.825  11.391  8.733  56.664   6.699  7.031  6.570  6.328  4.852  31.480
::= === =:=    =  =;====;:= =mz :;: ==           : ====   :;=-  _=z_ ::   == ;:   z ::;:.=    ;
total PROIECI COSTS               12.058  12.656  11.825  It.391  8.733  56.664   6,699  7.031  6.570  6,328  4.852  31.480
April 13. 1992 09:28
01
iD
illF
I-L



R E P U 8 L I 0 U E DE 1 A D A G A S C A R
VEY
8REA9lD181   Of SUfINARY ACCOUINiS
(ENSi I ionl
Bass Costs                     Physical Contingwncis                 Price Contingencies                   Total Incl. Cont.              Physical
-_---------------------- --------o                                                                                                                         P ---------------------------------  ---------------------------------  -----------------------------------  Cont. Plus    ase Costs
Local                                Local                               Local                                Local                     Price Cont.   * Price
IExcl.  Duties A                      lExcl. Duties A                     IExl. Duties A                      (Excl.  Outies A           on Physical   Cont. on
for. Exch. laxes)   laxes   Total    For. Exch laxesl  Taxes  lotal   for. Exch.  axaes)  laxes   Total   for. Each. taxes)   Taxes   Total             Cont.     Bass Costs
1. INVESMENIT COSTS
A. GENIE CIVIL                    2.251   1.790         -   4.041         225    179         -    404          311    487         -    798       2.788   2.456         -   5.243          477        4.767
L  EQUIPKIINT
Equip_nnt/Nat. /Fourn.        13.832       -         -  13.832       1.383       -        -  1.383        1.787      -        -  1.787       17. 001      0         -  17.001        1.546       15.456
Vwhicul1s                        782       -         -     782          78       -        -     78           71      0        -     it          931       0         -     931           85          847
Ordinateurs                      159       -         -     159           16      -        -     ls           26      0        -     26          201       -         -     201           18          183
Sub-Total EQUIPEIIENIT           14.773        -        -  14.773        1.477      -        -  1.477        1.884      0         -  1. 884     18.134       0         -  18. 134        1.649      IEu485
C. IIBILIER                          44      99         -     142           4      10        -     14            6     25        -      31          54     134         -     lea            17         171
D. CONSULTANTS
Consultant Intern              6.,41   1.139         -   7.780         332     57         -    389          747    243        -    990        7.721   1.439         -  9.159           436       A723
Consultant lat.                    8      30         -      37           0       1        -      2            1      5        -      6            9      36         -      45            2          43
Etua                               -     297         -     297           -                -     IS            -     22        -    22             -     334         -     334           16         318
Sub-Total CONISULITNTS            6.849   1.465         -  8.114          332      73        -    406          748    270        -  1.018        7.729   1.809         -  9.538           454       9.084
E. FORNAIION
Formation Ent.                   687       -         -    687           34       -        -     34          104      0        -    104          825       0        -     825            39         78S
formtbion Local.                 904   2.051         -  2.955           45    103              148          130    590        -    720        1.080   2,743        -   3.823           182       3.641
fond de form                   8.014   5. 191        -  13.205           -       -        -      -            -      -        -      -       8.014   5.191          -  13.205            -       13.205,
Sub-lotal fORNAlION               9.605   7.242            16.847          80    103              (82          234    590        -    823        9.918   7.934         -  17.S53          221       17.631    's
f. OPERAIIONS
Iaterial etc                    S5S        -         -     515          26'   -           -     26           62      0        -     62          603       0         -     603           29         574
Salaires                          88    765          -     853           4     38         -     43           12   206         -   218           104   1.010        -   1. 114           53        1.061
Goeral                           304     443         -     748          15    22          -     37          44    128         -    172          363     594         -     957           46         911
S.b-lotal OPERATIONS                907   1.209         -   2,116          45      60        -    106          118    335        -    452        1.070   1.604         -  2.674           127       2.546
a  IUI                                -   2.207             2.207            -   221         -    221            -   607              607            -   3.035         -   3.035          276       2.759
Total IIVESIU ENI COSTS             34.229  14.011         - 48.240        2. (64    646        - 2.810         3.300  2.314        - 5.614        39.693  16.971         - 56.664         3.221       53.443
Total                                34.229  14.011         - 48.240        2.164    646         - 2,810         3.300  2.314         - 5.614       39.693  16.971         - 56.664         3.221       53,443
ipril 13. ;992 09:28
to
to 
00
0  12
011X
l*tW



a E PU ALI eu E        NA OA6 4As CA a
VIIE
Project Crooents by Y"r
IFki Nillionl
Use Costs                       Total
93      94      9S      96      97      FIIG   OISS p000)
tz:ns:: :3:3::= :::=:::: ::::::: :3:::::  ::  ::::
I. CIFIP                            3.250   1473   3,436   3.257  3.170   16.586       9.215
B. EflP
1. DEIP
fInw   Rotor.                   666    944      844     984    719    4.158      2.310
* eab  lyc                    1.284   3.947   2.389   2.238  2.238   12.095      6,719
Ibcy- Ire                     3,064   1.083   1. 028    307     60   5.542       3.079
S*-Totel DEIP                    5,014   5.973   4,261   3.529  3.017  21.795      12.108
2. INK9                            136    539    854       390    67    1.986       1. 103
Sub-Total EFIP                      5.150   L.512   5.115   3.919  3.084   23.781     13.212
C. OBSERIIVDE L ElPl.O                380     380    570      570    285   2,185       1.214
O.  FO0lt "RIC.                     1,810       -       -       -      -    1.8I0      1.00I
E. ENIFAR                              71    465      645   1.334    304    2,818      1.566
F. BPE                                239     239    212      212    158   1,059         589
Total BASEL:IE COSTS                 10.900  11.069   9.977   9.292  7,001   48.240     26.800
Physical Conirngmies                673     660    580    540    357    2.810        1.561
Price Continncies                    485    927   1.268   1,559  1. 376   5.614       3. 119
Total PROJECT COSTS                  12.058  12.656  11.825  11.391  8.733   56.664     31.480
foreign Exchange                   8 753  9, 461  8. 173  7. 820  5.485   39, 693    22.052
April 13. 1992 09:28
0
I|tA
00
.S



R E PU  8LI QU E   E  1A DAGAS CAR
WE'
Project Co_ponnts by Ter
Totals Including Contingenies                 Totals Including Continqeies
tIIG  | II ionl                                IUSS 000)
93     94       95      96      97   Total      93     94    95    96       9t  Total
A. CFIP                    1.323   3.622   3.623   3.449  3. 377  17. 394   1.846  2.012  2.013  1.916  1.876  9.663
L  EFIP
1. DE1P
Rrnf Refor.            76   1. 129   1.075   1. 313  1,034   S.318    426    627   597    729   575   2.954
Roeb  Lyces          1.477   4.732   3.016   2.948  3.079  15.252     821  2.629  1.676  1.638  1.710   8.473
R3cy- lag            3.522   1.260   1.282     397    93   6.553   1.957    700   712   220    St  3.641
S.h-Iotel DEIP          5.766   7.121   5.373   4.657  4,205  27.123   3.203  3.956  2.985  2,587  2.336  15,068
2. INPF                   153    636   1. 058     500    100  2.447       85    353   586   278       56   1.359
S.t-lotal EF1P             5,919   7.757   6.432   5. 157  4,306  29.570   3. 2U  4.309  3. 573  2,865 2.392  16.428
C. OSSERL  BE L ENPt0I       420     438    686      716   374   2.633      233   243   381    398   208   1.463
S.  FOMI. MISIC.           2.046       -       -       -      -  2.046   1.137       -      -      -      -   3 137
E. E'41R                      83     556    817   1,783    442  3.682        46   309   454   991    246   2 046
F. BPE                       267    283      268     285   235   1.339      148   157    149    158   131    744
Total PROJECT COSIS         12.058  12.656  11.825  11.391  8.733  56,664   6.699  7.031  6.570  6.328  4.852  31.480
,,,,,,,,=   ::::          ,,,,,,    =:-==  =,=c  s:  ==::  :::::=- ::=  ,,== ::::=: =======
April 13. 1992 09:28
OQ
S
0h0
NI-



REP UB t IQeE  Of E  NA D4G AS CAR
VET
Sisary Account by Project Copwonent
(IN2G illon)
EFIP
DEIP                                                                     Physical
Contiinpncies
R nf  Rbhb                         OBSERV DE  fORI.                              ------------
ClhFP   Rlfor. Lycees  1ecy-  1a   IIPF   t EUPLOI  AGRIC.  E12FAR    SPE    Total          I    Amn
2:::c::::: :S.I:::: ::S::::::::::        :: 2 :: ::::,:  ::::::  2:::::   :2::::   :::::    ::::=::
1. IVMSTNEII COSIS
A. GEIIE CIVIL                    62      67   1.952         549     185           -     283     942        -    4.041   10.0     404
B. ECUIPENEINT
Equip_mmntJllat. fowrn.       458     879   8.392       2.603     478           -     382     640        -   13. 832   10.0  1. 383
V hicules                      76     420        -          -       -           -       -     286        -      782   10.0      78
Ordinturs                       -       -        -          -       -           -       -      59        -      159   10.0       16
Sub-Total EWUIPEEINT             534   1.299   8.392       2.603     478                 382   1.085        -   14.773   10.0   1,477
C. IfILIER                         0      53       42         38       9           -       -       -        -      142   t0.0       14
0. CNISULIANTS
Consuitant Intern           2.037      49     743       2.075   1.026      2.185      475     190        -    7.780    S.0     389
Consultant Nat.                 -       -       -          37       -           -       -       -       -        37    5.0       2
Etude                           -       -       -           -       -           -     297       -        -      27    S. 0       IS
Sub-lotal COiSULTMItS          1.037      49      743      2. 112   1.026     2.185      772     190        -    8.114    5.0     406
E. fORfAl]O
for_lton Ext.                 351     219        -          -       -           -       -     It?        -      687    5.0      34
forelton Local.               180   2.215        -          -     287           -     374       -        -    2.955    5.0      148                                                                1
fond d  fora               13.205       -        -          -       -           -       -       -        -   13.205    0.0       0                                                                 No
Sub-Total fQR1141I            23.7 35   2.434       -la                                  374      117       -   18.847 U   . ;     182
f. OPRAT IOIIS
Nbteriel etc                  248        -       -          -        -          -       -        -     267      515    5.0       26
Sataires                      532      42        -          -       -           -       -       -     279       853    5.0      41
Genral                        201        -       -5                  -          -       -      157     375      748    S. 0      37
Sub-lotal OPERAIISN5             981      42        -         IS             -                    157     921    2. 116    5.0     106
. TlUT                           237     213      966        225      101          -       -      328     138    2.207   10.0    221
lotal INVES4EIIT COSTS           16.56W  4.158  12.095        5.542   1.986       2.185   1.810   2.818   1.059   4A.240    5.8   2.810
lotal BMSEtINE COSIS              16.586   4.158  12.095       5.542   1.986       2.185   1.810   2.818   1.059   48.240    5.8   2.810
Physical Contingncies             212     289   1. 172        448      138        109     124     259       60    2.810    0.0        0
Price Contingencies               597     871   1.984         563      323        339     112      Gob     219    5.614    7.3     411
Total PRJECT COSTS                17.394   5.318  15.252       6.553   2.447       2.633   2,046   3.682   1.339   56.664    5.7   3.221
foreign Exchsng                20,695   2.773  12.569       5.465   1.818       2.212   I. 195   2.443     524   39.693    6. 1   2.4)7
April 13. 1992 09:28
04
_ Dw



R E P U 8 L I QUE f   DE  N A D A G A S C A R
VET
PROJECI COST SU9339R9
IFIG Hllillio              iUSS '0001                      total
- ---------------------  -------- ------------- XI Foroign   Base
Local  Foreign Total    Local  Foreign Total    Exchange    Costs
-=z.==:                    ::zP=:; -:`::   :       :   ::=:
A. ENFIP                               6.328  10.258  16,586   3.516   5.99   9,215             62       34
B. EflP
1. BEIP
Renf  Refor.                    1. 861   2.296   4. 158   1,034   1. 276   2. 310         55         9
Rehib  Lyc"s                    1, 968  10. 127  12.095   1.094   5.626   6. 719          84        2S
Racy- leg                         837   4.705   5.542       465   2.614   3.079           85        11
Sub-lotal SEIP                     4.667  17,128  21.795   2.593   9.516  32.308             79        45
2. INPF                              469   1,517   1.986       261      843   1,103          76         4
Sub-Total EFlP                        5.136  18,645  23.781   2.853  10.358  13,212              78       49
C. OBSERY DE I ENPLOI                    320   1,865   2. 85       178  1036   1,214           85         5
9.  FOR. UGRIC.                          751   1 059   1.810      417      588   1.00          59         4
E. ENFAR                                865   1,953  2818        481   1,085   1.566            69        6
f. BPE                                   611     448   1.059      339      249     589          42         2
Total BASELINE COSTS                    14.011  34.229  48.240   7,784  19.016  26,800             71      t00
Physical Contingencies                 646   2,164   2.810       359   1.202   1.563            77        6
Prico Contingncies                   2.314   3.300   5.614   1,286   1.833   3.119             59        12
Total PROOECT COSTS                     16.971  39,693  56.664   9.428  22.052  31.480             70      tl?
s=-========   -===:=    ==:=== ==== =.:    = :== =:: 
April 13. 1992 09:28
g0
_ D
t4>



REPO UE   IOUE  D   1  NABA GA SC AR
VEI
sUimARY ACCOUNiTS COST SUuRV
IFINl RI Iicnl             (      I$ 000)               S Total
-----------------------  ----------------------  7, Foreign   Bose
tocal foreign Total    Local  Foreign Total    Exchange    Costs
..9     sz.x: : =:::::  :::::::          : :    : ::   :
1. INVESItENI COSTS
A. GENIE CIVIL                 1.790   2.251   4,041      994   1.251   2,245          56        8
. EOtUIPENEiT
Equipmnt/Nat. /fourn.           -  13.,32  13,832        -   7.684   7,684         100       29
VahiWule                        -     782     782        -     435     435         100        2
Ordinatwus                            159      tS9       -      88      88         100        0
Sub-lotal EQUIPEIENT               -  14. 773  14. 773      -    .207   8.207         to        31
C. IODILIER                       99      44      142      55      24      79          31        0
0. CONSULTANTS
Consultant Intern           1.139   6.641   7.780      633   3.690   4.322          85       16
Consultant Nat.                30       8      37       16       4      21          20        0
Etudes                        297       -     297      165       -     165           -        I
Sub-Total CONSULAIMI1S         1.465   6.649   8.114      814   3. 694   4.508         82       t7
E. FOl1UTION
Formation Ext.                  -     687     687        -     382     382         100        I
Formation Locals            2,051     904   2.955   1.139      502   1.642          31        6
fond de Form                5191   8,014  13.205   2.884   4.452   7.336            81       27
Sub-lot3l FORIAT ION           7.242   9,605  16.847   4.023   5.336   9.359           57       35
F. OPEAFIONS
Nateriel etc                    -     515     515        -     286     286         100        I
Selaires                      765      88     853      425      49     474          10        2                                                                                                     0
General                       443     304      748     246     169     415          41        2                                                                                                     0
Sub-lotal OPERATIONS           1.209     907   2. 116     671     504   1. 175         43        4
G. IUT                         2.207        -   2.207   1.226       -   1.226           -        5
Total BASELINE COSTS              14.011  34.229  48.240   7,784  19,016  26.800           71       100
Physical Contingenis              646   2.164   2.810      359   1.202   1.561          77        6
Price Contingencis              2,314   3.300   5.614   1.286   1. 833   3.119          59        12
Total PROJECT COSIS               16.971  39.693  56.664   9,428  22.052  31.480           70       117
A==ri1. ==-==== 3=.zz  =====2 =0=9:== ===-:=  =::::::= 09:::=:
April 13, 1992 09:28
OQ



R E P U 1 L I Q U E DE N C A A c r s c A R
'ET
financing Plan By Biburmmst Category
(USS 'O03
IDA       NINIStERE       UmNP          EiN         fC            I1UT      Covernmnt       Total                    Local
---  ------------                tExcl.  Duties 8
Auwnt   5         rn_t  S   h.rnt  7   Amount  1   Aunt  7   6wfl  S    Amott  S               rn X t   I    for. Exch.  Taxes)   Taxe
:3:::::: .=:.  ::=:== :::  =:==== :=:  ::=::: ::=  :::::: ===  ==.= ====  ======   =  =.=,==== ==== =    ======  ====-===
A. C(NSIRUCIIOU           2.464   85        -   -        -   -        -   -      315  11        -    -      134   5    2.913    9         1.549   1.364          -
B. EO/1NOJAUTJEN          8 357   79        -   -        -   -        -   -   1.425  14         -    -      731   7   10.514   33        10.439      74
t  CONSULTANIS            2.999   65        -   -      625  35        -   -        -   -        -    -        -   -    4.624   15         3.125     899          -
0. FDO lt8IO1             3.25?  100                     -   -                                                0   0    3.257   10         1.628   1.629          -
E. FiD ClflP              4.716   64        -   -        -   -   2.096  29      524   7         -    -        -   -    7.336   23         4.452   2.884
F. fR4IS Of FONCd.          404   76        -   -        -   -        -   -        -   -        -    -      127  24      532    2           202     330          -
C  St*AIRES                 58    95       31   5                                                             -   -       6t9    2           Ss     561          -
H. TUF                        -    -        -   -        -   -        -   -        -   -    ,686  i0          -   -    I.686    5             -   1.6856         -
Total Disburment           22.7B4   72       31   0   I.625   5   2.096   7   2.265   7   1.686    5          993   3   31.480  100        22.052   9.428
..:== ===      ::::=   ===  ====== --==    ====  ::=-  =::==   =:=  ====== ====  ===== ===  =======- ::=:  ==========   ===-=======
April 13. 1992 09:28
a-
x,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
SoI
_aa
- w



RE PUBtI t BE0     K   NA DA4  SSCAR
VE)
firnaning Plan by Smrwy Accounts
INS.1 *oooI
IDA       KiIWSIEu       mm19         us8         1*6           lu        ovwanint       total                  loali
basa    S n t  I ammt%                 AND'unt  %   Almo"% I    nmt I    AsMt  2   AnufA   I    for. tEach  lazes)   TOMe
SnugS, a::. :.:... S..     :. SR   :::2S.3.  3                S:u. .. Xs=.=                    cc: Zn   =.:.n:stnt.z        :.
a. f8nisEU costs
A. Sf811 civet                 2.464   65        -   -       -                      315  II       -    -      124   5    2.913    2        2.56e  1.254 
1qmatj3ntAbl. /1mwM         1.20     177                  -                    1.425  IS       -    -     12    A    9.445   30        4445         --
Vsbicuales                    it?  too       -                -       - -          - -         -     -       - -        521    2          so1       - 
bdlnat.wa                     112  100        -           - -         --112    0                                                          112       -
Seb-1otaI EN611611             7.27   79                 -   -                    1   . 421  14                M   2    7   10.014   32   10.014       - 
C.KOitIeS                         94   9)        -   -                                                         t             o   9  204    0  26      74-
*. UmiJIs
Consultant Inet,           3.403   6         -   -   1.625  32        -                                               .M0   is         4.213     73 
Consultant bl.                 2530 too                       -       --      -  -   -                                   25    0            S      20 
had..                  155200---     - - ----    --   ----    --   ----    --   ----   --    ----   ---    ----    --   -----    ---   ------    -----   -----
Sub-Ttala   I NSSUIAIJS        3.613   53        -   -   1.625  31       -                                                .29    17        4.204   2.065 S
E. FOWA61I6
formation Ept.                405  too       ---                                      -             -        -   -      455    1         415        - 
lortmiom  tocale            2.124  200       - -          -           .-                                    0 0       2.12      I        66      .52
Ign do Fogm                 4.116  54        - -              -2.065  29         524   7       -    --                7.335   23       4.452   2.88 U
9:-Iotal lOAInISS              7.266   74        -           -   - 2.096  21        524   1                     0   0    9.916   32       1.110   4.400 
F. 013*118IO5
listoriol eto                 331  10             -       - -                          -   -                 -   -      335               335                  -0
Salaifts                      53595         315 S                                                            -   -      S1B    2           S11   551 
Sumeta                        404176          -                                                            1         27 24  132    2      202     330- 
Sub-Total  P'INTI81S           '.2    83        31  2        -            - -         -                -      221   9    1.485    5          564     ml 
G, lei                             -                    -  -    -                     - -    .606  100          -   -    1.685    S                  S".65 
Total INVtSTIIENI COSTS          22.786   72       31   0   1.625   5   2.090   7  2.265   7   1. 6B6    5       993   3   31.480  200       22.052   0.428-
Tegal Disburemnt                  22.1784   72      31  0   1.625   5   2.096   1   2.265   1   1.686    S        993   3   31.480  100       22.052   9.42           -
*Pit13. 1392 09:26
00



R E P U B t I e t E  DE  1 A D   A 6 A S C A R
VEI
Financing Plan by Project Cqonants
USS ' 0001
IDA       HINISTERE       U4OP        UEN          fAC          TUI       VorCAnt        total                    tocal
------------  ..........  ..........  ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  ------------                   clExe.  Duties A
emot   *    hount  I   _oImt  %   bout  :   boat  S                w,tm  I    boimt  *    Iount   I    For. Exch  1Tax"         Tasa
333.3:  ..a3:    ::.: :::  :3:5=:  It:  ,=.S  :::  fl * :::  :s::f ::          :  .==:=:  ::== =:::  :::.::::= .:::==:  ===:====
A. CIFIP                    6.823   11        -   -        -        2.096  22     563   6      12   2        0   0    9.663   31        S.942   3.122           -
B. EfIP
1. KIP
mnt llsfor.           2.160   9S       31   1        -   -       -   -        -   -      164   6           0     2.954    9        1.140   1.414
ba  Itycea            S,.50  6B         -   -     468  6         -   -   1.102  20       133  9        0   0      . 473  27        6. 93   1.491          -
bcy- lap              2.593   II                -        -       -   -        -   -      173   5     875  24    3.641   12         3.036     605          -
Sb-lotal KIP            10.923   i2       31   0      468   3        -   -   1.702  11   1.069   1      875   6   IS.068   48        11.559   3.50           -
2. IIPF                    601  44         -   -      68I10          -   -       -   -           67        -   -    1.359    4        1.010      34S         -
Sob-lotal fflP              11525   10      31   0   1.14    1         -   -   1.102  10   1.14?   *       S75   5   16.428   12       12.S6S9   3.818          -
C. IDSUWU E tNPLI             us 6S           -   -      477  33        -   -        -   -       -   -        -   -    1,463    5        t.229      234          -
9,  FOOL  AIL                1.137  100        -                                                                  -    1.137    4          664      473          -
1. E1lAR                     1.6n1  82        -   -        -   -        -   -        -   -     212  12    1I    6    2.046    6         1.357      688          -
*. WE                         S      U6       -   -        -   -        -   -       -   -      106  14            -      744    2          291      413
_.. .     .....  ......   ..   ....                               ......    ..  ....  _   --   -- - -_ -- - - -- -       - - - - -- -
Total *istmrwsmt             22.7S4   72       31   0   1.625   1   2.096   1   2.265   1   1.66   1         993   3   31.4S0  to0       22.0s2   9.42S
#33333: 32=.  as3s32    sx32  332323 a * fl32 ago  333fl  can   3         2    fl3 ast35    : =2 = = =   == =         = 32253 = == :32=
OpriS 1, IM 06:26
0-
0
'3)
4J~~~~~~~~~



- 104 -                                                                       ANNEX 13
R I P U B L I e  U       E  OE   t A D A e A s c A  A                                 Page   21   of  21
VET
financing Pion by foreir Excoharn    / Local / Taxec
IDA   tINISIERE  UNOP   OEM          fAC     TUT   Govornmsnt Total
....... ......... ...... ...... ...... ...... .......... .......
ounmt        Aoun t Aount Aount Aount bAotmt                bamunt Amount
1.   foroii,tn            lii,S4fi          3  t,374   1,272  4.911           -          846  22.052
It.  Local IENGI. Tales$         6. 135          28     252      824     354  I.686          - 1447   0428
I II. Taxes                    .                                            -...                          . .  .     
Ill.   fames           ...... :  .......................................................................................................................
Total Project                    22.7U4           31  1.825  2.096  2.26'  1.t886               993  31,480
33g3a38 $83338383  482288 323833 as8asg 383      8*8 3383283383 2.3.3*3
...............................................                  ............ _
Ir   1        toot992  it:28
R E P U B t I e U E OE it AO 4A G A S C A R
VET
Oisburswmnt By Finrancier By Ssuter
4uss I0oo0
IOA   NINISTERE  UNOP   BEN l        FC      TUT   0overrnnt Total
.... ................................. .........  ... ....... ......  ........  ........  ............. .......
nmt             tAp    unt w tAunt Amcunt Amount            kount Amount
Semeter
2.228           3     236      210       8I     455          437   3.350
2              2.228            3    236    210         81      155          437    3.350
3              2.5t2            3     367      2t0     256      163            6   3.516
4              2.i512           3     367      210     256      163            6   3.516
5              2.533            3      103    210      264      465            r   3.285
2.533          3      403    210      264      165            7   3.285
2.398           3      10?    210      262      173            12   3.164
2.398            3     107    210      262      173           12   3,164
9                .1722          4        -    210      270      187           34   2.426
10               1. 122          4              210     270      187           34   2.426
_,........ ............ ...... ........ . ,..._........ ...... ............... .............   
Total                  22. 784          31  1.625  2.096  2.265  1. 686              993  31. 480
33*3g23   382*882      883 *33g3 33333 33s*3    2*338*  383*as3a3s 33s3a8s
.......... ................_.__.....__.._.._.___......,  _  _........._.
April 43. t962  09:28



- 105-
ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 1
FAMAENMD D SQULR OFD R
USS MILLION
92 September 30, 1992             1.0                    1.0            4
December 31, 1992              0.0                   1.0            4
93 March 31, 1993                 0.5                    1.5            7
June 30, 1993                  0.0                   1.5            7
September 30, 1993             0.5                   2.0            9
December 31, 1993              1.0                   3.0            13
94 March 31, 1994                 1.0                    4.0           18
June 30, 1994                  1.0                   5.0            22
September 30, 1994             1.0                   6.0            26
December 31, 1994              1.0                   7.0            31
95 March 31, 1995                 1.5                    8.5           37
June 30, 1995                  1.5                   10.0           44
September 30, 1995             1.5                   11.5           50
December 31, 1995              1.5                   13.0           57
96 March 31, 1996                 1.5                   14.5        I  64
June 30, 1996                  1.5                   16.0           70
September 30, 1996             1.0                   17.0           75
December 31, 1996              0.9                   17.9           79
97 March 31, 1997                 1.1                   19.0           83
June 30, 1997                  1.0                   20.0           88
September 30, 1997             0.5                   20.5           90
December 31, 1997              0.5                   21.0           92
98 March 31, 1998                 1.0                   22.0           96
June 30, 1998                  0.8                   22.8          100



-106-
ANNEX L1
Page 1 of 2
MADAGASCAR
WAPWER lElN ING PROJC
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT  L
1.    Madagascar: Employment and vocational training sector note. Pierre Runner, May
1990 (consultant report prepared with French Trust Fund and IDA financing).
2.    Formation Technique et Professionnelle: rapport du Groupe II du Groupe de Travail
de Prdparation du Projet Education, 1987 (together with reports on supporting
dies).
3.    Rapport sur l'Institut National de Promotion Formation: situation et perspectives.
Professor Raymond Ranjeva and colleagues, for UNDP/ILO 1989.
4.    Povet Alleviation in Madagascar: Country assessment and policy issues. World
Bank SDA Project Unit, June 1989.
S.    Working Paper 1: CNFTP, December 14, 1990
6.    Working Paper 2.1 and 2.3: Component for the Direction de IPEnseignement
Technique et Professionnel of MINESEB, Antananrvo, February 27, 1991 -
.eforcen,  Reforme, Recyclage.
7. Working Paper 2.2: Component for the rehabilitation of seven lycdes techniques.
Direction do l'Enseignement Technique et Professionnel, MINESEB, Antnanarivo,
November 1990.
S.    Working Paper 2.4: Component for the INPF. INPF, December, 1990
9.    Working Par 3: Component for the Observatoire de l'Emploi. Professor Andre
Rosanvallon, ILO, July 1990. Also UNDP Project Document for this component.
10. Working Paper 4: Component for Agricultural Training Evaluation. Working group
of Minities of Animal Production and Foresty, and Agriculture, April 1991.
11. Working Paper 5: Component for ENFAR. ENFAR, December 1990.
12.   Decree establishing the satutes of CNFTP, February 1992.
13.   Mamnu of procedures for CNFTP and criteria for project selection, April 1991.
14. Decree No 92.279 of February 1992 establishing the Conseil National de Formation
Technique et Professionnelle.



- 107 -
ANNE" 1
Page 2 of 2
15.   Decree No 92.480 of April 1992 establishing the "Groupements d'Etablissements
d'Enseignement Technique et Professionnelle" (Regional administrations for TVET
schools), April 1992.
16.   Decree No 92.432 of April 1992 establishing the 'Centre de Ressources des
Personnels des Etablissements d'Enseignement Technique et Professionnel (CERES)",
the national college for training TVET teachers, trainers and administrators.



IBRD 20035R
I =  44                                                            4.                                                       I
tntslranana
MADAGASCAR                                                                                                       nlraa
Poavd rods
Reute, gevdalrnd.,
All-wheover roads
Ovuffs Ocojibr/eA,fsA toutE 53sn                                       Nmy4E                  A.nbitobe '-
-- -Nonpeprmot rentc rods                                                              S                  4  Vehinorina
Roant., tvv/ii&^+bono sW*
RAiu$loadsonis
Chemin Ae. for~mbnj 
.-...Rivers                                                                                                    '
Ftew, t of rivi'i 'f fv,   ANTSIRANAN.
4  Airports 
*  Notional capital                                                                          eivn
Ceapitew dEt.P                                                                                       I
*     Foritany (provincer capitals
Foritanv  boundaries                                                                                             Angoloha
Limit.,ds owFenton1 
I, lnternatianai boundaries                                                        Tie a driaa        9  
Limita, dest.t                                                                                         0oen  tstn
;_} M A H A J ANGAw      <              2                                     /
58erohmPr      tMonetanorX   < '             rgporw     {ov" A ~M)reno Nrass   g  k     
/~ ~ ~  ~   ~   ~   ~  ~ ~e v t                                  TO   M       I I < A  I> s ol// + 54 b df tle
t  >^°   nob   t               )    0 tAndilemeJ ~nova                   v a  Ahb4nona
A40tlbanoe                                               adif_bottot
S ;       i                 Anndid+@ M""Os                  o       m      s n
0OAnirazobe    Abiano0hny
Antsina                        a ( l Mwl
20                                      i                                               a<ooobJ                                                           2°6
STir         \~    0s,        Flofinonoreina       milos:rra          hosrrohA a
<              |  ~~~~~~TOLIAq Y              I                     moiosa/
fr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ir
/   \                     d~A,,,b  F IAN AR SO _ 
1   }          OAnkobo  !            lhosyJ\                           onko
ipno     rILOMrtfRS 0      50    '00    i50   200
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IE 6    B                                                *     ro   160{
ToliorT _   /  (   M1donry  >            I ZAIR    TANZANIA             INi N.v
Tile Kfbliokh-as /U5~                      ;AMB A                                                  ~Ahime  -         OC6A
--mwue_nPder it The MteitBa+                                 U                                                /   '.-<gf' (k  N  N
to oen0moIO Ofe e.No                                                                    t oninava,v
,"*M &V a .*M* Ax ft                       fAb.ba 
M M  w d.                                       )       \AoM to  5MAD(AGAS AR
aS'*" Dv* L Irona M.> Y o 
ow .V-0 -   gk
sorlaram me,oE                                                                                                 AFRICA       I
i,ILAN1
JUNE 1990



