Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 20034-MAG
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
AMANPOWER TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 2382-MAG
January 21, 2000
Human Development IV
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit: Malagasy Franc (FMG)
(Period average)
1992: US$1.00 = FMG 1864                      1996: US$1.00 = FMG 4061
1993: US$1.00 = FMG 1914                      1997: US$1.00 = FMG 5091
1994: US$1.00 = FMG 3067                      1998: US$1.00 = FMG 5441
1995: US$1.00 = FMG 4266               1999 (Jan. I to Jun 30): US$1.00= FMG 6,065
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARIF         Association Regionale Interprofessionnelle pour le developpement de la Formation professionnelle.
BPE          Education Project Office (Bureau du Projet Education - BPE-PREFTEC)
CEFA         Cellule d'Enseignement et de Formation Agricole
CERES        Centre d'Etudes et de Ressources du Personnel de l'Enseignement Technique
CFP          Public Sector Vocational School (Centre de Formation Professionnelle)
CNFTP        National Technical and Vocational Training Council (Conseil National de la Formation Technique et
Professionnelle)
CRESED       Education Sector Reinforcement Credit (Cridit pour le Renforcement du Secteur de I'Education)
DCA          Development Credit Agreement
DET          Departmnent of Technical and Vocational Education
EASTA        Ecole d'Application des Sciences et Techniques Agricoles
ENAM         National Civil Service Training School (Ecole Nationale d'Administration Malgache)
FAC          French Aid and Cooperation Fund (Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation)
FIFP         Training Fund (Fonds d'Intervention pour la Formation Professionnelle)
FPI          Pre-service training (Formation Professionnelle Initiale)
FPQ          In-service training (Formation Professionnelle Qualifiante)
GIREFTP      Groupement Inter-Rigional des Etablissements de Formation Technique et Professionnelle
IDA          International Development Association
ILO          International Labor Office
INPF         National Vocational Training Institute (Institut National de la Promotion de la Formation)
IST          Higher Institute of Technology (Institut Supirieur de Technologie)
LTP          Lycee Technique Professionnel
MEF          Ministry of Employment and Training
METFP        Ministry of Technical Education and Vocational Training (Ministere de l'Enseignement Technique et
de la Formation Professionnelle)
MINESEB    Ministry of Basic and Secondary Education (Ministere de I 'Enseignement Secondaire et de I 'Education
de Base)
MINESUP    Ministry of Higher Education (Minist0re de l'Enseignement Supirieur)
NGO           Non Governmental Organization
ONCE         Observatoire National des Compitences et de l'Emploi
ONEF         Observatoire National de l'Emploi et de la Formation
ONG          Organisation Non Gouvernementale
PEP, PIP     Public Expenditure (Investment) Program
PNAE         National program for the improvement of education (Programme National d'Amelioration de
I 'Education)
PREFTEC      Manpower Training Project (Projet de Renforcement de la Formation Technique et Professionnelle)
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SNFTP        Systeme National de Formation Technique et Professionnelle
TVET         Technical and Vocational Education and Training (Enseignement Technique et Formation
Professionnelle - ETFP)
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
Vice-President: Mr. Callisto Madavo
Country Director: Mr. Michael Sarris
Sector Manager: Mr. Arvil Van Adams
Task Manager: Mr. Daniel Viens



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
MANPOWER TRAINING PROJECT
(CREDIT 2382-MAG)
PREFACE
TABLE OF CONTENTS
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction ..................................................
Project Objectives ................................................1i
Implementation Experience and Results ................................................                                            iii
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned ................................................                   iv
1.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .................................................1
Project Objectives .................................................1
Achievement of Project Objectives ......2..........................................2
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ...............                       .................................4
Project Sustainability .................................................6
Bank Perfornance ................................................7
Borrower Performance .................................................8
Assessment of Outcome .................................................9
Future Operation ................................................                                                                 10
Key Lessons Learned ................................................                                                              12
2.  STATISTICAL ANNEX ................................................                                                            15
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ................................................                                                  16
Table 2: Related Bank Loans and IDA  Credits ................................................                                     18
Table 3: Project Timetable ................................................                                                       19
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ................................................                   19
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ................................................ 20
Table 6: Key Indicators Operation ................................................                                                27
Table 7: Studies Included in Project ................................................                                             28
Table 8: Project Costs ................................................ 31
Table 9: Project Financing ................................................                                                       32
Table 10: Economic Costs and Benefits ................................................ 32
Table  11: Status of Legal Covenants in the Credit Agreement ................................................                     33
Table 12: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ................................................                          41
Table 13: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ................................................                                           41
Table 14: Bank Resources: Missions ................................................                                               42
Annex A: Aide-m6moire de la mission du secteur de l'education de la Banque mondiale
Annex BI: Borrower Assessment of Project Implementation
Annex B2: Borrower 's comments on the ICR
Annex C: Sector Policy Letter (Strategy for TVE7)
Annex D: Map IBRD No. 20035RI
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
MANPOWER TRANING PROJECT
(CREDIT 2382-MAG)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Manpower Training
Project (Projet de Renforcement de la Formation Technique et Professionnelle - PREFTEC)
in Madagascar, for which a Credit (2382-MAG) in the amount of SDR1 6.7 million (US$22.8
million equivalent) was approved on June 9, 1992, signed on June 25, 1992, and made
effective on January 15, 1993. The Credit aimed at assisting the Government to implement a
new strategy for technical and vocational education and training (TVET).
The Credit was closed on June 30, 1999, one year behind schedule. An estimated
SDR460,000 (US$ 630,000 equivalent) is expected to be cancelled. The last disbursement
took place on October 27, 1999. In addition to the government counterpart contribution and
contributions by beneficiaries (employers, NGOs and other training institutions, and
trainees), the project was to be cofmanced by France and the UNDP.
The ICR was prepared by Rachidi B. Radji (Human Development Economist - AFMCI) and
Paul Geli (consultant), and editorial input was provided by Maryanne Sharp (Operations
Analyst - AFC08). Nellie Sew Kwan Kan (Team Assistant, AFTH4) assisted in the
processing of the report. It was reviewed by Daniel Viens (Task Manager for the project -
AFTH4) and Mr. Arvil Van Adams (Sector Manager, AFTH4). Preparation of this ICR was
started during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission in May 1999. It is based on
materials in the project file, and on the interviews of people who have been associated with
the project during implementation. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR
by providing views reflected in the mission's aide-memoire (annex A), by preparing its own
evaluation of the project's execution (annex B1) and by commenting on the draft ICR (annex
B2).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
MANPOWER TRAINING PROJECT
(CREDIT 2382-MAG)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction.
1.    At the time of project preparation and appraisal in the early 1990s, the technical
and vocational education and training (TVET) system in Madagascar faced a number of
critical issues. Vocational training was perceived as, and actually was, a supply-driven
service delivered mostly (if not entirely) in public training institutions offering traditional
programs unrelated to labor market needs. The system was poorly planned and
administered, and institutions were inefficient and ran low-quality programs. Cost
sharing, cost recovery policies, and adequate funding was lacking. In addition, private
investment in skills development was minimal, and enterprises were unaware of the
benefits of in-service training and uninvolved in policy-making and management
decisions. To restructure the system, the Government developed a sector strategy (Annex
C) in discussion with IDA. The strategy recognized the need to: (a) establish a strong
institutional framework to provide policy guidance and improve coordination; (b) involve
employers in TVET; (c) develop better information on TVET and the labor market; (d)
increase the internal efficiency of TVET sub-systems and better match supply and
demand; (e) base future training on diversified models; and (f) contain the costs of public
TVET to provide resources for more practical training. The strategy also recognized the
need for cost recovery and cost sharing by employers and trainees, including financial
contributions by employers through direct subsidies and training contracts.  The
Government strategy addressed the correct issues and deserved support as an integral
component of Madagascar's broader education reform program (PNAE - Programme
National d'Amelioration de l'Education).
Project Objectives.
2.    According to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), the project aimed to
establish a technical and vocational education and training system encompassing private
and public training institutions and responsive to actual training needs of the economy.
More detailed and precise in their definition, the objectives stated in the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR) were to support a program of reform to make technical and vocational
education and training (TVET) more responsive to the needs of employers and the labor



Page ii                                                  Evaluation Summary
market, give a more important role to the private sector (both NGO and commercially-run
schools) in the provision of TVET, promote cost recovery in TVET, thus providing funds
for increased levels of training without increasing the burden on public expenditures,
increase quality and efficiency of public sector TVET, and improve training of civil
servants. Specific objectives were to: (a) establish a system to develop TVET policy and
promote, coordinate and finance training by private and public training institutions and
employers, so as to meet the needs of the economy, making efficient use of the limited
public and private resources available; (b) establish a system to provide information
about the labor market and TVET needs; (c) rehabilitate and reform the public TVET
system, and increase its quality and internal and external efficiency; (d) commence the
process of agricultural education and training reform; and (e) develop the training system
for senior civil servants. The project objectives were not modified during project
implementation.
3.    To achieve these objectives, the project consisted of five components: (i)
development of the National Council of Technical and Vocational Education (CNFTP),
including a training fund (FIFP); (ii) restructuring and strengthening of the TVET system;
(iii) introduction of a labor market information system; (iv) reform of agricultural
education and training; and (v) training for senior civil servants. General administration
of the credit and logistical support were to be provided by the education project office
(BPE/PREFTEC), but the CNFTP was also given its own special account. The whole
project was to be coordinated by a committee chaired by the Minister of the Ministry of
Technical Education and Vocational Training (METFP). The total project cost estimate
was US$31.5 million equivalent; the project was expected to be completed by December
31, 1997 and the credit to be closed on June 30, 1998.
4.   In addition to the standard clauses for special accounts, counterpart funds, project
objectives and the Borrower's commitment to those objectives, procurement, audit and
the mid-term review, a number of covenants in the Development Credit Agreement
(DCA) were expected to help achieve project objectives. Those covenants dealt with
project coordination, the responsibilities of a newly established ministry in charge of
vocational training (METFP), work programs, monitoring of training institution
enrollments, conditions of financing by the training fund, a study on vocational training
financing, and preparation of public expenditure and investment programs.
5.    The project objectives were clear, but lacked quantitative indicators of success;
only input and output indicators were developed and monitored during project
implementation. The project was complex and demanding for the Borrower, since it
involved a change in the structure of the sector and required a different approach,
philosophy and mindset of the responsible officials, private sector beneficiaries and training
operators. The objectives were, and remain essential, for establishing the foundations of
sustainable development of the sector. However, in the context of implementation, those
objectives proved to be unrealistic in light of the magnitude of reforms required and the
degree of commitnent and mobilization of the main players involved.



Page iii                                                 Evaluation Summary
Implementation Experience and Results.
6.    Little has been done to document achievements, and monitonng activities have
started only recently. In addition to the institutional development and capacity-building
activities carried out (CNFTP, DCF, ONEF, CERES, GIREFTPs) and the rehabilitation and
equipment of 8 LTPs (Lycees Techniques Professionnels), three important accomplishments
are deserving of mention. These are: (i) improved functioning of the CNFTP and the
training fund (FIFP), which has contributed to creating links between the private production
sector and the TVET system (638 training subprojects were executed benefiting 18,277
workers, 25% of whom were women and 40% of whom were from the informal sector and
associations; the financial contribution of the beneficiaries was 27% on average); (ii) the
progress made in decentralizing the management of the system by delegating increased
responsibilities to the managers of training establishments and increasing the private supply
of TVET; and (iii) the introduction of in-service vocational training courses (FPQ -
Formation Professionnelle Qualifiante), even though these will require some modifications.
On the other hand, the expansion of the system has been largely based on conventional
training approaches and the quality of training and strategic management of the system is
still weak. Overall, much remains to be done to fully accomplish the project's initial
development objectives - particularly in ensuring that demand drives the system and
increasing the quality and effectiveness of the public training supply. An operational audit
of the 62 public establishments revealed the persistence of deficiencies in the management
of the system. Achievements have been rather insignificant in establishing a system for
monitoring and analyzing labor market and training needs data, and limited in scope for
launching the reform of agricultural education and training and for civil service training.
7.   In sumnmary (Table 1), achievements can be assessed as substantial for physical
objectives, partial for sector policies, financial objectives, institutional development and
private sector development, and negligible for public sector management; other
objectives listed in Table 1 do not apply.
8.    Whether achievements produced in relation to the project's major objectives
would be maintained in the future is on balance uncertain (Table 1). On the positive side,
the project brought about important changes in the thinking, attitudes and approach of all
parties involved in TVET. However, three aspects of the project give rise to questions of
sustainability. First, the sustainability of the training fund (FIFP) is somewhat fragile in
the absence of a decision on its permanent financing (envisaged as an outcome of the
project). The second aspect concerns the decentralization of the management of the
public system (including the promotion of cost recovery at the establishment level) since
steady management improvement is required. Finally, the durability of the capacity-
building and equipment activities (including the critical activities of CERES) will depend
on availability of the necessary financial resources by all stakeholders.
9.    The latest estimate of the cost of the project is US$27.5 million, compared to the
SAR estimate of US$31.5 million including taxes, or a 13 percent decrease. Despite the
decrease in project cost, and because of the increase in the dollar value of the SDR, IDA
disbursements in dollars were very slightly more than originally forecast (plus 1 percent);
Government and beneficiaries as well as other donors (France and UNDP) contributed



Page iv                                                    Evaluation Summary
less than the original estimates. The credit was closed on June 30, 1999, one year behind
schedule.
10.   A number of factors affected project implementation and the achievement of the
project objectives. One factor that affected project implementation positively was the
change in focus of technical education and vocational training to target poverty
alleviation. The factors that affected project implementation negatively were: (i) the
political situation with its deleterious effect on enterprises and on the motivation of civil
servants entrusted with implementing the reform; (ii) the change in the role of the
coordinating committee; (iii) the inability of government to reform the system for pre-
service technical education and training and to ensure meaningful participation of the
private sector in that system; (iv) changes in Ministers (five Ministers or Delegues
Generaux in five years) and other top personnel; (v) an attempt by the Ministry in
1995/1996 to interfere in the day-to-day management of CNFTP and the project; (vi) the
delayed promulgation of the legal texts for putting in place the organs of CNFTP; and
(vii) the delayed availability of counterpart funds.
11.   Bank performance on this project was satisfactory for identification, deficient for
preparation assistance and appraisal, and marginally satisfactory for supervision.
Borrower performance can be rated as satisfactory for preparation, deficient for
implementation and marginally satisfactory for covenant compliance.
12.   The project outcomes are variable and mixed. While the project has had some
success in fostering changes in attitudes towards in-service training in Madagascar, it fell
short of achieving needed reforms in the public provision of pre-service training. On the
positive side, CNFTP was instrumental in developing a partnership between Government
and the private sector, fostering participation of private enterprises and NGOs in the
promotion, coordination and management of in-service training through eight regional
associations of employers (ARIFs), and developing and disseminating expertise in a
number of key areas. Other positive outcomes include the development of national
capacity in designing and delivering in-service training programs tailored to the needs of
enterprises and workers, and the training of instructors. On the negative side, expected
impact on effectiveness of pre-service training, implementation of a sustainable financing
framework, clarification on the role of the state in the financing and provision of
vocational training, and collection of labor market information failed to materialize.
When examined in the light of three key aspects of the Government's strategy supported
by the project [(namely: (i) adaptation of training to the labor market; (ii) improvement of
the quality and effectiveness of TVET; and (iii) control of public expenditures, cost
recovery and promotion of the private training sector)] and when giving appropriate
weights to all the positives and negatives, the overall outcome of the project can be
assessed as marginally satisfactory.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned.
13.   The project aimed at establishing a technical and vocational education and
training system encompassing private and public training institutions and responsive to
actual training needs of the economy. During implementation, an increased emphasis



Page v                                                     Evaluation Summary
was put on poverty alleviation and decentralization so that at the end the project was
somewhat different from what it was at the beginning. In the absence of satisfactory
arrangements for monitoring and evaluation, it is difficult to document the achievements
and impact of the project.
14.   In a nutshell, the establishment and strengthening of CNFTP which was able to
recruit a good group of competent professionals is an impressive achievement, but
unfortunately CNFTP has had a limited influence on the quality of the steering and
strategic planning of the system. The project was successful in developing a partnership
between government and the private sector, in increasing the role of the private training
sector and in promoting a beginning of cost recovery in the system, partially successful in
transforming the TVET system into a system driven by the needs of the labor market but
unsuccessful in enhancing the quality and effectiveness of the public supply of TVET.
15.    A number of measures should be taken to consolidate the gains already made,
maximize the project benefits and improve sustainability. Those relate primarily to: (i)
in-service training and its financing; (ii) the role and operation of the GIREFTPs; (iii)
TVET reform and the training establishments (LTPs and CFPs); (iv) the training of
teaching staff, (v) the question of the labor market; and (vi) agricultural training.
16.   Some important lessons can be drawn from the implementation of the project, both
with respect to sector policy and the choice of operating approaches and options. The
main lessons are the following:
* The selection and monitoring of key quantified indicators is very important to
facilitate the strategic steering of the reform during project implementation and to
evaluate results at the end of the project.
* In this type of project aimed in particular at increasing the role of the private sector, it
is important to carefully define the State's responsibilities and to better integrate the
private training sector in the sector strategy.  Strong national leadership and
continuity are important for the success of a project that includes major reform of the
sector. Strategic thinking about the development of the private sector (regulation,
supervision, partnership) is also important.
* The successful organization of employers as necessary partners in a demand-driven
training system depends on the correct incentives and the provision of appropriate
technical assistance and support.
* Administrative and financial autonomy, implementation plans, work programs, and a
contracting approach are important to ensure efficient project management and to
allow for flexible implementation with quick results. The participation of all partners
in both project design and execution results in better definition of concepts and
approaches, their greater dissemination and above all their more efficient
implementation.
* Attitude changes are essential elements of sustainability.



Page vi                                                Evaluation Summary
+ The continuous adaptation of training to the needs of the labor market requires
flexibility in the management of the system, and greater assignment of responsibility
to the training establishments can facilitate the emergence of a dynamic aimed at
enhanced efficiency and innovation.
* The successful implementation of in-service training programs could serve as a model
of efficiency for an in-depth reform of pre-service training.
* The arrangements and modalities for the financing of training should take into
account the targeting of beneficiaries and be affordable to the target groups.



1. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
MANPOWER TRAINING PROJECT
(CREDIT 2382-MAG)
1. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Project Objectives
1.1   According to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), the project aimed to
establish a technical and vocational education and training system encompassing private and
public training institutions and responsive to actual training needs of the economy.
1.2   The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) was more detailed and precise in its definition of
the project's objectives. The objectives stated in the SAR were to support a program of
reform to make technical and vocational education and training (TVET) more responsive to
the needs of employers and the labor market, give a more important role to the private sector
(both NGO and commercially-run schools) in provision of TVET, promote cost recovery in
TVET, thus providing funds for increased levels of training without increasing the burden on
public expenditures, increase quality and efficiency of public sector TVET, and improve
training of civil servants. Specific objectives were to: (a) establish a system to develop
TVET policy and promote, coordinate and finance training by private and public training
institutions and employers, so as to meet the needs of the economy, making efficient use of
the limited public and private resources available; (b) establish a system to provide
information about the labor market and TVET needs; (c) rehabilitate and reform the public
TVET system, and increase its quality and internal and external efficiency; (d) commence a
process of agricultural education and training reform; and (e) develop the training system for
senior civil servants. The TVET strategy that the Government intended to follow in the
short- to medium-term, that is during the implementation period of the project, was spelled
out in a Sector Policy Letter, included in Annex C of this ICR.
1.3   The project objectives were not changed during implementation, but at the time of the
mid-term review there was a shift in the beneficiaries of the in-service training provided,
from the large firns of the structured, formal sector to the small and micro enterprises
including those of the informal sector, with greater focus on poverty alleviation and targeting
based on the size of the enterprises and the level of income of the entrepreneurs.



Page 2                                          Project Implementation Assessment
1.4   To help achieve the above objectives, the project consisted of five components: (i)
development of the National Council of Technical and Vocational Education (CNFTP),
including a training fund (FIFP); (ii) restructuring and strengthening of the TVET system;
(iii) introduction of a labor market information system; (iv) reform of agricultural education
and training; and (v) training for senior civil servants.
1.5   The Manpower Training Project was to be coordinated by a committee (Comite de
Coordination) chaired by the Minister of Technical Education and Vocational Training
(METFP). The administration of each component was to be the responsibility of the agency
concerned, and particular attention was to be paid to the working of the CNFTP which was
given its own special account. General administration of the credit and logistical support
were to be provided by the education project office (Bureau du Projet Education - BPE
PREFTEC). The total project cost estimate was US$31.5 million equivalent; the project was
expected to be completed by December 31, 1997 and the credit to be closed on June 30,
1998.
1.6   The project's objectives were clear, but lacked quantitative indicators of success. In
addition, there was some misunderstanding at the level of the implementation strategy since
the sector policy letter was not very explicit and detailed, particularly regarding pre-service
training. The main objectives of the project were to transform the TVET system into a system
driven by the needs of the labor market, to increase the role of the private training sector, to
enhance the quality and effectiveness of the public supply of TVET and to promote cost
recovery in the system. The project was complex since it involved different types of training,
and required coordination between several ministries.  It was also demanding for the
Borrower, since the whole structure of the sector had to be changed with clear separation of
vocational training from basic education.  The project required a different approach,
philosophy and mindset of the responsible officials, private sector beneficiaries and training
operators that were asked to manage their organizations as private enterprises. The SAR
made it clear that controversial measures needed to be phased over a number of years to
switch from formal technical education to employment-oriented vocational training, and that
the implementation of reforms would call for firm commitment and support from all parties,
both public and private, and close coordination among donors. There were many
Government officials and private sector operators who were interested in the reform of
TVET, but the timing of the project may not have been the best given the political transition.
The objectives were, and remain essential, for establishing the foundations of sustainable
development of the sector, in line with the policy of global liberalization of the Malagasy
economy. However, in the context of implementation, those objectives proved to be
unrealistic given the magnitude of reforms required and the degree of commitment and
mobilization of the main players involved.
Achievement of Project Objectives
1.7    The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) had identified three major benefits of execution of
the project, namely: (i) the establishment of a flexible TVET system capable of responding
effectively to the training and qualification needs of the production sector; (ii) the contribution
to better utilization of public resources in the sector, and (iii) strengthening of capacities to(



Page 3                                          Project Implementation Assessment
ensure flexible management of the system. Although little has been done to document
achievements and monitoring activities of output indicators have started only recently, the
Aide-Memoire of the last supervision mission of May 1999 (Annex A) and the Borrower's
Report (Annex Bl), as well as Table 5 on key indicators for project implementation, try to
highlight the achievements and shortcomings of the project. In addition to the institutional
development and capacity-building activities carried out (CNFTP, DCF, ONEF, CERES,
GIREFTPs) and the rehabilitation and equipment of eight LTPs (Lycees Techniques
Professionnels), three important accomplishments are deserving of mention. These are: (i)
improved functioning of the CNFTP and the training fund (FIFP), which has contributed to
creating links between the private production sector and the TVET system; (ii) the progress
made in decentralizing the management of the system by delegating increased responsibilities
to managers of the training establishments; and (iii) the introduction of short, modular in-
service vocational training courses (FPQ - Fonnation Professionnelle Qualifiante), even
though these will require some modifications. On the other hand, the expansion of the system
has been largely based on conventional training approaches and the quality of training and the
strategic management of the system is still weak. Overall, it is observed that much remains to
be done to fully accomplish the project's initial development objectives - particularly in
ensuring that demand drives the system and increasing the quality and effectiveness of the
public training supply.
1.8   Achievements have been partial but nevertheless significant in the development of
sector policy and promotion of private sector involvement. The operationalization of CNFTP
has created the framework for more private sector involvement in sector planning and
development. The capacity of the Council's Executive Secretariat has been progressively
strengthened but the structure itself has had a limited influence on the quality and strategic
planning of the system. The activities of the training fund (FLFP) have energized the growing
links between the production sector and the mechanism for supply of training through the
financing of requests for in-service vocational training (formation continue). As of June 30,
1999, 638 training subprojects were executed benefiting 18,277 workers, 25% of whom were
women. The type of demand for training has changed greatly over the eight years of operation
of the training fund (FIFP). Initially, the majority of beneficiaries were employees of large
business firms, but as of 1995, requests began to be accepted for training from players in the
informal sector and associations, who make up about 40% of the persons trained. The fields
involved are varied but demand is especially strong in tertiary-sector disciplines (management,
accounting, data processing, communication, etc.). More than 38% of the training was
conducted in Antananarivo. The average cost per person trained was US$200 and the financial
contribution of the beneficiaries was 27% on average. The setting up and supporting of eight
ARIFs in the six provinces seems to be a promising approach for ensuring the emergence of
credible in-service vocational training needs. However, these associations remain weak and it
is not clear whether just the promotion of training will be sufficient to ensure the continuing
mobilization and motivation of their members. The private supply of TVET has grown (700
operators currently listed). This supply is of a variable quality and is concentrated in the
terdary-sector training fields.



Page 4                                          Project Implementation Assessment
1.9   Achievements have been more limited with respect to the reform and enhancement of
the quality and effectiveness of TVET. Eight LTPs were rehabilitated and equipped, and
there was a considerable increase in the number of these establishments (26 in 1999). The
establishment heads were made responsible for managing their institutions' budgets. A good
proportion of the teaching staff benefited from basic and/or advanced training courses run by
CERES (educational psychology, training theory and management of training establishments).
Modular qualifying or in-service vocational training courses were launched in the majority of
establishmerts. In 1998/99, around 2,000 students benefited from this type of training, which
represented the main source of revenue for the establishments. Despite the technical support,
equipment and training provided, the steering and strategic management capacity in the system
remains generally weak. There is little information available regarding the hiring of graduates
and evolution of system cost and effectiveness. The findings of an operational audit of the 62
public establishments (26 LTPs and 36 CFPs) revealed the persistence of deficiencies in the
management of the system (weakness in the demand/training approach, diversity of the
training programs, and inefficient management of available resources).
1.10  Achievements have been rather insignificant with respect to the establishment of a
system to monitor and analyze labor market and training needs data. ONEF (formerly ONCE)
products only included preparation of 16 listings of employment opportunities, monographs in
three regions and pilot activities concerning FPQ evaluation, and thus its performance has not
met expectations. Little information has been produced on employment and its development
and the establishment of a monitoring and analysis system remains an open question.
Achievements have been limited in scope for agricultural education and training; the priority
action plan implemented includes, among other things, experimentation with the training of
multipurpose agricultural technicians in two pilot establishments (starting at the beginning of
the 1999/00 academic year). The visibility and validation process of these actions in the
agriculture sector have been insufficient. Achievements in the training of civil servants have
also been limited, in part because of the recruitment freeze in the civil service.
1.11  In summary (Table 1), achievements can be assessed as substantial for physical
objectives, partial for sector policies, financial objectives, institutional development and
private sector development, and negligible for public sector management; other objectives
listed in Table 1 do not apply.
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
1.12 The Borrower's report in Annex B1 describes the implementation record for the
project. Implementation performance has been mixed. At the beginning of the project, the
political climate has been rather turbulent; the public administration came to a complete stop
during the 1991 political events, and no major decision could be made during the transition
period that followed. That situation contributed to the delay in making the credit effective,
and accounts in part for the delay in project completion and the one-year postponement of
credit closing. Also, because of the political climate, enterprises may not have been
particularly inclined to give priority to human resource development, and the motivation of
civil servants may have been affected.



Page 5                                         Project Implementation Assessment
1.13 The Coordinating Committee (Comite de Coordination) referred to under paragraph 1
of Schedule 4 to the DCA was established at the beginning of the project as a condition of
effectiveness of the credit. It functioned normally until 1996 to ensure the implementation of
project activities and to liaise with donors. Later, its role became more restricted to
awareness-raising and supervision of training institutions and operators, and the Committee
had few opportunities for working meetings to discuss sector issues or for exchanges of
views and experience between the committee and donors. This change in responsibility may
have contributed to the lack of follow-up on the implementation of TVET reform. At the
time of the mid-term review in 1995, CNFTP adopted an approach focused on poverty
alleviation and smaller enterprises, including the informal sector, and in 1996 the articles of
agreements and by-laws of CNFTP were arnended to allow for greater participation of the
private sector. In 1997, eight ARIFs (Association Regionale Interprofessionnelle pour le
De'veloppement de la Formation Professionnelle) were established paving the way for a
decentralization of decision-making as to the beneficiaries of training and the kind of training
to be provided. Up to the end of 1996, the management of the project did not encounter any
particular problems. Starting in 1997, there were some accounting and financial problems in
the BPE/PREFTEC, which led to the resignation of the accountant and the carrying out of
two complementary audits in January and July 1999. The Government reimbursed IDA and
deposited US$109,000 in the credit account for expenditures that were not eligible or were
unjustified, and BPE/PREFTEC appointed an accountant recruited from a private firm. In
the last year of the project, the directors of the two implementation units were replaced
following a serious illness of the Director of BPE/PREFTEC in June 1998 and his subsequent
resignation, and the death of the Director of CNFTP in November 1998.
1.14 The latest estimate of the cost of the project is US$27.5 million, compared to the SAR
estimate of US$31.5 million including taxes, or a 13 percent decrease. Despite the decrease
in project cost, and because of the increase in the dollar value of the SDR, IDA
disbursements in dollars were very slightly more than originally forecast (plus one percent);
Government and beneficiaries as well as other donors (France and UNDP) contributed less
than the original estimates. Thirty-three percent of the US$27.5 million were spent for the
CNFTP and the training fund (FIFP), 52 percent for the TVET component, one percent for
the labor market component, six percent for the agricultural education and training
component and three percent for the ENAM (civil servant training) component; the balance
of five percent was for project management.
1.15  A number of factors affected project implementation and the achievement of the
project objectives. One factor that affected project implementation positively was the change
in beneficiaries of technical education and vocational training which was introduced at the
time of the mid-term review in 1995. In line with the focus on poverty alleviation of the
Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for 1996-1999, the approach, procedures and tools (including
the Manuel de Procedure of CNFTP) were revised to target employees of small firms and
artisans, including those in the informal sector, rather than large enterprises.
1.16  The factors that affected project implementation negatively were: (i) the political
situation with its deleterious effect on enterprises and on the motivation of civil servants
entrusted with implementing the reform; (ii) the change in the role of the coordinating
committee; (iii) the inability of government to reform the system for pre-service technical



Page 6                                          Project Implementation Assessment
education and training and to ensure meaningful participation of the private sector in that
system; (iv) changes in Ministers (five Ministers or Delegues Generaux in five years) and
other top personnel; (v) an (unsuccessful) attempt by the Ministry in 1995/1996 to interfere
in the day-to-day management of CNFTP and the project; (vi) the delayed promulgation of
the legal texts for putting in place the organs of CNFTP; and (vii) the delayed availability of
counterpart funds. Project implementation also suffered from inadequate design of the labor
market component, which was in effect a non-starter and probably should have included in
the activities of CNFTP.
Project Sustainability
1.17  Whether the achievements produced in relation to the project's major objectives
would be maintained in the future is on balance uncertain (Table 1). On the positive side, the
project brought about important changes in the thinking, attitudes and approach of all the
parties involved in TVET, and those changes are here to stay. All professional organizations
are now working with the TVET authorities. It is generally accepted that in-service training
should be viewed as an investment and evaluated as such by the beneficiaries who contribute
to its cost, and should be based on the demand (instead of being supply-driven) and
partnership, with appropriate contractual arrangements between the parties involved in its
design and implementation.
1.18  However, three aspects of the project give rise to questions of sustainability. First,
there is a strong consensus among the players as to the need to maintain a sector mechanism
for coordination and consultation that will involve the private production sector and the
TVET authorities. The framework and mechanisms organized around the CNFTP should
therefore be able to maintain themselves after the project. However, the situation is not as
clear regarding the training fund since the development of options for its permanent
financing (envisaged as an outcome of the project) has been delayed. The conclusions and
recommendations of the financing study done in 1995 were discussed extensively at both the
regional and national levels, and by the decision-making organs of CNFTP. Consensus
emerged on a few key points: distribution of responsibilities (essentially pre-service training
to be left to the Government and in-service training to the private sector), financing to be
undertaken primarily through a tax on salaries and wages with some contribution from
Government, management of the training fund by those who contributed to it, and the need
for appropriate incentives. These agreements in principle constitute progress, but nothing has
been implemented. Some important efforts, including analytical work, are still needed to
formulate and put in place an acceptable and permanent solution.
1.19 The second aspect concerns decentralizing the management of the public system,
including the promotion of cost recovery at the establishment level. Although this positive
feature still remains fragile, it has many advocates and supporters at the central and
peripheral levels, even if their motivating factors seem sometimes to differ. The opening up
of and interaction with the business and professional world is also a major aspect of many of
the approaches developed. There is no reason to doubt the continuation of this movement in
the future, provided the necessary strengthening measures are deployed in order to reassure



Page 7                                        Project Implementation Assessment
authorities in the Ministry of Finance and other partners that steady management
improvement will occur.
1.20 Finally, the durability of the capacity-building and equipment activities will depend
on the availability of the necessary financial resources.  Even though an equipment
maintenance unit is currently operational for the various establishments, and cost recovery
can help to lessen the pressure on public finances, the question of the sustainability of these
actions has not yet been explicitly tackled. In particular, the situation of CERES' activities
appears somewhat critical, considering the significant training needs of personnel.
Bank Performance
1.21  Bank performance on this project has been satisfactory for identification, deficient for
preparation assistance and appraisal, and marginally satisfactory for supervision.
1.22 The Bank and the Borrower, together with other donors, had an active policy dialogue
in the early 1990s to analyze key aspects of the TVET sub-sector and in the end, identified
the correct issues to be addressed. On the other hand, Bank performance for preparation
assistance and appraisal was deficient in two respects. First, the whole area of pre-service
training was not examined and prepared in sufficient depth, as reflected in the Sector Policy
letter on strategy (Annex C) and in the project description in the SAR, so the path to reform
was not as clear-cut as it could have been. Also, the project tried to cover too many types of
training (i.e., agriculture and civil service for example) instead of focusing on a smaller
number of components that could be realistically implemented. Second, the project design
neglected monitoring and evaluation, and neither the SAR nor the legal documents included
quantified indicators of implementation, operation or impact. As it turned out, the
establishment of a tracer system to evaluate training programs, which was included in one
component (Part B.4 of the project), was never implemented! Some of the preparatory work,
such as the manual of procedures of CNFTP which was too heavy and too cumbersome, had
to be redone during project implementation.
1.23  Regarding project implementation, the project was adequately supervised by the
Bank, with some continuity in staff. The Bank somehow neglected to pursue TVET reform
and, among other things, forgot to follow up on the functioning of the Coordinating
Committee (Comite de Coordination) and the establishment of a tracer system. It remains an
open question whether the Bank should have been more forceful in reminding Government to
comply with its commitments to implement the project, including TVET reform on pre-
service training, with due diligence and efficiency. Threats to suspend disbursements and
other pressure by the Bank might have been counterproductive and could have jeopardized
the results achieved on the in-service training front. Nonetheless, the Bank showed
flexibility in agreeing with the Borrower on a reorientation of in-service training activities
more in line with the new poverty alleviation focus and making a start in meeting training
needs for the informal sector. Giving appropriate weights to all the positives and negatives
highlighted in this ICR, the Bank performance on supervision can be assessed as marginally
satisfactory.



Page 8                                          Project Implementation Assessment
Borrower Performance
1.24  Borrower performance can be rated as satisfactory for preparation, deficient for
implementation and marginally satisfactory for covenant compliance.
1.25  In the late 1980s, a team of Malagasy officials assisted by consultants financed by an
IDA PPF advance and by France, was set up to formulate sub-sector reform and to identify
priority investments. The project was prepared by this team under the guidance of the Bank
and France, and with the assistance of UNDP, ILO and UNIDO. The Borrower's
involvement in project preparation, at a time when the METFP did not exist and when the
Malagasy team was in effect very dependent on the advice and support of outside actors, can
be assessed as satisfactory.
1.26  Compliance with covenants is only marginally satisfactory because important aspects
of the project were not implemented with due diligence and efficiency, and the
implementation program, particularly project coordination, was not adhered to (Table 11).
1.27  With respect to implementation, as already noted, achievements were partial on
institutional development (CNFTP, ARIFs, etc.); a number of positive initiatives have been
taken primarily by CNFTP. The Borrower has shown flexibility in reorienting in-service
training activities (FPQ) towards entities in the informal sector with good market potential,
and in making adjustments in the use of technical assistance from various sources
(replacement of long-term assistance to CNFTP with a series of short-term assignments).
The private sector has begun to make financial contributions to the cost of training. Finally,
the manual of procedures of CNFTP for in-service training has been simplified and
improved.
1.28 The downside is that the TVET reform in pre-service training (FPI) has not been
carried out, mainly because of lack of leadership and coordination at the highest level.
Whatever commitment to reform might have existed within Government and the civil service
at the time of project identification and preparation somehow evaporated when the time came
to implement that reforn. The political risks (in particular, the difficulty in having a genuine
dialogue and fostering cooperation between the public and private sectors, to close the most
inefficient training institutions or to modify the technical baccalaureate, which is seen as a
passport to the university) were clearly identified at the identification and preparation stages.
The number of training institutions was not reduced, the technical baccalaureate was not
modified, and the GIREFTPs and training institutions remain under the control of Ministry
officials (a representative of the Ministry is always the President of the Board of Directors,
which does not really control and manage the budget). Actually, there is no indication that
Government ever attempted to resist the political pressures that were anticipated. Finally,
there were substantial delays in completing the study on the financing of training, and no
decision was made on the system to be introduced. According to the SAR, the objective of
the study was to identify a mechanism to ensure the establishment, by 1995 at the latest, of a
means of funding CNFTP and training activities that does not depend on substantial recourse
to the national budget. Clearly, that objective has not been met, a fact which gives rise to
questions of project sustainability. Overall, Borrower's performance on implementation can
be assessed as deficient.



Page 9                                          Project Implementation Assessment
Assessment of Outcome
1.29 The evaluation of project outcomes is made difficult by the fact that there was very little
in place to document the achievements and impact of the project and, therefore, one has to rely
in part on anecdotal evidence. Table 5 on the key indicators for project implementation, the
Aide-Memoire of the last IDA supervision mission of May 1999 (Annex A) and the Borrower's
contribution (Annex BI) attempt to evaluate the project outcomes in terms of purpose and
impact. These outcomes are variable and mixed. While the project has had some success in
fostering changes in attitudes towards in-service training in Madagascar, it fell short of
achieving needed reforms in the public provision of training.
1.30 On the positive side, CNFTP was instrumental in: (i) developing a partnership
between Government and the private sector; (ii) fostering participation of private enterprises
and NGOs in the promotion, coordination and management of in-service training through
eight regional associations of employers (ARIFs); and (iii) developing and disseminating
expertise in certain key areas. Other positive outcomes include the development of national
capacity in designing and delivering modular in-service training programs tailored to the
needs of enterprises and workers, and the training of instructors (both from public and private
institutions) under the CERES.
1.31  On the negative side, expected impact on effectiveness of pre-service training,
implementation of a sustainable financing framework, clarification of the role of the state in
the financing and provision of vocational training, and collection of labor market information
failed to materialize. The project has failed to come to grips with a redefined and reformed
system of vocational training. METFP continues to be managed as a traditional "ministry",
with overstaffed and inefficient directorates and services at central level, lack of initiative on
the part of decision-makers in public offices at the regional level and in the training centers
(who were granted "autonomy" under revised statutes), and poor management, accountability
and monitoring practices.
1.32 In addition to those general comments, the project outcomes can also be examined in
the light of three key aspects of the Government's strategy supported by the project, namely:
(i) adaptation of training to the labor market; (ii) improvement of the quality and
effectiveness of TVET; and (iii) control of public expenditures, cost recovery and promotion
of the private training sector.
1.33 As noted above, while a number of steps have been taken to align the system more
closely with the market, the results remain limited in overall terms. The absence of any
monitoring of graduates' success in obtaining employment renders assessment of results
difficult, but the few indications available regarding the labor market and the observed
expansion of the system suggest that the results are poor. Nevertheless, the training subprojects
financed by the FIFP (18,277 trainees) and the qualifying or in-service vocational training
courses (about 2,000 trainees in 1999) have been perinent responses. The evaluation of their
impact and quality should ensure ways to consolidate these promising leads.
1.34 The number of trainees enrolled in the public TVET establishments rose from 6,107 in
1994/95 to 10,376 in 1998/99, hence an annual average increase of 14%. The LTPs constitute



Page 10                                           Project Implementation Assessment
more than 80% of this public supply, which is still dominated by the traditional pre-service
training courses (FPI) in specialties of a general nature or of a low cost-effectiveness. Measured
in terms of academic results, the quality of this supply remains low (the average success rate in
the different examinations ranges between 30% and 50%). In overall terms, the reform of pre-
service training that is essential for increasing both the internal and external effectiveness of the
system is not yet really underway. Political will and the mobilization of the main actors within
the system were not sufficient to support the reform.
1.35  Budget appropriations (excluding wages and salaries) have been increased on average
by 10%, in nominal termns, over recent years. Nearly one third of these funds have been
absorbed by the central administration of the Ministry and of the attached agencies supervised
by it. In 1999, the situation deteriorated further since out of the FMG 8.7 billion budgeted,
FMG 4.1 billion was allocated to the central structures (i.e. nearly 47%). There are few
indications available as to the development of unit costs in the system. The findings of the
operational audit of the system underscore the persistence of significant inefficiencies in the
sector's use of resources (disparity of instructor-student ratio, high ratio of administrative
personnel to students, ridiculously small size of certain establishments, disparity of
subsidy/student ratio). The same report also notes, however, that cost recovery organized for
the FPQs and production activities has made a substantial contribution (33% to 53%) to
resources available to the establishments in 1998/99. This favorable development of cost
recovery will have to be clarified and shaped by the formulation of an appropriate policy, as
discussed below (under the section on future operation).
1.36 After giving appropriate weights to all the positives and negatives, the overall
outcome of the project can be assessed as marginally satisfactory.
Future Operation
1.37  Whether or not there is a follow up project to this Manpower Training Project, there
are a number of measures that should be taken to consolidate the gains already made,
maximize the project benefits and improve sustainability. Those relate primarily to: (i) in-
service training and its financing; (ii) the role and operation of the GIREFTPs; (iii) TVET
reform and the training establishments (LTPs and CFPs); (iv) training of teaching staff; (v)
the question of the labor market; and (vi) agricultural training.
1.38  Regarding in-service training and its financing, analytical studies initiated by the
Government and supported by IDA, such as the evaluation of the impact of training on
beneficiaries and the plan for sustainable financing, are important for clarifying and
solidifying the bases for pursuit of training fund (FIFP) activities. The existence of a
consensus among the players that a lasting solution is needed is a decisive step. However,
analyses are still needed to ensure the economic and financial foundation of the proposed
arrangements and their suitability (level of contribution/charges, method of recovery, and
rules governing access to financing). It would also be advisable for Madagascar to benefit
from other country experience in this field. The informal sector and agricultural activities
play an important role in the stimulation of the country's economic growth and creation of
employment (more than four out of every five jobs), and should accordingly receive



Page 11                                           Project Implementation Assessment
sufficient attention on how to meet the needs for the continuous upgrading of Malagasy labor
skills. The CNFTP Executive Secretariat will have to:
*     Strengthen  its  management tools  (appropriate  database  on  requirements,
establishment of chart of activities) and equip itself with suitable tools;
*     Adapt and strengthen its procedures in three areas: (i) improve access to the training
fund (FIFP) for the infonnal sector; (ii) adjust training operator selection procedures
in order to give all qualified operators access to training contracts; and (iii) improve
monitoring and evaluation activities, including the subcontracting of quality control
in the highly specialized training fields;
*     Maintain an updated listing of potential training supply by field. The updating of this
tool should be enriched by feedback from monitoring and evaluation activities,
including assessment of training operators' performance;
*     Promote the ARIFs as mechanisms to bring out credible training demands and their
cofmancing. Their role in the operator selection process should be reexamined with a
view to preventing any risk of possible conflict of interest.
1.39  The GIREFTPs form the first link in the decentralized management of the system.
However, their influence and impact on the system's effectiveness are hardly perceptible. With
the aim of strengthening the delegation of responsibility to the training centers, an evaluation of
the operation of the GIREFTPs would help to adjust their role and operation.
1.40 With respect to TVET reform and training establishments (LTPs and CFPs), the
continuation of the present practice of coexistence of the FPI and FPQ at training establishment
level would be hard to envision in the medium-term. It would in fact carry the risk of
institutionalizing two training streams of different qualities in the system. Furthermore, it gives
rise to the appearance of varying poles of motivation in the establishments as well as problems
of inequity in access to quality training. It is necessary: (i) to carry out a technical evaluation of
FPQ activities undertaken so far and to identify assistance required for their continuation; and
(ii) to establish and execute an effective plan for converting the present FPI activities into
modular qualifying training courses, in the light of the results of the strategic options and the
new division of roles in the system.
1.41   Cost recovery in training establishments constitutes an irreversible option; however,
the roles of the players involved need to be clarified. The development of cost recovery will
have to be shaped by the formulation of a policy guided by the following three basic
principles:
*     Establishment of a cost-sharing system with the beneficiaries of new-model pre-
service vocational training that will ensure a minimum of equity in access;
*     Recovery of the costs of the in-service vocational training and/or advanced training
activities that takes into account the need to safeguard reasonable competition with
private training operators;



Page 12                                         Project Implementation Assessment
Billing of production activities induced by and associated with the training activities
on a basis that is balanced and avoids introduction of distortions in the market for the
goods and services considered. To the fullest extent possible, the quest for optimum
utilization of the installed technical capacities should be based on renting, on
competitive terms, of the hours available.
1.42  With respect to the pre-service and advanced training of teaching staff, the activities
of CERES were helpful in the process of decentralizing the management of the system and
introducing the qualifying training modules. The further training needs of the teaching staff
are still considerable, and questions of their renewal and pre-service training are important.
These points as well as the training of private-sector trainers should be primary
considerations in any study of the future of the system. Meanwhile, it appears necessary to
continue CERES' activities. The authorities are counting on the support of the African
Development Bank (AfDB) and of other agreements being put in place. However, it will
also be important to progressively increase the budgetary funding for these activities. In
1999, the budget appropriations for operation (excluding wages and salaries) of CERES were
FMG 236 million (about US$40,000). They have enabled the maintaining of a minimum of
training activities after the closing of the project.
1.43  As to the monitoring and analysis of the evolution of the labor market and training
needs, the largely unsuccessful experience of the ONEF calls for consideration of alternative
modalities for effectively handling these activities. To be effective, a mechanism of this sort
could be handled by CNFTP, or alternatively organized around a light structure which, by
reason of its status and institutional position, would benefit from the respect and support of
the main producers and users of information concerned (Statistics Institute, Employment
Directorate, private sector, research centers and key ministries with responsibility for
education and training). The chief role of this structure would be to operate a work and
exchange network and to serve as its technical secretariat.
1.44 The National Rural Development Program (PADR - Plan d'Action pour le
Developpement Rural) currently under preparation should provide an opportunity for further
action on agricultural training based on the thinking and activities that have been developed
in the context of the project.
Key Lessons Learned
1.45    Some important lessons can be drawn from the implementation of the project, both as
regards sector policy and the choice of operating approaches and options mentioned above in
Future Operation. These should be considered during the design of PREFTEC II. The main
lessons learnt include: (i) the need to reinforce the strategic steering of the reform; (ii) the
need to better define or clarify the State's responsibilities and to integrate the private sector
into the strategy; (iii) the importance of autonomy and of a contracting approach and the need
to refocus the implementation of the reform  on the training establishments; (iv) the
recognition that in-service training could serve as a model for pre-service programs; and (v)
the need for arrangements and modalities for the financing of training consistent with the
targeting of beneficiaries.



Page 13                                          Project Implementation Assessment
1.46  The selection and monitoring of key quantified indicators is very important to
facilitate the strategic steering of the reform during project implementation and to evaluate
results at the end of the project. The difficulties encountered in the evaluation of the
execution of the reform call for reestablishment of responsible steering of that reform. Using
the CNFTP's consultative framework, it is important to establish a critical path for the
implementation of the reform, defining performance indicators and putting into effect an
appropriate mechanism for monitoring and evaluation. To be effective and sustainable, the
steering could be organized around three poles: (i) making establishment managers
responsible for carrying out basic monitoring and evaluation activities (including a light
system for tracking graduates' success in securing employment); (ii) establishment and
regular updating of a performance chart at the central level; and (iii) programming and
subcontracting (research centers or consulting firms) of evaluation actions and/or specific
impact measurements.
1.47  In this type of project aimed in particular at increasing the role of the private sector, it
is important to carefully define the State's responsibilities and to better integrate the private
training sector in the sector strategy. Strong national leadership and continuity are important
for the success of a project that includes major reform of the sector. While the key objectives
of the strategy adopted by the Government in 1992 remain pertinent, the pursuit and
consolidation of a large number of reform initiatives need to be clarified in light of the State's
medium- and long-term responsibilities in the expansion of the TVET sector, and in response
to the country's economic development. An exercise of this type should be based on
economic prospects and the structuring of employment, options for financing of training by
all players (households, State and private sector) and analysis of the alternative arrangements
for organizing the training supply. The establishment of a consensus on this important
question is essential for catalyzing the effective mobilization of the forces involved and
enabling the public sector to play its role fully and effectively.
1.48  As noted above, the private training sector has developed significantly over the past
five years. The recent creation under the Ministry of Technical Education and Vocational
Training (METFP) supervision of the Office National de l'Enseignement Technique et de la
Formation Professionnelle Privee (ONETFOPP) constitutes an important step. However,
with this dynamic already in motion, it is important to start thinking strategically about the
development of this sector (regulation, supervision, partnership) in light of the need for
reexamination of the role and responsibilities of the State.
1.49  Regional employer associations are necessary partners in a demand-driven training
system. The establishment of voluntary regional employer associations for training (ARIFs)
suggests that the successful organization of employers depends on the correct incentives (e.g.
requiring them to be self-sufficient), technical assistance and support provided by CNFTP to
guide their development and educate them on the potential benefits of collaboration (such as
economies of scale in training and analyses, and exchange of information).
1.50 Administrative and financial autonomy, implementation plans and a contracting
approach are important to ensure efficient project management and to allow for flexible
implementation with quick results. The project experience suggests that of the structure of
the CNFTP as a semi-autonomous organization (e.g. election of the Director by its Board,



Page 14                                          Project Implementation Assessment
collection of fees for services, and the ability to hire and fire staff in response to
organizational needs) is an effective one to manage the Training Fund and provide specialist
services on training needs assessment and training engineering. The participation of all
partners in both project design and implementation results in better definition of concepts and
approaches, their greater dissemination and above all their more efficient implementation.
Implementation plans, manuals of procedures, and work programs are important to facilitate
speedy and smooth project implementation. Attitude changes are essential elements of
sustainability.
1.51  The continuous adaptation of training to the needs of the labor market requires
flexibility in the management of the system. To be effective, opening up of the business
environment and taking into account of local economic opportunities will have to be handled
at the level of the establishments. The delegation of the management of operating expenses
has already demonstrated how greater assignment of responsibility to the establishments can
facilitate the emergence of a dynamic leading to enhanced efficiency and innovation. An
acceleration of the institutional transformation of the establishments would serve as a
powerful catalyst for implementing the reform.
1.52  Project experience also suggests that the successful implementation of in-service
training programs - short, modular, competency-based and demand driven activities financed
in part by beneficiaries - provides political support and serves as a model of efficiency for in-
depth reform of pre-service training specifically as to competencies, professional standards,
qualification and performance-based contracts.
1.53  Finally, it is not always possible to reconcile the requirement of cost recovery in
training with the targeting of beneficiaries on the basis of social and other criteria, such as
poverty alleviation. Therefore, instead of relying on a single formula, the arrangements and
modalities for the financing of training need to be tailored to the ability to pay of the target
groups (for example, full cost recovery or almost full cost recovery for the larger private
firms of the formal sector, and government subsidies for the micro-enterprises in the informal
sector, as is being applied through selective financial participation clauses in the manual of
procedures of the training fund).



2. STATISTICAL ANNEX






Page 16                                                            Statistical Annex
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievements of        Substantial    Partial    Negligible      Not
Objectives                                                       Applicable
Macro Policies                                                       X
Sector Policies                            X
Financial Objectives                       X
Institutional Development                  X
Physical Objectives           X
Poverty Reduction                                                    X
Gender Issues                                                        X
Other Social Objectives                                              x
Environental Objectives                                              X
Public Sector Management                                X
Private Sector                             X
Development
Other (specify)                                                      x
B. Project Sustainability     Likely          Unlikely         Uncertain
x



Page 17                                                            Statistical Annex
Table 1 Summary of Assessments (continued)
C.. Bank Performance             Highly       Satisfactory     Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                                     X
Preparation Assistance                                            X
Appraisal                                                         X
Supervision                                        X
(marginally
satisfactory)
D. Borrower Performance          Highly       Satisfactory     Deficient
Satisfactory
Preparation                                        X
Implementation                                                    X
Covenant Compliance                                X
(marginally
satisfactory)
Operation (if applicable)         N/A.           N/A.            N/A.
E. Assessment     Highly      Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory     Highly
of Outcome      Satisfactory                               Unsatisfactory
x
(marginally
satisfactory)



Page 18                                                        Statistical Annex
Table 2: Related Bank Loans and IDA Credits
Credit or               Purpose                  Year of    Status
Loan Title                                      Approval
Preceding
Operations
CR. 510     Technical education and secondary      1967    Completed
teacher training
CR. 663     In-service teacher training and education  1976    Completed
administration, and production of
educational materials
CR. 1155    Accounting and audit                   1981    Completed
CR. 1661    Accounting and management training     1986    Completed
CR. 2094    Education sector reinforcement         1990    Completed
Following
Operations                 ._____
CR. 2474    Food security and nutrition (SECALINE)  1993    Completed
Nearing
CR. 2778    Social fund II (FID)                   1995    completion
CR. 3046    Education Sector Development           1998    Ongoing
CR. 3060    Community Nutrition II                 1998    Ongoing
CR. 3180    Social fund III (FID)                  1999    Starting



Page 19                                                            Statistical Annex
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle       Date planned      Date actual / latest
estimate
Identification                                          February 1989
Preparation                                               1989-1990
Appraisal                                              November 1990
Negotiations                                              April 1992
Board Presentation                                       June 9, 1992
Signing                                                 June 25, 1992
Effectiveness                    September 25, 1992    January 15, 1993
Midterm Review                    October 31, 1995      June/July 1995
Project Completion                  Dec 31, 1997         Jun 30, 1999
Credit Closing                      Jun 30, 1998         Jun 30,1999
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Fiscal Year  1993  1994  1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
Appraisal
Estimate     1.50  5.00   10.00   16.00  20.00   22.80   22.80   22.80
Actual       1.54  2.56    6.01   10.12   13.81   18.93   22.39   23.04
Actual as %
of Estimate    103    51     60      63      69     83      98    101
Date of Final Disbursement: October 27, 1999
Note: An estimated SDR460,000 (US$ 630,000 equivalent) is expected to be cancelled.



Page 20                                                                                               Statistical Annex
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation 1
OBJECTIVES              KEY INDICATORS             KEY OUTCOMES/IMPACTS                COMMENTS
Establish a system that (a) Develop the CNFTP, and   The regulatory framework of    There have been some delays in
ensures the         specifically make its different organs  the CNFTP was fully defined in  bringing the organs into operation
development of the  operational and strengthen its    1996 by the decree relating to   (first GA in February 1997 and
TVET policy and the   capacity: (i) for proposing priority    its articles of agreement and by-  BD effectively set up in March
promotion,          policies for TVET development; and   laws (General Assembly - GA -  1999).
coordination and    (ii) to stimulate development of  and Board of Directors - BD).
financing of training   training programs and to offer the
by the private and  technical support necessary for
public sectors.     training enterprises and operators.
The capacity of the CNFTP's    The functioning of the CNFTP's
Executive Secretariat has been   structures and the awareness-
progressively developed     raising activities concerning the
(creation of administrative and   FIFP have helped to create
financial manuals of procedures, linkages between the private
tools for identifying training  sector and the TVET mechanism.
needs, training of its personnel   The CNFTP has, however,
and resource persons within the  exercised little influence over the
enterprises).               strategic steering of the system.
(b) Set up a Training Fund (financed   The management tools of the    The analytical tools developed
initially by the Government or donors) FIFP (manual of procedures,    are insufficient and are being
and establish a more permanent legal  database, monitoring and  strengthened. The procedures
framework for the financing of   evaluation) have been adapted   need to be better adapted to the
training (employers and trainees).  and improved over the years    new target populations, including
(including targeting of the  the arrangements for organizing
informal sector).           the selection of training operators.
1 The SAR and the legal documents did not include any quantified indicators for project implementation.



Page 21                                                                                               Statistical Annex
OBJECTIVES              KEY INDICATORS             KEY OUTCOMES/IMPACTS                COMMENTS
(b) Set up a Training Fund (financed   As of June 30, 1999, 638  The evaluation of the impact of
initially by the Government or donors) training subprojects have been   the training on the beneficiaries
and establish a more permanent legal  financed and 18,277 persons    (individuals and/or enterprises) is
framework for the financing of   have been trained.          underway.
training (employers and trainees).
Establishment and support of    These structures remain fragile,
the ARIFs in the six regions as   with a very variable degree of
of 1997.                    representation (1% to 4% of the
These structures should form  enterprises, with in addition a few
the most promising means for   associations of enterprises).
ensuring the emergence of
credible demands for training.
Promotion of supply of private   Equitable access of training
training (about 30% of      operators to FIFP-supported
subprojects have been executed  training opportunities will have to
by private operators).      be improved.
The private supply of TVET has
been expanded (about 700
training organizations counted in
1999). Its quality is variable.
Regional consultations and  There has been a considerable
agreement in principle at   delay concerning this essential
CNFTP GA level (March 1999)  question. Additional analytical
on some assumptions for long-   studies are still needed to clarify
term sustainable financing of in- the final choices.
service vocational training.



Page 22                                                                                                 Statistical Annex
OBJECTIVES               KEY INDICATORS             KEY OUTCOMES/IMPACTS                 COMMENTS
Restructure and     (a) Strengthen the planning and   While technical support,     Institutional changes have
reform TVET and      management capacity of the DETP  training and equipment have   reduced the chances of
increase its internal    and of the decentralized structures,    been provided, the sector's  maximizing the benefits
and external         including establishment of an     steering and strategic       obtainable from the support
efficiency.          operational personnel database and  management capacity remains   received. There is a need to
setting up of a system for monitoring   weak.                  better define certain roles and
the hiring of graduates at the level of                        responsibilities.
the establishments.
The gathering of statistical data is
sporadic and the monitoring of
graduate hiring is ineffective.
The monitoring and analysis of
the system's cost effectiveness are
not being performed. The
personnel database is not
operational.
An operating audit of the system
in 1999 revealed the persistence
of a certain number of
deficiencies, e.g. demand/need
approach still weak, diversity in
the programs actually applied,
inefficient management of the
system resources.



Page 23                                                                                                  Statistical Annex
OBJECTIVES               KEY INDICATORS              KEY OUTCOMES/IMPACTS                 COMMENTS
Restructure and     (a) Strengthen the planning and    The establishment of the     The effectiveness of the operation
reform TVET and      management capacity of the DETP   GIREFTs and their BDs has     of the GIREFTP is variable.
increase its internal    and of the decentralized structures,    created a decentralized  Their impact on the quality of the
and external         including establishment of an     management framework for the   management of the system is still
efficiency.          operational personnel database and  public TVET organization.   limited.
setting up of a system for monitoring
the hiring of graduates at the level of                        An evaluation would make it
the establishments.                                            possible to target their role better,
including the composition of the
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___  BD s.
Establishment heads and their    The assigning of responsibility to
business managers have been    the base echelons has created a
trained to ensure the        dynamic of initiative and
performance of their new     creativity at the level of the
responsibilities (authorization of establishments.
expenditures, payment of
operating expenses, generation   Involvement of the business and
of own resources).           professional world in the
management of the
establishments has produced little
effect as yet.
An evaluation of the two years of
experience would make it
possible to contain and correct
any possible errors.



Page 24                                                                                                 Statistical Annex
OBJECTIVES               KEY INDICATORS             KEY OUTCOMES/IMPACTS                 COMMENTS
Restructure and     (b) Reform and rehabilitate technical   A reclassification of the system   The implications of this decision
reform TVET and      secondary education and specifically   done in 1997/1998 raised the    in terns of sector strategies have
increase its internal    (i) the distinction between the streams  number of LTFs from 7 to 26,   not been thoroughly analyzed.
and external        leading to higher education and those   which together serve 10,376
efficiency.         of a vocational training nature; (ii)    students (i.e. 84.9% of the  In 1998/99, nearly one third of
promotion of short-duration modular   number in the system in 1999).  the students enrolled in initial
courses leading to appropriate                                 vocational training were in
qualifications; (iii) the rehabilitation                       general technical specialties (G1,
and the equipment of eight LTPs                                G2, G3 and other general
(about 800 work stations); (iv) the                            technical training courses).
advanced training of about 360
teaching staff (pedagogy, training
theory and program revision) and of
about 100 establishment directors and
shop heads; and (v) the strengthening
of the capacities of the INPF.
(Modular) vocational training    These courses are tailored to
courses leading to qualifications  actual demands (individuals,
(FPQs) have been developed   enterprises). At the present time
and run by the majority of the    there is little indication as to their
public training centers (in  quality. FPQs are the main
1998/99, 2,067 students in some  source of internally generated
30 specialties).            revenues for the establishments
(FMG 250,000/module on
average).



Page 25                                                                                                Statistical Annex
OBJECTIVES              KEY INDICATORS             KEY OUTCOMES/IMPACTS                 COMMENTS
The present parallel
implementation of these two
types of training (FPI and FPQ)
in the establishments can give rise
to two problems: (i) creation of
different poles of motivations in
the establishments, and (ii) some
inequity in access to quality
vocational training.
Eight LTFs have been        The challenge will be to be able
rehabilitated and equipped  to ensure proper maintenance of
(electronics, electrical    this equipment.
engineering, construction and    In certain specialties, the
public works, mechanical    equipment is for technologies that
fabrication, auto mechanics,  are advanced compared with
metal structures and        those in use on average in the
woodworking).               branch of activity concerned.
CERES has been installed and    While this component of the
brought into operation (texts,    project has made it possible to
equipment, training of trainers,  respond in part to the staff
rehabilitation of a 100-place  training need, the question of
boarding institute).        making this activity permanent
Several staff training activities   together with the formulation of
have been carried out,      initial teacher training remains to
including:                  be resolved.
-140 center managers
-200 teachers (in educational
psychology and training theory,
in particular).



Page 26                                                                                                 Statistical Annex
OBJECTIVES               KEY INDICATORS             KEY OUTCOMES/IMPACTS                 COMMENTS
The operating capacity of the    Two observations have to be
INPF has been improved       made: (i) the complementarity of
(computer equipment and      the INPF with the LTFs needs to
vehicles, renovation of boarding  be clarified; and (ii) thought
accommodation).              needs to be given to the role and
medium and long-term prospects
Between 1997 and 1999, the   of the INPF.
number of trainees at the INPF
rose from 135 to 350. The cost-
recovery arrangements
instituted seem to be making a
substantial contribution toward
improving the establishment's
fmancial equilibrium.
Establish a system for  (a) Strengthen the ONEF's capacity to  While the ONEF has produced   The dimension concerning
generating and      assemble and organize the existing  some studies, in particular 16 on  monitoring of the evolution of
analyzing information  statistics and data on employment,    employment opportunities, three  labor market conditions and their
on the labor market    wages and training needs, and to  regional monographs and pilot   analysis has not been touched.
and training needs.    analyze and disseminate same.   studies for evaluating FPQs, the
initial objectives are
nevertheless far from being
accomplished.



Page 2 /                                                                                              Statistical Annex
OBJECTIVES              KEY INDICATORS             KEY OUTCOMES/IMPACTS                COMMENTS
Initiate reform of  (a) Proceed to: (i) evaluate the quality  On the basis of the diagnostic    The sectoral visibility and
agricultural training    and cost-effectiveness of the  study made in 1993/94, the team  validation of the actions
and develop the     agricultural education and training  has developed and implemented  undertaken still remain very
system for training  system and identify the reforms  an eight-point action plan,  limited.
government officials.  required; and (ii) implement these  including:
reforms.                         -school curriculum enrichment
experiment (two primary
schools in 1998/99);
-experimentation with
multipurpose agricultural
training (two pilot
establishments starting with the
1999/2000 school year).
In collaboration with the French  The operating capacity of the    Growth of the number of trainees
Cooperation agency, strengthen the    ENAM (ex ENFAR) has been    depends on the number of
capacity of the ENFAR to draw up a   improved (computer equipment  positions authorized in the
medium-term plan and to implement a  and teaching aids, vehicles,  budget. For the start of the
training program for middle and  etc.).                       1999/2000 academic year 168
senior-level civil servants (about 150                       trainees were expected, spread
persons over the first three years.)                          over eight specialties.
Table 6: Key Indicators Operation
The SAR and the legal documents did not include any quantified indicators for project operation. Some of the indicators listed and discussed in
Table 5 on project implementation pertain also to some extent to project operation.



Page 28                                                        Statistical Annex
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Description of study                                    Impact of Study
Study and technical assistance for the transfer from MIP   DETP has been transformed first
to MEF of the responsibility for public sector technical   into a Delegation Geinerale de
education and vocational training (including the transfer   Gouvernement Chargee de
of the DET or DETP), in accordance with section 3.03 of  I'Enseignement Technique et de la
DCA. The study also included recommendations to  Formation Professionnelle
improve the management of public sector technical  (DGGETFP) under the Prime
education and vocational training.               Minister, and then into the
Ministere de l'Enseignement
By consulting firm CRC SOGEMA in 1992/1993.      Technique et de la Formation
Professionnelle (METFP).
Study of the financing of technical and vocational  The conclusions/recommendations
education and training (TVET)                    of the financing study done in
1995 were extensively discussed
(referred to under paragraph 8 of Schedule 4 to the DCA)  both at the regional and national
level, including by the decision-
The objectives of the study, which dealt with the modem   making organs of CNFTP. It
sector of the economy (private enterprises), were to  seems that a consensus emerged
identify the best mechanisms to increase the financing    on a few key points: distribution of
available and to diversify the sources of financing so that  responsibilities (essentially pre-
the government budget would not be the main source of   service training for the
finance for TVET.                                Government and in-service
training for the private sector),
By consortium SFERE -ATW Madagascar in 1995      financing primarily through a tax
on salaries and wages with some
Govermnent contribution,
management of the training fund
by those who contributed to it, and
the need for appropriate
incentives.
Study of the legal framework for the financing of  Proposals for the establishment of
vocational training.                             a financing mechanism (including
the collection and management of
By the consulting firm Rajaonary Mamy in 1997    funds) for private sector in-service
training, and preparation of draft
legal documents.
Study and technical assistance for the organization and    *  As a result of the study and
implementation of a program of in-service training by the    technical assistance, 157
6 GIREFTPs (Groupements Inter-Regionaux des         training sub-projects, in 25
Etablissements de Formation Technique et            different field of expertise,
Professionnelle)                                    have been implemented by 16
private and 40 public training
By consulting firm AFPA International in 1995/1996.  institutions, for the benefit of
35 enterprises and 6,077
persons.



Page 29                                                         Statistical Annex
Description of study                                     Impact of Study
Study of agricultural education and training     Opening of two pilot schools at
Ambanja and Bezaha
By consulting firm EEDR Mamokatra in 1997
Technical audit of 62 institutions (26 LTPs and 36 CFPs)  Availability of basic data on each
for technical education and vocational training.  institution, with elaboration of
recommendations to improve the
By consulting firm CRC SOGEMA in 1999.           TVET system.
Ten studies for the identification of training needs and the - Improvement of human
preparation of training programs for various specialties   resources management within the
for seven individual enterprises (SIRANALA, ARO,  enterprise.
SECREN, ADEMA, AFOMA, MARBOUR, and               - Integration of the training
PAPMAD).                                         program into the enterprise's
investment program.
Primarily by the enterprises themselves.          - Implementation of training
activities.
Six studies for the identification of training needs and the  - Better knowledge of the socio-
preparation of training programs of enterprises in specific  economic conditions of the
cities (Antananarivo, Antsirabe, Toamasina and   cities/regions, and identification of
Mahajanga), or for specific regions (Maintirano, Sava,   informal sector.
Vakinakaratra and Fenoarivobe).                   - Increase in ARIF's membership.
- Evaluation of the level of
By various organizations, including INPF, a CFP and an   competence of the enterprises'
ARIF.                                             personnel, and assessment of the
training needs.
- Assessment of the ability to pay
of beneficiaries.
- Input for the preparation of the
strategy and training program of
ARIFs.
- Implementation of training
activities by ARIFs, NGOs and
others.
- Development of income
generating activities.



Page 30                                                        Statistical Annex
Description of study                                    Impact of Study
Thirteen studies for the identification of training needs    - Better knowledge of the industry
and the preparation of training programs for specific  or activity.
industries or activities (printing, fisheries, building  - Contribution to the recognition
materials and building industry, welding, pig livestock,   of the importance of quality and
milk, skins, salt, wood working, silkworm breeding,  the respect of international norms.
forestry and ceramics).                          - Identification of informal sector.
- Development of partnerships
By various organizations (trade institutes, training  between enterprises and trade/
organizations, university and IST, and consulting firms).  training institutes.
- Assessment of the ability to pay
of beneficiaries.
- Assessment of training needs,
and implementation of training
activities by ARIFs and others.
- Development of income
generating activities.
Study for the preparation of a directory of the training  Availability of a data bank on
supply for the city of Antananarivo.             training institutions in
Antananarivo, that can be easily
By the consulting firm GROFPA                    consulted by users.
Possibility of integrating those
training institutions into the TVET
system.
Note: In addition to the studies listed above, the Project included a number of technical
assistance assignments in various fields (methodology for technical and vocational
training, assessment of machine tools and equipment needs, equipment maintenance,
audio visual production, administrative and financial management, accounting,
computing and data processing, IEC, recruitment and training of staff, and establishment
of new entities such as ONCE), as well as architectural/engineering studies and
construction supervision for civil works (CERES, ENAM, LTP and CFP), and the audit
of the project accounts.



Page 31                                                                Statistical Annex
Table 8: Project Costs
(US $ million)
Project Components                                      Appraisal       Actual/Latest
Estimate          Estimate
I. CNFTP and Training Fund (FIFP)                          9.2               8.93
II. Technical and vocational Education and Training
(TVET)
a) Strengthening DETP and reform                           2.3               2.53
b) Rehabilitation of vocational school (Lycdes techniques)  6.7              9.20
c) In-service training                                     2.9               2.33
d) National Vocational Training Institute (INPF)           1.2               0.25
Sub-total TVET                                            13.1              14.31
III. Labor market                                          1.2               0.29
IV. Agricultural education and training                    1.0               1.65
V. Training of civil servants (ENAM)                       1.7               0.93
VI. Project implementation                                 0.6               1.35
Total base costs *                                        26.8              27.46
Physical contingencies                                     1.6                -
Price contingencies                                        3.1
Total Project Costs *                                     31.5              27.46
* Including taxes of US$1.7 million equivalent but
excluding duties of US$2.4 million equivalent.



Page 32                                                            Statistical Annex
Table 9: Project Financing
(US $million)
Source                          Appraisal      Actual/Latest
Estimate         Estimate
Government                                             2.7*              0.51
Beneficiaries                                           2.1              1.63
Cofinanciers (France and UNDP)                          3.9              2.28
IDA                                                     22.8            23.04
Total                                                  31.5             27.46
* Including taxes of US$1.7 million equivalent.
Table 10: Economic Costs and Benefits
The Staff Appraisal report (SAR) did not include any economic analysis of the project.
There are no data available to calculate a posteriori the economic rates of return or the cost
effectiveness of the investments that were actually financed under the Project.



Page 33                                                                                         Statistical Annex
Table 11: Status of Legal Covenants in the Credit Agreement
Section   Covenant  Present  Fulfillment              Description of Covenant                   Comments
Type      Status      date
2.02 (b)     1         C     Continuous   Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars two
Special Account in a commercial bank, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA, to be operated in
accordance with Schedule 5 of DCA. Special
Account A, opened in the name of CNFTP, shall be
used exclusively for Part A of the project, and special
account B, opened in the name of BPE, shall be used
exclusively for Parts B, C, D, and E of the project.
3.01 (a)    4, 5       CP    Continuous   Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of The most important aspect of
the Project as set forth in schedule 2 to this DCA and,  Part B, namely the reform of
to this end, in accordance with the Vocational and  TVET (B. 1), has not been
Technical Training Strategy,                  carried out with due diligence
(i) shall carry out Parts B.1 through B.6, C and D of   and efficiency.
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial  The personnel data
and engineering practices and shall provide, promptly  management system (B.2) is
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other  not functional
resources required for such Parts of the Project;
(ii) shall cause CNFTP to carry out Part A of the  B.4 has not been carried out
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in  at all - A tracer system
conformnity with appropriate administrative, financial  relating to TVET trainees in
and educational practices and in accordance with the  training institutions has not
CNFTP Implementation Agreement to be entered into  been established.
by the Borrower and CNFTP, whose terms and
conditions shall have been approved by IDA and
which shall include the Manuel de Procedure of
CNFTP specifying eligibility criteria and legal
procurement and financial arrangements to be made in
respect of the carrying-out of training Sub-Projects;



Page 34                                                                                         Statistical Annex
Section   Covenant  Present  Fulfillment              Description of Covenant                   Comments
Type      Status      date
3.01 (a)    4, 5       C     Continuous   *  (iii) shall cause INPF to carry out Part B.7 of the
project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and educational practices and in
accordance with the INPF Implementation
Agreement to be entered into by the Borrower and
1NPF, whose terms and conditions shall have been
approved by IDA;
*  (iv) shall cause ENFAR (ENAM) to carry out Part
E of the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and educational practices and in
accordance with the ENFAR Implementation
Agreement to be entered into by the Borrower and
ENFAR, whose terms and conditions shall have
been approved by IDA;
*  (v) shall take or cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable CNFTP, INPF and ENFAR
to carry out the respective Parts of the Project and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with the
carrying-out of the respective Parts of the Project
by CNFTP, INPF and ENFAR; and



Page 35                                                                                           Statistical Annex
Section   Covenant  Present  Fulfillment               Description of Covenant                     Comments
Type      Status      date
3.01 (a)    4, 5       CD    Continuous   (vi) shall for the purposes of making available its  Two separate accounts for
contribution to the Project: (A) open and maintain in   government counterpart funds
the namne of the Project a separate account, make an   (one for BPE/PREFTEC and
initial contribution of the equivalent of $150,000 into  one for CNFTP) were
such account and replenish such account at least on a   maintained in a commercial
quarterly basis or whenever its balance shall be less    bank. The amounts to be
than the equivalent of $30,000 up to the amount of the  deposited or replenished
initial contribution; and (B) open and maintain two    turned out to be too low, and
bank accounts (advance accounts), each in the namne    moreover replenishments
of BPE and in the name of CNFTP, in a commercial   were delayed. This
bank and make an initial deposit of the equivalent of   contributed to delays in
$75,000 and $25,000, respectively, into such   project implementation, to an
accounts; such accounts to be replenished out of the   increase in payment arrears
account referred to under sub-paragraph (vi) (A)  (particularly for taxes) and to
above on the basis of adequate justification for  a lack of credibility of the
expenditures made.                             project with its suppliers.
3.01 (b)                      Continuous   Borrower shall take all measures regarding the  See Schedule 4 below
execution of the Project as shall be consistent with the
Implementation program set forth in Schedule 4 to
this DCA.__                                        _  _  _ _   _  _  _  _
3.02       10         C      Continuous   Procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this DCA.



Page 36                                                                                              Statistical Annex
Section   Covenant  Present   Fulfillment                Description of Covenant                     Comments
Type      Status       date
3.03       12          C     By December Borrower shall take all necessary legal and        All public technical and
31 1992 and   administrative action so that its ministry responsible   vocational training schools
by July 3 1,   for vocational training:                       that were previously under
1993         (a) by December 31, 1992, shall be responsible for    the Ministry of Primary and
public sector secondary technical schools with respect  Secondary education have
to investmnent expenditures, the contents of courses    been transferred in 1992 to
taught, the numbers of student enrolled and the  the Ministry of Technical
opening and closing of said schools; and        Education and Vocational
(b) by July 31, 1993, shall be responsible for the full   Training (METFP).
management of public sector technical education and
vocational training schools and shall include DET.
Borrower shall thereafter entrust the technical and
administrative tutelle for technical education and
vocational training to a single ministry.
4.01        1          C     By June 30    Borrower shall maintain adequate project records and  Audit reports have always
of each year,  accounts to reflect in accordance with sound   been prepared and submitted
for the      accounting practices the operations, resources and  to the Bank on time.
preceding     expenditures in respect of Parts B, C, D and E of the
year.         Project of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying them out, to have
the accounts (including the special account B and
statements of expenditures) audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA, and to furnish to IDA, not
later than six months after the end of each fiscal year,
the report of such audit by said auditors.



Page 3 7                                                                                         Statistical Annex
Section   Covenant  Present  Fulfillment               Description of Covenant                    Comments
Type      Status      date
4.02        1         C     By June 30    Borrower shall cause CNFTP to maintain adequate    Audit reports have always
of each year,  project records and accounts to reflect in accordance   been prepared and submitted
for the      with sound accounting practices the operations and    to the Bank on time.
preceding    financial conditions of CNFTP, to have the accounts
year.        (including the special account A and financial
statements) audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA, and to furnish to IDA, not later
than six months after the end of each fiscal year, the
report of such audit by said auditors.
6.01    1, 4, 5, 12   C     Conditions of (a) a principal technical advisor for the CNFTP with   Credit was made effective on
effectiveness  experience and qualification acceptable to IDA and    January 15, 1993.
the members of the management committee of
CNFTP and its chairman have been appointed;
(b) Borrower has entered into the Implementation
Agreements in conformity with the provisions of
Section 3.01 (a) (ii) through (iv) of this DCA;
(c) Borrower has created the Comite de Coordination
referred to in Schedule 4 to this DCA;
(d) Borrower has made the initial deposits into the
three accounts referred to in Section 3.01 (a) (vi) of
this DCA in accordance with the provisions of such
Section; and
(e) the special accounts have been established in
accordance with Section 2.02 (b) of this DCA.



Page 38                                                                                          Statistical Annex
Schedule   Covenant  Present  Fulfillment               Description of Covenant                    Comments
4 to DCA     Type      Status      date
Paragraph    5, 12      NC    Continuous   Project Coordination                             The committee functioned
1                                        Borrower shall provide overall coordination of the  only at the very beginning of
Project through the Comite de Coordination with  the project, then disappeared.
support from BPE.                             The absence of a coordination
committee may have been
detrimental to the
implementation of the reform
and the execution of some
components.
Paragraph   3, 5, 9, 10  C     By Sep 30    Annual work program                             The implementation units
2                           and by Dec    Borrower shall, by September 30 of each year, prepare (BPE-PREFTEC and
15 of each    (and cause CNFTP, INPF, and ENFAR) to prepare  CNFTP) prepared annual
year, for the   annual work programs, establishing that at least 25%    programs that were submitted
following    of disbursements during the next year would be made  each year to IDA. The
year         for Training Sub-Projects and that at least 10% of  program for 1998-99 was
aggregate disbursements of CNFTP would support    submitted to the Bank in
training activities carried out by NGOs, and submit    April 1998, at the time of the
them to IDA for review and comments; and by   request for a one-year
December 31 of each year submit to IDA the final  extension of the closing date,
annual work program.                          to justify such extension.



Page 39                                                                                          Statistical Annex
Schedule   Covenant  Present  Fulfillment               Description of Covenant                    Comments
4 to DCA     Type      Status      date
Paragraph  5, 9, 10, 12  C     By June 30,   Mid-terrn review                               The mid-term review took
4 and 5                        1995, and by  By June 30, 1995, Borrower shall undertake an in-  place in June/July 1995.
October 31,   depth review of the Project and its implementation  There was a lack of follow up
1995         arrangements and submit a report to IDA. Said report  on some of the problems
shall contain a detailed examination of: (a) the  identified during the review.
implementation of the vocational and technical
training strategy; (b) the implementation and results of
the Training Sub-Projects financed under Part A. 3 of
the Project; (c) the financing arrangements made
therefor: (d) the participation of NGOs in the
execution of Training Sub-Projects; (e) adherence of
CNFTP to the provisions of its Manuel de Procedure;
and (f) review of the adequacy of the Statutes and the
Manuel de Procedure of CNFTP to accomplish its
purposes.
By October 31, 1995, Borrower shall review the
report with IDA and, thereafter, shall take all
necessary measures to remedy any problems identified
during such review.
Paragraph      9         C     By February   By February 15 of each year, Borrower shall furmish   BPR-PREFTEC, in close
6                           15 of each    to IDA a report on the enrollments in each technical or collaboration with the
year         vocational training institution under the supervision of Directorate of Planning in
MIP/MEF in such detail and scope as IDA shall  METFP, prepared annual
reasonably request.                           statistical reports on training
institutions.
Paragraph     5, 9       C      Continuous   For any Training Sub-Project estimated to cost the  Proposals for sub-projects
7                                        equivalent of $20,000 or more, Borrower shall cause   estimated to cost $20,000 or
CNFTP to submit to IDA for approval a detailed  more were sent to IDA for
report on the proposed financing, procurement and    review and approval, in
implementation arrangements for such Training Sub-  accordance with the Manuel
Project and its justification in accordance with the  de Procedure.
Manuel de Proceidure.



Page 40                                                                                          Statistical Annex
Schedule   Covenant  Present  Fulfillment               Description of Covenant                    Comments
4 to DCA     Type      Status      date
Paragraph    2, 3, 4     C     By June 30,   By June 30, 1995, Borrower shall cause CNFTP to  The findings of the study
8                           1995         complete a study for a funding mechanism to support  (completed in mid- 1996)
ETFP activities and the operation of CNFTP and  have been discussed with the
review the findings of such study with IDA.   Bank, and presented to the
General Assembly of CNFTP
in February 1997.
Paragraph     11         C     By            Beginning September 30, 1993 and, thereafter, by  METFP prepares a public
9                           September 30  September 30 of each year, Borrower shall in  expenditure program each
of each year  association with CNFTP prepare a public expenditure  year. This program is
and investment program for technical and vocational  reviewed in the context of
training activities in Madagascar for the next year  PEP reviews conducted
which shall be consistent with the Vocational and  between the Government and
Technical Training Strategy and review such program  the Bank on an annual basis.
with IDA.
Implementation Agreements entered between the Government on the one hand, and CNFTP, INPF and ENFAR on the other hand, included
the same clauses as in the DCA regarding the respective obligations of CNFTP, INPF and ENFAR.
Explanation of Covenant type and present status
Covenant types:
*  1= Accounts/audits.                  *  8 = Indigenous people.              Present status:
*  2 = Financial performance/revenue    *  9 = Monitoring, review and reporting.
generation from beneficiaries.      *  10 = Project implementation not covered   *  C  = Covenant complied with.
*  3 = Flow and utilization of project funds.  by categories 1-9.               *  CD = Complied with after delay.
*  4 = Counterpart funding.             *  11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary   +  CP = Complied with partially.
*  5 = Management aspects of the project or  or other resource allocation..     * NC = Not complied with.
executing agency.               *  12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
*  6 = Environmental covenants.            policy/regulatory/ institutional action.
*  7 = Involuntary resettlement.        *  13 = Other.



Page 41                                                   Statistical Annex
Table 12: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title          Describe and comment on lack of  |
complianceII
Bank Operational Manual Statements (OD or OP/BP) have been substantially complied
with.
Table 13: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle            Actual
Staff/Weeks      US$
(in thousands)
Preparation to Appraisal      73.2          n.a.
Appraisal                     27.3          n.a.
Negotiations through Board    18.7          n.a.
Approval
Supervision                  163.9         241.8
Completion                     7.0           34.0
TOTAL                        290.1          275.8
Source: FACT
n.a. = not available



Page 42                                                                                 Statistical Annex
Table 14: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of     Month    Number   Days   Specialized staff          Performance Rating          Types of
Project Cycle    /Year       of       in    skills represented                                 Problems
Persons   Field
Implemen-      Develop-
tation Status    ment
Objectives
Through          Up to
appraisl         11/90
Appraisal        2/92         2        12   PO, MT
through Board
Supervision 1    7/92         2        14   IMP, MT, DO              2             2        ACF, PMP, CLC
Supervision 2    12/92        3        12   IMP                      2             2        PMP, PP, CLC
Supervision 3    5/93         2        18   IMP, MT                  2             2        ACF, PMP, PP,
I ______                      _____________                                  CLC
Supervision 4    11-12/93     3       16   DC, IMP, MT               2             2        ACF, PMP, PP,
CLC
Supervision 5   34/94         1        17   IMP                      2             2        ACF, PMP, PP,
CLC
Supervision 6    10-11/94     3        7    IP, MT, FA               S             S        CLC
Supervision 7    1-2/95       2        7    IMP, MT                  S             S        CLC
Supervision 8   6-7/95        2        14   IMP, MTE                HS             S
Supervision9    10-11/95      2        14   IMP, MT                 HS             S
Supervision 10    2-3/96      2        8 iMP, MT                    HS             S
Supervisionl 1   10/96       1        6    IMP                     HS             S
Supervision12   11-12/96      3        16    ED, IM,MT              HS             S
Supervision13  6-7/97         2        15   ED, IMP                 HS             S    _
Supervision 14   10-11/97     2        17   ED,IMP                  HS             S
Supervision 15    2-3/98      3        7    ED, IM, MT               S             S
Supervision 16    5-6/98  1   3       30   ED, IMP, MT               S             S
Supervision 17    10/98       4       21    ED, iMP, FA, MT          U             S        PMP,ACF
Supervision 18    12/98       5             ED, IMP, EC, MT,         U             S        PMP, ACF
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _   |_ _  |_ _  FA      _
Supervision 19   5/99         4        16   DC, ED, IMP, EC          S             S
pItion            I 0/99       1       10    HDE                     S             S     -      _S
Key to specialized staff skills
ED        =          Education Specialist                  EC         =          Economist
MT         =         Manpower Training Specialist         iMP         =          Implementation Specialist
DC        =          Division Chief                        FA        =           Financial analyst
MTE       =           Manpower Training Economist          DO        =           Disbursement Officer
PO        =           Project Officer                      HDE        =          Human Development Economist
I Key to performance rating
I = Problem Free                                        2 = Moderate Problems
3 = Major Problems                                      4 = Major Problems - Corrective action to be taken.
HS = Highly Satisfactory            HU  Highly Unsatisfactory                  NR = Not Rated
U = Unsatisfactory                     S = Satisfactory
Key to problems
ACF = Availability of counterpart funds      FP  = Financial performance                 PP = Procurement progress
CLC = Compliance with legal covenants         PDO = Project Development Objectives       SP = Studies progress
PMP = Project management performance       0 =Other (*)






ANNEX A
AIDE-MEMOIRE






Republique de Madagascar
Aide-memoire de la mission du secteur de l'education de la Banque mondiale
sur la mise en oeuvre du Projet de Renforcement de la Formation Technique
(PREFTEC, Credit 2382-MAG)
du 11 au 27 mai 1999
1.     Une mission du secteur de l'education et de la formation de la Banque mondiale* a
sejourne A Madagascar du 11 au 27 mai 1999 dans le but de faire le point sur la mise en
oeuvre du Projet de renforcement de la formation professionnelle (PREFTEC, Credit 2382-
MAG). I1 s'agit de la derniere mission de supervision du Credit dont la date de clOture est
fixee au 30 juin 1999. La mission tient A remercier toutes les personnalites qu'elle a
rencontrees pour leur accueil chaleureux et leur collaboration efficace.
2.     Au cours d'un sejour dans la region d'Antsirabe, la mission a rencontre des
operateurs economiques et representants d'associations de producteurs et d'ONG, ainsi que
des membres de l'Association Regionale Interprofessionnelle pour la Formation (ARIF).
Elle a egalement visite le Lycee Technique d'Antsirabe. Participaient A ces rencontres les
responsables du Bureau du Projet Education - PREFTEC (BPE-PREFTEC) et du Conseil
National de la Formation Technique et Professionnelle (CNFTP).  A son retour A
Antananarivo, la mission a e  invitee A rencontrer les membres du Conseil d'Administration
du CNFTP. Elle s'est entretenue avec des representants de 1'ARIF d'Antananarivo ouest,
apres avoir visite des fermes d'elevage de canards et rencontre des membres d'associations
locales qui ont beneficie de formations continues financees par le Fonds d'Intervention pour
la Formation Professionnelle (FIFP). Une rencontre de travail a et organisee avec la Cellule
d'Enseignement et de Formation Agricole (CEFA), responsable de l'execution de l'une des
composantes du PREFTEC. Des rencontres de travail ont egalement e  organisees avec les
agences d'execution afm de faire le point sur l'achevement du projet et pour examiner les
prochaines etapes pour la preparation d'un rapport d'achevement. Enfin, la mission tient A
remercier Monsieur le Ministre de l'Enseignement Technique et de la Formation
Professionnelle pour l'audience qu'il lui a accordee.
3.     Comme il s'agit de la derniere mission de supervision, le present Aide-memoire a
pour objet de dresser un bilan provisoire des principales realisations du projet par rapport aux
objectifs convenus lors de son approbation, de son impact actuel et previsible sur le systeme
de formation professionnelle, et des enseignements tires de sa mise en oeuvre.
* La mission etait composee de Messieurs Daniel Viens, chef de mission, Van Adams,
directeur sectoriel, AFTH4, Gerard Lassibile, economiste et Pierre Mersier, specialiste
en formation professionnelle et execution des projets.



Page 2                                                           Aide Memoire
Bilan du PREFTEC
4.     L'objectif du Projet PREFTEC etait de mettre en place un systeme d'enseignement
et de formation technique et professionnelle impliquant les organismes prives et publics de
formation et adapt6 aux besoins de formation du pays. Pour realiser cet objectif, le projet
comprenait 5 composantes dont les objectifs et realisations sont enumeres ci-apres.
Composante A. Support au Conseil National de la Formation Technique et
Professionnelle (CNFTP).
5.     Cr6ation du CNFTP. La mission du CNFTP est d'orienter la politique du sous-
secteur de l'enseignement technique et de la formation professionnelle en fonction des
besoins de l'economie et des exigences du marche de l'emploi. L'appui du projet a porte sur
la rehabilitation de batiments, l'equipement et la formation de son personnel necessaires pour
sa mise en operation. Le CNFTP est operationel depuis 1993. Il comporte actuellement 16
professionnels.  II a permis de developper et systematiser les liens entre le monde
professionnel et celui de la formation, qui etaient pratiquement inexistants avant sa creation.
6.     Le CNFTP a developpe, sous la forme de sous-projets concus, realises et finances
en collaboration avec les beneficiaires (employeurs, ONG, associations, groupements) et les
operateurs de formation publics et prives, un outil de developpement economique et social a
travers des formations efficaces, economiques et rapides directement ciblees vers les besoins
exprim6s par les beneficiaires. I1 a developpe une expertise solide en ing6nierie de la
formation professionnelle et a encourage la motivation des employeurs a s'organiser pour
prendre en charge leurs besoins de formation. Les demandeurs et beneficiaires de la
formation professionnelle prennent conscience du besoin de se regrouper pour organiser et
financer les formations qui leur sont necessaires pour developper leurs entreprises.
7.     Le CNFTP a supporte la creation et le fonctionnement initial de huit Associations
Regionales Interprofessionnelles de Formation (ARIF) dans chaque province (trois pour la
province d'Antananarivo) ayant un role d'interface entre les operateurs economiques
(entreprises, ONG, associations et groupements) et les operateurs de formation. Les ARIF,
bien que se developpant rapidement, ne rassemblent jusqu'a present qu'une trop faible partie
des employeurs du pays (en majorite de grandes entreprises) et ne sont pas encore
suffisamnment representatives de l'ensemble du secteur productif pour permettre la mise en
place un systeme de financement satisfaisant.
8.     Creation, sous la gestion du CNFTP, d'un Fonds d'Intervention pour la
Formation Professionnelle continue (FIFP).  Le FIFP a permis l'identification, la
realisation et l'evaluation de sous-projets de formation continue repondant aux besoins
immediats des operateurs economiques. Le CNFTP a realise au 30 avril 1999, en partenariat
avec 681 operateurs economiques, 587 sous-projets de formation pour 17.437 personnes en
emploi et pour un cofit total de 3.328.000 US$. La participation financiere des operateurs
economiques a ete en moyenne de 27%. Le succes de cette operation a contribue en grande
part a la sensibilisation des employeurs a la necessite qu'ils ont d'organiser la formation de
leur personnel pour assurer non seulement leur survie, mais leur developpement dans un
contexte regional oui la competivite se durcit rapidement.



Page 3                                                           Aide Memoire
9.     Realisation d'etudes. Les etudes incluent une etude sur le financement de la
formation professionnelle et des etudes sur le marche du travail dans 25 filieres
professionnelles. L'etude sur le fmancement a ete a l'origine de la creation des ARIF, et les
etudes des besoins de formation dans les filieres economiques a l'origine de 50% des sous-
projets.
Composante B. Reforme de l'Enseignement Technique.
10.    Reforme du systeme national d'Enseignement Technique et de Formation
Professionnelle (SNFTP). L'objectif du projet etait de mettre en place un systeme de
formation professionnelle efficace et economique capable de repondre rapidement aux
besoins en formation du secteur productif malgache et comprenant des programmes de
formation de courte duree. Le systeme mis en place par le Gouvemement malgache dans le
cadre du projet consiste en plusieurs entites administrativement et financierement autonomes
placees sous la tutelle administrative du Ministere de l'Enseignement Technique et de la
Formation Professionnelle (METFP) et financiere du Ministere des Finances (MF). Ces
entit6s autonomes sont traitees ci-apres.
11.    Le Conseil National de Formation Technique et Professionnelle (CNFTP)
charge de proposer la politique nationale de formation et d'identifier, concevoir, faire
realiser, evaluer et fmancer partiellement avec les beneficiaires des sous-projets de formation
repondant directement aux besoins exprimes par les operateurs 6conomiques (Composante
A).
12.    L'Observatoire National des Competences et de l'Emploi (ONCE) charge de
rassembler et exploiter les informations en matiere d'emploi et de besoins de formation
(Composante C).
13.    Le Centre de Ressources de formation technique et professionnelle (CERES)
charge du developpement de la methodologie de la formation, de la preparation des
programmes, et de la formation des formateurs et des formateurs de formateurs. Le CERES
comporte un effectif de 53 personnes repartis en 7 services, et 16 techniciens. II a developpe
une methodologie de la formation professionnelle basee sur l'acquisition de competences a
l'aide de modules. I1 a realise la formation de 40 conseillers techniques specialis6s qui
occupent maintenant des fonctions de chefs d'etablissements ou de formateurs de formateurs.
Par ailleurs, il a forme 186 enseignants pour la mise en oeuvre et la gestion des actions de
formation professionnelle continue au sein des etablissements de formation publics et prives.
Le CERES est fonctionnel et s'avere etre, avec le CNFTP, l'organisme d'ingenierie et de
formation des formateurs au coeur du SNFTP. Cependant il a besoin de renforcer sa capacite
d'ingenierie de la formation qualifiante et de formation initiale et continue des cadres
administratifs et enseignants du SNFTP et des etablissements prives de formation.
14.    Les  Groupements  Inter-Regionaux  des  Etablissements  de  Formation
Technique et Professionnelle (GIREFTP) rassemblent sous une meme coordination tous
les etablissements de formation de la region (dont 63 etablissements publics dans l'ensemble
du pays) qui offrent aussi bien des formations initiales formelles que des formations
continues qualifiantes cibl6es sur les besoins exprimes par les employeurs locaux. Les



Page 4                                                             Aide Memoire
GIREFTP ont produit dans le cadre du projet, en partenariat avec les beneficiaires, 173
actions de formations modulaires ciblees vers les besoins locaux, au profit de 6.077
personnes. Ces actions de formation ont ete realisees par 56 etablissements de forrnation (16
priv6s et 40 publics) avec 39 operateurs economiques pour un cout total de US$ 765.356.
15.    Cependant les GIREFTP ne sont pas encore autonomes administrativement et
financierement. Ils sont encore astreints A 1' execution de programmes de formation obsoletes
definis au niveau central, leur conseil d'administration est preside par un fonctionnaire du
METFP, et ils ne sont pas maitres de leurs actions et de leur budget. En particulier, ils
continuent A offrir, dans des conditions materielles et financieres tout A fait inadequates, un
programme d'enseignement technique menant A l'obtention d'un baccalaureat technique de
mauvaise qualite, inadapte aux besoins du marche du travail aussi bien qu'A l'entree dans
l'enseignement sup6rieur. Le taux de reussite avoisine 20% des candidats, dont la moitie des
recus sont des redoublants. lus ne sont donc pas efficaces et ne se developpent pas au rythme
espr&. Le projet a finance un audit technique des 63 etablissements publics de formation qui
permettra de les evaluer et de les situer dans le cadre socio-economique regional, et de
recommander les actions eventuelles necessaires pour la reforme et la rationalisation du
SNFTP. Cet audit sera termine en juin 1999.
16.    D'autres institutions autonomes sont egalement placees sous les tutelles du METFP
et du MF. Ce sont L'Institut National de Promotion Formation (INPF), le Centre National de
Readaptation Professionnelle des Personnes Handicapees (CNRPPH), le Centre de Formation
Professionnelle Artisanale Rurale (CFPAR), le Centre National d'Artisanat Malgache
(CNAM), l'Association Sportive des Techniciens (ASTEC) et l'Association des Techniciens
de Madagascar (ATECMAD). L'INPF en particulier a pour mission d'oeuvrer a 1'expansion
et au renforcement de la formation initiale et continue en s'attachant A developper des
programmes adaptes aux besoins des entreprises regionales. Le projet lui a apporte un
soutien en rehabilitation de batiments, en equipement et en perfectionnement de 25
formateurs (CERES).
17.    Le M.ETFP n'est pas, dans sa structure actuelle, l'organisme de tutelle permettant
I'autonomie desiree des organismes constitutifs du SNFTP. Outre le Cabinet du Ministre, il
comporte un Secretariat General, 9 directions incluant 29 services groupant 1.149 personnels
enseignants et 881 personnels administratifs, dont 120 au niveau central. Cette structure
lourde n'est pas necessaire pour assurer la tutelle et coordonner les activites des organismes
autonomes. Son fonctionnement requiert une part excessive des credits de fonctionnement
(environ 32%) et d'investissement alloues. Enfin, l'autonomie des organismes constitutifs du
systeme n'est pas respectee, car ces organismes sont places sous des directions du Ministere
et ne disposent pas d'un budget propre. Sa restructuration, sous un organigramme rationalise
et simplifie qui avait ete defini en commun accord avec la Banque mondiale en 1994, n'a pas
ete effectuee jusqu'A ce jour. La motivation et la responsabilisation des agents locaux, qui
sont des conditions necessaires d'efficacite du systeme, ne sont pas encouragees par le
manque d'autonomie. La reforme du systeme d'enseignement technique et de formation
professionnelle initiale des jeunes n'a pas ete engagee.
18.    Le secteur prive de formation professionnelle, de qualite variable, accueille
environ 50% des jeunes et des adultes inscrits dans les programmes de formation



Page 5                                                           Aide Memoire
professionnelle. II est dynamique et se developpe rapidement, noamment dans le secteur des
services. Le projet PREFTEC a apporte un soutien significatif A ce secteur au travers de
sous-projets de formation (CNFTP) et de forrnation de formateurs (CERES).
19.    Le projet a permis la mise en place d'une Unite de maintenance des equipements
des etablissements de formation du METFP aux niveau central et provincial. Le projet a
fourni l'equipement et les outils pedagogiques necessaires et forme le personnel. Cette unite
est operationnelle mais ne dispose pas encore d'un budget de fonctionnement propre. Cent
cinquante machines-outils des lycees techniques ont e  remises en etat de fonctionnement
dans le cadre de la mise en place de cette unite.
20.    Le fonctionnement de la Direction de la Planification du METFP a ete
informatise dans le cadre du projet.
Composante C. Observatoire National des Competences et de I'Emploi (ONCE).
21.    Le projet visait A la creation d'un Observatoire de l'Emploi autonome, sous la tutelle
administrative du Ministere charge de l'Emploi et sous la turelle financiere du Ministere des
Finances, qui avait pour mission de rassembler et analyser, pour l'ensemble du pays, les
informations sur le marche du travail et sur le ch6mage. L'ONCE a e  cree et est sous
tutelle administrative du METFP. Il comprend 17 cadres bases A la capitale, divis6s en trois
services - etudes des emplois et qualifications, banque de donnees et partenariat et
communication - ainsi que neuf correspondants regionaux issus du secteur prive. Depuis sa
creation, l'ONCE a e  confronte A des difficultes de fonctionnement liees au manque de
pr6cisions de ses missions et au manque de qualifications de son personnel.  Il a
essentiellement travaille A l'elaboration de deux referentiels de formation, A un inventaire de
l'offre de formations publiques et privees et realise deux etudes socio-economiques dans les
regions de Mananjary et Fort Dauphin. Il n'a pas pu, jusqu'A present, jouer son r6le
d'organisme d'information sur le marche de 1'emploi et de determination des besoins de
formation dans les secteurs et sous-secteurs economiques en amont des autres el6ments
constitutifs du systeme.
Composante D. Enseignement et Formation agricoles.
22.    Le projet avait pour objectif d'evaluer les priorites, les couits et l'efficacite du
systeme de formation technique et professionnelle agricole et de preparer une reforme et un
plan d'actions incluant l'identification et la realisation d'un programme de formation
prioritaire. Le projet a realise une etude exhaustive du systeme existant (1994) qui a conduit
a la creation, au sein du Ministere de l'Agriculture, d'une Cellule d'Enseignement et de
Formation Agricole (CEFA) chargee de mettre au point et de faire realiser un programme
strategique de reformes et d'actions prioritaires s'inscrivant dans le cadre du Programme
d'Action de Developpement Rural (PADR) entrepris par le Gouvernement. Dans le cadre du
projet, la CEFA a prepare un programme modulaire de formation continue agricole
repondant aux besoins prioritaires identifies. En application de ce programme, deux ecoles
ont ete selectionnees pour les regions nord et sud du pays, Ambanja et Bezaha, pour servir
d'6coles experimentales. Le projet, en collaboration avec le Programme National de
Vulgarisation Agricole (PNVA), a rehabilite les batiments, fourni l'6quipement et forme les



Page 6                                                           Aide Memoire
enseignants. Quatre sous-projets de formation continue sont en cours d'execution avec un
financement partiel du CNFTP dans le centre d'Ambanja. Ces deux etablissements seront
totalement operationnels en juin 1999 pour offrir un programme de formation de techniciens
et des programmes de courte duree en formation continue qui seront organises en fonction
des besoins exprimes.
Composante E. Formation des Fonctionnaires.
23.    Cette composante avait pour objectif de renforcer la capacite du l'Ecole Nationale
d'Administration Malgache (ENAM) a identifier les besoins de formation continue des
fonctionnaires de l'Administration malgache et realiser des programmes de formations de
courte duree, notamment pour appuyer le processus de decentralisation de I'Administration
entrepris par le Gouvemement. Le projet a construit et equipe un batiment a usage
d'internat, fourni de l'equipement informatique, de l'equipement didactique et des vehicules
pour 1'ENAM. Celle-ci est en mesure de former chaque annee environ 100 fonctionnaires en
formation initiale et 50 fonctionnaires en formation continue qui sont tous employes A l'issue
de leur formation.
Enseignements a retenir du Projet PREFTEC
24.    Informations sur le marche du travail et les besoins de formation. Le projet a
permis aux operateurs economiques et aux operateurs de formation d'engager et poursuivre
systematiquement un dialogue leur permettant d'identifier les besoins de formation
immediats. Ceci resulte principalement du systeme de formation continue mis en place, base
sur la participation des beneficiaires a l'identification des besoins de formation et au
fmancement des sous-projets de formation. Les entreprises, les ONG, les associations et les
groupements de micro-entreprises sont de plus en plus conscients de l'importance de la
formation pour leur developpement et leur competitivite. Ils ont reconnu la necessite de se
grouper (en ARIF) pour disposer d'un outil d'identification et d'ingenierie, interface entre
eux-memes et les operateurs de formation et les sources de financement. Des informations
sur le marche du travail flables et pertinentes ont ete recueillies localement par le CNFTP et
les operateurs de formation, et analysees par le CNFTP. I1 reste encore A les developper et A
les exploiter au niveau national. L'ONCE n'a pas e  en mesure de remplir cette tache A
cause de son organisation administrative centralisee et son approche descendante, sans lien
direct avec les realites economiques et les conditions d'operation des entreprises. L'analyse
du marche du travail engagee par le CNFTP avec les ARIF et les operateurs de formation est
encourageante et semble etre la voie a poursuivre pour mettre en place un systeme fiable et
efficace d'information sur le marche du travail et des besoins de formation.
25.    Gestion et financement de la formation professionnelle. Le systeme mis en place
par le projet PREFTEC est constitue d'elements autonomes administrativement et
financierement. I1 s'est avere efficace et economique en ce qui conceme la formation
continue, le CNFTP ayant e  gere comme une entreprise privee avec une autonomie quasi
totale. I1 n'en a pas ete de meme pour les autres elements du systeme qui sont encore sous
une tutelle lourde des unites centrales du METFP. Ce manque d'autonomie s'avere &re la
cause principale du peu de resultats de la reforme envisagee du systeme de formation initiale.
Le principe de la gestion et du financement partiel et croissant de la formation continue par



Page 7                                                             Aide Memoire
les beneficiaires est acquis. La participation de l'Etat sera encore necessaire durant les
prochaines annees, en particulier pour les petites et micro-entreprises. Une formation initiale
publique des jeunes repondant aux besoins locaux, c'est-a-dire offrant les qualification
demandees par les employeurs ou pour permettre la creation d'entreprises individuelles (des
experiences locales ont ete conduites avec succes dans plusieurs etablissements publics et
prives), reste necessaire et pourrait s'inspirer de la methodologie pilotee par la demande,
adoptee pour la formation continue.
26.    Formation continue.  Le systeme base sur l'execution de sous-projets en
partenariat entre les beneficiaires, les organismes d'ingenierie et les operateurs de formation
se generalise et correspond aux besoins actuels de developpement aussi bien des entreprises
du secteur formel que des micro-entreprises du secteur informel. Ce systeme est flexible et
s'adapte a l'evolution rapide de l'economie malgache. II est cependant important de le
completer par un systeme de normalisation et validation, notamment dans les secteurs
exportateurs.
27.    Formation initiale. La reforme envisagee n'a pas et engagee, sans doute en raison
des reticences du personnel administratif et enseignant des etablissements et des parents
d'6leves. Ces derniers y voyaient la disparition d'une voie d'acces a l'enseignement
superieur. L'enseignement technique prive n'a pas non plus avance dans une reforme de
fond pour les memes raisons. Le systeme de formation continue mis en place avec succes
pourrait servir de reference pour engager un processus de reforme de la formation initiale.
Achevement du Projet PREFTEC
28.    Le Credit 2382-MAG sera clos le 30 juin 1999. La mission va recommander a la
Banque mondiale de maintenir l'ouverture des comptes jusqu'au 31 octobre 1999 pour
permettre le reglement des depenses relatives a des operations terminees (travaux acheves,
equipements livres, formations terminees) au plus tard le 30 juin 1999.
29.    Comme suite aux travaux d'audit sur les comptes du BPE-PREFTEC et a la lettre de
Monsieur Sarris adressee a Monsieur le Ministre des Finances en date du 12 mars 1999, la
mission a compris que le Gouvemement a reverse au compte du Projet une somme de
US$109.780,49 et que le METFP et b'auditeur sont en train d'examiner les pieces
justificatives pour les d6penses realisees en 1997 sous la rubrique formation (FMG 451,05
millions), et pour des depenses realisees en 1998 (FMG 587,75 millions) pour lesquelles les
pieces justificatives ont et6 jugees insuffisantes. La mission a compris que le rapport de
l'auditeur sera acheve le 4 juin 1999. La mission recommande que ce rapport soit transmis a
la Mission Residente et au siege de la Banque mondiale a Washington dans les plus brefs
delais.
30.    Le BPE/PREFTEC restera en activite jusqu'au 31 octobre 1999 avec un personnel
reduit (le directeur, l'assistant administratif, le comptable, deux chauffeurs, un gardien et la
personne chargee de l'entretien) pour achever les operations de reception definitive des
travaux et les operations comptables qui ont ete revues au cours de la mission, et pour
preparer le rapport d'achevement du projet. L'equipement (mobilier, informatique et les
vehicules) affecte au BPE/PREFTEC restera sous sa responsabilite jusqu'au 31 octobre 1999.



Page 8                                                           Aide Memoire
31.    Le CNFTP continuera ses activites avec le personnel reduit actuel et le budget
disponible jusqu'au 31 octobre 1999 telles qu'elles ont e  revues et definies et estimees
financierement durant la mission. II travaillera egalement a la preparation du rapport
d'achevement pour les parties qui le concernent. L'equipement (mobilier, equipement
informatique, equipement achete pour 1'execution de sous-projets de formation et les
vehicules) qu'il a acquis dans le cadre du projet restera sous sa responsabilit6 jusqu'au 31
octobre 1999.
32.    La mission a compris que le Ministere envisage de mettre en place un comite de
reflexion sur l'avenir de l'enseignement technique et la formation professionnelle initiale.
Elle supporte vivement cette initiative et recommande que ce comite inclue, a parts egales,
des representants qualifies des secteurs public et prive de formation et des employeurs. La
mission souhaite que le Gouvemement tienne la Banque mondiale informee du
d6veloppement de cette initiative a laquelle la Banque pourrait eventuellement apporter son
support si le Gouvernement le souhaite.
33.    Rapport d'Achevement du projet PREFTEC. La mission a revu en detail le plan et
le contenu du rapport d'achevement du Projet avec les agences d'execution. Une ebauche de
la contribution de l'Emprunteur devra etre achevee fin aouit 1999.
Antananarivo, le 26 mai 1999.



ANNEX B1
BORROWER ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION
This annex includes only the main text of the Borrower's report. The full Borrower report
including all annexes is in the project files.






RAPPORT D 'ACHEVEMENT DU PROJET PREFTEC PAR L'EMPRUNTEUR
INTRODUCTION
L'objectifdu PREFTEC est de creer un Systeme d'Enseignement et de Formation
Technique et Professionnelle impliquant les organismes prives et publics de formation et
adapte aux besoins de formation du pays. Concu pour repondre aux besoins d'une
economie alors en reprise de croissance, le projet devait permettre (i) une adaptation de
la formation aux besoins du marche du travail et de l'emploi, (ii) une amelioration de la
qualite et de l'efficacite de 1'ETFP prive et public, (iii) une maitrise de la croissance des
depenses publiques, (iv) une optimisation de l'utilisation des ressources allouees a
1'ETFP et (v) l'allocation d'un role plus important au secteur prive de la formation. I1
faut noter que ces objectifs, general et specifiques du projet, ont ete clairs pour
1'ensemble des acteurs. Toutefois, les articulations entre les composantes, d'une part et
entre les organismes d'executions du projet, d'autre part, n'ont pas e  explicites. Ce qui a
cree des interferences dans la mises en aeuvre des actions.
Les cinq composantes du projet ont mend leurs activites a travers les organismes et/ou
les entites instaures dans le cadre du projet ou appuyes par celui ci. Les realisations de
ces cinq composantes peuvent se resumer comme suit:
COMPOSANTES                             REALISATIONS
Appui au Conseil National de la  Creation de la structure et operationnalisation de ses
Formation Technique              organes (A.G, C.A, Secretariat Executif),
mise en place des ARIF pilotes dans les chefs lieux de
provinces, Antsirabe et Antananarivo-Ouest, une
option proposee pour le systeme de financement de la
formation professionnelle
Enseignement technique           Creation et operationnalisation du CERES, et de la
Direction de la Planification *
Contribution a la reorganisation et a la reforme de
1'ETFP public; autonomie de gestion du GEETP
Informations sur le marche de    Creation et operationnalisation d'un Observatoire
l'emploi                         National des Competences et de l'Emploi (ONEFI
ONCE)
Enseignement et Formation Agricoles Creation et operationnalisation de la Cellule de
Formation Agricole (CEFA). Mise en route d'une
reforme de l'enseignement et de la formation agricole
Formation des Fonctionnaires     Renforcement du systeme de formation des
fonctionnaires de niveau intermediaire et superieur par
1'ENAM
1



* La Direction de la planification, creee au sein du METFP a contribu6, (i) avec le CNFTP,
A la definition de la strategie generale de 1'ETFP, (ii) avec l'ONEF/ONCE a la creation d'un
systeme d'information sur le marche de l'emploi et les besoins en matiere d'ETFP. La
Direction de la coordination des formations et l'INPF ont contribue A la reorganisation et A la
reforme de 1'ETFP public.
A. EVALUATION DE LA MESURE DANS LAQUELLE LES OBJECTIFS ONT
ETE ATTEINTS
a) adaptation de laformation aux besoins du marche du travail et du marche de 1'emploi:
Le developpement et l'application de la logique de la demande de formation a e  rendue
difficile par: (i) la non maitrise de la methodologie d'Identification des Besoins de
Formation et d'elaboration de Plan de Formation par les partenaires, (ii) l'habitude trop
ancree de la logique de l'offre de formation au niveau des centres de formation et (iii) la
difficulte a etablir une communication sur la question entre les entreprises et op6rateurs de
formation.
Neanmoins on peut affirmer que la logique de la demande est de plus en plus adoptee dans
l'approche de la formation. La conception de la formation, initiale comme continue, est
desormais basee sur l'identification des besoins de formation (IBF) etlou sur l'elaboration de
plan de formation (PF) repondant a un plan de developpement de region, de filiere ou
d'entreprise. Dans certaines regions, des besoins nouvellement identifies grace A la
realisation d'etudes ont abouti A la mise en place de filieres de formation complementaires (cf
annexe etudes). Ainsi, dans la cadre du FIFP les demandes sont diversifiees et regroupees
dans 40 principaux domaines de formation. Parmi ces domaines, les types de formation les plus
demandes sont l'Informatique, 15%  des actions financees et la gestion, le management,
I'administration, 14% des actions fmancees. Ces domaines tertiaires ont cible 23% de l'effectif total
des formes. Le domaine primaire (agriculture et elevage) regroupe 8% des demandes de formation
dont l'effectif des formes represente 18% de l'effectif total.
Les centres de formation, notamment publics, ont developp6 les formations professionnelles
qualifiantes pour mieux repondre aux besoins immediats des entreprises. Dans le domaine de
l'agriculture, le projet a contribue A la mise en place de deux Ecoles pilotes (EASTA
d'Ambanja et de Bezaha) et a realise des sous projets de formation au profit des jeunes ruraux
d'Ambanja. L'ENAM a forme des administrateurs repondant aux besoins de l'administration
malgache. Les ARIFs se sont positionnres en lieu de rencontre de la demandes et de l'offre
de formation.
b) am6lioration de la qualit et de l'efficacitf de l'ETFP (public):
L'offre publique a ete amelioree grace (i) au developpement des outils institutionnels
(CERES, ONEF, 6 GIREFTP, INPF), (ii) A la formation de formateurs et de gestionnaires
d'etablissements par le CERES,(iii) A l'elaboration de programmes de formation par le
CERES et la DCF/DET, (iv) A l'amelioration des moyens materiels et des infrastructures de
2



08 LT? poles, 08 CFP dont 07 par le CNFTP, 2 EASTA pilotes, 1'INPF et 1'ENAM, (v) A
l'organisation d'un systeme de maintenance des equipements et infrastructures.
Concemant l'efficacite interne du systeme, pour 1'ensemble des examens organis6s par
les LTP, le taux moyen de reussite est passe de 40,90% en. 1995,a 48,02% en.1997. Le taux
moyen de promotion inteme est passe de 89%, en 1995 A 88% en 1997 et le taux de
redoublement de 14% A 12%,; pour les CFP et LTP. On note toutefois un taux de
redoublement de 42% A 39% au niveau de la 3eme annee des LTP.Le taux moyen d'abandon
est de l'ordre de 11% en 1995 et 10% en 1997 pour les CFP et LTP. L'abandon peut etre
volontaire ou pour cause de triplement. (source DCF).
Les approches developpees par le CNFTP ont contribue au developpement de formations
intra et inter-entreprises. 78 % des formes, dans le cadre du FIFP, sont des employes
d'entreprises. Les stages destines aux createurs d'activites professionnelles (SCAP) ont
contribue A la creation effective et au developpement d'activites economiques. Les SCAP ont
cible 14% ( plus de 1600 individus) de l'effectif total des formes dans le cadre du FIFP.La
formation professionnelle qualifiante initiale (FPQI) et la formation prd-emploi (FPE) ont
touche 8% du public cible total. Pour l'ensemble de cas finances par le CNFTP, ces objectifs
etaient: (i) la normalisation des produits, (ii) l'amelioration de la qualite, (iii) l'amelioration
des delais de production, (iv) l'augmentation de la productivite, (v) I'amelioration des
techniques de production, (vi) l'amelioration de la communication, (vii) la capacite a diriger,
(viii) la maitrise de l'utilisation des mat6riels, (ix) I'augmentation de la part de march6, (x)
l'amelioration de la creativitd. Les quelques experiences du CNFTP dans la formation par
apprentissage ont permis de constater que ce mode de formation favorise l'auto-emploi, mais
la reglementation y afferente est appelee A 8tre remise A jour.
c) maitrise de la croissance des d6penses publiques:
Les cofits de formation, initiale comme continue, sont de mieux en mieux maftrises
grace a l'institutionnalisation de l'autonomie de gestion des etablissements de formation
ainsi que la budgetisation systematique des formations. Des outils y afferents ont ete mis
A la disposition des promoteurs de formation par le CNFTP et des etablissements par le
MIETFP en collaboration avec I'AFPA Intemationale. Dans les etablissements et au
niveau des GIREFTP, le Manuel de proc6dures de gestion comptable, financiere
administrative et pedagogique a ete mis en application.
La normalisation progressive des couits de prestations par domaine, l'augmentation de la
contribution des beneficiaires et l'introduction du systeme de recouvrement des cofits
traduisent la progression vers cette maitrise de la croissance des depenses publiques.
d) utilisation efficace des ressources alloujes a l'ETFP:
Les formations inter-entreprises, la creation de GIREFTP dans les provinces ainsi que le
recours aux personnes-ressources ont cree une dynamique regionale par rapport aux regions
et aux acteurs. La mise en commun des moyens humains et materiels locaux ont permis
d'assurer des formations r6pondant a la qualite requise tout en realisant des economies
d'echelle .
3



e) attribution d'un r8le plus important au secteur prive de laformation:
Pour la formation continue, le principe d'appel d'offre (qualite/cofits) est institue pour
stimuler la concurrence. Les centres de formation, publics comme prives, recenses aupres du
CNFTP, des ARIFs et des entreprises sont invites a soumissionner pour la realisation des
actions de formation. Des formations de formateurs de la Direction Nationale de
l'Enseignement Privee de Madagascar, ainsi que I'appui du CNFTP en materiels necessaires
a la realisation d'actions de formation ont contribue a 1 'amelioration de la qualite de l'offre
privee. On assiste au developpement de l'offre privee par l1'mergence des etablissements de
formation et de filieres de formation repondant aux besoins du secteur economique. Ainsi le
nombre d'etablissements et centres de formations professionnelles prives ont augmente de
30%, dans la periode du 1993 a 1995, soit un accroissement moyen annuel de 10%. De 1995
A 1997 ce taux d'accroissement est de 8% soit un taux annuel de 4%.( Source ONEF/ONCE).
Quant aux actions financees par le CNFTP , les interventions des prestataires prives
representent 63% des interventions totales et 37% pour les publics. Dans certains domaines
de formation, les prestataires publics sont beaucoup plus representatifs que les priv6s. Dans
le domaine de la peche , ils representent 77% des prestataires choisis et 70% dans le domaine
des menuiseries - ebenisterie et ouvrage bois.
RESULTATS GLOBAUX:
Les experiences du PREFTEC ont permis la formulation d'une politique du sous-secteur de
la Formation Technique et Professionnelle dans le cadre du Programme National pour
l'Amelioration de l'Education - phase II (PNAE II).
Cette formulation a permis l'adoption des lignes directrices communes dans la realisation
d'activites de chaque organisme du systeme et l'amelioration de la communication inteme au
niveau du dispositif et avec les autres Departements ministeriels.
Pour le CNFTP:
Les reflexions, initiees par le CNFTP ont d'abord porte sur la reforme de l'Enseignement
Technique et de la Formation Professionnelle et ses objectifs pour lesquels les concepts de la
logique de la demande, de l'investissement-formation et du partenariat au niveau des
differents acteurs ont ete developpes. Ainsi, en matiere de financement, la necessite du
partage de couts a ete confirmee et en matiere de partenariat, le r6le preponderant du secteur
productif accepte. Cette reflexion a notamment contribue A la formulation de la politique
sous-sectorielle de 1'Enseignement Technique et de la Formation Professionnelle. Les
experiences, de l'approche < filiere) d'une part et celle  des formations aux metiers de
base, d'autre part, ont contribue A la definition des axes de developpement de cette politique.
Au niveau des regions, le leadership est assure par les ARIFs. En effet, ces dernieres ont
developpe un partenariat particulirement encourageant avec, suivant leur region
d'implantation, diverses entites economiques educatives et sociales, nationales et
internationales.
4



Desormais, associe A la fonnation professionnelle, le CNFTP est invite A intervenir et A
apporter ses experiences lors de rencontres traitant de la formation professionnelle, tout
domaine confondu, et de problemes que la contribution de la formation professionnelle peut
aider A resoudre. A noter que le cas du CNFTP et celui des ARIFs ont e  choisis pour etre
exposes A la Conference des Ministres de l'Education des pays ayant le fran,ais en partage
(CONFEMEN) de BAMAKOU. Lors de la visite du MEDEF a Madagascar, le CNFTP a pu
discuter de differents aspects de la formation professionnelle avec la delegation chargee de la
Formation Professionnelle.
Grace au developpement d'une methodologie adaptee et adaptable aux realites du contexte
malgache, le CNFTP a contribue A repondre A 638 demandes regroupees dans 40 principaux
domaines de formation pour 18.277 apprenants et a la realisation de 31 etudes relatives A
l'IBF et A l'elaboration de Plan de Formation ont e  realisees (i) dans differents domaines et
regions, (ii) pour les branches et les filieres economiquement porteurs, (iv) au profit de
populations tres diversifiees. Cette diversification de la demande a entraine une
diversification de l'offre. Un marche de formation se met en place. La contribution des
beneficiaires au fmancement de la formation professionnelle a connu une evolution
significative. Cette contribution est passee de 9% du cofit total de la formation en 1993 A
22% en 1997.
Le delai de traitement des dossiers de demande de fmancement a raccourci grace A une
meilleure appropriation par les partenaires de la methodologie de l'Identification des Besoins
de Formation ainsi que des procedures d'acces au FIFP. Le controle qualite des actions de
formation est assure grace A un systeme de suivi et evaluation accompagne d'un systeme de
paiement par echeances comme clause de bonne fin et mesure de sanction. La
contractualisation des relations a permis la responsabilisation de chaque partenaire. A noter
que ces actions de formation ont eu des effets induits non negligeables a savoir 1'exercice,
par d'autres acteurs, des activites identiques ou liees A celles qui sont entreprises par les
beneficiaires, l'extension et diversification des activites des beneficiaires et le developpement
du partenariat.
Concernant le fmancement de la Formation Professionnelle, suite aux recommandations
d'une etude realisee par le consortium SFERE-ATW, des concertations regionales et
nationale ont ete organisees entre les representants de l'offre de formation, publique et
privee, d'une part, et ceux du secteur economique, d'autre part. Ces concertations ont permis
de jeter les bases du futur systeme de financement: sources - gestion - mesures incitatives. La
creation des ARIFs pilotes, eventuelle option pour le systeme de financement de la formation
professionnelle, en est la premiere concretisation.
Pour P'ONEF/ONCE:
L'ONEF a developpe l'identification des filieres sur 3 r6gions. 4 etudes ont e  realisees dans
les zones de Morondava - Tulear - Moramanga - Antananarivo - Antsirabe et Antsiranana.
Des reseaux de correspondance sont installes et operationnels dans diverses r6gions. Des
etudes prospectives des metiers ont ete developpees. Ce qui a abouti a: l'identification des
besoins en formation dans 12 domaines differents et la proposition de 100 modules de
formation repondant A ces besoins. Une banque de donn6es sur la formation professionnelle
5



et 1'emploi repondant aux besoins des differents utilisateurs a e constituee.
Pour le CERES:
Le CERES a contribue a la mise au point d'une methodologie d'ingenierie de formation
professionnelle et au developpement de l'approche par competences qui a permis (i)
I'elaboration de programme modulaire et la capitalisation des formations et (ii) la formation
des formateurs a differents niveaux.
Pour les GIREFTP, I'INPF, I'ENAM et les EASTA
Ces operateurs se sont lances dans (i) le d6veloppement de formations qualifiantes de courte
duree organisees a la demande des employeurs et/ou des createurs d'activites, (ii)
l'amelioration des formations de qualification initiale, (iii) la rationalisation de la maintenance
des equipements et des savoir-faire avec lIelaboration du plan directeur de maintenance et du
manuel de procedure de maintenance .
Le tableau ci-dessous indique les realisations de ces operateurs en matiere de formation
qualifiante.
Individus      INPF         ENAM         EASTA       GIREFTP        TOTAL
Formation            3.5941         142'                     6.077         9849
: Qualifiante   |          =
B. PRINCIPAUX FACTEURS AYANT AFFECTE LE PROJET ET SON
EXECUTION:
B.1. Politigues macro-economigues et sectorielles:
A mi - parcours du projet, la preconisation par le DCPE (1996-1999) de la lutte
contre la pauvrete a entrainm la necessite d'adapter les approches et les outils du METFP,
dont le Manuel de procedures du CNFTP. En outre, le PNAE II (1998-2003) et le DCPE
(1999-2001), dans le cadre de la mise en valeur des ressources humaines, preconisent, entre
autres, d'assurer des formations recherchees par les employeurs et les employes pour
arnliorer la procedure et la rentabilite, corroborant ainsi la pertinence des objectifs du projet.
B.2. Engagement du Gouvemement:
Conformement aux dispositions de I'annexe 4 de l'accord de credit, un comite de
coordination a ete mis en place par voie de decret (N93/908 du 30/11/93). Ce comrit a
normalement fonctionne jusqu'en 1996 comme organe de l'emprunteur destine a assurer la
coordination generale de l'execution des activites du projet et des relations avec les bailleurs
de fonds.
Par suite de plusieurs changements au niveau des hauts responsables du METFP, le r6le du
comite s'est quelque peu transforme. II s'est limite a des actions ayant trait a la
sensibilisation, 1'encadrement, la vulgarisation aupres d'etablissements et operateurs de
6



formation. A partir de 1996, il n'y a plus eu ni seances de travail organises par le comite ni
echanges formels de point de vue ou d'experiences entre le comite et les representants des
bailleurs de fonds.
B.3. Nomination du personnel:
En l'espace de 5 ans, l'organisme de tutelle technique a change cinq (5) fois de Delegue
General ou de Ministre ce qui s'est traduit par autant d'orientations politiques. Cette
inconstance a eu des retombees negatives sur le deroulement du projet.
Au BPE, suite a la maladie du Directeur depuis Juin 1998 et A la demission du responsable
de la gestion comptable et financiere en octobre 1998, la Banque, avec l'accord du Ministere
de tutelle, a recommand6 de confier la responsabilite de la gestion comptable et financiere A
un cabinet de Consultant et de nommer un nouveau Directeur, l'ancien n'ayant pu reintegrer
son poste.
Au niveau du CNFTP, la mise en place d'un CGP bis et la nomination d'un Directeur
executif bis par l'organisme de tutelle de l'epoque en 1996, le retard dans la promulgation
des textes relatifs a la mise en place des organes du CNFTP par l'organisme de tutelle de
l'epoque (DGGETFP) a perturbe la marche des activites. En 1998, apres le deces subit du
Directeur Executif, la nomination de son rempla9ant a 6te retardee par l'absence de Conseil
d'Administration au niveau du CNFTP. Tous les engagements, surtout financiers ,ont e
suspendus jusqu'A la designation du Directeur Executif ad interim et la nomination des
regisseurs de la Caisse d'avance. Le Directeur Executif a.i a ete confirme A son poste apres la
mise en place du C.A en mars 1999.
L'operationnalit6 des organismes autonomes cr6es dans le cadre du projet a e  fonction de la
rapidite de la nomination des premiers responsables et de leur stabilite.
BA. Troubles politiques et sociaux:
Les evenements de 1991 ont entrainm des perturbations politiques, economiques et
sociales qui se sont ressenties sur le demarrage du projet. Pendant certains temps un
environnement economique difficile a notamment detourne les preoccupations des
entreprises du probleme de la valorisation des ressources humaines.
B.5 Disponibilite du fonds de contrepartie
L'insuffisance du fonds de contrepartie du Gouvemement et le retard des virements au
compte du projet ont entraine une lenteur et un retard dans l'execution des activites, une
accumulation des arrieres (surtout de la TVA) et un probleme de credibilite du projet
aupres des fournisseurs (refus de bon de conmmande).
B.6 Les couits de formation
7



L'augmentation des cofits a rendu l'etablissement des cofits de reference ainsi que la
budgetisation de la formation particulierement difficile surtout dans la formation initiale.
La dimension geographique(eloignement des fournisseurs par rapport aux demandeurs ou
des prestataires par rapport aux beneficiaires de formation ) a aussi entraine une diversite
des couits et prix. Le cout moyen /etudiant a connu une diminution de 21%, de 1997 a
1999, pour les CFP et une augmentation de 12% pour les LTP. En moyenne, le cofit
unitaire de ces deux types d'etablissement publics a diminue de 10%. (source DCF)
Quant aux formations financees par le CNFTP, les coats moyens different suivant les
types de formation. Le cofit moyen unitaire de la formation est de 1 700 000 FMG
(environ 260 USD). (source: CNFTP).
B.7 Utilisation de I'assistance technique
Pour le CNFTP, apres essai, il est apparu qu'une consultation periodique assuree par
un consultant etait plus souple et plus efficace qu'un conseil technique permanent. Pour
1'ONEF/ONCE, le recrutement d'un consultant a permis la mise au point d'une
methodologie d'IBF. Une assistance technique francaise a apporte son appui a
I'elaboration des documents des equipements pour les LTP. Au CERES, I'appui d'un
Consultant du BIT a permis la conception et 1'experimentation d'une methodologie
d'ingenierie de FP avec formation  d'un  groupe de  29 formateurs en vue de
l'operationnalisation de la methodologie. Quelques problemes sont cependant apparus
concernant la conception de la methodologie  de l'ingenierie  de formation
professionnelle i adopter.
(a)   B.8 Participation des beneficiaires
Du fait des problemes economiques auxquels elles doivent faire face, et de la culture
investissement-formation encore en developpement, la contribution des entreprises est
encore peu satisfaisante quoiqu'elle soit en hausse progressive. Ces dernieres ont
exprime leur motivation a la mise en place d'un fonds de formation, a travers les
decisions prises au niveau de l'Assemblee Generale du CNFTP.
C. ADMINSTRATION DU PROJET
BPE/PREFTEC:
Jusqu'i fin exercice 1996, la gestion du projet s'est deroule normalement. Des lacunes
consecutives, notamment, a des depenses effectuees par le comite de coordination (cf
rapport d'audit - mai 1998 et les aides memoires de la mission du 05 au 26 octobre
1998) ont e  detectees au niveau de la gestion comptable et financiere a partir de
l'exercice 1997. Cette defaillance a abouti a la demission du responsable comptable et
financiere. Deux audits complementaires ont ete necessaires pour clarifier la comptabilite
du projet (rapports d'audit de Janvier et de Juillet 1999). II faut aussi signaler la maladie
8



du Directeur du BPE a partir de Juin 1998 qui, par la suite n'a plus pu reprendre ses
fonctions. Le DCF a d'abord e  designe coordonateur technique du BPE  depuis
novembre 1998, puis nomme Directeur du BPE en fin Janvier 1999. Ces evenements ont
entraine beaucoup de problemes surtout comptables (retard important de la mise a jour,
accumulation d'arrieres de paiement des fournisseurs, TVA, DTI ,calendrier de paiement
en tirage directs et approvisionnement du compte special non programmes A temps ). I1
est enfin important de souligner que par rapport a l'importance des fonds geres par le
BPE et les taches requises y afferentes, le personnel du BPE a e  apparemment assez
reduit .Cependant, il faut dire que le BPE a e  bien equipe en matiere de moyens de
travail .
CNFTP
En 1996, le statut de CNFTP a e modifie pour assurer une meilleure repr6sentation du
Prive au sein de ses organes de decisions (Assemblee Generale, Conseil
d'Administration). Jusqu'en fevrier 1997, le comite de gestion provisoire a jou6 le r6le de
l'Assemblee Generale et du Conseil d'Administration et la mise en place de ces derniers
ont eu lieu respectivement en fevrier 1997 et mars 1999. L'autonomie de gestion de
l'organe d'ex6cution, a permis au Secretariat Ex6cutif de mener a bien ses missions.
Sur le plan financier, les echanges permanents d'infonmations avec la Banque Mondiale
ant permis de contourner les problemes de gestion financiere:
- augmentation du plafond du Compte Special de 200 000 USD A 400 000 USD
-  reallocation de certaines rubriques par rapport A la table des coots, en raison des
cofits et charges imprevisibles
-  les solutions aux problemes de TVA et DTI communs aux Projets, ont ete d6battues
en reunions inter Projets
Les audits realises periodiquement ont note quelques remarques constructives pour la
gestion du CNFTP. Des ajustements ont ete apportees suivant ces remarques.
D. EVALUATION DE LA PERENNITE DU PROJET
DI Engagement du Gouvemement
La cr6ation d'un Ministere charge de l'Enseignement Technique et de la Formation
Professionnelle permet une meilleure synergie des actions des elements du systeme
national de la formation technique et professionnelle et une meilleure comprehension de
la FTP au niveau des hautes instances de decision . Ainsi, le DCPE (1996-1999) a-t-
il preconise la priorisation des investissements dans les secteurs sociaux, dont
l'Education et la Formation. Avec l'integration de la politique du sous-secteur de la FTP
dans la politique de l'education (PNAE II) et la definition des roles et participation de
l'Etat Malagasy dans sa mise en ceuvre, cela traduit un meilleur cadrage macro-
economique de la FTP.
La concretisation du principe d'autonomie pour plusieurs organismes du dispositif de
FTP augure une meilleure efficacit6 du dispositif La participation a des rencontres et
9



ateliers intemationaux sur 1'ETFP (Italie, Coree du Sud, Afrique, Canada, France)
temoignent de la volonte des responsables du secteur d'e1argir le champ de vision dans le
domaine de la FTP.
La contribution du gouvemement, a travers le METFP, au financement des organismes
rattaches et des GIREFTP s'eleve a 5,037 milliard de FMG soit 23% du budget alloue au
METFP (hors PIP). Avec la Direction de la Planification et la Direction de la
Coordination de la Formation, ce montant s'eleve a 6,365 milliards de FMG soit 29% du
budget du METFP (hors PIP).
La depolitisation des criteres de nomination des hauts responsables du dispositif
constitue une des conditions de stabilite donc d'efficacite du dispositif.
D2. Strategies developpees:
La poursuite de la prise en main progressive de l'organisation et du financement de la
formation professionnelle par le secteur productif, l'operationnalisation d'un systeme de
recouvrement des coats et de generation de ressources propres, l'assurance d'une
autonomie effective pour les organismes du systeme, et la mise en place prealable de
mesures incitatives et d'accompagnement assureront la perennite du projet.
Les bdneficiaires et participants seront incites & continuer le Projet en les impliquant
dans son evaluation et dans les reflexions sur les perspectives du Projet, notamment sur
les strategies appropriees a privilegier.
Afin de maintenir l'lan obtenu aupres des partenaires, notamment du secteur productif,
le projet devra renforcer ses acquis.
E. EVALUATION DU COMPORTEMENT ET DE LA PERFORMANCE DE LA
BANQUE MONDIALE, LE FAC ET LE PNUD
Durant les phases d'identification et de preparation du Projet, une analyse en dialogue
dynamique avec les autorites malgaches des problemes essentiels et des actions
envisageables en matiere d'ETFP a et effectuee . I1 en est ressorti une large
convergence de vue qui abouti a I'accord de credit PREFTEC No 2382-MAG (Cf
rapport d'evaluation du PREFTEC en Juin 1991). A partir du moment oui les conditions
de mise en ceuvre du credit ont ete remplies, les bailleurs de fonds ont facilite l'execution
du projet.
Durant les phases d'evaluation et de supervision du Projet, ont pu etre notes (i) une
comprehension mutuelle des problemes specifiques et des contraintes du projet qui s'est
traduite par des series de recommandations pour assurer le bon d6roulement du Projet:
flexibilite des procedures, renforcement de l'assistance technique, reajustement du
budget, revision detaillee du programme d'activites,..., (ii) des echanges d'experiences
et des resolutions de problemes grace aux reunions sectorielles periodiques organisees
avec le comite de suivi de projets , (iii) des echanges frequents de point de vue avec les
10



principaux responsables malgaches du projet. Cependant, quelques fois les conclusions
finales des rencontres ne correspondent pas toujours a la position du METFP par rapport
aux strategies de mises en ceuvre adoptees au niveau operationnel du projet
Concernant les relations entre la Banque Mondiale et l'Emprunteur, chaque partie s'est
efforcee de respecter les clauses de l'accord de credit. Neanmoins, un probleme est
apparu sur le role du comite de coordination que l'emprunteur devait creer. D'une part,
la Banque Mondiale ne l'a pas tellement sollicite, d'autre part, la tutelle technique du
proj et (METFP) ne l'a pas non plus tellement utilise efficacement.
F. FONCTIONNEMENT FUTUR APRES LA CLOTURE DU CREDIT
F. 1 Institutions et activites soutenues par le Projet
Le projet poursuivra sa mission d'orientation de la politique en matiere de FTP, de la
conscientisation des partenaires sur les enjeux de la FTP, des efforts de coordination des
actions des composantes du systeme de la formation professionnelle, du renforcement
des competences des partenaires (ARIF) en ingenierie de formation avec les moyens
disponibles, du renforcement des capacites operationnelles des operateurs (priv6s et
publics) de formation et des organismes d'appui en matiere d'ingenierie de formation
professionnelle. Les acquis seront valorises et capitalises.
F.2 Indicateurs de suivi
-  Evolution du systeme de financement
-  Efficacit6 interne et exteme des operateurs de formation
- Developpement de l'ingenierie de formation professionnelle
-  Impacts economiques des formations
F.3 Resultats et impacts du projet
Malgre un debut assez difficile et un contexte politique et economique defavorable, on
peut affirmer que le Projet a rempli sa mission. En effet, il a reussi ai:
*  Mettre en place une structure qui assure l'organisation et la coordination de la
formation continue et initiale
*  Fournir les moyens requis (RH, materiels, organisationnels,... ) au ministere de
tutelles et aux differents organismes concourant au developpement de la FTP
11



* Persuader ses differents partenaires des interets de la Refonne de la Formation
Technique et Professionnelle
* Vulgariser la demarche qu'il preconise en matiere d'ingenierie de la formation
professionnelle
* Obtenir du secteur prive qu'il participe au financement de la formation
professionnelle
*  Mettre en relation les divers acteurs du secteur (employeurs, prestataires de
formation, prestataires d' etudes, fournisseurs de materiels didactiques, bailleurs de
fonds, autres organismes facilitateurs,.....)
* Introduire dans les etablissements de formation, l'organisation de formations de
courte duree a la demande des entreprises ou createurs d'activites sur la base d'un
partenariat et de la recherche d'interets mutuels
*  Mettre en place les fondements du systeme de financement de la FTP par la creation
des ARIF
* Amorcer la mise en place d'une base de donnres sur la Formation professionnelle
Cependant, il faut rappeler que les acquis du PREFTEC sont encore fragiles. Leur
renforcement par la continuite des efforts constitue une des conditions de leur perennite.
G. LECONS A RETENIR
Les principales lecons a tirer de Vtex6cution du proj et sont:
> Une autonomie effective, administrative et financiere, est indispensable pour
permettre la gestion performante d'un projet. En effet, elle permet objectivite, souplesse
et rapidite dans l'execution des activites.
> La formulation prealable d'indicateurs verifiables est importante. Elle permet des
regulations efficaces en cours de projet et une evaluation plus objective et plus rapide a
la fin de projet
> L'adaptation des manuels de procedure au contexte permet au projet de repondre aux
exigences de son environnement.
>  L'elaboration de plans de travail periodiques permet de s'assurer de l'ex6cution
harmonieuse des activites selon les exigences de qualite et les delais impartis.
> Les efforts en matiere d'information, de communication et de coordination doivent
etre renforces .
> L'approche terrain est indispensable avant toute conceptualisation.
12



> L'implication des differents partenaires pendant tout le processus permet un
enrichissement des differents concepts et approches, leur plus large diffusion et surtout
une meilleure efficacite dans leur mise en ceuvre.
>  Le secteur productif constitue un partenaire incontournable dans tous les domaines
de 1'ETFP. La prise en main de la formation professionnelle continue par ce secteur en
constitue une condition de reussite. Le regroupement des entreprises et des associations
autour des ARIFs en est un premier pas. L'acceleration de la mise en place des
diffirentes mesures incitatives impulsera le mouvement.
> La perennite des acquis depend beaucoup d'un changement dans le comportement
des acteurs.
13



LISTE DES ABREVIATIONS
ARIF: Association Regionale Inter Professionnelle pour le developpement de la Formation
Professionnelle
AFPA: Association pour la Formation Professionnelle des Adultes
BAC: Baccalaureat
RAE: Brevet d'Agent d'Execution
BPE/PREFTEC: Bureau Projet Education
BT: Brevet Technique
CERES: Centre d'Etudes et de Ressources du Personnel de l'Enseignement Technique
CFP: Centre de Formation Professionnelle
CNFTP: Conseil National de la Formnation Technique et Professionnelle
DAF: Direction Administrative et Financiere
DCF: Direction de la Coordination de la Formation
DCPE: Document Cadre de la Politique Economique
DGGETFP: Direction Generale des Groupements d'Etablissements Techniques et de la
Formation Professionnelle
DP: Direction de la Planification
DTI: Droits et Taxes d'Importation
EASTA: Ecole d 'Application des Sciences et Techniques Agricoles
ENAM: Ecole Nationale de 1 'Administration de Madagascar
ETFP: Enseignement Technique et Formation Professionnelle
FIFP: Fonds d'Intervention de la Formation Professionnelle
FTP: Formation Technique et Professionnelle
GETFP: Groupement des Etablissement Technique et de la Formation professionnelle
GIREFTP: Groupement Inter Regional des Etablissements de Formation Technique et
Professionnelle
IBF: Identification des Besoins de Fornation
LTP: Lycee Technique Professionnel
INPF: Institut National de Promotion Formation
METFP: Ministere de l'Enseignement Technique et de la Formation Professionnelle
ONEF/ ONCE: Observatoire National de l'Emploi et de la Formation/ de Competence et de
l'Emploi
PF: plan de formation
PIP: Programme d'Investissement Public
PNAE: Programme National pour l'Amelioration de l'Education
SCAP: Stage de Creation d'Activites Professionnelles
14



SPF: Sous Projet de Formation
SPP: Stage de Perfectionnement Professionnel
TVA: Taxes sur la Valeur Ajout6e
15






ANNEX B2
BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON THE ICR



COMMENTAIRES SUR LE RAPPORT DE FIN D'EXECUTION (RFE)
POINTS RETENUS             RHf RFE                     COMMENTAIRES
Objectifs du Projet et evaluatIon de leurs atteintes
- Les objectifs du projet etaient et restent   1.6
essentiels pour jeter les bases d'un               L'ampleur et la complexite du projet, la multiplicite des
developpement pertinent et soutenable du      acteurs sollicites, et l'interdependance de leurs actions
secteur, en accompagnement de la              respectives sont peut-etre une des raisons pour lesquelles
politique de liberalisation globate de        seuls des indicateurs de resultats physiques et financiers ont
1'economie malgache, notamment si on          pu etre fixes explicitement au depart du Projet. Des outils de
pouvait impulser le systeme par la            suivi des performances ont ete elabores et ameliores au fur et
demande                                       A mesure de l'ex6cution.
Une pleine atteinte des objectifs de la Refonne
n6cessitent des efforts de longue haleine quJ rendent la
dures du Projet (5ans) peu rAaliste
- Manque d'indicaturs quantltatifs pour
mesurer les resultats... Des indicateurs
cles de l'execution du projet ont ete definis
et ont fait l'objet d'un suivi pendant
I'execution meme du projet
- Projet complexe                _
La structure (du CNFTP) a eu une    1.8       Le CNFTP:
influence limitee sur la qualitM du  1.13     - a joue son r6le d'iniffateur et d'incitateur et a reussi A
pilotage et de la planification     1.16      produire un effet d'entralnement sur le reste du dispositif
strategique.                                  (approche, concepts, m6thodologie, partenariat et
contractualisation).
- s'est efforce aussi de tenir son r6le de conseil et de
proposition d'orientation bien que les effets en sont
effectivement assez faibles surtout en matiAre de FPI.
Ainsi, le CNFTP, pour le compte du METFP et avec la
collaboration de tout le dispositif, a concu et prepare la
politique sous-sectorielle de I'ETFP qui est incluse dans
le PNAE II.
Toutefois:
- la responsabilit6 du pilotage reste floue si l'on se refere
aux differents textes: CNFTP, METFP, Comite de
coordination, et aux relations ainsi induites.
- pour la planification strat6gique, I'absence de reperes
au depart (ex: echelonnement des mesures dans le
temps du projet, resultats attendus par anneo ou par
tranche d'annees), l'introduction A mi-projet d'une
dimension lutte contre la pauvrete, le retard dans la mise
en place des differents organes, mais surtout l'absence
d'informations suffisantes (cf 1.9 RFE) n'a pas permis
d'asseoir une vision moyen et long terme precise et donc
______________ _________________  __   de proceder a une planification strategique des actions



POINTS RETENUS              R6f RFE                     COMMENTAIRES
Une meilleure precision des r6les et
responsabilite.s des diff4rentes entit6s sus-
mentionn6es, et les 6l4ments qualitatifs et
quantitatUfs d6crits dans la Politique sous-sectorielle
de l'ETFP pourrait constituer une base de pilotage et
_______ de planification strategique dans I'avenir
P6rennite du projet, en parliculier  1.18      - A sa creation, la DGGFETP a essaye d'instaurer
concemant la mise en place d'un systeme  1.38  unilat6ralement, une taxe sur la formation professionnelle, mais
de flnancement de la formation       1.45      celle-ci a ete abandonnee apres un rejet unanime du secteur
professionnelle                      1.49      priv.
- Les resultats de l'tude realise par SFEREIATW, et ceux des
concertations ont releve comme condition de reussite de la
mise en
1.51      place d'un systbme de financement: I'adh6sion des"
contrbuants" au systeme a etablir.
L' option preconisant la progressivitN au d6marrage a
6te un choix delib6r6; les ARIFs constituent donc le
premierjalon du systeme de financement de la formation
professionnelle continue. Outre, la regionalisation, le
volontariat d'adhesion et la progressivitA dans les cotisations,
les ARIFs par la presence en leur sein
d' entreprises du secteur modeme et de petites et micro-
entreprises du secteur informel, donne un prefiguration d'une
mutualisation des ressources rares.
L'Assemblee Generale du CNFTP a demande une
periode test de 2 ans de cette option avant toute g6neralisation.
- Suite aux actions menees par le CNFTP et les ARIFs,
actuellement, l'id6e d'une coiusation obligatoire assise surla
masse salariale est acceptee par le secteur formel.
Toutefois, dimportants travaux analytiques sont
encore n6cessaires, IAG du CNFTP a estime lors de sa
r6union de Mars 1999 quo le systeme de financement ne
saurait etre efficacement mis en place quo vers 2003. Un
appui Important, tant sur /a plan technique quo financier,
est necessaire pour la preparation et l'op6rationalisation
du mecanisme..
Outre les points releves dans le RFE, une meilleure
coh6rence et synergie des efforts nationaux et des
baillours de fonds devrait etre recherch6e, arin de
rentabiliser les efforts passes, notamment en conrfirmant et
promouvant au mieux leas structures et mecanismes
organisds existants (CNFTP, ARIFs) et en clarifiant to role
de l'Etat.
Performance de la Banque Mondlale    1.21            Lors de la preparation, ont et6 mal apprehendees la
faible structuration de la fonction-formation au sein des
entreprises et l'insuffisance voire la non-disponibilite de
competences nationales en matiere d'identification de besoins
et d'ingenierie de la formnation professionnelle .
Lors de la realisation: I'absence de cadre de references
2



POINTS RETENUS              Ref RFE                     COMMENTAIRES
clair a exige des differentes missions de supervision une forte
capacite de dialogue. II a ete remarque les efforts continus des
differentes missions pour preserver et consolider les acquis. Le
RAP et le RFE remarquent l'absence d'indicateurs quantitatifs
clairs dans les documents legaux, ce qui expliquerait les
limites de la portee des differents aide-memoires.
Los offets des actions en matffre de formation
continue et des experences dans la formation initiale
auraient et6 penalises par une suspension du Projet qui
aurait detruit le climat de collaboration difficilement
instaur avec les partenaires natfonaux
Performance de l'Empruntour          1.24           Malgre des realisations importantes sur le plan
1.25      institutonnel et methodologiques, ainsi que des efforts sur le
plan financiers (cf RAP et RFE) , les performances de
I'Emprunteur:
- sont difficilement evaluables du fait de l'absence d'indicateurs
veriflables au depart du Projet , du caractere novateur et
complexe du meme projet ainsi que de I'absence de
programmation ferme arretee par les deux parties en cours de
projet;
- ont ete limitees par (i) un changement des responsables du
projet (Ministere de tutelle technique de la preparation n'est pas
celui lors de 1'execution, changement de Ministre  la Wate de
I'ETFP) ; (ii) la non-conformite des Manuels de Procedures
initiaux aux realites malgaches et A l'environnement, dont les
premiers tests et la readaptation ont W
consommateurs de temps. Une meilloure approche-terrain et
une Implication plus significative des cadres operaffonnels
malgaches, avant touts conceptualisation, saavArent
indisponsables pour eviter de tolles exp6riences; (iii) la
mise en place des structures nouvelles (exigences du Projet),
I'adaptation progressive de leur personnel A de nouveaux
concepts et methodologies, ont pris du temps sur les 5 ans du
Projet dejA court. Les d6lais necessaires semblent ne pas avoir
ete bien appr6hend6s lors de la pr6paration.
Le Comite de Coordination tel que defini par les Accords
de Cr6dit a effectivement disparu en 1996, cependant le
Ministere sous differentes formes (reunion des directeurs,
comites techniques inter-direction...) a assure au mieux cette
coordination et a pu cr6er une synergie tres visible en fin de
Projet. Ces efforts, ainsi que les risques attaches a la formation
d'un nouveau Comite, a peut-^tre distrait l'attention des deux
parties sur la necessite de cette formalisation.
Op6rations futures
- Prendre des mesures de consolidation    1.37       Cela ne pourrait se faire sans un appui des bailleurs de
des acquis                                      fonds qui devrait permettre la mise en place des moyens et
methodes necessaires.
- Ameliorer les activites de suivi evaluation, 1.38  L'identification et la formation eventuelle des partenaires
y comprs la sous-traitance du contr6le         ,ainsi que la formation du personnel du CNFTP, en particulier,
qualite dans les domaines de formation          en matiere de controle-qualite, semble necessaire, pour pallier
tres specialisee                                a une insuffisance des competences nationales pour le premier
point et pour permettre au CNFTP une bonne preparation et
suivi des sous-traitances dans le second point.
3



POINTS RETENUS              R6f RFE                     COMMENTAIRES
- Tenir a jour un repertoire vivant sur l'offre 1.38  Une repartition daire des taches (CNFTP, DCF,
de formation par domaine                       ONETFOPP), un consensus sur les modalites d'intervention
doivent etre adoptes afin d'assurer une utilisation rationnelle et
efficace des moyens disponibles.
- Suivi et analyse du marche du travail et   1.43    Actuellement, le CNFTP dispose des introductions et
des besoins de formation continue              relations necessaires; il a initie le travail pour les besoins de la
formation continue.
Principales lecons du Projets        1.45           En matiere de formation continue, d'importants travaux
1.46      sont encore n6cessaires sur le plan institutionnel, technique et
1.50      financier.
1.53
En outre, un appui aux etablissements prives et publics
les plus performants savere encore indispensable, dans les
annees A venir, pour satisfaire une demande de formation
6volutive et croissante.
4






ANNEX C
SECTOR POLICY LETTER
STRATEGY FOR TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL
EDUCATION AND TRAINING (TVET)






CONFIDENTIEL
REPUBLIQUE DEMOCRATIQUE DE MADAGASCAR
le 13 mai 1992
Le Ministre de l'Emploi et de la Formation
et le Ministre de l'Instruction Publique
A
Monsieur Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
Directeur, Departement des Pays des Grands Lacs
et de l'Ocean Indien
Banque Mondiale
Monsieur le Directeur,
Objet: Strategie pour l'Enseignement Technique et
la Formation Professionnelle
Yai l'honneur de vous faire part de la strategie de la Republique Democratique de
Madagascar en matiere d'Enseignement Technique et de Formation Professionnelle (l'ETFP).
Cette strategie s'ins6re dans le cadre de nos strategies fondamentales de developpement
dconomique et social. La strategie sectorielle de l'ETFP complete celle du secteur de
l'education, qui est A la base du projet sectoriel de l'education (CRESED), et harmonisera la
politique de rETFP du secteur public avec la strategie nationale de l'education dans son
ensemble. La strategie aura pour objectifs l'adequation entre la formation et les besoins du
marche de remploi, ainsi que l'amelioration de la qualite et de l'efficacite de l'ETFP, en
meme temps que la maitrise de la croissance des depenses publiques et l'utilisation efficace
des ressources qui y sont allouees.
L'execution de la strategie n'entrainera pas une augmentation, dans l'ensemble, des
depenses publiques (en termes reels) consacrees A I'ETFP. L'augmentation des d6penses
pour les objectifs prioritaires sera compensee d'une part par les contributions des employeurs
aux formations qui leur sont utiles, et d'autre part par des economies resultant des mesures
indiquees ci-dessous pour augmenter l'efficacite du systeme. Un programme de depenses
publiques de 1'ETFP sera pr6par6 tous les ans en conformite avec la strategie de 1'ETFP
comme celle-ci est exposee dans la presente lettre. Ce programme sera coherent avec le
programme global de depenses publiques et avec celui du secteur de l'ducation generale.
Nous comptons discuter de ce programme annuellement avec la Banque Mondiale et avec
nos autres partenaires qui participent au financement du secteur. Nous avons l'intention
d'utiliser le programme de depenses comme instrument de gestion du systeme, et pour la
preparation du budget de l'Etat.
L'operation actuellement a l'etude, le Projet de Renforcement de l'Enseignement
Technique et de la Formation Professionnelle (PREFTEC), qui beneficierait du soutien d'un
1



credit de l'IDA, a ete concue en conformite avec cette strategie, et fournira des moyens
d'appui pour aider a sa mise en place. Le PREFTEC permettra la reorganisation de 1'ETFP
public, et integrera les actions necessaires a la realisation des mesures specifiques en vue
d'accroltre l'efficacite inteme et exteme du sous-secteur.
L'execution de la strategie necessitera des efforts i la fois du Gouvernement et des
autres partenaires sociaux. Par consequent elle a deux axes paralleles qui comprennent le
renforcement et la restructuration de I'ETFP public, dun c6t6, et de l'autre c6t6 le
developpement de 1'ETFP fourni par le secteur prive: les ONG, les employeurs, et les ecoles
et les autres etablissements a caractere commercial de 1'ETFP. Les deux secteurs, public et
prive, se completent et representent la capacite de formation du pays; ils sont appeles a jouer
ensemble les roles essentiels economiques et sociaux qui sont les leurs. Les fmancements
qui seront obtenus de l'IDA et d'autres bailleurs de fonds pour 1'ETFP seront ainsi repartis
judicieusement entre ces deux secteurs, afin d'en faciliter une utilisation efficace, et
d'encourager les etablissements prives et ONGs a participer de facon concertee avec le
secteur public au developpement de la formation professionnelle. En favorisant ainsi les
centres (tant publics que prives) qui ont fait preuve d'efficacite, la poursuite de la strategie
limitera les depenses publiques consacrees a la formation, et aidera a mobiliser les ressources
du pays et des bailleurs de fonds a cet effet.
La mise en aeuvre de la strategie de 1'ETFP, ainsi que la coordination et la promotion
des actions de 1'ETFP, seront la responsabilite du Conseil National de la Formation
Technique et Professionnelle. Le Conseil National (le CNFTP) aura parite de representation
du secteur public et des employeurs du secteur prive dans ses organes de reflexion et de
decision, afm de favoriser la participation des employeurs A l'orientation de la politique de
formation. Le CNFTP aura acces aux ressources financieres et techniques qui lui permettront
de promouvoir, d'aider, et de participer au fmancement des actions dans ce domaine. Le
CNFTP participera au financement des actions de formation qui correspondent aux objectifs
de la strat6gie nationale de I'ETFP, comme celle-ci est exposee dans la lettre actuelle et sera
par la suite developpee par le CNFTP; des criteres detailles d'attribution du financement ont
e  elabor6s, que nous avons examines conjointement avec les bailleurs de fonds concernes.
Le financement de 1'ETFP depend actuellement de facon trop importante du budget
de I'Etat et des bailleurs exterieurs de fonds. Ceci constitue une ponction importante sur le
budget, mais ne fournit suffisamment de ressources ni pour le fonctionnement efficace du
systeme ni pour en permettre la croissance. Pendant la periode du projet, le Credit de 1'IDA
apportera une contribution majeure, mais il est essentiel de prevoir le fmancement apres
P'achevement du projet. Pour mieux favoriser l'efficacite dans 1'ETFP et la disponibilite d'un
fmancement adequat a moyen terme, le CNFTP examinera d'ici le 30 juin 1995 des
propositions de mise en place des systemes de financement convenables, en tenant compte
des possibilites et volontes des forces vives de la nation a contribuer a 1'ETFP. Un systeme
adequat de financement - par exemple, les contributions des beneficiaires, et/ou des
contributions des entreprises - sera par la suite mis en place, pour prendre la releve du
PREFTEC. Nous sommes n6anmoins convaincus que dans le cas ofi le nouveau systeme
donne des resultats satisfaisants en faisant ses preuves d'efficacite, l'appui des bailleurs de
fonds exterieurs nous sera acquis pour completer le financement inteme.
2



La priorite de la strategie, qui sera suivie dans toute operation d'ETFP qui beneficiera
d'un fmancement public, sera la conformite aux besoins de 1'economie et du marche de
l'emploi. Des cadres institutionnels seront crees qui permettront aux responsables de la
formation, tant au niveau national qu'aux niveaux decentralises et des etablissements de
1'ETFP, de se renseigner concernant les priorites du marche de l'emploi, et de determiner les
priorites des formations qui repondent A ces besoins, et qui favorisent ainsi l'acces des
diplomes A l'emploi. Des mesures favorisant la qualite de la formation et de 1'enseignement
seront adoptees, telles que la formation initiale et en cours d'emploi de formateurs et
*enseignants, le renforcement de la formation pratique, et la disponibilite des materiels
didactiques ainsi que l'tablissement des cadres permettant de mieux associer les employeurs
A la definition des programmes de formation.
Nous procedons A une professionnalisation progressive de 1'enseignement fourni par
les etablissements de 1'ETFP public. Les activites A l'interieur des lycees comprendront des
filieres de la formation generale technologique qui donnent acces au baccalaureat technique,
et celles qui donnent acces A L'emploi. Au fur et A mesure que les formations professionnelles
seront mises en place dans les lycees techniques, nous serons amenes A reguler et le nombre
des eleves et le nombre de sp6cialites dans les filieres technologiques.  En outre les
,tablissements formeront des etudiants A la requete des employeurs; pour financer les
ressources en materiels permettant aux etablissements de fournir de tels cours, la
reglementation sera modifide pour que les etablissements puissent recevoir des contributions
des employeurs et affecter et utiliser ces ressources a cette fin. Des mesures seront adoptees
pour assurer que les etudiants A l'entree de la filiere generale technologique aient acquis les
connaissances de base en mathematiques et sciences qui leur permettent de poursuivre des
etudes donnant acces au baccalaureat et par la suite (pour ceux qui sont recus) d'avoir les
meilleures chances de reussir leurs etudes universitaires. La maitrise des flux d'eleves A
l'entree du systeme, en correspondance avec les ressources financieres disponibles et les
demandes du marche de l'emploi, sera une partie importante de la strategie.
Le Gouvemement: examinera de facon detaillee le niveau d'utilisation des
etablissements de 1'ETFP publics. L'allocation des ressources etatiques se concentra lA oui les
etablissements peuvent en faire l'utilisation maximale en termes de coutt/efficacite, donnant
une formation adequate au plus grand nombre d'etudiants, et oui il existe un comite integrant
des employeurs de la localite.
Le renforcement de la gestion du systeme constitue une partie importante de la
strategie. Des mesures seront prises pour faciliter l'autonomie des centres de formation
assortie d'une rigueur dans le controle de leur gestion.
Veuillez croire, Monsieur le Directeur, A l'expression de ma haute consideration.
Le Ministre de l'Instruction Publique    Le Ministre de l'Emploi et de la Formation
Fulgence Fanony                             Bruno Bearivo
3






IBRD 20035R1
44*
MADAGASCAR                                                                    .                                          t a                        12
-____  Al-FomIb* roods-.                                                                   .       .R J 
:outes ossoro wros                                        - .
Chitrz04roads                                                                         Ambooio  ,\
Cheoul, de 4,
' f/Swes OI,ye,tl'tbireS                                                                     / k   r " \  0 ANTSIRANAN
.              +~4     Aorsports                                   ..        .      - . :,                         -~5>a                    Jobv
Notiotnrl cspital                        .              .     -..
p/ Foritanlezin *I c pills                                          Ant.     |           rBeolon ... rn
.   An'o  _  '
..          _~~ _                i rer4osnte  cap.toori     -                                  tk*k   4"    -'  /              4"A  do
C.~Rf kita   do Forton
- .' -   .                  vAmbaodor.e                                                                     l\ An  taho
.                              -   ~~~~~~~~~~~M A H A J  NG A     I\                                                 /
___     _ Io olial bo d t                                                      //                                        ' An ilomen  xiitera  A
00 Moin E/Qt.f       iv4b ntsorano  
t   '   C  r      Ankrazob+ef Anioszoobeoi        \~~~~~~~~iv Atom           sinano
16'                                                                        \ \_oAnBrxiov            NX rnpny                          (                            1A
4-
;~~                                                MAHA A            G        \         \\   S oovnond        6~riono4tndrngai   4OS  Y 
cl~~~~~AAIo,ooAOMAI
.   O   .,   Be.nd,irivlhi .,.. _tsib:W A mbotolAn     y  f m ne                onaae.va A o             (4
A n"''           A j k   Anlsiro 4 b /               Tbmsi.
M     *in ondriono                        l
Maniar  0,on                                                                     4y
,Fianromb<0gondoo  nti h L   <sJAAnoswboo)
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
.    ,                         fSdOSO        Mohaobo         M   Ilo sJ                    \    feFo                      '  .,Inon
* -   Cs  Mo.amb  onoodovo  oil~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1-h  b
.    5 i e h s r tLOMET0iS 0  sr     too    15O    200
Botioby-Sud                     \       0MA                                      Ak. ,TANZANIA    o        INDiAN
25'                        Borokolo      *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~N1 ~~~OCOMOROS
BekilyOC                                                                       'MAWI I
ZAMBIA V~ 
The  bquodcsrle*, epo,$rs
dthe  lr*,notloa, and                    hy
,,        mnfo;o,                                                      '-                                           ZIMBABWEt xS'            *nton nosivS/
The:Vvor        so                                                                                                                                   GAS ;3
,,ott.o of any      us, 
da Oy OhSrsUTHl
i  ar n                                                   ,d, t oh                                                   AFR ICA        
4D
DECEMBER 1994



