cz/L~  Ac s+  - Y
Docment of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. P- 5488-MAG Type: (PM)
BLAY, PAUL/ X34013 / / AF3PH
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 16.7 MILLION
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR A
MANPOWER TRAINING PROJECT
0                                           MAY 18, 1992
This docment has a restrictd distibutin and may be usd by recipiets only in the performace of
their official duti. Its contents may not orwise be disdosed without World Bank autorization.



URRENY  ALENT
(March 1992)
Currency Unit      =     Malagasy franc (FMG)
USS 1.00           =    FM 1800
FMG 1000           =    US$ 0.55
SDR 1              =    FMG 2458
FMG 1000            =    SDR 0.41
SDR 1               =    USS 1.36555
MEASURES
Metric System
DEiMOCRAT[C REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR FISCAL YA
1 January - 31 Deember
ACADEM  YEAR
October - June
GLOSSAQ OF ABBREVIATIONS
ASAC    Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
BPE      Education Project Office
CNFTP   National Technical and Vocational Taining Council
CRESED Education Sector Reinforcement Credit (Credit pour le Renforcement du Secteur de
l'Education)
DET      Department of Technical and Vocational Education
ENFAR National Civil Service Training School
FAC      French Aid and Cooperation Fund
ILO      International Labor Office
INPF    National Vocational Training Institte
ISAC     Industril Sector Adjustment Credit
IST      Higher Technological Institue
rTPAC   Industry and Trade Policy Adjusent Credit
MEF      Ministy of Employment and Training
MIP      Minist of Education
MU       Ministry of Universities
OGL      Open General Licensing Stem
PSAC    Public Sector Adjustment Credit
TEFISO  Public sector vocational schools
TUT      Sales tax
TVET    Technical and Vocationia Education and Training
UNDP   United Nations Development Program



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
MADAGASCAR
MANPOW aRAR NlM             Q
CRED1 AND) paR1E  SUIQMUA
Democratic Republic of Madagascar.
National Technical and Vocadonal Taining Counci (CNFTP), and
through it, private, NGO and public taiing institutions; Miniy of
Education (MIP); Ministry of Employment and Trainn  OM ;
Minstes of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry; National Vocadonal
Training Institut (INPF); National Civil Service Trainig School
(ENFAR).
SDR 16.7- million (US$22.8 million eqivalent).
Ternm:                 Standard with 40 years maturity.
Onlending Terms:       Not applicable. Government will grant funds to CNFTP, INPF and
ENFAR.
Einamcg ~Plan:-        Goverment and beneficiaries      4.9
(uS$ million)          France                          2.2
UNDP                            1.6
IDA
Total                                                  1   L
Economic Rate of        Not applicable.
staff AVVMIW R".-  No. 9365-MAG.
*                                 JU IBRD 20035R.
1/ Including taxes of US$1.7 million equvalent but excluding import duties of US$2.4
equivalent.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onlY in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authoization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CRED1T
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
EQRAWMETRAININGf PROJECr
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recoendaion on a proposed
development credit to Madagascar for SDR 16.7 mfllion, the equivalent of US$22.8 million on
standard InDA terms with a maturity of 40 years to help finance a project for manpower training. The
project would be co-financed by France (FAC) for US$2.2 million equivalent and by UNDP for
US$1.6 million.
2.    Part I of the present document describs the country's policies and the Bank's assistance
stratgy. I draws upon recent economic mLss!.s to Madagascar. Part 1H describes the credit, the
rationale for IDA involvement, project objectives, agreements reached, and the risks of the operation.
PART I - COUNTRY POIUCIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEY
A. Eonodc Polides and PeIormance
3.    With a population of about 11.6 milion growing at three percent per year and a per-capita
income estmated at US$230 in 1990, Madagc  is one of the least-developed countries in the
world. Income distribution is unequal and poverty is widespread. Madagascar is the world's fourth
lagest island, with a rugged topography, a wide range of soil and climate, a rich minerad endowment,
and unique flora and fauna. The economy is predominanty based on agriculture, with about 80
percent of the population living in rural areas and agriculture providing about 80 percent of
mrchandise export earnings. Rice is the country's main staple, and the major exports are vanilla,
coffee, cloves and, more recently, shellfish. The agricultural sector is dominated by small-scale
farms which produce both -sport and food crops; a few large fams (private or public) produce
industrial and some export v ops (e.g., sugar, cotton and sisal). The industrial sector (about 10
percent of GDP) is undergoing a major transformation away from capital-intensive, import
substitng activities, toward labor-intensive and export-oriented production. The couny has
significant long-term economic potential, given its industrious labor force and its ample natura
resources.
4.    Since independence in 1960, Madagascar's economic record is one of modest growth to 1970,
stagnation from 1970 to 1980, sharp detrioration between 1980 and 1982, and financia stbiliation
with limited economic growth from 1983 through 1987. Beginning in 1988. conomic results were
encouraging. The country expenenced positive per capita -albeit modest- GDP growth in three
consecutive years (1988-0), with tangible evidence of increased private investment, especially in
labor-intensive, export-oriented ventures. During the second half of 1991, political turmoil swept
the country, severely dirupting economic activity. In Jamny 1992, transitional governing
institutions were set in place; a new government is expected to be instaled by end-1992, following
preidential and parliamentary elections. The transitional government has confirmed its support for
the adjustment process. Its limited mandate, however, may affect its ablity to implement the strong
stabilization and reform measures needed to reestablish the conditions for sustained growth.



StbU 4AWudabuuJL i3.
S.    lhe diointaig growth performance of the 1970s was largely caused by the move from
an open-market economy to a tightly reulated, command economy. Th role of the public sectr
gready increased, following the nationalization of foreign-owned assets and the introduction of
pervasive economic controls. Import substitutionand industrializaonbecame cenral objectves, with
agdculture relegated to a suppordlg role. In the late 1970s, tis strategy culminated in an ambitious
public investmen program composed of lage, capital-intensive and economically non-viable projects,
financed to a large etet by etera borrowing on commercial terms. This policy, together with
the declining terms of trade and stagnat domestic revenues, led to a wideing of externa and
domestic disequlibria, high infation, and a contraction in real GIP of 11 percent between 1980 and
1982. Moeover, the extna debt burden inceaased substantially, constraining economic growth to
this day.
6.    During the 1983-1985 period, the Govement carried out a generally succsul stabilization
program with IMP suppotL The program succeeded in halting the economic decline, and GDP grew
by 1.4 percent per annum on average between 1983 and 1987. On the exernal side, while exports
declined i no minal dollar terms and interest paymen  soared, there was a major contraction in
imot, which dropped by more tan 40 percent in real terms during thet frst half of the 1980s.
These developments, together with Icreasing extern  aid flows, helped improve significandy
bMdagascars balace  of payments situation. However, economic recovery was hampered by
strctual constaints, including an ovewrvlued curren, widespread quantitative Impott restrictions
and prce controls, a bloated and inefficient parastat  sector, a badly deterated and obsolete
Infrastructure, poor public services, and pervasive govenmen    ference m vually all aspects of
economic life.
7.    To address these structura  ostr , the Governme  launched a structural adjustment
program in 1985. The adjustomt process was first initiated at the sector level, with the support of
an IDA-financed Indusal Sector Adjumt Cedit (ISAC) in FY8S and an Agricultural Sector
Adjustmet Credit (ASAC) in FY86. In the industrW setor, in 1985-86 the Govment eliminated
ost ex-try price controls, reduced contols on profit margins, eliminated export taxes on
manuface products, removed some merchandise impor. proibitions, and improved the quality
of public investments in the sector. In agriculture, the Govermment fully liberalized the domestic rice
pricng and marketin system in 1986, and started to rationalize public investmens in the sector.
Imports of rice, which had peaked at 351,000 tons in 1982, declined to 76,000 by 1990 (equivalent
to less than 5 percet of total rice production).
8.    In 1987, the Government embarked on a broader reform ageada spelled out in is first Policy
Framework Paper P) covertng 1987-90. IhIs PFP formed the basis for an arrangement under the
IMP's StCtual Adjustment Facility (SAP) and for IDA's Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment
Credit (TFAC) approved in PY87. In 1988, a second PFP (1988.91) laid the foundation for an
Enhanced SAP (ESAF) and for IDA's Public Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC) approved in FY88.
In June 1990, a third PFP (1990-92) ouning the Government's program to consolidate the reform
process was discussed by the Commite of the Whole, and provided the basis for a second year
drawing mlder the ESAF arrangement.
9.    The policy refonns  drn   since the mid-1980s have drtically altered the economic
evironmn    of Madagasar. With regards to foreign eajchanfe and trade liberalization, the
Goverment devalued the Malagasy Franc (FMG) by a cumulave 53 percent in trade-weighted
oreign currency terms in 1987, and in 1988 the FMG was further depr_eated by a total 14 percent.



-3 -
As a tesult, by 1989, the real effective exchge rate had fallen to about 40 percent of its 1982 level.
This major exchange rate adjustment enabled the Government to eliminate quantitative restridctions
on imports in 1988, to launch a four-year program of tariff reform, and to Introduce an automatic
allocation of foreign eage for merchandise imports dtough an Open General Licensing system
(00L). In addition, export restrictions wee substantially reduced, all state agricultural monopolies
were eliminated (except for vanilla), and export taxes were abolished on all but the three traditional
products (i.e., coffee, cloves and vanilla). Nominal and effective protection were lowered by
reducing the number of import tariff rates from 69 (ramging fom 0 to 1,000 percent) in 1987 to 14
rates (ranging from 5 to 60 percent) in 1991. The Government also decided to reduce the number
of tariff rates to 5 (rangig from 10 to 50 percent) in 1992. In parallel to this external trade
liberalization, all remaining domestic price controls were lifted, except for natural monopolies and
stae-cotolled sectors (e.g., vanilla, tobacco, suga, wheat).
10.   In the fi ial sector. where all banks were owned by the state and were experiencing severe
financial problems as well as weak and worsening portfolios, the Government also undertook a major
reform. Specifically, by end-1989 the portfolios of the three state-owned banks had been cleaned-up
of all non-performing and of most doubtful assets. In 1990, a futly private new bank with majority
foreign capital started operations and, in early 1991, one of the three sta-owned banks (BNI) was
privatzed, while a second (BFV) obtained minority private participation, and two private foreign
banks opened represetations in Madagascar. In 1990, to encourage further competition in the
financial sector, the Central Bank began replacing direct quantitative control mechanisms with a more
flexible system based on the use of indirect market instruments.
11.   Starting in 1987, the Government inidated a major reform of the  owned enterpries with
the objective of witdrawing the state from productive and commercial activities. Although
measurable progress was achieved in this area, the divestture process proved more difficult than
manicipated initly, In large part a reflection of lack of government commitment. In ubic finance,
significant improvement in the programming and composition of public expenditure was achieved;
however, progress in the reform of the budgetary system was slower than anticipated. A cI serytee
rmf~ process was launched in 1990 with a census of the civil service, the results of which are in
the process of being validated. A civil services assessment study, completed with Bank assistance
in June 1991, has provided the basis for the preparation of a comprehensive civil service reform
action plan. To encourage d[     nestment ad e    diversification, a new Investment Code and
freetrade zone legislation were promulgated in December 1989. Finally, social and environental
concerns were integrated more explicitly in the Government's f cial and economic program, and
a targeted poverty alleviation program was launched, supported by the IDA-financed Economic
Management and Social Action project approved FY89.
12. Overall, despite slower than expected ptogress in *process-oriented" policy improvements
(i.e., budgetary and public enterprise reforms), the cumulative implementation of the package of
sectoral and macroeconomic refom  implemented since 1985 was far reaching, and the difference
between the policy landscape of 1985 and that prevailing before the start of the political turmoil in
1991 was striking. The adjustment program had undeniably led to a more open and market-oriented
economy and had contrbuted to the resumption of per-capita growth. More importantly, a broad
conensus formed in Goverment and business circles that Madagascar's experimen in centrally-
planned development had failed and that the key to sustained development would be a reduction in
the role of the state in economic activity and a commensurate increase in private sector activity.
Economic progress was accompanied by political liberalizadon, which began in 1989 with the lifing
of press censorship and included unrestricted multi-party activity, as well as steps to adapt the
counys socialist constitution to the new market orientation of M?-agascar.



-4-
13C t Develg=m    n  (1990-91
13.    Macroeconomic developments in 1990 confirmed that while economic recovery was well
underway, it remained fragile. Strong growth in new export-oriented manufacturing activities
(garments, leather, woodwork) - fueled by a substamn    increase in domestic and foreign private
investment - and in trade and tourism-related services led to a third successive year of positive per
capita - albeit modest - GDP growth. At the same time, the overall fiscal deficit (including external
grants) declined from 4.1 percent of GDP in 1989 to less than 1 percent in 1990 (see Table 1), owing
to the joint effect of a lower- -2an-programmed implementation of public investment expendiures and
increased fiscal revenues from  import taxes, stemming f-,m  an exceptional surge in ImVorts.
Merchandise imports rose by 58 percent in nominal U.S. dollar terms as a result of an uncontrolled
expansion of credit (provided targely through BTM, the only remaining fully state-owned commercial
bank), an appreciating real effective exdhange rate and an increased oil bill. This, together with
stagnating merchandise exports in current dollar tems, due largely to the continued sharp decreases
in the pi.ces of the country's major exports (in particular that of coffee), produced a trade deficit of
6 percent of GDP compared to a small surplus in 1989. The external cuffent account deficit widened
from 8.6 percent of GDP in 1989 to 1O.7 percent in 1990. These factors, combined with lower-than
expected aid inflows, caused foreign exchange reserves to decline from five months of imports at end-
1989 to less than two months by end-1990.
Table 1: Selected Economic Indicatoreg
1987'   1988    1989    19        1991
GROWTH RATESW
GDP at market prices                                     1.2     3.4     4.1      3.1    -63
Exports (GNFS)                                          18.2     0.6    24.0    11.1    -42
l.pwrts (GNFS)                                         -1.4   -10.3      6.2    26.3   -22.1
RATIOS Ci)"
current External Account/GDPO                           -9.?   -11.0    -8.6   -11.7   -105
Debt Servfce/Exports (G#FS)S                            37.9    49.0    53.1    42.1    68.0
Gross Investment/GDP                                    10.1    13.3    13.4    17.0       9.0
Gross Domestic Savings/GDP                              5.2      7.1      9.5     8.2      2A
Public Savings/GDP                                      4.3      3.5      5.6     7.0      05
Govt RevenuJ/GDPV                                       15.4    13.8    15.4    16.2    10A
Govt Total Expenditure/GOP                              18.1    17.2    19.5    17.1    15.6
Overalt Budget Deficit/GDP'                             -2.7    -3.4    -4.1    -0.9    -52
INDICES
GDP Deflator (oroith)                                   22.9    21.2    10.8    12.9    12.8
Terms of Trade (1987 - 100)                            100.0    84.9    82.8    73.8    67.0
Real Effective Exchanve Rate (1987 a 100)              100.0    91.3    88.4    92.8    79.8
gf Based on Wevied dafta provided by tOe Govermen In Ajuil 1992
kIBosed on 1900 constant pdous
St Based on crrent pdice
if Exciudin grants
gI Afte redulin
14. Ihe Government acted, albeit slowly, to restore financial equilibria by devaluing the FMG
by 16 percent in foreign currency term and by severely tightening credit expansion between
November 1990 and June 1991. The above measures, and increased external support, helped
improve the country's eernad position during the first half of 1991. The Government took these



-5-
corrective measures in the context of a broader effort to renew the adjustment momentum.
Negotiations on a fourth PFP (1991-94) were completed in July 1991-and IDA's next adjustment
operation (a Private Sector Environment Adjustment Credit) was in an advanced stAge of preparation-
when the country was plunged into a polidcal crisis.
15. The political turmoil that swept the country in July 1991 and which has persisted through the
present derailed the adjustment effort. Widespread demonstrations and strikes, including by the civil
service, paralyzed the public administration and severely disrupted economic activity. Output fell by
an estimd 6.3 percent, and inflaionary pressures Increased. The shortfall In tax collection due to
the civil service strike resulted In a budget deficit equivalent to 5.2 percent of GDP. The extena
position of Madagascar also weakened further in 1991. Notwithstanding important disbursements
of balance of payments support during the first half of the year and a 20 percent reduction in imports
in dollar terms (in part due to the under-implementation of the PIP), the country's poor export
performance led to an overall balance of payments deficit of US$221 million for the year. ITis
deficit was financed by an accumation of extal payments arrears (US$173 milion by end-l991)
and the depletion of reserves. The growing shortage of foreign exchange during the second half of
the year led to the suspension of the OGL system in October and its replacement by a rationing
mechanism of foreign exchange alocation. Despite the above economic environment, the private
sector - especially export-oriented industries - were better able to weather the political crisis of
1991-92 than other sectors. This has reinforced the widespread change in atitudes in the country,
which now are firmly on the side of adjustment and private-sector-spurred growth across the political
spectrmL
16.   Meanwhile, the political reform process has continmed. A transitional power-sharing
arrangement agreed in late October by all major political forces became effective in Jamnary 1992.
Under this arrangement, President Ratsiraka remans in office with greatly diminished executive
powers; the National Assembly was dissolved and replaced by a High State Authority headed by a
key opposition leader; and a Government of national consensus was formed. A referendum on the
new Constition is scheduled for June 1992, to be followed by Presidential and Legislative elections
latr during the year.
B. Development Constraints and Issues
17. Madagascar has significant long-term development potential, stemming from its industrious
labor force and a diversified and favorable resource base. There is substantial scope for the
expansion of non-traditional exports (particularly in fishing, agriculture, mining, and labor-intensive
manufacturing activities such as garments, leather, and woodwork), and of tourism. This potential
is in stark contrast with the low level of per-capita income, the widespread incidence of poverty
throughout the country, particularly in the rural areas, and the spiral of envron t degradation
that threatens not only Madagascar's unique heritage of bio-diversity, but sustainable economic
development as well. To realize its growth potenti while reducing poverty, Madagascar needs to
overcome short-term issues and address the remaining structura constraints in the economy as
discussed below.
Short-Term -Tsue
18. Madagascar is at a crossroads. The country faces the challenge of managing a political
transition towards a stable and democratic political system, while arresting the macroeconomic



-6-
slippage and the decline In social conditions, and re-dynamizing the adjustment process. The
immediate priorities are to correct the macroeconomic imbalances and to create a stable political
environment conducive to a resumption of private sector Investment.
19.   The transitional Governmet has confirmed its commiment to the adjustment process. At
the same time, however, the multiplicity of inteim govering insttutions with overlapping
responsbility and authority In economic management limits its ability to Implement decisions.
Moreover, in an electoral year, the authorities may be reluctant to take the stabilization and structural
economic measures needed to restore macroeconomic balances, particularly those wh!,ih may be
deemed politically sensitive, such as: higher taxes, especally on petroleum products; reduction and
reallocation of public expenditure; stricter monetary policy; and maintaining the competitiveness of
the economy through a flexible exchange rate policy.
20.   Parallel BanklIM  missions visited Madscar in April 1992. Although the authorities were
forthcoming on the principles of the needed reforms, they were unable to decide on the specific
measures. As a result, the missions could not reach agreement on a coherent maroeconomic
framework for 1992. Consequently, Madagascar was unable to gain access to IMF resources under
the third year ESAF arrangement, for which the commitment period in the case of Madagascar
expired on May 14, 1992. The authorities and the IM are now considering the possibility of a
Stand-by arngement for 199293. The latter is a condition for the country's access to Paris Club
rescheduling and for additiona balance of payments assistance. A failure to obtaun generous debt
relief and rescheduling of existing arrears would result in the further accumulation of exal arrears.
For its part, the Bank would be prepared to support an agreed macroeconomic program in 1992 by
providing balance of payments assisunce through the release of the third tranche of the Public Sector
Adjustment Credit (PSAC), provided the Government also restores the policy reforms undertaken
under the previous phase of adjusmen (e.g., OGL), and meets the specific conditions of the third
tranche release (e.g., civil service reform action plan, public enterprise reform).
strauchat l1s ues
21.   Notwithstanding the encouraging results of 1988-1990, the supply response to the structural
reform program implemented since 1985 has not reached its potental. Traditioa export crops and
import substituting industries contined to stagnate.  The emergence of new activities in
manufacturing, non-traditional agricultural exports and tourism-related services was promising and
in many instances impressive; however, since these activities stareld from a very low base, they
attained a relatively limited scope and had, therefore, a limited impact on the overal econmy. The
swpply response has been constrained in pardcular by important physical (fifrastructure) bottenecks,
poorly finctioning commodity and factor markets, a heavy debt burden, and adverse terms of trade.
The growth in new exports is rapid and promising, but is not yet large enough to compensate for the
sharp decline in the prices of the country's traditional exports.
22.   The tansport and communication i ctre is inadequate, given hdagsca's size,
rugged topography and remoteness from world markets, and it is not adequatey mainned and
operated. This inhibits economic development and reduces the coury's extra competitiveness.
Domestic omodity markets, in particular for agricultura goods, have benefted from liberlization,
as shown by the increased availability and diversity of goods. These markets are, however, far from
efficient ad remain caactrzed by unduly large price fluctuations and lack of iegation (e.g.,
farmgate prices can move in different directons in neighboring regions). There are remaining
barriers to entry on the domestic and export markets related to: licensing and other administrative



-7-
requirements; lack of access to information, market inteligence, kiow-how, capital and trade credit;
and foreign exchange controls, including on services and capital. Ihese barriers perpet   the de
facto oligopolistc trading and industril structre (e.g., In vanilla, catde export, cotton gnning and
processing, sugar) inherited from the color4W period and stengthened during the 'socialist' era.
Labor markets are hampered by the generally poor quality of education, a shortage of qualified
manpower adapted to the evolving needs of the economy, and restrictive labor regulations. Private
investment is constrained by excessive regulations, the low level of domestic savings, and an under-
developed financial system which hampers the mobilization of savings and financial intermediaon.
23.   Other major development constraints include a high population growth, widespread poverty
and deplorable social conditions, food insecurity and environmental degradation. Madagascar's
average population density (19.8 Inhabitants per square km) is comparatively low. However, the
pattern of settlement results in 'ocalized areas of intense population pressure. With mobility severely
constrained by geographic and social factors (e.g., access to land, insecurity in the rural areas),
population growth is a paramount long-range concern. At the current 3 percent anmal growth rate,
Madagascar's population would reach 20 million by the year 2005. In addition to absorbing most
of the gains in production, such an increase would put an unsu ble burden on the country's
capacity to provide adequate basic social services and infrastructure, and on the already-endangered
unique environment.
24.   Madagascar's social conditions are below sub-Saharan African standards. Child mortality
rates are high (around 20 percent of live births); endemic and communicable diseases are prevalert
(malaria has become a major health pwoblem); the basic education system is crippled by indequate
fumding, and management problems and school enrollment rates are falling, albeit from high initial
levels; chronic malnutrition affects some 40 percent of the populaton; and the primary health care
system is largely inperative, owing mainly to the lack of medical suplies and inadequate access to
qualified staff.
25.   The absence of agricutural intensification in the densely populated areas of Madagascar,
combined with the lack of viable off-farm opportnities, lead to the cultivation of unprotected hill
slopes, and the expansion of agriculture into increasingly marginal areas using 'slash and burn
agricultural practices. In turn, these agricultural practices lead to soil erosion, deforestation, fiuther
declines in agrictural productivity, and widespread in uc   degradation, partidcularly silting
up of downstream ports and irrigation schemes, and destruction of roads and bridges. In addition,
the progression of "slash and burn" agriculture into the primary forest areas increasingly threatens
the natural environment and the wildlife that is unique to Madagascar.
26. Madagascar's import and savings capacity is severely restricted by its heavy debt service
burden and the deteriorating terms of trade. Since 1981, Madagascar has signed seven rescheduling
agreements with the Paris Club, and four with the London Club. The country also benefitted from
US$516 milion equivalent in debt cancellation in 1989, mainly from France. Despite this debt relief
and the highly concessionad terms of the debt coated after 1982, debt service remains high. In
1991, total debt outanding amounted to 117 percent of GDP, and debt service payments after
rescheduling represented 68 percent of export of goods and services. The pace and scope of
economic recovery will depend on the country's ability to ease this debt burden through further debt
cancellation and innovative debt relief schemes, and on its continued access to highly concessional
new financing. Madagascar's terms of trade deteriorated by a third between 1987 and 1991, a
reflection of the structura concentraion of exports on too few primary commodities for which price
prospects are unattractive (e.g., coffee, cloves, vanilla), and a diversification drive not rapid enough
to compensate for the decline in traditional export prices.



-8-
27.   In the absence of an agreed macroeconomic framework between the Government on the one
hand and the Bretton Woods institutions on the other, the economic prospects presented below are
based on simulations prepared by Bank staff. As in the 1991-94 PPP, the projections presented
below have as their main objective the restoration of sustainable real per capita growth In the context
of medium-term balance of payments viability and domestic price stability. The attainment of this
objective depends on a successfiu and rapid polidcal transition, and the Government's ability to
restore the macroeconomic equilibria stardng in late 1992 and to Implement the adjustment measures
required to alleviate the strucur constraints outlined in the previous section.
28.   The key targets of these tentative projections are to: (i) reach a 4 percent annual GDP growth
rate by 1995; (i) lower the inflation rate from 13 percent in 1992 to 8 percent in 1995; and
iii) reduce the external current account deficit, excluding official transfers, from 10.5 percent of
GDP in 1991 to about 7.6 percent In 1992 onwards. Achieving these targets will require a steady
increase in investment from the unusually low level of 9 percent of GDP in 1991 (compared to 14.5
percent of GDP on average in 1988-90) to 17.9 percent of GDP by 1995, with private investment
rising comparatively faster in response to expected improvements in the policy environment and in
public investment concentaig on physical and social inastructure. According to these projections,
domestic savings would be restored to its pre-crisis level of 8.5 percent by 1993 (from the low 2.4
percent in 1991), essentially due to restored public savings, and would reach 11.4 percent by 1995.
External viability would be fostered by an active exchange rate policy, the acceleration of export
diversification, the growth in foreign private investment, and the ensuing decrease in dependence on
external aid.
29.    In addition to political stability, these medium-term prospects hinge on two important
assumptions: a sustained rise in imports to maintain the recovery from the severely depressed levels
of the 1980s, and a condtuous improvement in domestic savings performance. The first assumption
implies continued balance of paymens support, while the second calls for an improvement in uio
financial system and in tax aiministration as well as the progressive reduction of Government
consumption.
30.   Total gross external financing requrement for 1992-1995, including the needed resources
to build up gross external reserves progressively to the equivalent of S months of imports by 1995,
and repay the external arrears accumulated in 1991 (US$172.8 million), are estimated at US$2.3
billion. Altogether, official grants, foreign direct mvestment, disbursements of already committed
balance of payments support, and project-related disbursents are anticipated to provide about 56
percent of this amount. Ihe remaining gap is about US$1 billion, or an anmnal average of US$260
million, a level similar to that of previous years. The external financing gap could be financed by
additional IMF resources, further debt relief, and new quick-disbursing aid, including a rumption
of IlDA policy-based lending.
31.   The projections also assume tat the transitional Govermnent and the IMB  could agree on a
program In 1992, and that the Government would be able to implement strong stabilization and
adjustment measures before year-end, including a sharp reduction of the budget deficit from 5.2
percent of GDP in 1991 to 1.6 percent in 1992, improving the execution of the PIP, and complying
with the remaining conditions of the third tanche of the PSAC. Failure by the Malagasy authorities
to stabilize the economy in 1992 and to pursue aggressively the implementation of structural reforms
is likely to aggravate the country's financal situation, leading to further accumuilation of externa
arears, increased rationing of foreign exchange and, ultimately, delayed economic recovery.



C. Bank Group Assiance Strategy
Composition of Past Bank Assistance
32.   Since 1966, Madagascar has received 56 IDA credits and five IBRD loans for a total of
US$1,183.2 million, and five investment operationa frm IFC totaling US$34.9 million (oan and
equity invesmt). Bank Group            lending (72.4 percen of totl) financed: (a) infrastructure
(27.7 percent), including road maintenance, cyclone damage rehabilitation, railway sub-sector
rehabilitation, port rehabilitation, water supply and sanitation, and urban development; (b) agriculture
and rural development (20.6 percent), including Irigation rehabilitation, foresty, livestock
development, agricultural credit, development of the rice and cotton sub-sectors, agricultura services,
environment, and institutional building; (c) human resources development (9.5 percent) in primary
and secondary educadon, accounting and management training, and prinary health care; (d) energy
(7.6 percent), including hydro-electric power generation and oil exploration; (e) industry and finance
(5.2 percent); and (g) an economic management and social action program (1.8 percent). Ai
lending (27.6 percent of total) financed: (a) two operations in the industrial sector (12.1 percent);
(b) a public sector reform program (11 percent); and an agricultural sector reform program (4.5
percent).
Table 2: Distribution of Lending FY66-92
lOtUl. LItI1tUMS  (PIOMM3                  AC%1VD 68 Of g,73iM
uSS              N O.Of        x         uS$        ofhich
Nitlion          Projects    Undisburaed   Million  Undisbursed  Undisbursed
Investment Lendina
Agriculture            244    20.6       22         34.8        129         85           65.9
Infrastructure         328    27.7       21         22.8        111         75           67.6
Htusr Resources        112    9.5         6         70.5         80         79           98.8
Industry & Finance      62    5.2         3         83.9         57         52           91.2
Energy                  89    7.6         4         17.9         25         16           64.0
Econ. Ngt. & Socfal     22    1.8         1         86.4         22          19          86.4
Action
Sab-Total              857   72.4        ST         38.0        42U        326           76.9
AdusmUent Lendir.
Public Sector          131    1.0         1         35.9        131         47           35.9
Ag. Sector              53    4.5         1          0            -                       -
Industrial Sector      143   12.1         2          0                       -            -
Total                 1183   100         61         31.5        55         373           67.2
33.   IDA commitments increased markedly in the FY85-91 period with the approval of four
adjustment opetiuons in FY86-88 and incrased investment leading acro the board. Tot anal
commitments for investment projects averaged US$82.1 million in FY89-91 compared to US$49.6
million in the previous three fiscal years. Ihe current portfolio consists of 22 IDA credits. About
67% of total outstanding commients remain undisbursed (US$373.6 million). Disbursemens for
investment operations averaged US$37.8 milion p.a. in FY88-89, US$28.6 million p.a. in FY90-91,
and are estimated at about US$20 million in FY92. In addition to the 1991 political turmoil which
affected the implementation of public investmet in 1991 and in 1992, the factors contribut   to the
low rate of diabursement for investment operations are: (i) cumbersome in-coutry procurement



- 10-
procedures; (ii) weak implementation capacity by the public administration; and (iii) shortage of
counterpart finding. Following a Country Imlementation Review in April 1992, the Government
took several measures to accelerate procurement and disbursement. Disbursements for adigilMent
lending averaged US$62.5 million p.a. in FY88-89, US$61.8 million p.a. in FY90-91, and US$2
million during the first three quarters of FY92. Three of the four adjustment operations have been
fully disbursed. The first two tranches of the last adjustment operation (PSAC) approved by the
Executive Directors in FY88 were disbursed albeit with some delay; the release of the third and last
tranche of the PSAC (about US$47 million equivalent) has been delayed by the Government's slow
progrs in meeting the specific conditions of tranche releaae and inability to n aintain a viable
macroeconomic framework.
Objectives and Straleg
34. The Bank's over-arching objectives In Madagascar are to help promote sustained export-led
growth with equity, to help reduce poverty and to protect the environment. In pursuing these
objectives through its lending and economic and sector work, the Bank is giving priority to:
(i) improving macroeconomic management; (ii) reducing the role and scope of the public sector and
trengthening its management; (iii) promoting export diversification through private secto.
development and external competitiveness; (iv) alleviating widespread poverty; and (v) removing
physical and human capital constraints to sustainable long-term growth.
35. Since the start of the recent political turmoil, the Bank's lending activities in Madagascar have
been in a de facto core* mode, pending improvement in the macroeconomic environment: the
Manpower Training project recommended in this report is the only operation in the FY92 lending
program. Given the current level of uncertainty with respect to the ability of Madagascar to resume
implementing its reform program and stabilize the economy, the Bank's lending strategy for the
medium-term calls for lending which would be modulated, depending on country performance, from
a *full"      to a "core* p wm. The full lending program corresponds to current expectations
that the Govenment will stabilize the economy, resume the adjustment process aggressively, combat
poverty and environ  l degradation, and Improve the implementation pace of the Bank's project
portfolio. The scenario L predicated upon the Bank responding quickly and flexibly to the evolving
economic and political situation, by mtching progress and perormance by the Government in
addressing the priorities outlined above, in particular on the adjustment and stabilization front, with
ieased financial support. At the other extreme, if the government fails to improve macroeconomic
management and stabilize the economy, implement adjustment reforms, deal aggressively with the
problem of deteriorating social conditions and increase the disbursement rate of IDA-financed
projects, the Bank would shift formally to a 'core mode of financial assistance to the country.
Under this scenario, the Bank would hold-off fiurther quick-disbursing assistance and major sector
nvestment operations and shift to a core lending program aimed at preserving the long-term
development poteni  of Madagasc, through investment for poverty alleviation, infrastructure
maintenan  and rehabilitation, and human capital development.
Priorities for Bank A,sistance Under a Full Program
36.   The proposed full IDA lending program would consist of about three operations a year and
mount to US$12 per capita. he full lending program over FY93-95 would include two adjustment
operations. Ihe share of quick-disbursing support to total IDA lending is exptd to be in the 25-35
percent range, depending on the degree of the Government's adjustment effbrt as well as the
country's finan.n requirement.



- 11 -
37. Adjustment lending (a proposed Structural Adjustment Credit and a follow-up financial sector
adjustment credit) would support the re-ivigoration of the adjustment process and the completion of
the unfinished policy reform agenda. The proposed SAC would be designed to support reforms
necessitated by the recent macroeconomic slippage (e.g., restoration of OGL, flexible exchange rate
policy) as well as reforms initially planned under a Private Sector Environment Adjustment Credit
(e.g., liberalization of the vanilla, air transport and insurance sectors, removal of foreign exchange
controls on services, and the remaining barriers to entry on the domestic and exteml markets), the
processing of which was stopped as a consequence of the political events of 1991. The. financal
sector adjustment credit would support the deepening of financial sector reforms. Investment
operations would support private sector development by providing capital through the commercial
banking system at positive interest rates in real terms, and by improving the provision and quality
of essential public infrastrcture and services. Lending for poverty alleviation would be pursued
vigorously by channelling resources directly to efficient NMOs and by increased cost-recovery to
redirect scarce public resources to the poorest, on the basis of sectoral public expenditure reviews
and social sectors surveys.
38.   Macroeconomc Mangement and Adjustment Process. The frst priority in Madagascar is
to stabilize the economy by restoring macroeconomic management and reviving the adjustment
process. The latter entails, Inter alia, recovering lost ground (e.g., in the area of exchange rate) and
moving ahead with new reforms to strengthen the enabling envirorunent for the private sector.
Urgently needed macroeconomic measures include tighter fiscal management, administrative and civil
service reform, monetary and financial sector discipline, and accelerated public sector reform. The
Bank could support the stabilization efforts by contributing to an external assistance package including
balance-of-payments aid and debt relief (e.g., rescheduling and/or debt cancellation). The Bank's
main instrument in the short term is the last tranche of the PSAC which could be released under the
conditions noted in paragraph 20.
39.   Medium-term objectives in macroeconomic management are to maintain a competitive
exchange rate whfle moving towards a market-determined rate; remove remaining barriers to trade
and capital movement, including regulatory and administrative barriers; reduce fiscal deficits and
increase public savings; improve monetary management, including the revision of the financial
relations between the Government and the Central Bank with a view to increasing Central Bank
independence, promote the productive use of domestic credit, and contain iflaton. In pursuit of
these objectives, the proposed SAC, as well as complementary sector lending, would support fiscal
resource mobilization and fiscal discipline, the privadzation of state-owned enterprises and financial
institutons, the reform of the financial sector, the introduction of a market-based foreign exchange
and externa trade regime, and the removal of remaining domestic and exernal trade distortions.
40.   Public Sector Management. In accordance with the above objectives, Madagascar should
strive to streamline and improve the efficiency of its public administraton and, in particular, enhance
its capacity to implement the public investment program (PIP) so that it can provide essental public
i tructure and services efficiently. This entails, especially: revamping the role and functions of
govermnent with a view to divesting from producdon of twadeables and commercial activides (e.g.,
petroleum) and transferring certain public services (e.g., veterinary, inaucture maintenance,
vocational education) to the private sector, NGOs and/or local communities; adminitative reform
reflecdng the reduced role of government and civil service reform; improving the design and
implemetatIon of public investment; and ensuring adequate mannance, operation and replacement
of existg assets. Ihese objectves would be pursued under the specific actions supported by the
PSAC as well as the proposed SAC in the area of public expenditure management (PIP and PEP
reviews) and public enterprise reform; the preparation and implementation of sectoral PEPs supported



- 12 -
by sectoral operations (including in the social sectors, environment, agriculture and infrastructure);
and sector investment programs (Manpower Training, Transport, Agricutural Export Promotion,
Irrigation, Highways VIII, Urban II, Petoleum Sector), in close coordination with donors co-
financing such investments.
41.   PrvateSectorDevelopment and Eernal Compeiveness. Inadditionto themacroeconomic
reforms to be covered under the proposed adjustment operations, the Bank would provide direct
support to help Madagascar improve the business environment and the extera competitiveness of
the private sector, and to address specific sector bottlenecks. Specifically, the SAC would support:
(i) reforms of the legal and regulatory framework to promote freer entry and exit of firms (including
foreign firms), and adapt labor legislation to the needs of a more competitive economy; and
(ii) deregulation of markets to remove monopolistic, oligopolistic or monopsonistic arrangements.
The financial sector adjustment credit would support the strengthening and diversification of financial
intermediation, including revitalization of non-bank financial institutions and development of financial
markets. In parallel to the overall opening of the domestic market supported under the adjustment
dialogue, specific sectoral investment operations would seek to promote the considerable export
potential of Madagascar. For example, a proposed Agricultural Export Promotion project would help
deregulate key traditional exports (vanilla, coffee, cloves), encourage private export-oriented agro-
business through technical assistance programs on a cost-sharing basis, and strengthen support
services (collection and dissenion of market information, public health regulations and services,
and efficient management of natural resources such as fish); a proposed Rural Finance project would
help explore new approaches to improve smallholder farmers' access to financial services; and a
proposed Transport Sector project would support deregulation and privatization of transport activities
(coastal shipping, rail and air transport).
42.   Role of IFC and MIGA. The Bank's agenda in private sector development will be pursued
with IFC's active cooperation and involvement. The Bank and IFC staff are currently cooperating
on the formulation of a Private Sector Assessment, to establish a commonly-agreed base for action.
in addition, IFC is actively exporing several avenues in support of private investment in Madagascar:
(J) assistance to local entrepreneurs through the Africa Project Development Facility; (i) financing
of small and medium enterprises through the Africa Enterprise Fund; (iii) direct IFC investment in
export-oriented enterprises (textiles, garment industry, fisheries, mining and tourism) and commercial
banks (BNI); (iv) corporate restructuring to recapitalize and/or privatize viable companies; and (v)
consideration of opportunities for a capital market, including a study of leasing regulations with a
view to establishing a first leasing company in Madagascar. MIGA has recently launched its activities
in Madagascar by providing support to the development of the private sector in the tourism industry.
43.   Powen Allevaion. Sustained growth is a necessary condition for providing a durable and
effective response to the widespread poverty now observed in Uadagascar. In addition to adjustment
lending to promote sustained growth, Bank's assistance strategy will place a special emphasis on the
development of agriculture which is the main sector of activity for the majority of the population,
including its poorest segments. Proposed operations in agriculture (Rural Finance, Irrigation Sector,
Agricultural Export Promotion) and infrastructure (Mransport, Highway V}U, Urban II) will be
specifically tailored to promoting rapid supply response in the leading sector of the economy.
Specifically, the proposed agricultural and infrastructure operations aim at increasing and stabilizing
food production, improving the efficiency of agricultural markets in general (and therefore income
distribution), strengthening the delivery of crucial services to the agricultural sector, improving the
geographical distribution of public investments in rural areas, as well as providing new and
diversified income and employment-generadng activities in the rural and urban areas.



- 13 -
44.   Sustained growth, however, will not be sufficient to alleviate poverty. Some of the poorest
households cannot be adequately reached through agricultural growth; many more need also to be
protected in the event of natural disasters. In addition, special attention needs to be paid, in the
design of the agriculture and Infrastructure operations, to addressing the underlying causes of the
worsening income distribution. The latter will be achieved through the deregulation of monopoly or
oligopoly situations (e.g., vanilla sector), the promotion of competition in agricultural trade, and the
support of labor-intensive activities in rurl areas, either in public works projects (roads and rural
roads, irrigation rehabilitation and maintenance) o: in the agro-processing sector. Project components
aimed at alleviating poverty on a targeted basis will rely increasingly on NGOs and private
organizations with a proven record for efficient delivery of programs reaching the most vulnerable
groups. Finally, a proposed Food Security operation would establish specific programs targeted on
the poorest segments of the population, including income and employment generation, food and
nurition education programs.
45.   Constraints to Long-Term Growth. The focus of the Bank's assistance would be the key
structural constraints identified earlier: (i) promoting investment, maintenance and efficient operation
of key infastructure (transport, communications, power and water supply, market and storage
facilities); (ii) upgrading the human capital; and (iii) strengthening the management of the rich natural
endowment and the unique environment of Madagascar. Bank operations and policy dialogue will
provide funding for priority investment and maintenance in these areas and support reforms aimed
at increasing the role of the private sector, NGOs, local communities, and users.
46.   Several proposed IDA  operations (Transport Sector, Highways VIII, Urban H,
Telecommunications, Agricultural Export Promotion, and Irigation Sector) would provide resources
for public investment (from credit proceeds, by supporting increased mobilization and reallocation
of fiscal resources, and through cost-recovery) to help rehabilitate and maintain essental
ink wbgsotrd; they would encourage the transfer of management and/or financing responsibilities to
the private sector (e.g., rehabilitation and maintenance of road and irrigation schemes, storage
facilities, coastal shipping, domestic air transport, telecommunications); and they would strengthen
the capacity of the public administration in key areas (e.g., design and implementation of the PIP).
47.   To upgrade Madagascar's hma goital and address population growth, on-going projects
in Education, Health and Population would help improve the quality of education and training,
strengthen sectoral management, and broaden family planning. In parallel, economic and sector work
and policy dialogue wvill seek to encourage increased cost recovery, the accountability and financial
management of public resources, and increased participation of NGOs in managing such services.
The proposed Manpower Training operation is a key instument of the Bank's strategy in this area.
Specifically, the project would improve the effectiveness of vocational and technical training by
establishing the mechasm for matching better the supply and demand for skilled labor, while
generalizing the principle of cost recovery and helping improve further the financial management of
public expenditure in the sector.
48.   Enviromental issues are being addressed directly through the on-going Environment project
(approved in FY90), the first of its kind in the Bank, which supports implementation of the
Environmenta Action Plan (EAP). On-going and future operations in agriculture (Irrigation,
Agricultural Export Promotion) and infrastructure (Highway VIII, Transport Sector) would also
pursue the objectives of the EAP by fostering agricultural intensification, regional specialization and
inter-regional trade, thus reducing the need for extensive agriculturi cultivation which is
environmentally unsound. The proposed Agricultural Export Promotion project would also assist
Madagasc  to streagthen its capacity to manage on a sustainable basis its rich fish resources, which



- 14-
are increasingly thened by over-exploitation. Specific economic and sector work tasks, such as
the study of the environmental impact of woodfuels, would help the Government build further
environmental concems into policy making.
49.   Women play a significant role In the social and economic fabric of Madagascar. In addition
to having major responsibilities for household activities, women are important producers of food
crops and contribute significantly to cash crops production as well. Women-headed households are
disproportionally represented among the poor, particularly in the urban areas. By contrast, girls are
not discriminated against in their access to prmary education. The Bankes lending strategy, under
both the core and the full programs, includes: (a) enhancement of women's access to health services
and ability to choose the size of their families (on-going health sector operation); (b) enhancement
of women's access to financial services in the rural areas (proposed Rural Finance operation); an4
(c) targeting of women in the poverty-oriented Food Security operation.
50.   Economic and Sector Work. The objectives of the economic and sector work progran are
to support the policy dialogue, provide the analytical underpinnings of the lending program and
strengthen aid coordination. The program is focused on those areas where there are both serious
information gaps and pressing policy issues. Over the 1990-1992 period, the Bank, together with bi-
lateral donors and multilateral development agencies, has undertaken major studies on the impact of
adjustment on the economy and on the remaining structural and macroeconomic constraints (egal and
reguatory framework, civil service and public adminon capacity a sment, tax policy, private
sector development, infrastructure) with a view to defining the needed actions and deriving priorities
for future operations. A Country Economic Memorandum (No. 9101-MAG) was issued in June
1991. Reports on the urban sector, transportation and the civil service were also completed in 1991,
and a Financial Sector Review (No. 9817-MAG) was issued in March 1992.
51.   Studies are underway on the agricultura sector; they have already led to the completion of
an agricultural strategy report as well as a vanilla sub-sector study; and they are expcted to
culminate in an Agricultural Sector Memorandum to be Issued in FY94. In the socia sectors, ESW
will focus on cost recovery in the education and health sectors, as well as improved public sector
management A Poverty Assessment, to start in FY93, will quantify the scope and characeristics
of poverty in Madagascar, analyze the role of public policies and institutions, and propose a coherent
strategy and operational framework for poverty alleviation. In Infrastructure, ESW will concentrate
on the definition of a national policy for water supply and sanitation. A study on the environmena
impact of woodfuels would aim at identifying and measuring the environmental problems relate to
the utilization of woodfuels in Madagascar. Finally, public expenditure reviews will be carried out
annually with a view to pursuing improved public investment and expenditure management, including
adequate funding of priority social services targeted on the poor, in close cooperation with other
donors.
Cteria for Evaluating Profress
52. Progress in implementing the Bank's full lending strategy will be monitored by tracking the
following benchmarks: (a) improvements in the implementation of the PIP, including the rate of
disbursement of Bank-fimanced projects; (b) appropriate macroeconomic management (e.g., public
savings, tax collection effort, monetary and exchange rate management); (c) effective implementation
of stcuWal reforms (e.g., restoration of the OGL and liberalization of exchange controls, fur
privatization of banking system and public enteprises, tariff reform, deregation of key sectors such
as vanilla, air transport, petroleum); (d) export growth Cn particular, non-traditional exports and the



ratio of exports to imports); (e) rado of Inetme to GDP (in parcular, private investent); (f) the
share of GDP allocated to primary health care; (g) prim     sool enrollment ates;  ) the
contraceptive prevalence rate; and () Improvement In the povrty indicators of targeWd populations
(women-headed households, children). Unsatisfactory progress on the first three crit, dealing
directly with maao omlmc management, will be cental in tggen    a si from the full lending
proga  to the core lending program.
'he 'Core" Lending Pro ram
53.  hI case Madagascar were to continue with a vtal absence of macroeconomic manageme
the Bank would shift formaly to a core lending mode. The core lendn program would be lited
to one investment operation a year on average and amount to about US$3 to US$4 per capita lTese
operations would focus on direety alleviat  poverty, on sthening Madagascar's human capital
base - as would be done under the project recoended in this report - and on tackling some of
the country's most pressing constraints to development A proposed Food Serity operation would
constitute a cental element of the core program.  t aims at Implementng targeted programs of
poverty alleviation, mostly through efficient NGOs. Since inadequae inrstructe (roads in
particular) is a key development constrn In Madagascar, the core program would also include a
Highway Rehabilitation project designed to implement innovative and more efficient schemes for the
rehabilitation and sustainable maintence of the road iuctre, and to improve the flow of
goods and information within and among the high-potential regions of the country. Finally, the core
program would include an opeation to follow up on progress In the ongoing health project. In
addition to these new operations, the Bank would, in the core mode, focus on Intensive supervsion
of on-going projects In education, health and enviomnme
rvMU DiaQgg and AidQn
54.   Bank-county relations have been generaly good. The focus of the dialogue has been On the
pace and sequencing of reforms to overcome Madagascar's formidable structural constran. More
recently, the policy dialogue, although rendered more difficult because of the multiplicity of
goveming institutions, has centered on the need to stabilize the economy, reestablish investors'
confidence, accelerate the execution of on-going projects, and meet the conditionality for the thid
tranche release of the PSAC.
55.   Effective donor cootdination is a prerequisite for sucoessful implementtion of the B's
assistance srategy. Close coodiation between the Bank, the Fund    other donors is necessary
to ensure that macroeconomic stabilization tames sufficiently into account the economy's supply side
and private sector requirements, and that project aid supports economic policy reforms. With
exter  donors financing about 70 percent of the PIP, stuctural adjustment can take place only if
the design and composition of these investments are consonant with the redefined role of the state in
the economy. Donors have been regularly kept informed of the state of the Bank's dialogue with the
Government, both under the SPA mechanism and in the context of regular donor coordiniaon
meetings in Madagascar. These efforts have been complemented by donors' active participation in
public expenditure reviews conducted by the Bank in recent years. Ihe Bank intends to continue and
stengen this approach.
56.   Implementadon of the adjustment program requies close coordination with the IMP, not only
in monitoring the macroeconomic framework and the PFP, but also in designing specific adjustment



-16 -
operations supported by IDA and Fund arrangements. Bank and Fund staff cooperation has Included
joint or parallel missions, frequent discussions on proposed policies, and close cooperation during
negotiations of Policy Framework Papers and the underlying macroeconomic frameworks.
cauntay RU$kB
57. There are a number of political and economic factors which could cause serious slippage
in the implemeion of reforms and hence the capacity of the Bank to pursue its assistance
strategy under the full program scenario. on the politcal front, the current transitional situation
remains fraie and there is a risk of further instability In the short run. Moreover, as mentioned
earlier, with Madagascar geared towars elections throughout 1992, the transitional governing
institutions are lilcely to be cautious in implementing poitically sensitive refrms. There is also
a risk that a strong Government may not emerge from the elections; as a result, the newly
established Government, too, may be limited in its capacity to resume the reform momentum and
stabilize the economy. Finally, there is a more pervasive risk that the powerful vested private
and urban interests will be successful in their attempts to weaken the reform movement, notably
in the areas of civil service reform, deregulation of key sectors and greater openness of the
economy. This last risk is mitigated by the fact that all major political parties contesting for
power in Madagascar have explicitly affirmed their commitment to economic reform.
58.   On the economic front, factors beyond the control of Government, such as a substantial
deterioration in the terms of trade or unfavorable climatic conditions, could have a serious impact
on the external position of the county and necessitte significantly higher levels of externa
adjustment. Given the donors' response in the past, however, there is reasonible expectation that
Maagascar can mobilize the needed extnal assistance, provided it stays the course of
adjustment. Finally, there is a risk that weak institial capacity will slow implementation of
the public investment program as well as the design and implementation of targeted programs for
poverty alleviation. This would impact directly on the preparation and effective delivery of the
Bank's lending program.  This risk is being addressed tirough the periodic Coutry
implementaion Reviews conducted with Government which aim at solving specific portfolio
implementation and procurement-related issues; it is also being addressed though the capacity-
building components of the on-going Economic Management and Social Action Project (approved
in FY88) and ftre sectoral investment operations.
D. Summary Assessment
59.   Madags   enjoys a rich, varied and favorable natral resource endowment, as well as
an industrious labor force. Yet, the current low level of income, widespread level of poverty and
extent of environmenta degradation is in stark contrast with its large and promising potental for
economic growth and development. Overall, Madagascar has been successfid in implementng
most of the policy reforms recommended by the Bank and the Fund, and the supply-response,
although limited, has been encouraging, in particular in the non-traditonal, export-oriented
sectors. This positive momentum for reform and sustainable eoonomic growth has, however,
been recenty derailed by an absence of effective macroeconomic management as well as by
political unrest. Te ie i   priority is to stabilize the economy and re4dynamize the
adjustment process. The focus of strucural reforms should be on improving the maoeconomic
management capacity of the Government, and on obtaning a more robust supply-response to



- 17-
reforms by acceleraig the liberalizationprocess, strengthening the business environment, and
removing remainig structura constraints, parcularly in infrastructure.
60.   The Bank's main objectives in Madagascar are to help promote sustained export-led
growth, to help reduce poverty and to protect the environment. Through a combination of policy
dialogue and lending, the Bank will concentrate on: (a) laying the foundation for improved
macroeconomic managemant with a view to stabilizing the economy, and creating an incentive
enviroment that is geared towards reducing the role of the public sector, the continued
development of a competitive export-oriented private sector, and a wider distribution of the
benefits of growth; and (b) reorienting public expenditures towards the efficient provision of
social and economic infrastructure, the development of human capital, the p'eservation of the
environment, and the alleviation of poverty. Provided that the Government demonstates its
commitment to needed economic reforms, the lending program calls for about three operations
a year over the medium-term. Quick-disbursing assistance could account for one-quarter to one-
third of total lending, depending on the dqgree of the Government's adjustment effort and the
county's financial requirements. The size and composition of IDA lending will be linked to
Government performance on the stabilization and adjustment fronts as well as on poverty
alleviation, the environment and the implementation of the Bank portflio.  Government
perfrmance would be monitored on the basis of specific benchmarks. Should the authorities fail
to demonstre their commitment to economic reforms and to improve the disbursement rate on
the Bank portfolio, the Bank would withhold adjustment lending as well as major sector
nvestment operations and shift to a core program concentrating on longer-term and poverty
alleviation issues.
PART II - TIE CBZj=
61. lackgcgu4. Diversified growth in industry in reaction to changes in the economy is
leading to an increase in the demand for trained manpower. This trend is expected to continue.
Technical/vocational education/trainin (IVEI) is however of poor quality, with little relevance
to labor market needs. Exceptions are courses provided by the National Traing Institute (NP'F)
with ILO/UNDP support, by some NGOs, and by a few parastatal and private companies. NGO
and private TVET schools provide training at all levels, with quality ranging from excellent to
poor. The Ministtry of Education (MIP) runs 24 technical lycdes and equvalent, and 39
secondary vocational schools (FISO) for skilled workers, spending 4.5% of its budget on
TVEr. The public system is however inefflcient; the TEFSO especially have low enrollment
*          and bigh unit costs. Government is now reforming technical education, switching emphasis from
the technical baccalaureate to short-cycle courses responding to employment needs, and
progressively closing TEFISO. At post-secondary level, institutes being established under the
*          1990 Education Sector Reinrcement Credit (CRESED) will train middle level tuchnicians. Six
public agricultural lyc6es have a small annual output of inadequy trained technicians.
62.   No tafing for senior civil senmts existed from 1970 unti 1988, when the National
Adminision Traiing School (ENO AR) was set up, with national financing, because of a
forecast serious shortage of trained civil servants. ENFAR has made a satisfactory start.
63. .toect Objectives Govermnent has recently established a new TVET strategy, which
is reflected in a strategy letter that has been reviewed with IDA, and by which it plans to re-
structure the TVET system, to upgrade traiing quality and responsiveness to labor market needs,
to sdmulate TVET financing by employers, and to develop the TVET institutional frameworL



- 18-
Ihe projecti s    ded to support this new stategy. Subsidiary project objectives are to develop
trg  for civil servants, and to reform agsdiulu  training.
64.                     The five-year project has five components:
(a)   to establish the National Training Council (CNFTP), which would develop
training strate, and promote, coordinate and finance public, NGO or private
TVET (34 percent of project cosu). t would manage a training fund to fiac
TVET activities, selected accring to aee citera Private setor employes
and Government would participate euWly in CNFTP management. CNFTP
would help develop training programs, and carry out priority TVET studies
including on cost recovery and financing of training;
(b) For the public TVET system (49 percent of project costs): (i) to rehabilitate the
technical school system, supporting the MIP Technical Education Department
(which is being transfed to the Ministry of Training - MEF), establishiDng and
operatng a trai*ng center for TVET trainers, and rehabilitating seven priority
technical lycEes; and (U) to expand and strengtien INPF to meet priority
demands;
(c)   Improving knowledge of the labor market and its training needs through an
Employment Observatory in MEF mainly financed by UNDP with ILO support
(5 percent of project costs);
(d)   Restructuring the agricultura education and training sub-sector (4 percent of
-ojec costs);
(e)      thening ENFAR, for initia and inservice civil service trainig (6 percent
of project costs).
65.   The tota cost of the projec is esmated at US$29.8 miion with a forein exchage
component of US$22.1 million (74 percent), excluding taxes. A cost brendown and a financing
plan are shown in Schedule A. Amounts and methods of procurement and of disbursement, and
the disusement schedule, are shown in Schedule B. A timetable of key project processing
events and the status of Bank Group operatons in Mabdagascar are given in Schedules C and D.
The Staff Appraisal Report, No. 9365-MAG dated May 15, 1992 is also attahed.
66.   IXle       X. The project will be implemented under the coordination of an inter-
minisericmmittee hdaired by the Minisr of Vocational Trainig. Each component will be
Implemted by the agecy oncmned (Componen 1 by CNFTP, Componant 2 by ME, MIP,
and INPP, Component 3 by MEF, Componet 4 by the Ministry of State for Agculture and
Rur Development, and Component S by ENFAR). The Education Project Unit, which manages
the Education Sector project, will odinat procurement and disbursement procedues, and
provide credit accounting and logistical supporL The Project Unit will receive funds under the
Credit to enable it to perform these functions. The agencies concerned are capable, with the
assistance to be provied by the projeO', of executing the ta  involved. hrining sub-projects
to be financed by CNFTP will be selected in accordance with criteria concening cost, quality
of trang, relation to labor market needs, and the financial contribuionof the trainig institution
and the trainees or their employers. CNFIP wil supervise the sub-projects and monitor the
results.



- 19 -
67.     W        a         Unless new sources of finacing can be identified, the funds
available for training will remain inadequate. By closely associating the private sector with the
process of allocating resources for traiing, the project opens new avenues for training finance,
and thus allows its expansion along desirable lines. The project study of the fiancing of training
will identify means of fincing CNFP's acvies after project completion: CNFTP must prove
its value to employers and to the economy in order to justify intduction of new financing
measures. In the meantime, the Government in 1992 introduced changes in the statutes of public
sector traiing institutions under which employers are conributing to financig of courses in
public technical schools which respond to their needs. Other components do not imply net
increases in rurrent public expenditure, taking into account the saVIngS to be obtained from
increased efficiency in the public TVET sector.
68.   Lessons from experience. Five operations in the education and training sector in
Madagascar have received Bank Group support: education projects in 1967, 1976 and 1990 (Loan
No. 510-MAG and Credits 663-MAG and 2094-MAG), and two projects (Credit 1155-MAG in
1981 and Credit 1661-MAG in 1986), supporting beer alta creation of an accoun     training
center, and its subsequent expansion int a high level acuntancy and management traiing
instte. The two on-going projects are pwceding satisfactorily. The project completion report
on the second education project noted the need for a clear definition of the responsibilities of the
project implementationunit, the importanceof coordination between the physical and educational
components of the project, and of good control of building implementation. The report on the
first accuntancy traiing project found it to have been a success, but noted that the under-
estimation of technical assistance costs had led to an under-esfimate of the start-up costs of the
scool. These lessons were applied in the 1990 education sector project and in preparation of
te current project. Project design also incorporates lessons concerning project implemenation
rean to Malagasy procuremen and disbursement practices learnt from implementation of the
education project, and the results of countr impleaion reviews carried out in 1990 and
1992.
69.   Rationgae fo  IDA Involvement.  Madagascar has advanced considerably on the
adjustment path. While further policy reforms are still needed and the country currently faces
m o-economic management problems, it is important at this stage to address the constraints to
a supply response. Lack of skilled manpower is seen by poten   investors as a major difficulty.
The project is thus a key element in Bank Group strategy for Madagascar. By inoducing a
flexible, demand-driven approach to TVET, the project would help meet qualitative and
quantitaive requirements for skilled manpower. IDA financing for reform of the sub-sector,
together with France and UNDP, is hlkely to atract other donors to CNFTP in the future.
Support for training civil servants wiUl complement civil service reform initiated under the Public
Sector Adjustent Credit (Cr-1941 MAG).
70.   Actions atreed. CNFTP was established in April 1992 following review by IDA of Its
draft statutes, its executive director named, its working procedures and criteria for access to the
training fund were finaized after approval by IDA, and a revised list of training.sub-projects
eligible for fnancing in the frst year has been reviewed. Decrees were also published in April
1992 deentralizing adminisation of public sector TVET, creating regiona advioy committees
with participation of local employers, allowing pubic sector TVET schools to receive and use
funds from employers, and establishing a center for training TVEr personnel which wil be
supported by the project. During ngotiaions the strategy letter was finalized, and ageement
reached on the following points:



- 20 -
(a)    Conditions of effeciveness: (V) signau  of implementing agreements between
government and CNFTP, INPF and ENFAR. Te CNFTP agreement will
incorporate the approved procedures mamnul and eligibility criteria for traing
sub-projects; (ii) for CNFTP, appointment of a principal techical adviser (with
qualifications acceptable to IDA), and its managing committee and chairma;
(iii) establishment of a project coordinating committee; (iv) deposit of funds into
a local currTey project account and two specia accounts, following proeedures
satiactory to IDA, by which the project xecuting agencies (the education
project unit and CNFTP) can draw fimds without prior approval by the Mnistry
of Finance.
(b)   A condition of disbursement for public sector agricultural training will be
adoption of an agricultu  training program  and arrangements for its
implementation, in agreement with IDA, following a study under the project (for
which terms of reference have been approved).
(c)    Other agreements: (i) Subsequent to apprai a new minisatry responsible for
vocational training had been established, so dividing responsibility for technical
education and vocational training.  Government has now  agreed that
responsibility for TVET public establih s wil again be unified, under the
Ministry of Vocational Trining, and the transfer will be complete by July 31,
1993; (ii) Work programs for the project and CNFTP will be approved annually,
providing for minimium disbursements to CNFTP and from the training fund for
NGO training activities; (iii) Implemenaion of sector policy and the project will
be reviewed annually, inclg trends in enrollment in public technical schools;
(,v) A sector public expenditure program will be prepared and reviewed annually
with IDA; (v) A joint mid-term review of execution of the project and related
sector policy measures will be held by June 30, 1995; and (vi) Terms of
reference for the CNFTP financing study (of which thie outline has been aeed)
will be finafized by December 31, 1992, and the study wiU be completed by June
30, 1995.
71.   Environmental Apects. Ihe project has no sificant environm   implications. As
part of its standard procedures, CNFIP will check that trinig sub-projects are not
evironmentaly harmful.
72.   AntIM and other as. CNFTP wiUl ensure dth at least 10 percent of its fumdihw
goes to support training carried out by NGOs: it intends to help NGOs providing traiing to
people drawn from the urban and rur poor to help them to enter the informal or formal labor
markets. CNFlP also intend to give priority in its actviies to promotion of training for
women.
73.   Bendfilt. The project will help to rsucture the traing  stem to make it respond more
efficiently to the needs of the economy. It wil upgrade training capacity and stegthen training
institons, so helping to meet skill needs more efficiently, and to raise the quality of trained
manpower: it will tus reduce a constraint to economic development, and improve the allocation
of scace resources. It will encourage employer partiipation and cost recovery, increasing the
relevance of training, as well as contributng to a bettr use of Government resources,
strenthening1the public expendiure program process. It wiUl build on and complement the sector
management reforms developed in the conteot of the Education Sector Rehabilitation Project,



-21-
reducing prsure at the university level by limiting numbers taking the baccalaureate. The
project will provide more flexible, market-based instruments for management of training, to
identify and to respond to emerging training needs.
74.   Aisa. If the economy does not grow as hoped, employers may be unwiling to pay for
training; and reduced demand for trained workers may slow the project. SocW pressures may
delay political decisions, for example, in closing inefficien schools, or in modifying the technical
baccalaure; such pressures might also push Governent to expand public TVET beyond
desirable capacites, so increasing costs, and reducing quality and relevance of training. The
Authorides are aware of these dangers, and see the project as the best meaws of showing that
alterative solutions exist. It is also conceivable that the private sector would be reluctant to play
the active role envisaged for it in the CNFTP and maagement of public sector TVET, or that
the government would be reluctant to consult with employers to the extent it has indicated.
However, employers have expressed a strong desire to participate so long as their participation
can be gemiine. These sensitive political areas will require carefid handling. It will be essentW
to lunch training programs that are of high priort to employers early in the project so that
employers see the advantage of cost sharing.
75.   R      e_ . I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply wkh the Articles
of Agreement of the Associaon and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed credit.
Lewis T. Presoon
President
Aacments
Washington DC
May 18, 1992



-22-
Schedule IA
DEMOOCI ]REPUBLIC OF MA2AGASCA
MANPOS TRIMNG PROLCI
ESlllU  COSTS  AND) FINANCING PA
ProJe ct (ost Suy
1. CNFTP and Trling Fund             3.5        5.7         9.2      34
2. TVET                               2.8       10.3       13.1      49
3. Labor Market                       0.2       1.0         1.2       5
4. Agric. Educ. and Traning           0.4       0.6         1.0       4
S. ENFAR                              0.5       1.2         1.7       6
6. Project Implementation             0.3       0.3         0.6       2
TOTAL BASE COST (1.6) 11              7.7      19.1        26.8      100
7. Phy. Cont                          0.4       1.2         1.6       6
8. Price Cont                         1.3       1.8         3.1      12
TOTAL PROJECT COST (1-8) 1/           9.4      22.1        31.5      118
I~~~ 4*.             .   I  _  .*"                                .'
PinaNngi Plan
E g g      .. . gOWG 'E~tk ' XQJ E
IDA                           3.9        18.9         22.8          72
UNDP                          0.3         1.3          1.6           5
France                        0.3         1.9          2.2           7
Government and beneficIaies   4.9         -            4.9          16
Total including taxes         9A     |  22.1          31.51/|       100
J/    including taxes of US$1.7 milion equivaent but aecluding irport duties of US$2.4
million equivalent



-23-
Schedule B
Page I of 2
D1MLQCRAT REPUIBLIC OF MADA,GASCAR
MANPOM TRNINQ POECT
R,O,0.,      NI  M M  aND DIASBUR           N
A. Procurement Method
(UiS$ mitlio
Project Element                   ICB    LCB    Other   n/a    Total Costs
Civil Works                         -      3.1      -                 3.1
-     (2.7)     -       -        (2.7)
EquipmentMatNVehicles              7.0     1.2     0.5     1.9       10.6
Funre                             (7.0)   (1.1)    (0.4)    (-)      (8.5)
Technical Assistance                -       -      2.5     1.6        4.1
and Studies                         -       -      (2.5)    (-)      (2.5)
Training                            -       -      8.1     2.7       10.8
-(8.1)    (-)     (8.1)
Inuremental                         -       -       1.2     -         1.2
Operating Costs                                   (1.0)              (1.0)
Total                              7.0    4.3      12.3    6.2       29.8 I1
(7.0)   (3.8)   (12.0)   (-)      (22.8)
Note: The figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by IDA.
2/    Excluding taxes (US$1.7 million equivalent)



-24-
Page 2 of 2
1B. DISBREET
(1)     100% of expendiures for training sub-projec  fianced by         3.2
CNFTP.
(2)     100% of expenditues for civil works.                            1.4
(3)     100% of expenditures for equipment, materis, vehicles, and      4.8
supplies.                                                              i
(4)     100% of expenditures for consultant' services.                  1.2
(5)     100% of expenditures for Uaining.                               1.8
(6)     100% of expenditures for opeaing costs for BP1, including       0.4
salaries of non-civil service staff.
(7)     100% of expenditures for materis, equipment, vehicles,          1.4
consultants, training and opating costs for CNFTP, including
salaries of non-cvil service staf.
(8)     Refimd of PPF advance.                                          0.8
(9)     Unallocated.                                                    1.7
TOTAL                                                                    16.7
C. Estimated IDA Disbursemen
- US$ milion -
isa1 year            FY93       FT4        FY95      FY9        FY         FY98
Annuial                1.5       3.5        5.0        6.0        4.0       2.8
Cumuative              1.5       5.0       10.0       16.0       20.0      22.8



-25-
Schedule C
DECRAI REPUBLIC ODAA
tfANPOWS TRM    RJC
TIMErABLE OF KEY PROJECr PROCESSIN EVETS
(a)  Time taken to prepare:     21 months (April 1989 to December 1990)
O) Prepared by:                 Government with assistance from France, IDA and
UNDP I/
(c) First IDA mission:          February 1989 (oint mission by IDA and French
M*inisty of Cooperation)
(d) Apprais mission departre:    November 1990
(e) Negoiaons:                  April 1992
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: September 1992
(g) Relevant PCRs:              Second Education Project (Credit 663-MAG, PCR No.
6774, May 1987 and Accountancy Training (Creit
1155-MAG, June 1990)
1/ Key staff responsible for preparation of the projoct ware Nessrs Paul
Blay (AM3PR, senior aonmist), Cung Tran-Luu (aITED, Senior Training
specialist), and Jean-Christophe Laederach (AF3PH, Senior Implementation
Specialist)



- 26 -
Schedule D
STATUS OF SANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MADAGASCAR                     Page 1
A. STATEMENT OF SANK UANS AND IDA CREDITS
April 80, 1992
Amount In USS Million
Loan or                                                              (less cancellation)
Credit    Fiscal                                                            -- - -------
number    Year          Borrower       Purpose                      Bank   IDA (1) Undisbursed
5 loans fully disbursed                                              82.57
84 credits fully disbursed                                                   596.08
Of which 3 SECALs
Cr. 1891  s6           Madagascar      Agricultural Sector Adj.               20.00
Cr.  ASlO   86         Madagascar      Agric. Sect.AdJ. (SFA)                 88.00
Cr. AMY?  86           Madagascar      Industrial Asst. (SFA)                 20.00
Cr. 1541   86          Madagascar      Industrial Assistance                  40.00
Cr. A032  87           Madagascar      Industy A Trade Pol. (SFA)             67.00
Cr.  184   87          Madagascar      Industy A Trade Pollcy Adj.            16.00
Sub-total                                                           196.00
Cr. 1488   84         Madagascar      Cotton Development a/                  17.80       0.01
Cr. 1497   84         Madagascar      Urban                                  12.80       4.21
Cr. 1589   85         Madagascar      Irrigation Rehabilitation              10.57       6.78
Cr. 1661   8          Madagascar      Accounting A Mgmt. Training            10.30       9.92
Cr. 1694   86         Madagascar      Third Railway                          12.00       2.68
Cr. 1709   86         Madagascar      Second Ag. Institutions                10.00       2.31
Cr. 1752   87         Madagascar      Port Rehabilitation                    16.00       7.87
Cr. 1787   87         Madagascar      Energy                                 25.00      18.11
Cr. 1804   87         Madagascar      Second Agricultural Cr.                10.00       1.07
Cr. 1878   68         Madagascar      Forests Mgt.& Protection                7.00       4.00
Cr. 1905   88         Madagascar      Seventh Highway                        40.00      81.89
Cr. 1928   88         Madagascar     lImenite Mining Eng.                     8.55       5.61
*Cr. 1941   88         Madagascar      Pub.Sec. AdJ.(ncl. 4 supp.)           180.60      47.48
Cr. 1967   89         Madagascar      Econ. Mmt  Social Action               22.00      19.87
Cr. 2042   89         Madagascar      Nat'l Agric. Research                  24.00      28.93
Cr. 2094   90         Madagascar      Education Sect.Reinforc.               89.00      87.69
Cr. 2104   90         Madagascar      Fin.Soct.UPriv.Ent.                    48.00      46.61
Cr. 2117   90         Madagascar      Antana.Plaln Dev.                      80.50      28.89
Cr. 2125   90         Madagascar      Environment                            26.00      24.96
Cr. 2150   90         Madagascar      Agr.Ext.Pilot                           8.68       2.86
Cr. 2248   91         Madagascar      Livestock Sector                       19.80      19.12
Cr. 2261   91         Madagascar      Health Sector Improv.                  81.00      31.27
Sub-total active proJects                                  554.60     878.64
Total less cancellations:                          82.57  1150.66
of which has been repald                         16.54    28.86
Total now held by Bank and IDA:                    16.03  1126.79 (1)
Amount sold:         6.86
of which repaid   6.86
Total undisbursed                                   0.00   878.64
* SAL, SECAL, Program Loan
*/ Includes Special Fund
(1) Sum of Total now held by IDA and Total Undisbursed Is higher than Total Outstanding
because of depreciation of the USS.



- 27 -
Schedule D
Page 2
Status of Sank Oroup Operations In MADAGASCAR
PFDR2U - List of Close SALS and Scals
Loon or    Fiscal                                                                               Undis-
Creit No.    Year              Borrowr                 Purpose                 Bank    T"A        bursed
CR1641-Zi       1986           MADAGSCAR           Ind. Sector Loan I                      40.00       0.02
*      CA10-4AO         1986           MADAGASCAR          Agri. Sector Adjust. C.                3U.06        0.00
C891401AG       16             MADAGASCAR           Agri. Sector Adjust. C.                20.00        0.00
CAU7O-MAG       106            MADSCAR              Ind. Sector Loon II                    20.00        0.00
C16340-MAG      198t?          MADAASCAR            Ind. & Trade PolIcy                    1.09 0        .00
C19411-MAG      1989           MDAGSCR              Public See. Adl                         1.40        0.00
*      C19412-MA       1               MADAGASCAR          Public Sec. AdJ.                        1.20        0.00
TOTAL MADAUSCAR                                            131.8'       0.02



- 28 -
Schedule D
Page a
MADAGASCAR
B. Statemont of IFC Investments
(as of April 28, 1902)
Year             Obligor              Type of Business                 Loan    Equity    Total
1990            FIARO             Development Finance                              0.4      0.4
1980           seta Shoes         Footwoer                               1.25              1.25
198t            COTONA            Textiles                              10.88     0.18    11.06
1084            Nossi-Be          Food and Food Processing               6.94     0.25     7.19
1977            Sotems            Textiles                              14.78     0.80    15.03
Tot I Gross Commitments                                 33.80     1.18    34.93
Less: Cancellations, Terminations, Repayments
Sales, Exchange Adjustments                       14.10             14.10
Total Commitments now hold by IFC                       19.70     1.18    20.83
Total Undisbursed                                        0.88     0.00     0.38
Total Disbursed                                         19.82     1.18    20.45



-29 -
Schedule E
Nda~gaescr- GCONONIC INDICATORS TABLLES                                 Page I of 3
Nid-IM9 Population (site.)i 11.6
1990 Per Capita UP In U8s: 230.0
r-A. ON"" of Gross Domstfc Pro    t-O-. Greuth Rates CS peraf )-
~~-(fC Ie auret pelee dots) -                  -    frcm  comtant price daeta-
1965   1973   1960   1960   1969    1990         5-73  73-80  80-90    1969   1990
arm omeOfstic Product, ..p.     100.0  100.0    J O.0   100.0  100.0  100.0         3.6     1.2    1.1    4.1    3.5
Net Indirect Taxes              9.6   10.8   11.2   11.3   10.3   11.2             ..       .
Agriculture                      .. 2.9   26.?   29.7   30.3   29.2                ..    0.       2.4     5.2    1.5
IrnAltry                         ..    16.0   14.3   11.7   11.1   11.6            ..     1.6    1.2      0.9    6.3
(of which Ranlfaturing)           *       *       *      *       **       *        *        *
Services                          .    49.3    47.i   47.3   47.9   47'. 9         ..    1.       03      4.1    4.3
*  Resource Sealane                  -6.8   -4.6  -16.4   -6.7   -4.5   -8.7             .       .        .      .
Export  of SF5S                13.2   14.2   13.3   16.3   16.2   15.3           -1.4    1.9    1.3   26.0    0.?
Imports of SF5S                20.0   18.9   29.7   23.0   22.7   24.0            0.6    2.7   -3.9       0.9   20.0
Totoal Expenitures                  106.8  104.6  116.4  106.7  104.5  106.7            3.4     1.3   -0.2      0.2    7.2
Total Consmpton               100.3   95.5  101.4   93.4   90.9   91.8            3.3     1.3   -0.7   -0.4    4.4
Private Consuwticn           64.3   63.3   69.3   65.2   82.1   63.2            3.3    1.    -0.9   -1.4    4.9
General Government           16.0   12.2   12.1    6.1    8.9    8.6            3.3    4.3      0.9     9.0    0.4
aress Domtesticnvestment        6.5    9.1    15.0   13.3   13.5   16.9           4.2    3.2    4.6       4.8   25.6
Fixed Invetment                8. .4   14.4            .        .      .          .      .
Changes In Stock               ..     0.7    0.6       .        .      .          .      .        .      .
Gross Dometic Savngs             -0.3    4.5   -1.4    6.6    9.1    8.2             ..      .        .    34.4  -13.4
Met Faftor Incin               -3.3    -1.8   -1.1   -7.0   -7.6   -5.2             .       .
Ne Current Tranfers              ..       .     0.      2.9    3.3    2.2           .      .       .        .
Gros National savings            -3.6     1.3   -3.1      1.2    3.3    5.2          .        .      .    79.6   39.8
in ofillion of LCUs
(at constant 198 prices)
Gross Domestic Product         2065    2619    2894   2836   2952   3056          3.6     1.2     1.1    4.1    3.5
Capacity to Impot               640     746     516    406    464    442          1.4   -4.7    0.4   14.3   -4.7
Term of Trade Adjustment        149     275    -43       -6      44      89        .       .
Gross Domestic Incm            223     269     2851   2630   266    2967          3.9   -0.3      1.0    2.1    2.7
Gross Nttatioa Product         2015    2569   266      2646   272      289        3.7    1.3    0.5       3.0    6.3
Gross Nativona  Income         2164   2644    262    2640   266        260        4.0   -0.1      0.4     0.9    5.5
C. Price tndices               I                  (1987*100)              --Ir-nf Ltiofn Rates Cl  ..-
1980    l   1986   1968                     4 99  5-73   73-80  80-90    1969   1990
Consume Price  (IF$  4           30.5   76.0   67.0  126.9  138.3  154.6            3.4    9.0   16.6    9.0   11.8
Iliotesal. Prices (IFS 63)                                                  ..               ..      -
tmpLicft GOP Deflator            29.5    71.2   81.3  121.2  134.3  151.4           4.0    10.0   17.1    10.8   12.8
Implicit Expendture Deflator    26.5   69.2   78.6  122.3  137.9  156.2             4.0   11.3   17.8   12.7   13.3
0. Othe Indicastors             65-73   73-80   80-90
Growth Rates CS p.s.)
Population                      2.3     2.7     2.9
Labor Forc                      2.0    2.2      2.0
Gros Natioalt Incom  p.c.       1.7   -2.8   -2.5
Private Cwnsuaption p.c.        1.0   -1.5   -3.7
Impot Elasticity:
Imorts (G.NFS) / SDP(uP)        0.2    2.3   -3.5
Marginal Savns Rates:
Gros National Saving              -       -
Groan Domesi Savngs               .       .       .
ICOR (period averages)
Shae o Toat Lw   orc     194I5    1973    1980   1M6     1990           Note:  These tables are currently
Agriculture                     65.1   82.8   60.9                                      unerrviio     ndmih
Industry                        4.3     5.2     6.0      .                              present slight
services                       10.5   12.0   13.2         .                             Inconsistencies with the
Totat                         100.0  100.0  100.0        I.~xf&r9
.............................................                                               M  1   M     .  ......



-3-                                              Schedule E
14 Ny 1992                                 Nad_eacr - ECOmNmiC iNoICATaRS TLgES                                  Pase 2 of 3
E. Ilerchard1 so E ports      r -V         ouie Inde x (1987u10 0~           -Va  atue at current prices (milt. U$)-_
1980   196S   198?   1988   199   190          1980   1985   1967   1988   1989   1990
Coffee                          134.2   86.3  100.0   91.0  129.?  119.3    214.0  104.0   92.0   76.0   76.0   42.0
Cloves                          61.7  163.1  100.0  161.5  544.5  352.8         S1.0   36.0   10.0   16.0   32.0   20.0
Vanilla                          35.5   54.5  100.0   49.8   51.6   67.9        19.0   44.0   89.0   4s 0   42.0   57.0
Naufactures                        ..     ..      ..     ..      ..
Residal'                           I. ..          ..     ..      ..     ..    153.0   98.0  139.0  143.0  169.0  18s.0
Totat Exports FOB                85.3   90.1  100.0   89.7  120.2  114.8    437.0  282.0  330.0  280.0  319.0  304.0
F. Norchandise Ivports
food                            95.8  115.1  100.0   31.4   76.1   86.6                SO.0   49.0   17.0   39.0   40.0
Fucl end energy                 78.1  105.6  100.0  131.7  101.8  135.4                85.0   55.0    6.0   51.0   91.0
Other corumer goods             215.1  114.0  100.0  9s.7  106.0  145.1                52.0   59.0   60.0   65o    96.0
Other inte td. goods            313.5   98.7  100.0   80.8   76.0  100.7              109.0  114.0   98.0   91.0  132.0
Capitat goods                   219.3  128.5  100.0  123.9  120.8  160.5    176.0   99.o  105.0  138.0  135.0  195.0
Totat laworts CIF               2S7.1  109.0  100.0   96.1   96.9  127.5    598.0  395.0  362.0  379.0  381.0  S56.0
0. Werchandtso Term of Trade
Nbrch. Lxports Price Index      154.9   94.6  100.0   94.6   80.4   80.2
Norch. Imports Price Index      60.9   94.9  100.0  103.2  102.9  114.2
Narch. Tom of Trade             254.4  100.0  100.0   91.6   78.1   70.3
N. Dalance of Payments        r-l8     # millzios (at current prices)  -
1980   1985   1987   1968   1969   1990
Exports of Goods & UfS          515.9  349.9  422.5  402.9  440.9  474.1
Merchandise (FOS)             436.4  291.3  326.5  284.5  313.4  304.1
Nen-factor services            79.5   S8.6   95.9  118.4  127.5  170.0
Imports of Goods & NFS         1075.1  503.0  541.5  S68.6  571.6  746.4
Merchandise (FOB)             764.4  333.8  31S.3  318.6  314.1  461.3
Hnfactor services             310.6  167.2  226.3  2SO.0  25.5  285.1
Resource gaoate                -559.2  -153.1  *119.1  -165.7 -130.7 -272.3
Hot Factor tncome               -43.9  -128.8 -174.8 -179.4 -19.3  -119.6
(nterest pew ORS)              56.6   73.1  117.5   89.4  128.3  109.9
Hot Current Transfers           -20.4   24.2   34.2   37.8   47.0   68.1
(workers remittances)          0.4    4.6    3.4    3.2    3.3
Curr AIC Bat beforo Off. Grants -623.5  -257.8 -259.7 *307.4 -243.0 -323.8
Not Offiecal Transfers         66.8   74.1  119.9  1S8.1  15S.2  170.8
Curr A/C sat after Off. Grants  -SS6.7 -183.7 -139.8  -149.3 -127.8 -153.0
Lon Term Capital Inflow        374.9  1SOA   240.3  208.8  218.9   90.S
Direct investment                ..     ..      ..     ..    6.4   22.4
Not LT Loasr (ORB data)       344.8  123.7  242.0  178.2  185.3  116.2
Other LT fnftlos (Not)         30.1   26.7   -1.8   30.6   27.2  *48.1
Totat Other Items (Hat)         32S.2    9.4  -S8.4   11.3  -S4.3  199.6
Hot Short-term Capitat        396.2   -0.9  -47.0  -42.1  -60.5   12.2
Capital Flows H.E.I.            0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Errors and Goissions          -73.1   10.3  -11.4   53.4    6.2  187.4
Charges in het Reserves        -143.3   23.9  -42.0  -70.8  -36.8  -137.1
Not Credit from IMf            41.7   13.4   39.1  -40.?  -28.5  -29.7
other Reservo  Chale         -185.0   10.4  -81.1  -30.1   -8.4  -10?.4
As share of GDP:
Resource Eata e               -13.8   -5.3   -4.6   -6.6   -5.1   -8.8
Interest Payments               1.4    2.5    4.5    3.6    5.1    3.5
Current Acco mt Balac         -15.4   -a.9  -10.0  -12.3  -11.1  -10.5
Memoa nm item3s
Reserves exct. Gold (sit. tl58)   9.1   48.4  185.2  223.7  245.3
Reserves inst. Cold (mit. US$)   9.1   48.4  185.2  223.7  245.3
Official X-Rat (LrEUUS$)        211.3  662.5  1069.2 1407.1  1603.4 1494.1
Index Real off. X-R Easoe 190    100.0   92.1   59.2   51.3   49.0   51.8
GDP (mitlions current USM)     4041.6 2893.3 2S90.3 2501.2 2S38.5 3096.8
................................................................................



- 31 -                                             Schedule E
14 My 1992                                N1*s_ua     lCoNic INDICATI TAUS                                     pap 3 of 3
1. Govermnt Ft                                   o --th  of  P                                     N ,    r tes 
11  9  1967   193   1968   1990             6-8o   1967   1966   1969   1990
Cwrrent Receipt                 15.1   13.3   15.3   13.6   12.6   13.2            161.6   50.0   12.6    7.2   20.4
Crrent Expmiitues               16.6   11.2   11.7   10.2   11.1    9.1              10.1   35.3    9.1   25.5   -4.9
Currt SIdpt ltan                -1.6    2.1    3.6    3.6    1.7    4.2               ..      ..     .       ..     .
capital Recepts                  0.0    1.1    1.4    2.0    2.7    2.9               ..   80.4   62.0   57.?   25.1
Capitat Expanditur              11.3    .1    6.       6.9    9.5    7.9              6.9   63.3   33.4   26.9   53.9
Oerat IOleficit                  0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0               ..      ..     ..      ..
Offi ta Cpita l Oft              0.0    1.1    1.4    2.0    2.?    2.9               ..    0.6    0.6    0.6    0.3
Extil Sorrong (net)              5.6    2.5    3.6    3.9    4.7    2.1               ..      ..    ..       ..
cm uon-6w  lrAno                 0.1    0.2    0.3    0.2    0.2    0.0               ..    1.1    0.0    03   -0.;
Dometic BIm  Finacng             9.2    1.1   -0.4   -0.6   -0.7   -1.3             -20.9   -1.6
J. gxteat Capitat Flow,         -      tt Dishwaen  (CUSS sitt.I     ,      -Oebt Outstawn1din Al Disbwrse  US aittl.)--
Debt & Debt   ocn Rtio ttis     1      1       1sT9  19       1969   1990    1980   16    1w        196    1989   1990
Ptuhic & Pthiclty  mrmtsd LT    345    124    242    178    165    116   926.2 2186.O 3265.6 3310.1 3361.3 3677.1
Officiat Credito               214    131    243    161    197    129   579.3  1806.2 294s.4 301L.O 3111.1 3432.4
Nllttilatet                          72    151    124    105    11s   167.5  479.3  847.3  931.2  1028.1  124.o
of wdlch IU                  1      -1     -2     -2      .3     -3    29.8   27.8   35.5   30.4   27.3   26.4
of wdich MA                 25    s5       91     79      70     61   121.9  315.6  550.1  606.6  U69.9  803.9
Sliatee                      166      59     91     S7      92     14   391.8 1326.9 2096.1 2086.8 2063.0 2184.4
Privete Ceditors               131     -7      -1     -3    -11    -13   346.8  360.7  320.2  m.1  250.2  244.6
supptuas                      72      -3      5    -13 *     8     -6   179.S  235.5  204.6  175.9  151.7  142.9
Firnaial Nrkts                59      -4     -4      6      -4     -6   143.9  126.4  107.6  107.1   89.4   92.1
Privet Nlon-uwinteed               0      0      0       0      0      0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
TotalLonTas Debt               344a   123.7  242.0  178.2  165.3  116.2   926.2 2167.0 32.6 3310.1 3361.3 3677.1
IN CredIt                        .69     -7      3    -36    -20    -34    67.0  184.2  238.4  190.3  165.3  143.7
Iht Short-Tem Capital            396     -1    -47    -42    -61       12   244.1  118.6  190.9  170.4  111.0  117.9
Toutl nct. tNWF   Not ST         a11    116    196    100    105    9s  1257.3 249.8 3694.9 3670.8 3637,6 396.7
fu* ad IDA ratios
Shar of Total LT 0US
1. 135 en X of Tott            3.22   1.27   1.09   0.92   0.81   0.72
2. IDA       of Tott          13.16  14.43  16.65  18.33  19.93  21.86
3. IU8D  UAs S of Tota       16.36  15.70  17.93  19.24  20.74  22.56
Ulure of Totlt LT 03
1. 10D as  t of totat          4.67   3.31   246    2.99   2.53   3.14
2. WA as X of Total            1.91   3.11   4.05   4.56   3.94   5.06
3. tSWD+lA as X of Totat       6.76   6.42   6.73   7.55   6.4?   8.20
OtD to Exports Ratio s
1. Loa*-TeM 0Dta/Iwports     178.54 609.46  50.S2 7?9.19  26.66
2. IN Crdtemxports,           16.77  51.33  54.79  45.37  35.74
3. SUrt-TemDebtjExpwft        47.06  33.05  43.87  40.6   24.00
4. LT*INPT}/I*ports          242.37 693.86  49.18 675.19 786.39
DOm to UP Rattios
1. Lous-Tom DebtUP            22.92  75.59 126.07 132.34  132.41  11.74
2. IN Creit/UGP                2.15   6.37   9.20   7.61   6.51   4.6
3. Short-Trm Doebt/UP          6.01   4.10   7.37   6.81   4.37   3.81
4. LT*HNF6T/GP                31.11   6.05 142.6  146.76 14.30 127.19
Debt Ra sowta:
1. Pubife * dumutsed LT       11.06  27.78  35.49  35.05  3E.44       .
2. PrIve Nan-twarrnted LT      0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
3. Totat LT Debt SawMioa      11.06  2.76  33.49  35.05  36.4          .
4. IW Repackages + Srv Cho     0.6  13.54  12.46  14.02  14.03
5. Intrest nty enT  Debt       5.49   1.90   0.60   0.29   0.76
6. Totat (LT+ItF4ST at.)      17.2S  43.31  46.75  49.35  53.22
.........................................................................



IBRD 20035R
.                                  , g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~renana
MADAGAMAHJ N 
^~~~~~~ tANAN
_____ Pvd voJ ds
4.   -
* c4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wrr  om s 0
Adsim.              ZMITAINZANIA      INDIA N
i                                        ZAMBU X             N.
^ -                              t    %% ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AftRFFi
+ q 'ss ''.~~~~~~~~~~
*  49  $$:t,=^,,                                  {  t          e       ^ f F-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JNE19



