Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2382 MAG
                    (Manpower Training Project)
                              between
                 DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated June 25, 1992
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2382 MAG
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 25, 1992, between DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF
MADAGASCAR (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower has stated in a letter, dated May 7,
1992 its program of policies and objectives designed to improve the
efficiency of the technical and vocational training activities (the
Vocational and Technical Training Strategy);
      (B)   the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                            ARTICLE I
                 General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "MIP" means the Ministry responsible for Education of
the Borrower;
      (b)   "MEF" means the Ministry responsible for Employment and
Training of the Borrower;
      (c)   "CNFTP" means the National Technical and Vocational
Training Council, established by Law No. 91-020, dated August 5,
1991 and Decree No. 92-279, dated February 28, 1992;
      (d)   "INPF" means the National Vocational Training Institute,
established by Decree No. 74-088, dated March 8, 1974;
      (e)   "DET" means the Department responsible for Technical
Education within MIP, and to be transferred within MEF in accordance
with the provisions of Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement;
      (f)   "ENFAR" means the National Civil Service Training
School, an etablissement public 
 caractcre administratif,
established by Decree No. 88-295, dated July 26, 1988;
      (g)   "Comite de Coordination" means the Project's
coordination committee to be established by the Borrower;
      (h)   "BPE" means the Bureau Projet Education, established
pursuant to Decree No. 89-355, dated October 17, 1989;
      (i)   "ETFP" means technical and vocational education and
training;
      (j)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated July 12, 1989, August 4,
1989, March 4, 1991 and March 27, 1991 between the Borrower and the
Association;
      (k)   "Training Sub-Project" means a vocational or technical
training activity to be supported by CNFTP, and proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit under Part A.3 of the
Project;
      (l)   "CNFTP Implementation Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into by the Borrower and CNFTP in accordance with
the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) (ii) of this Agreement;
      (m)   "INPF Implementation Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into by the Borrower and INPF in accordance with the
provisions of Section 3.01 (a) (iii) of this Agreement;
      (n)   "ENFAR Implementation Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into by the Borrower and ENFAR in accordance with
the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) (iv) of this Agreement;
      (o)   "Implementation Agreements" means, collectively, the
CNFTP Implementation Agreement, the INPF Implementation Agreement
Page  3
and the ENFAR Implementation Agreement; and
      (p)   "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to sixteen million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 16,700,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars two special deposit accounts in a
commercial bank acceptable to the Association on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Special
Account A, opened in the name of CNFTP, shall be used exclusively
for Part A of the Project and Special Account B, opened in the name
of BPE, shall be used exclusively for Parts B, C, D and E of the
Project. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
Page  4
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing September 15, 2002 and ending March 15, 2032. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on March 15,
2012 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                       ARTICLE III
                Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, in accordance with the Vocational and
Technical Training Strategy:
            (i)   shall carry out Parts B.l through B.6, C and D of
                  the Project with due diligence and efficiency and
                  in conformity with appropriate administrative,
                  financial and engineering practices and shall
                  provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
                  facilities, services and other resources required
                  for such Parts of the Project;
           (ii)   shall cause CNFTP to carry out Part A of the
                  Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in
                  conformity with appropriate administrative,
                  financial and educational practices and in
                  accordance with the CNFTP Implementation
                  Agreement to be entered into by the Borrower and
                  CNFTP, whose terms and conditions shall have been
                  approved by the Association and which shall
                  include the Manuel de Procedure of CNFTP
Page  5
                  specifying eligibility criteria and legal
                  procurement and financial arrangements to be made
                  in respect of the carrying out of Training
                  Sub-Projects and adequate provisions as shall be
                  consistent with paragraphs 7 to 9 of Schedule 4
                  to this Agreement;
          (iii)   shall cause INPF to carry out Part B.7 of the
                  Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
                  conformity with appropriate administrative,
                  financial and educational practices and in
                  accordance with the INPF Implementation Agreement
                  to be entered into by the Borrower and INPF,
                  whose terms and conditions shall have been
                  approved by the Association;
           (iv)   shall cause ENFAR to carry out Part E of the
                  Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
                  conformity with appropriate administrative,
                  financial and educational practices and in
                  accordance with the ENFAR Implementation
                  Agreement to be entered into by the Borrower and
                  ENFAR, whose terms and conditions shall have been
                  approved by the Association;
            (v)   shall take or cause to be taken all action,
                  including the provision of funds, facilities,
                  services and other resources, necessary or
                  appropriate to enable CNFTP, INPF and ENFAR to
                  carry out the respective Parts of the Project and
                  shall not take or permit to be taken any action
                  which would prevent or interfere with the
                  carrying out of the respective Parts of the
                  Project by CNFTP, INPF or ENFAR; and
           (vi)   without limitation upon the provisions of this
                  Section, the Borrower shall for the  purposes of
                  making available its contribution to the Project:
                  (A) open and maintain in the name of the Project
                  a separate account, make an initial contribution
                  of the equivalent of $150,000 into such account
                  and replenish such account at least on a
                  quarterly basis or whenever its balance shall be
                  less than the equivalent of $30,000 up to the
                  amount of the initial contribution; and (B) open
                  and maintain two bank accounts (advance
                  accounts), each in the name of BPE and in the
                  name of CNFTP, in a commercial bank and make an
                  initial deposit of the equivalent of $75,000 and
                  $25,000, respectively, into such accounts; such
                  accounts to be replenished out of the account
                  referred to under sub-paragraph (vi) (A) above on
                  the basis of adequate justifications for
                  expenditures made.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and, except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall take all measures
regarding the execution of the Project as shall be consistent with
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Implementation Agreements in such a manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the
purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Implementation Agreements or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
Page  6
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take all necessary legal and
administrative action so that its ministry responsible for
vocational training:
      (a)   by December 31, 1992, shall be responsible for public
sector secondary technical schools with respect to investment
expenditures, the contents of courses taught, the numbers of
students enrolled and the opening and closing of said schools; and
      (b)   by July 31, 1993, shall be responsible for the full
management of public sector technical education and vocational
training schools and shall include DET.
      The Borrower shall thereafter entrust the technical and
administrative tutelle for technical education and vocational
training to a single ministry.
                            ARTICLE IV
                       Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Parts B, C, D and E of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
them out.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                  for the Special Account B for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as
                  available, but in any case not later than six
                  months after the end of each such year, a
                  certified copy of the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Association shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit report for
                  the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                  from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                  Special Account was made, all records (contracts,
                  orders, invoices, bills, receipts  and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
Page  7
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  Section 4.01 (b) of this Article and that the
                  report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                  by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
      Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause CNFTP to maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations and financial condition of
CNFTP.
      (b)   The Borrower shall cause CNFTP to:
            (i)   have its records, accounts including those for
                  the Special Account A and financial statements
                  (balance sheets, statements of income and
                  expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the
                  Association;
          (ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six months after
                  the end of each such year: (A) certified copies
                  of its financial statements for such year as so
                  audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said
                  auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Association shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning such records, accounts, financial
                  statements and the audit thereof as the
                  Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of this Agreement, a situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that CNFTP will be able to perform its
obligations under the CNFTP Implementation Agreement.
      (b)   The Statutes of CNFTP shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of CNFTP to perform any of its obligations
under the CNFTP Implementation Agreement.
      (c)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of CNFTP, or for the suspension of its operations.
      (d)   The Borrower or CNFTP shall have failed to perform any
of their respective obligations under the CNFTP Implementation
Agreement.
      (e)   The CNFTP Implementation Agreement or the Manuel de
Procedure shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely Part A of the
Project.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
Page  8
      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower; and
      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (b), (c) and (e) of
this Agreement shall occur.
                           ARTICLE VI
                   Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   a principal technical advisor for the CNFTP with
experience and qualification acceptable to the Association and the
members of the management committee of CNFTP and its chairman have
been appointed;
      (b)   the Borrower has entered into the Implementation
Agreements in conformity with the provisions of Section 3.01 (a)
(ii) through (iv) of this Agreement;
      (c)   the Borrower has created the Comite de Coordination
referred to under Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (d)   the Borrower has made the initial deposits into the
three accounts referred to in Section 3.01 (a) (vi) of this
Agreement in accordance with the provisions of such Section; and
      (e)   the Special Accounts have been established in accordance
with Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                           ARTICLE VII
            Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
           Ministere des Finances
           Antananarivo
           Madagascar
            Cable address:                        Telex:
                 MINFIN                             22489
                 Antananarivo
      For the Association:
            International Development
              Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                      Telex:
                  INDEVAS                         248423 (RCA)
Page  9
                  Washington, D.C.                 82987 (FTCC)
                                                   64145 (WUI) or
                                                  197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                    By /s/ Pierrot Rajaonarivelo
                                  Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
                             Acting Regional Vice President
                                                     Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated            % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Goods and services        3,200,000        100%
     for Training Sub-
     Projects under
     Part A.3 of the
     Project
(2)  Civil works               1,400,000        100%
(3)  Equipment, vehicles,      4,800,000        100%
     materials and
     supplies
(4)  Consultants'              1,200,000        100%
     services
(5)  (a) Training under        1,100,000        100%
         Parts B, C and
         E of the Project
     (b) Training under          700,000        100%
         Part D.2 of
         the Project
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
Page  10
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(6)  Operating costs             400,000        100%
     for BPE
(7)  Materials,                1,400,000        100%
     equipment,
     vehicles, con-
     sultants' ser-
     vices, training
     and operating
     costs for CNFTP
(8)  Refunding of                800,000        Amounts due
     Project                                    pursuant to
     Preparation                                Section 2.02 (c)
     Advance                                    of this Agreement
(9)  Unallocated               1,700,000
                              __________
                  TOTAL       16,700,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "Operating costs"
means expenditures related to operation and maintenance of Project
vehicles, travel within Madagascar and travel allowances of Project
staff, office supplies, and salaries of local contractual staff
within CNFTP and BPE for activities relating to the Project.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) payments
made, or to be made, in respect of expenditures to be withdrawn from
Category (5) (b) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule, unless the Borrower has presented an agricultural training
program and arrangements for its implementation, both acceptable to
the Association.
                             SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to establish a technical and
vocational education and training system encompassing private and
public training institutions and responsive to actual training needs
of the economy.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:    Support for the National Technical and Vocational
           Training Council (CNFTP)
1.    Establishment and initial operation of CNFTP.
2.    Rehabilitation of buildings needed by CNFTP and provision of
vehicles, furniture and equipment.
3.    Carrying out of Training Sub-Projects.
4.    Training of, and seminars for, selected staff of CNFTP.
5.    Studies including those relating to the future financing of
CNFTP, the establishment of closer links between training and
employment and  an incentive system for private investment in
training.
Part B:     Technical Education
Page  11
1.    Reform of technical education provided by MIP and MEF,
including  introduction of modular short cycle courses linked to
employment needs.
2.    Installation of a personnel data management system for the
directorate responsible for management of personnel of public sector
technical education and vocational training establishments.
3.    Establishment of maintenance units at central and provincial
levels to assist in the maintenance and procurement programs of DET.
4.    Strengthening the planning unit within MEFP for the planning
of MIP and MEF's ETFP activities on the basis of the analysis of
vocational training needs and establishment of a tracer system
relating to TVET trainees in training institutions.
5.    Rehabilitation of buildings, including workshops and labora-
tories of seven (7) technical lycees.
6.    Setting up of an in-service teacher training center and
retraining of at least 350 technical teachers and technical
education administrative staff of public and private sector training
institutions with an emphasis on teaching methods, curriculum
development and workshop organization and provision of furniture,
office equipment, audio-visual aids, printing equipment, vehicles
and supplies.
7.    (a)  Provision for INPF of: (i) training equipment,
particularly for electro-mechanic, plumbing and hydraulic workshops,
and micro- computers and software packages for business training;
and (ii) instructional kits, mobile training stations and vehicles
needed by INPF for training and technical support for enterprises
distant from Antananarivo; and (b) rehabilitation of INPF's boarding
facilities.
Part C:     Labor Market Information
      Establishment of an office ("observatory") within the Ministry
responsible for employment to gather and analyze statistics and
other information on employment and unemployment, training needs,
wages and other employment related data and setting up of regional
observatories to obtain statistics and such other information at the
local level.
Part D:     Agricultural Education and Training
1.    Evaluation of the priorities for, and quality and cost
effectiveness of, agricultural education and training, and
preparation of an action plan to reform such sub-sector
including the identification and preparation of priority training
activities.
2.    Carrying out of an agricultural training program.
Part E:     Training for Civil Servants
1.    Strengthening of the ENFAR unit responsible for assessment
of priority training needs for senior level civil servants and
preparation of a medium-term training program and carrying out of
such training program.
2.    Implementation of initial and in-service training programs
for civil servants.
3.    Construction of boarding and other facilities for ENFAR and
provision of materials, equipment, furniture and vehicles.
                            * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
Page  12
                            SCHEDULE 3
              Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:    International Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:    Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Madagascar may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:    Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Contracts for works and items or groups of items for goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1.2 million, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association, provided that the technical and
financial bids are simultaneously opened in public.
2.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $500,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:    Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more and with respect to each
contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are
to be made out of a Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the
making of the first payment out of a Special Account in respect of
such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Page  13
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                             SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
Project Coordination
1.    The Borrower shall provide overall coordination of the Project
through the Comite de Coordination with support from BPE.
Annual Work Programs
2.    By September 30 of each year of the execution of the Project,
the Borrower shall, through the Comite de Coordination, prepare an
annual work program for Parts B.l through B.6, C and D, shall cause
CNFTP, INPF and ENFAR to prepare, for their respective Parts of the
Project, annual work programs, and submit to the Association for
review and comments such annual work programs specifying the
activities to be carried out under the Project during the next
following year and establishing that at least 25% of the envisaged
disbursements from the Credit Account during the next year would be
made for Training Sub-Projects and that at least 10% of the aggre-
gate disbursements of CNFTP during the following year would support
training activities carried out by non-governmental organizations;
such annual work programs to include a report on the activities
carried out during the preceding year.
3.    By December 15 of each year, the Borrower shall submit to the
Association the final annual work program, which shall take into
consideration the comments made by the Association.
Mid-term Review
4.    By June 30, 1995, the Borrower shall undertake an in-depth
review of the Project and its implementation arrangements and submit
a report thereon to the Association, in such scope and detail, as
the Association shall reasonably request. Without limitation upon
the generality of the foregoing, said report shall contain a
detailed examination of: (a) the implementation of the Vocational
and Technical Training Strategy; (b) the implementation and results
of the Training Sub-Projects financed under Part A.3 of the Project;
(c) the financing arrangements made therefor; (d) the participation
of non-governmental organizations in the execution of Training
Sub-Projects; (e) adherence of CNFTP to the provisions of its Manuel
de Procedure; and (f) review of the adequacy of the Statutes and the
Manuel de Procedure of CNFTP to accomplish its purposes.
5.    By October 31, 1995, the Borrower shall review with the
Association the report prepared pursuant to paragraph 4 above and,
thereafter, shall take all necessary measures to remedy any problem
identified during such review.
ETFP Activities of DET
6.    By February 15 of each year of the execution of the Project,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association a report on the
enrollments in each technical or vocational training institution
under the supervision of MIP/MEF in such detail and scope as the
Association shall reasonably request.
CNFTP
Page  14
7.    Before execution of any Training Sub-Project estimated to cost
the equivalent of $20,000 or more, the Borrower shall cause CNFTP to
submit to the Association for approval a detailed report on the
proposed financing, procurement and implementation arrangements for
any such Training Sub-Project and its justification in accordance
with the Manuel de Procedure.
8.    By June 30, 1995, the Borrower shall cause CNFTP to complete
a study for a funding mechanism to support ETFP activities and the
operation of CNFTP and review the findings of such study with the
Association.
9.    Beginning September 30, 1993 and, thereafter, by September 30
of each year of the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall in
association with CNFTP prepare a public expenditure and investment
program for technical and vocational training activities in
Madagascar for the next year which shall be consistent with the
Vocational and Technical Training Strategy and review such program
with the Association.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                         Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)  the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(7) for Special Account A and Categories (2) through (6) for Special
Account B set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $200,000 for Special Account A and $1,000,000 for
Special Account B to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the appropriate Special Account pursuant to paragraph
3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish such
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into a Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)  (i)    For replenishment of a Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                  requests for deposits into such Special Account
                  at such intervals as the Association shall
                  specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                  the Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
Page  15
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  a Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of a Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into a Special Account:
      (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
      (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in a
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of a Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; and (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into a Special Account (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into a Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the
Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a
Special Account.
      (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Page  16
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
