Document of                  FILE Copy
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3002-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
March 30, 1981
Thhs document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanoe of |
their oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank autborization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(As of March 20, 1981)
Rs 1.00                  Paise 100
Rs 1.00         =        US$0.120531
US$1.00         =        Rs 8.296558
Rs 1 million    =        US$120,531
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at
US$1 to Rs 8.0, which represents the projected exchange
rate over the disbursement period.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ADA     -       Additional Director of Agriculture
AEO     -       Agricultural Extension Officer
BDO     -       Block Development Officer
DOA     -       Department of Agriculture
GOI     -       Government of India
GOM     -       Government of Maharashtra
ha      -       hectare
PAO     -       Principal Agricultural Officer
SDAO    -       Subdivisional Agricultural Officer
SMS     -       Subject Matter Specialist
T&V     -       Training and Visit System of Agricultural Extension
VEW     -       Village Extension Worker



INDIA           FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                India, acting by its President (GOI).
Beneficiary:             The State of Maharashtra (GOM).
Amount:                  SDR 18.9 million (US$23 million equivalent).
Terms:                   Standard.
Relending Terms:         From GOI to GOM:  As part of Central assistance
for State development projects on terms and
conditions applicable at the time.
Project Description:    The project would reorganize and strengthen
agricultural extension services in Maharashtra
along the lines of the Training and Visit
System of extension, which is based on frequent
in-service training of extension workers and
regular, scheduled visits by extension workers
to farmers' fields. The project faces no
special risks, although realization of the
expected benefits will depend heavily on the
State Government's ability to effectively
manage the reorganized extension system,
maintaining an effective single line of command
from extension headquarters to the field-level
workers.
Estimated Project                                             (US$ Millions)
Cost: a/                                            Local    Foreign    Total
Incremental Staff             14.3         -        14.3
Incremental Operating Costs   3.3         1.7        5.0
Civil Works                    4.7         -         4.7
Vehicles and Equipment         2.0        0.8        2.8
Training                        1.6       0.1        1.7
Subtotal                   25.9        2.6      28.5
Physical Contingencies         1.0        0.1        1.1
Price Contingencies            7.8        0.8        8.6
Total Project Cost         34.7        3.5      38.2
a/ Including an estimated US$4.9 million in taxes and duties.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Financing Plan:                                                (US$ Millions)
Local    Foreign    Total
IDA                            19.5        3.5       23.0
GOI/GOM                        15.2         -         15.2
Total                      34.7        3.5       38.2
Estimated                                            (US$ Millions)
Disbursement: a/                    FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87
Annual        0.3    2.1    4.6    7.0    6.0    3.0
Cumulative   0.3    2.4    7.0   14.0   20.0   23.0
Rate of Return:           At least 50%.
Appraisal Report:         No. 3299-IN, dated March 23, 1981.
a/ According to IDA's fiscal year.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO INDIA
FOR THE MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India for SDR 18.9 million (US$23.0 million equivalent)
on standard IDA terms to help finance a project to reorganize and strengthen
the agricultural extension service of the State of Maharashtra. The Govern-
ment of India (GOI) would channel the proceeds of the credit to the Govern-
ment of Maharashtra (GOM) in accordance with GOI's standard terms and
arrangements for financing State development projects.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2933-IN, dated May 1, 1980), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
May 14, 1980. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of 672 million
(in mid-1980) and an annual per capita income of US$190. Agriculture contin-
ues to dominate India's economy, employing over two-thirds of the labor
force. However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate
livelihood to all those engaged in agricultural activities, especially the
landless or nearly landless who have only an insecure grasp on the means of
existence. The share of agriculture in GDP at factor cost (measured in
1970/71 prices) has declined from 60% in 1950/51 to about 40% in 1978/79.
The share of industry has increased over the same period from 15% to 23%.
But industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the growing labor
force, nor to bring about the substantial economic transformation that has
led to higher productivity and rapid urbanization in some other developing
countries. The urban population was 18% of the total in 1960, and is about
21% now.
4.       Economic growth has been slow in the past, averaging about 3.5% per
annum over the past 30 years. Slow growth in agriculture -- 2.5% per annum
over the same period -- has constrained overall growth, not only because of
1/ Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I
and II of the President's Report for the Karnataka Tank Irrigation Pro-
ject (No. P-2968-IN dated February 26, 1981), with minor changes re-
flecting recent developments.



-2-
the high share of agriculture in GDP but also because scarce foreign exchange
has often been required to import food. Industrial value-added has grown
more rapidly, at 5.4% per annum between 1950/51 and 1978/79, but this growth
has not been as high as in many other countries, nor as high as required.
Gross domestic savings more than doubled from 10% of GDP in 1950/51 to 24% in
1978/79. Similarly, gross domestic investment as a fraction of GDP rose from
10% in 1950/51 to just over 24% in 1978/79. Foreign savings have never
financed a large portion of domestic investment: a peak of about 20% was
reached during the early 1960s; by the end of the 1970s, the proportion had
returned to much lower levels. External assistance has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms. Net external assistance has never
risen above 3% of GDP.
5.      Except during periods of balance of payments crisis, exports have
received relatively little emphasis in India, which has primarily pursued a
strategy of import substitution. The volume growth of exports between
1950/51 and 1978/79 averaged only 3.0% per annum. The volume growth of
imports over the same period has slightly exceeded that of exports. During
the early 1970s, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant
during the 1960s, deteriorated drastically. In response, the Government
introduced many policy measures designed to stimulate exports. The volume of
India's exports grew on average over 10% per annum between 1972 and 1977,
demonstrating that sustained rapid growth was possible. While expanding
world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle East, contributed to this
process, liberalized access to imported inputs, and improvements in incen-
tives designed to increase the profitability of exports played a major role.
Recent Trends
6.'       Over the period 1975/76 to 1978/79, growth in real GDP (at factor
cost), agricultural value-added and industrial value-added averaged 4.7%,
2.8% and 7.3% per annum, respectively. These trends represent a marginally
better growth performance than the long-term trends from 1950/51 to 1975/76.
However, GDP declined by about 4.5% in 1979/80 as a result of the drought-
induced decrease in agricultural production and input constraints in other
sectors, bringing recent trends back in line with the long-term picture.
Industrial production stagnated in 1979/80, largely due to shortfalls in the
production of major inputs such as coal, steel and cement, as well as infras-
tructural constraints, notably in power and transportation. As a consequence
of these developments, the remarkable price stability that characterized the
Indian economy after 1975 came to an abrupt end at the close of fiscal year
1978/79. During the spring and summer of 1980 the price index continued to
rise sharply, so that by September it stood at 19.1% above that of the previ-
ous September. Foodgrain prices rose over the summer and fall of 1980 but
more slowly than the drop in 1979/80 production would have suggested so that
in most markets grain prices remained close to the Goverment's ration prices.
Low income groups in urban areas were assured adequate supplies of grain at
stable prices through the public distribution system. The substantial stocks
of foodgrains also provided resources for a large-scale drought relief
employment program for low income groups in rural areas. In 1980/81, the
economy recovered, aided by a normal monsoon, so that real GDP growth for the
year should be about 7 to 8%. During the summer of 1980, GOI raised prices
of petroleum products and fertilizers, reflecting the growing cost of imports



-3-
of these items and the GOI efforts to encourage efficiency in their use.
Recently the growth in prices has slowed so that by January 1981 the whole-
sale price index was 15% above its level a year earlier.
7.        In agriculture the positive results of large investments and
appropriate policies in the past years are becoming increasingly apparent.
The rate of expansion of irrigation has increased significantly from 1.3 mil-
lion ha per year in the early 1970s to about 2.3 million ha in 1978/79. Fer-
tilizer use reached 5.2 million tons of nutrients in 1979/80, more than dou-
ble 1974/75 levels. Over the decade before 1979/80, foodgrain production
grew at about 2.75% per annum -- sufficient to meet consumer demand, to elim-
inate imports (which had averaged nearly 5 million tons per year for the 15
years preceding 1976), and to lower real foodgrain prices for consumers. At
the same time, India was able to build up substantial foodgrain buffer stocks
which made it possible to weather the effects of the 1979/80 drought with
comparative ease, and to export about half a million tons of grain in 1980.
While the management of the foodgrain economy after the drought was a signi-
ficant achievement, the effect of the drought on production re-emphasized the
continued importance of the monsoon in India's agriculture. The need to
expand irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage the efficient use of
other inputs continues.
8.        As the new decade begins, the Indian economy is shifting from a
situation of resource surplus, which had been a temporary phenomenon of the
late 1970s, to one of resource scarcity. Investment has again overtaken
domestic savings, and the scope for further increases in the latter appears
limited. Marginal savings rates have recently been well above 30% in the
household sector. Future increases in savings will depend largely on
enhanced profitability of public sector enterprises. Impending resource
scarcity is even more apparent in the foreign sector. Between 1975/76 and
1978/79 India's current account deficit had remained comfortably small in
relation both to GDP and to a growing pipeline of aid commitments. This was
primarily due to favorable terms of trade movements and rapidly growing net
invisibles which masked adverse underlying trends in the volume of exports,
the growth of which has slowed since 1977. One area of concern is the
apparent decline in the growth rate of manufactured exports which had contri-
buted much to the export growth of the first half of the decade. A combina-
tion of strong domestic and slack international demand, exacerbated by severe
infrastructural and supply constraints and apparent lessened interest in
export promotion during the resource surplus period were the major causal
factors. Recently, signs of improvement in the availability of power, the
main constraint facing exporters, and the adoption of several new export pol-
icy measures have improved the prospects for accelerating export growth,
though continued attention to both these areas will be required.
9.        In contrast, imports have grown rapidly in volume terms and there
have been important changes in composition. As a result of the accumulation
and maintenance of foodgrain stocks, foodgrain imports -- which had tradi-
tionally been a large item in the balance of payments -- have been eliminated
since 1978 and, for the past few years, India has been a marginal net
exporter of grain. The rise in other imports, however, has more than offset
this development. Reflecting the impact of the liberalized import policy
adopted by the Government, non-foodgrain imports increased sharply, so that
their level in 1978/79 was over 80% higher than in 1975/76.  In large part,



-4-
the liberalization in import policy and increase in imports were limited to
raw materials, basic commodities and intermediate goods; most consumer goods
remained banned and capital goods imports were permitted only on a selective
basis. Strong new pressures on the balance of payments have developed during
1980/81. The terms of trade again deteriorated markedly as a consequence of
unexpectedly large increases in petroleum prices, which caused the oil import
bill to increase by over 75% in 1980/81 after doubling the year before.
India's foreign resource deficit as a proportion of GDP reached the unpre-
cedentedly high level of 3.0% in 1980/81. India was able to finance this gap
through a substantial drawing on IMF resources (the Trust Fund and Compensa-
tory Financing Facility), and through an increase in aid and a drawdown in
reserves, both of modest proportions. Petroleum imports as a proportion of
merchandise exports now exceed 75%.
Development Prospects
10.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India does have the
capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial
sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large
in absolute terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufac-
turing a wide variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure --
irrigation, railways, telecommunications, the power grid, roads and ports --
is extensive compared to many countries, although there is considerable scope
for expansion as well as improvement in the utilization of existing capacity.
India is also well-endowed with human resources and with institutional
infrastructure for development. Finally, India has an extensive natural
resource base in terms of land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and fer-
rous ores, but also gas and oil). With good economic policies and sufficient
access to foreign savings, India has the capability for managing these con-
siderable resources to accelerate its long-term growth.
11.     The new Indian Government elected in January 1980 formulated a new
Sixth Five-Year Plan for the period 1980-85. The Plan was approved in Febru-
ary 1981. The new Plan continues to assign priority to agriculture and
power. Furthermore, the Plan reflects recent developments in India and in
the world economy which have brought to the surface the need for urgent
action in several areas. These include: (i) expansion of exports and an
investment program directed toward containing the growth of imports in the
face of a deteriorating balance of payments situation; (ii) an investment
program and policy framework for more efficient use and development of energy
sources; (iii) removal of bottlenecks in infrastructure and related con-
straints on production of basic industrial inputs: and (iv) continuing
emphasis on the development of agriculture.
12.     The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. However, there are signs that, relative to exist-
ing demands, the past programs and policies have led to disproportionally low
growth in certain crucial sectors, namely power, coal, transport services,
steel and cement. Potential output growth in sectors which have benefitted
from large investments in the recent past may not materialize unless these
input bottlenecks are alleviated. In the case of coal, steel and cement,
domestic production appears to be clearly justified on grounds of comparative
advantage, indicating an a priori case for policies to promote further
investment.   All these are tradeable commodities.  Although in 1980/81 they



-5-
were not imported in sufficient amounts to eliminate the shortages, increased
short-term reliance on imports may be necessary to alleviate slowdowns and
dislocation in using industries. In the case of sectors in which there is no
option to import the final product --power and transportation-- the planning
of capacity expansion becomes even more crucial. Although there is scope for
improvement in the shortrun performance of these sectors, major investments
in balancing and modernization programs as well as in new capacity are essen-
tial for adequate growth in the medium term. The presence of infrastructural
constraints and shortages of basic industrial inputs demonstrates that the
expansion of industrial output leads to competing claims on scarce resources
with significant implications for public versus private and short versus
long-term investments.
13.     Despite the relatively large investment programs for the development
of domestic energy resources such as coal and hydroelectricity, and the
recent development of offshore petroleum resources, India has not been able
to narrow the gap between its total energy demand and domestic production.
During the past year, India continued to face power and coal shortages.
Growing demand for petroleum products, disrupted production from the Assam
oilfields, and recent oil price increases, have boosted India's oil import
bill to US$7 billion, equivalent to about 78% of total exports of goods.
India is entering the Sixth Plan period with an ambitious energy production
program backed by substantial financial commitment. In the oil sector, GOI
is now accelerating its oil exploration capabilities and is opening up pros-
pective areas for exploration by foreign firms. India is now committed to an
expanded power program that emphasizes exploitation of its large hydro poten-
tial and development of the transmission and distribution system. In the
coal sector, a policy decision in favor of mechanization has been made in
order to achieve more rapid growth of coal production.
14.     Despite the 1979 drought, agricultural policies, development programs
and secular trends all seem favorable for sustaining the past growth rate
during the 1980s. India ended 1980 with grain stocks of about 12 million
tons, without having imported foodgrains during the year. This is partly due
to the bumper crop of 1978/79 and good management of the foodgrain stocks
following the 1979 drought, but also reflects the trends of the last decade
which point to an improvement in foodgrain availability in the economy. In
view of the acceleration in the use of agricultural inputs and the projected
fall in the population growth rate, the long-run prospects for foodgrain sup-
ply and demand balances look favorable. If the efforts to develop agricul-
ture over the past decade are sustained and intensified, as suggested in the
new Plan, persistent shortage seems unlikely, and it is probable that a wide
range of policy options will become much more practical. These options
include a slowly falling real price of foodgrains to increase the affordabil-
ity of foodgrains to low-income families, further rationalization of domestic
markets and prices, foodgrain exports and diversification to the production
of other, higher value crops.
15.     Foreign exchange reserves still provide some cushion that can help
the Government of India in short-term supply management, but this situation
is likely to be short-lived. Rising import prices and uncertainties in the
prospects for exports and invisible receipts have led to a serious and rapid
deterioration in India's balance of payments prospects.   Reserves were only
marginally higher in March 1980 than the level of a year earlier and, in



-6-
terms of import coverage, fell below the 8-month level for the first time
since 1977. A very sharp decline in the reserve level would have occurred in
1980/81 had IMF Trust Fund and Compensatory Financing Facilities amounting to
over US$1 billion not been available to India. At best, India's reserves may
provide a cushion for two more years, and even that depends on improved
export performance, on the maintenance of aid flows and workers' remittances
and on moderation in oil price rises.
16.     India's medium-term development prospects are mixed.  Considerable
progress continues to be made, particularly in agriculture, but the economy
faces a period of difficult adjustments in the coming years. Investments
required to relieve short-term supply constraints must compete with longer-
term programs to accelerate growth and to develop India's considerable physi-
cal and human resources. The balancing of these objectives will place a dif-
ficult burden on those implementing India's Sixth Five-Year Plan. The pri-
mary focus must be on the implementation of appropriate domestic adjustment
policies, although the aid community can and should play an important role in
ensuring that India's efforts do not fail due to inadequate foreign
resources.
17.     The annual population growth rate declined from 2.3% in the late
1960s to about 2% at present and is expected to continue falling to around
1.8% by the first half of the 1990s. Despite the declining trend in the rate
of population increase, a net reproduction rate of one (replacement level)
will be achieved only around the year 2020. At that time, the population of
India is estimated to reach 1.2 billion persons, an increase of about 79%
over the mid-1980 level of 672 million. Family planning has played an impor-
tant role in achieving the fertility decline in the past decade, and the
extent of a further decline will be greatly influenced by the continuation of
a successful official family planning program. The family planning perfor-
mance data for 1978/79 and 1979/80 clearly indicate a comeback from the sharp
decline observed in virtually all major contraceptive methods during 1977/78.
Except for male sterilizations, the number of acceptors for all contraceptive
methods surpassed the 1974/75 levels in 1978/79. While the increase in the
total acceptors of IUD and conventional contraceptives was modest, female
sterilizations increased by about 40% between 1977/78 and 1978/79. Recent
data confirm a secular upward trend in overall performance. For the past
several years the family planning program has emphasized measures that would
yield relatively modest but sustainable results with increased emphasis on
reversible methods.
18.     Beyond the effects of overall economic growth and constrained popula-
tion growth, the reduction of poverty in India requires special attention to
ways of raising the income and productivity of low-income groups. More than
one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than 80% of the Indian
poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and small farmers.
In addition to having inadequate physical assets, the poor are ill-endowed
with human resources, being disproportionately represented among the illi-
terate, the hungry and the sick. Improvements in the living standards of the
poor will depend to a large extent on the overall growth of the economy,
mainly on increases in agricultural production and employment, in non-farm
rural employment, and also in employment opportunities in urban areas. These
developments will have to stem largely from market forces which, however, can
be reinforced by appropriate government policies and investment priorities.



-7-
The declining trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970 and 1979 reflects
such developments. There is also a role for direct government action in fas-
ter implementation of land reform (though the scope for significant reduction
in poverty through redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing
the supply of credit available to small farmers and rural artisans and
finally in broadening the provision of those services which enhance the human
capital of the poor and improve living standards. Many of the latter are
elements of the Minimum Needs Program which has been an integral part of
Indian planning for the past decade. Progress has been slow but steady in
the expansion of primary education, the extension of rural health facilities
and the provision of secure village water supplies. Innovations such as the
community health volunteer program and the national adult literacy campaign,
provide encouraging evidence that well-targetted, relatively low-cost pro-
grams can lead to enhanced prospects for India's poor.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 61 loans and 134 development
credits to India totalling US$2,833 million and US$8,672 million (both net of
cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,133 million had been
repaid, and US$4,107 million was still undisbursed as of January 31, 1981.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through January
31, 1981, totalled US$373 million, representing an increase of about 20% over
the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary statement of dis-
bursements as of January 31, 1981, and notes on the execution of ongoing pro-
jects.
20.     Since 1959, IFC has made 19 commitments in India totalling US$110.6
million, of which US$20.8 million has been repaid, US$27.6 million sold and
US$7.5 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$54.7 million, US$46.2 million
represents loans and US$8.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of January 31, 1981, is also included in Annex II (page 5).
21.     In recent years, Bank Group lending has emphasized agriculture.  The
Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor irrigation and
other on-farm investments through agricultural credit operations and in pro-
viding direct support to major and medium irrigation. Marketing, seed
development, agricultural extension, and dairying are other agricultural
activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group has been active
in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector and, through
its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in a wide range
of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises.
IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for selected prior-
ity sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capacity utilization
in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in supporting infrastruc-
ture development for power, telecommunications, and railways. Family plan-
ning, water supply development, urban investments and the development of oil
and natural gas have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Goverment's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, power, water supply and other infrastructure



-8-
sectors remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs, particularly water and
credit for on-farm investments, will continue to receive emphasis.   Improved
water management and intensification and streamlining of extension systems
form an important institution-building aspect of the Bank Group's program for
the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefit-
ting small farmers. The Bank Group's continuing role in the fertilizer sec-
tor also assists India in the more efficient provision of another key input
in the agricultural growth process. Projects supporting water supply, sewer-
age, urban development and investments in the petroleum sector also form an
integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on those subsectors which have recently emerged as key constraints on
India's overall growth, primarily power and transportation.
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However,
there is now a need for increased foreign assistance to adjust to an even
greater deterioration in balance of payments anticipated during the 1980s by
augmenting domestic resources and stimulating investment. As in the past,
Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim to include the financ-
ing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods
because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods
industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in
most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors
as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
24.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue
to be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reason-
ably be allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for
external support. Therefore, India should be eligible and regarded as
creditworthy for some supplemental Bank lending. The ratio of India's debt
service to the level of exports was 12% in 1978/79 and is projected to remain
below 20% through 1995/96. As of January 31, 1981, outstanding loans to
India held by the Bank totalled US$1,766 million, of which US$561 million
remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$1,206 million.
25.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and
12% of net disbursements as compared with 46%, 37% and 48%, respectively, in
1979/80. On March 31, 1980, India's outstanding and disbursed external pub-
lic debt was US$15.6 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was US$5.2 bil-
lion or 34% (IDA's US$4.5 billion and IBRD's US$0.7 billion). Because Bank
Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form of IDA credits, debt
service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In 1979/80, about 18.0% of
India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.



-9-
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION IN MAHARASHTRA
26.     Maharashtra, in western India, is the third largest State in the
UTnion, with a land area of 30.7 million hectares and a population of over 60
million. The State's economy is dominated by agriculture, which accounts for
30-35% of Maharashtra's net domestic product and employs approximately 65% of
the labor force. About 18.2 million hectares are cultivated by approximately
5.76 million farm families. In contrast to a number of Indian States, over
90% of the farms in Maharashtra are wholly owned by the cultivator. Approxi-
mately 46% of the farms in Maharashtra consist of less than two hectares of
land, although there is considerable variation across the State in farm size.
27.     Agriculture in Maharashtra is predominantly rainfed, with only 8.4%
of the cultivated area irrigated. The State is fed by the southwest monsoon
(June to October), the western coastal area receiving the heaviest rains,
with rains tapering off in central Maharashtra and picking up again in the
extreme eastern part of the State. Six districts, covering about one-quarter
of the State's area, are classified as "drought-affected". Paddy is the main
crop in the western, coastal zone and in the extreme east, while pearl mil-
let, wheat, sorghum, groundnut, maize, pulses, cotton and sugarcane are grown
in the central regions.
28.     Crop yields per hectare in Maharashtra are extremely low, for some
crops among the lowest in India, and the State is a net importer of
foodgrains. The rate of agricultural growth, which had been sluggish since
the early 1960s (averaging 0.7% p.a.), did improve in the late 1970s, follow-
ing a series of favorable monsoons and in response to State Government
development programs, focussing principally on irrigation, introduction of
new crop varieties, increased use of fertilizer, and expansion of the area
under irrigated sugarcane and horticulture crops. Nevertheless, considerable
scope for improvement in agricultural techniques still exists.
Agricultural Extension in Maharashtra
29.     Maharashtra operates on the basis of the Panchayat Raj system, a sys-
tem of administration and governance instituted in 1962. This system, in an
effort to maximize participatory government, divides areas of jurisdiction or
tasks between the local sector and the State sector. Local sector subjects
fall within the purview of District and Block Councils, which are locally
elected bodies. Agricultural extension is considered a local sector subject.
30.     Under the present system of agricultural extension, a multi-purpose
village level worker (Gram Sewak) is employed by the District 1/ Council
(Zilla Parishad). The Gram Sewak works under the technical supervision of an
Agricultural Extension Officer (AEO) who, in turn, is guided on technical
matters by the district-level Agricultural Development Officer (ADO). The
Gram Sewak and the AEO are under the administrative control of the Block
Development Officer (BDO), an administrative officer who is responsible for
all development activities within a given block 2/ and acts as Secretary to
the Block Council (Panchayat Samiti). The BDO falls under the control of the
1/ There are 25 administrative districts in Maharashtra.
2/ Each district is divided into approximately 10-12 blocks.



-10-
Chief Executive Officer of the Zilla Parishad, who is responsible for carry-
ing out all development activities entrusted to the Zilla Parishad and for
liaison with the State Government. 1/ The district's ADO also reports
directly to the Chief Executive Officer, although he is guided by the Depart-
ment of Agriculture and does his work at the block level through the BDO. In
addition to the Gram Sewak and the AEO, there are a number of Agricultural
Assistants and Agricultural Supervisors in each district working under the
ADO. These agents deal principally with input supply, rather than acting as
generalized extension agents offering advice on basic cultivation techniques,
the latter being the job of the Gram Sewak.
31.     Parallel to these local sector agricultural activities are a number
of Department of Agriculture State sector programs, mainly specialized crop
schemes focussing on cash crops, seed production programs or statistic col-
lection programs. Initiated in the State sector, these schemes were put
under the Chief Executive Officer of the Zilla Parishad in 1978, but they
maintained their own field staffs and remained outside the supervision of the
Block Council and the BDO. Finally, in irrigated areas, separate Command
Area Development Authorities have been set up (under the Irrigation Depart-
ment), which include field staff assigned to provide additional extension
services to farmers within their command areas.
32.     This network of support programs for the farmer suffers from a number
of deficiencies. First, the lack of a single, direct line of either techni-
cal support or administrative control from the Department of Agriculture to
the extension worker in the field, combined with the multi-purpose role of
the field-level extension worker, results in an extension service less con-
centrated on agricultural support than intended. Gram Sewaks typically spend
less than 20% of their time on agricultural extension. Moreover, given the
tenuous link between the Gram Sewak and the Department of Agriculture, what
agricultural work is done is generally neither planned systematically nor
supervised adequately. Second, the Gram Sewak is typically responsible for
providing service to too many farm families, often spread over a large area.
This large area of jurisdiction combines with a shortage of vehicles and
appropriately located housing for Gram Sewaks to make close, regular contact
between the extension workers and the farmers very difficult. Third, the
training of extension workers is generally confined to pre-service training,
much of which is quickly forgotten and soon out of date in any case. In
addition, training programs are typically theoretical and provide little
opportunity for practical application of what has been learned. Fourth, the
link between the extension services and research activities is weak. There-
fore, extension messages lack continued updating, while agricultural research
tends toward academic questions only remotely related to farmers' problems.
Fifth, the effectiveness of the extension service having been hampered by the
factors described above, the extension workers suffer from low status and low
morale. And finally, the special crop and area development schemes created
to fill the many gaps in agricultural extension have proven expensive,
1/ While the Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis are quite powerful
bodies, their activities do fall within the purview of the State
Government's Rural Development Department, under which funds for these
councils and their programs are budgeted.



-11-
duplicating services Gram Sewaks are supposed to provide and forcing the
farmer to seek advice on the crops he grows from several different sources.
It is these many weaknesses in the existing extension system that the pro-
posed project is designed to address.
Bank Group Activities in Agricultural Extension
33.     The weaknesses evident in Maharashtra's extension system have been
identified in many States of India. Since 1977, the Bank Group has assisted
efforts to reorganize and strengthen agricultural extension in ten Indian
States. Bank Group-supported projects 1/ have introduced the Training and
Visit (T&V) System of agricultural extension, a system based on frequent
(bi-weekly) in-service training of field extension workers and regular,
scheduled visits by field workers to farmers.
34.     Introduction of the T&V System has not been easy.  The shift from a
system based on multi-purpose functionaries to a system of professional
extension carried out by single-purpose extension workers involves a major
administrative and conceptual reform which inevitably encounters bureau-
cratic, political and logistical hurdles. Informed and motivated leadership
being of paramount importance during the introduction of the system, senior
staff turnover is particularly troublesome. Moreover, even in the best of
circumstances, several years are required for the system, once initiated, to
fully mature and become institutionalized. Despite these unavoidable chal-
lenges, the system has been very successfully initiated in Orissa, Rajasthan,
Karnataka, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and Assam. Field visits have shown that
farmers have responded favorably to extension efforts, adopting recommended
practices such as line transplanting of paddy, seed treatment, inter-cropping
with pulses, and basal dressing of fertilizer. In project districts in
Madhya Pradesh, for example, there has been a 300% increase in the use of
clean and graded seed, a 35% increase in the planting of seed of improved
varieties, and a 28% increase in the use of seed dressings. Fertilizer use
has increased by 66% over 1976/77 levels (as opposed to a 48% increase in
non-project areas) and the use of soil testing facilities has increased by
69%. Continued care will be required in all States to see that vacated posts
are quickly filled, extension workers are adequately supervised, and exten-
sion messages continue to be appropriate. But the basis has been laid for a
strong, professional extension system and results are visible in the fields.
1/   The Orissa Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 682-IN;
April 1, 1977); the Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and
Research Project (Cr. 712-IN; June 1, 1977); the West Bengal Agri-
cultural Extension and Research Project (Cr. 690-IN; June 1, 1977);
the Assam Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 728-IN; June 30,
1977); the Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project
(Cr. 737-IN; November 14, 1977); the Bihar Agricultural Extension
and Research Project (Cr. 761-IN; January 6, 1978); the Composite
Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 862-IN; February 16, 1979); and
the Kerala Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 1028-IN; June 25,
1980).



-12-
35.     In Gujarat, while the system is in place and operating fairly well,
the quality of field work is somewhat uneven. The State Government has been
alerted to IDA's concerns by recent supervision missions, and efforts are
underway to ensure that extension workers understand the messages they are to
deliver, that they keep to their schedule of visits, and that farmers are
made aware of the visit schedule in their area.
36.     In Bihar and West Bengal, the effort to introduce the T&V System has
encountered more serious delays. A change in the State Government in West
Bengal, following the initially very promising introduction of the T&V Sys-
tem, led to a re-evaluation of the system and its merits by the incoming
administration. While this resulted in a lengthy period of backsliding in
terms of project implementation, the Government of West Bengal has now reaf-
firmed its commitment to the T&V System and begun taking the critical steps
required to expedite project implementation (e.g., recruitment and training
of field staff, identification of farmer groups and selection of contact
farmers). A court-imposed injunction in response to a suit brought by field
staff transferred from the Community Development Department to the Department
of Agriculture for extension work has prevented the project from regaining
full momentum. However, that injunction has now been partially lifted, with
the result that field work (with new recruits) has resumed. Moreover, this
is a problem that has been met and overcome in several States, 1/ and it is
expected that the tempo of project implementation will soon pick up. In the
case of Bihar, project implementation has been seriously hampered by vacan-
cies in the posts of Director of Agriculture and Additional Director of Agri-
culture (Extension). IDA and GOI have been very concerned about the lack of
progress in Bihar and are discussing with the State Government the current
constraints facing the project and the necessary administrative and budgetary
steps required to implement the project as expeditiously as possible.
37.     Finally, in Kerala, the most recently approved of our extension pro-
jects, project initiation has been slowed by staff changeovers at all levels
(ministerial and administrative). However, field work has now begun in three
districts, with the remaining eight districts to come on stream in May 1981.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.     The project was prepared by the Government of Maharashtra with the
assistance of Bank Group staff. It was appraised in October 1980. A report
entitled "Staff Appraisal Report, Maharashtra Agricultural Extension Project"
(No. 3299-IN) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
1/   Gram Sewak associations in several States have initially
filed suit to ensure that their compensation, benefits, and promo-
tional prospects will not be endangered as a result of their
transfer to the Department of Agriculture for extension work. In
each case, the suit has been satisfactorily settled and Gram
Sewaks' conditions of employment safeguarded (see para 46(a)).



-13-
Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. in March 1981. The Governments of
India and Maharashtra were represented by a delegation coordinated by
Mr. Ranga Rao, Director, Department of Economic Affairs, GOI.
Project Description
39.     The project is designed to achieve early and sustained increases in
agricultural production throughout Maharashtra through the introduction of
the Training and Visit System of agricultural extension. Existing extension
activities would be reorganized and strengthened to achieve:
(a) establishment of a single line of command between full-time
field-level extension workers and the extension supervisory chain in the
Department of Agriculture;
(b) consolidation of staff from existing special crop and command
area development schemes into the single, unified extension service;
(c) initiation of regular, in-service training as an integral part
of extension activities;
(d) introduction of a systematic, fixed schedule for regular and
frequent visits by extension workers to farmers' fields;
(e) improved linkages between extension operations and agricultural
research activities; and
(f) regular monitoring and evaluation of extension activities.
The project, to be implemented over five years, would provide additional
staff, vehicles, housing, operating funds, and training to achieve these
reforms.
40.     The proposed project would be based on the deployment, at field
level, of Village Extension Workers (VEWs) 1/ responsible only for agricul-
tural extension. Each VEW would be assigned to work with an identified group
of farm families, varying in number depending on local conditions, population
density, accessibility and cropping pattern. One VEW would cover, on aver-
age, 800-900 farm families, with the actual number varying from 600 to 1,000
depending on the factors cited above. A contingency provision has been made
for additional VEWs, if that proves necessary. The Government of Maharash-
tra would, by March 31, 1984, in consultation with IDA, carry out a review of
VEW staffing strength and make any adjustments in the VEW:farm family ratio
deemed necessary (Section 2.10, Project Agreement).
41.     To reach his farmers systematically, the VEW would divide the fami-
lies in his jurisdiction into eight smaller groups of about 80-120 each. He
would visit each group regularly on a fixed day of the week in a two-week
cycle. During his visit the VEW would go to contact farmers selected from
1/   In Maharashtra, VEWs are at the rank of Agricultural Assis-
tants and Agricultural Supervisors.



-14-
each group, involving as many other farmers as possible in the discussions
and demonstrations. During each visit the VEW would concentrate his efforts
on a few strategically selected recommendations relevant for that particular
phase of the crop cycle. The extension messages to be communicated to farm-
ers at the initial stage would be simple, concentrating on the few important
crops in the locality and the most important aspects of crop production at
that period of time. Initially, the emphasis would be on low-cost improve-
ments which the majority of farmers can afford.
42.     The VEW would be assisted, guided and supervised in his work by an
Agricultural Extension Officer (AEO), normally a graduate in Agriculture.
One AEO would be responsible for about eight VEWs and would spend at least
four days a week visiting them in the field. Once in every two-week period,
VEWs would receive a full day of intensive training in the recommendations
for that period (relevant for the coming two weeks). The AEO would also par-
ticipate in this training session. Thus, every two weeks, the VEW would
spend eight days in visiting each of his eight groups and one day in train-
ing. One day the AEO would meet all his VEWs in the field or at the head-
quarters to review progress, reinforce practical skills, and identify topics
to be raised at the next training session. The remaining two working days
would be devoted to farm trials and making up missed visits.
43.     The AEO would, in turn, be guided and supervised by a Subdivisional
Agricultural Officer (SDAO), 1/ who would have full-time responsibility for
supervising the 8-10 AEOs in his area. Where there are more than 10 AEOs in
a subdivision, the SDAO would, be assisted by an Additional Subdivisional
Agricultural Officer. Each subdivision would be served by three Subject
Matter Specialists (SMSs) -- one each specializing in Agronomy, Plant Protec-
tion and Training/Communication -- who would spend one-third of their time on
fortnightly training sessions for VEWs, one-third of their time providing
technical support to VEWs and AEOs through field visits, and the remainder of
their time in training, execution of field trials, and collaboration with
researchers at the State's agricultural universities. 2/
44.     The remainder of the supervisory chain would consist of the Principal
Agricultural Officer (PAO) at district level, the Divisional Joint Director
of Agriculture at the divisional level (three to five districts) and the
Additional Director of Agriculture for Extension (ADA (Extension)) at State
Department of Agriculture (DOA) headquarters. Each of these officers would
be directly and solely responsible for extension activities within his area
of jurisdiction. 3/ The PAO in each district would be assisted by one SMS
1/   Each district would be divided into three or four
subdivisions.
2/   As some subdivisions are small, 60 subdivisional SMS teams
would be able to serve the 90 subdivisions in the State.
3/   At the district level, the existing Agricultural Development
Officer (see paras 30, 47) would be responsible for regulatory
activities, input supply, and other non-extension activities in
order to ensure that the PAO devotes his full attention to extension.



-'5-
who would provide technical support to the SMSs at subdivisional level on
extension methodology and training and would help coordinate and supervise
training activities. Additional SMSs, to cover specializations not covered
at the subdivisional level, would be provided as required in some districts.
The ADA (Extension) at DOA headquarters would have a technical support staff
of four SMSs (one each for plant protection, horticulture, farm management
and farm trials, and training), who would be responsible for improving the
technical quality of the extension service in the area of their specializa-
tion, developing and interpreting farm trials, promoting linkages with
research carried out by the four universities in Maharashtra and elsewhere in
the country, organizing training programs, and serving as a clearing house
for technical information.
45.     The specific expenditures to be financed under the project are sum-
marized below.
(a) Incremental Staff. Staff required to implement the reorganized
extension system would be made available partially through new recruitment
and partially through reassignment of existing staff, i.e., Gram Sewaks and
AEOs working under the Zilla Parishads, Agricultural Assistants and Agricul-
tural Supervisors and supervisory personnel working on State-sector (includ-
ing Command Area Development Authority) schemes, and other staff already with
DOA. Project costs have been calculated to include the cost of incremental
positions required to establish the T & V System. GOM would fill incremental
and transferred staff positions in accordance with a time schedule satisfac-
tory to IDA, utilize all such-positions exclusively for agricultural exten-
sion throughout the project period, and ensure that staff transferred to work
on extension would not be adversely affected in terms of salaries and bene-
fits as a result of their transfer (Section 2.08, Project Agreement).
(b) Staff Training. The project would support a wide variety of
pre-service and in-service training programs for extension staff. These
would include induction training for all VEWs; special short courses and
pre-season training for VEWs, AEOs and SMSs; bi-weekly training of VEWs by
subdivisional SMSs; and special workshops and advanced training for research
personnel.  The State's four agricultural universities would be responsible
for many of these courses, which would be conducted at existing facilities.
The construction of one hostel would be financed under the project. GOM's
proposals for staffing VEW training institutions, along with accompanying
curricula and training schedules, were reviewed during negotiations and found
to be fully satisfactory.
(c) Housing. As the new extension methodology is based on regular
and frequent farm visits by field staff, it is essential that field staff and
their supervisors live in or near their areas of work. GOM would ensure that
all VEWs and AEOs live in or near the areas assigned them (Section 2.09, Pro-
ject Agreement). While GOM will continue to encourage the use of rental
housing where possible, it will be necessary to construct low-cost housing in
areas where rental accommodation is not available. It is anticipated that
new housing would be required for about 20% of the VEWs and AEOs. New houses
would be constructed by either the Maharashtra Public Works Department or the
Public Works wing of the Zilla Parishad, depending on location. GOM would
provide IDA with regular information on progress in locating sites for houses
financed under the project (Section 2.05(b), Project Agreement) as well as



-16-
with final specifications and construction cost estimates 1/
(Section 2.05(a), Project Agreement).
(d) Vehicles. To enable field extension staff to maintain fixed
schedules of visits and supervisory staff to reach the field easily and fre-
quently, adequate transport is essential. The project would provide addi-
tional motor vehicles at headquarters, district, and subdivisional levels, as
well as loans for field staff for the purchase of motorcycles (AEOs, SMSs)
and bicycles (VEWs). Loan terms and travel allowances would be set so as to
encourage the purchase and use of vehicles by field staff (Section 2.11, Pro-
ject Agreement).
(e) Equipment and Incremental Operating Costs. The project would
provide GOM with funds for travel allowances and incremental vehicle operat-
ing costs, for the printing of materials for VEWs (e.g., field notebooks,
charts, etc.), as well as for purchase of small samples of seeds and other
inputs for farmer training and field trials, simple audio-visual aids to sup-
port field operations and training, and required office equipment and furni-
ture.
(f) University Support. In view of the importance of close contact
between the agricultural extension and research establishments and the role
of the agricultural universities in training of extension personnel, the pro-
ject would provide a Director of Extension Education at each of the four
agricultural universities in the State and eleven University Extension Agro-
nomists, along with supporting staff, vehicles and operating funds. DOA has
concluded memoranda of understanding with each university defining the role
of the university in project implementation.
(g) Monitoring and Evaluation. The project would provide staff,
vehicles, and consultancy funds for the establishment and operation of a mon-
itoring and evaluation system specifically designed to provide project
management with current information on the effectiveness of the extension
system. The methodology used would be similar to that utilized in on-going
extension projects and would supplement direct personal supervision by each
level of project management. GOM would ensure that monitoring and evaluation
would be undertaken in a form satisfactory to IDA and that results would be
forwarded to the Association once a year (Section 2.07, Project Agreement).
Project Implementation and Coordination with Related Agencies
46.     A key objective in the introduction of the T&V System in Maharashtra
is to establish a professional extension service which is compatible with the
Panchayat Raj system but cannot be diverted to non-extension work. In order
to accomplish this, a direct line of command between the extension worker in
the field and Department of Agriculture management would be established, with
DOA clearly the agency responsible for the operation cf the extension system.
However, the Panchayat Samiti and BDO would be kept fully informed of
1/   Specifications and costs would vary sightly depending on
which agency carries out the construction, although basic specifi-
cations and associated average cost figures have been agreed.



-17-
extension activities. Extension would be a periodic item on the agenda at
Panchayat Samiti meetings and two or three AEOs serving in the block, along
with the SDAO (who covers two or three blocks), would report at these meet-
ings. They would thereby keep the BDO and the Council informed of their
activities and, through the BDO, keep themselves informed about input supply
and other related issues. In addition, extension supervisory staff would
participate in District and Block Coordinating Committees for input supply,
and the BDO would be invited to attend pre-season training sessions for
extension workers in order to exchange information on the input supply
situation.
47.     The BDO would continue to supervise a somewhat reduced cadre of Gram
Sewaks. These Gram Sewaks, guided in part by the district's Agricultural
Development Officer and his staff (para 30), would deal with input supply and
regulatory and statistical work and carry out their traditional non-
agricultural functions.
48.     Support from the agricultural universities to the Department of Agri-
culture would come, at the district level, through the University Extension
Agronomist, who would assist the PAO in organizing monthly workshops for DOA
staff (to train SMSs, plan field trials, and prepare plans for the fort-
nightly training of VEWs) and would arrange for the participation of univer-
sity researchers in these workshops. In addition, there would be a seasonal
workshop at the zonal level, organized and attended by extension and research
staff, to review practices being recommended by the extension system and plan
research priorities for the zone. Finally, a State-level Extension and
Research Committee, which would include extension and research staff, would
be established under the chairmanship of the Secretary of Agriculture. This
committee would review and evaluate the findings of the zonal workshops
regarding extension recommendations and research priorities and assess pro-
ject progress, with a particular focus on coordination among relevant agen-
cies. This State-level committee would hold its first meeting by Sep-
tember 30, 1981 and meet at least twice yearly thereafter (Section 2.03, Pro-
ject Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
49.     The estimated cost of the proposed project is about US$38.2 million,
including about US$4.9 million in taxes and duties and US$3.5 million in
foreign exchange costs. Physical contingencies of 5% have been applied to
civil works, equipment, training, and operating costs and to meet the possi-
ble need for readjustment of the VEW:farm family ratio (see para 40). Price
contingencies of 10% for 1980, 7% for 1981-83, and 5% for 1984-86 have been
applied and total 22% of total project cost (US$8.6 million). The components
of project cost, net of contingencies, are: incremental staff (US$14.3 mil-
lion); civil works (US$4.7 million); incremental operating costs (US$5.0 mil-
lion); vehicles and equipment (US$2.8 million); and staff training (US$1.7
million).
50.     The proposed IDA credit of US$23 million would finance 69% of project
cost net of taxes and duties and would cover all foreign exchange costs. The
balance of the funds required for the project would be made available from
State Government sources and GOI.



-18-
Procurement and Disbursement
51.     Civil works contracts (US$4.7 million) 1/ would be small and
dispersed, both geographically and over time, and would therefore not be
suitable for international competitive bidding. Contracts would be awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding following local advertisement. About 173
motor vehicles (US$1.5 million) of various types would be required under the
project. They would be purchased in small quantities over three years and
would be widely dispersed in rural areas. In the interest of ensuring ade-
quate maintenance and spare parts supply, they would be procured locally
under existing government procedures, which are based on local competition
and are satisfactory to IDA. Motorcycles and bicycles (US$0.7 million) would
be purchased by individual staff according to their preference from loan
funds provided by GOM. Orders for purchase of minor equipment and furniture
(US$0.6 million) would be bulked wherever possible and purchased according to
established local bidding procedures, except where valued at less than
US$50,000, when they would be purchased by prudent shopping through normal
trade channels. The balance of project costs (US$21.0 million) would consist
of training (US$1.7 million), incremental salaries and allowances (US$14.3
million), and incremental operating expenditures for offices and vehicles
(US$5.0 million), which would not involve procurement.
52.     The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed over six years against
100% of the cost of training; 80% of the cost of civil works, vehicles, and
equipment; and 30% of eligible staff costs. Disbursements against staff
costs, training, payments less than Rs. 300,000 each on civil works con-
tracts, and payments less than Rs. 150,000 each for locally procured vehicles
and equipment would be made against certificates of expenditure. These cer-
tificates of expenditure would be audited annually and the audit reports sub-
mitted to IDA. Supporting documentation for these expenditures would be
retained by the State Government for inspection in the course of project
review missions. Disbursements against expenditures for all other items
would be fully documented.
Benefits and Risks
53.     The principal benefit of the proposed project would be to increase
crop production and thus farm incomes as a result of providing improved
extension services to farm families. Approximately 5.8 million farm families
living in the project area, 46% of whom farm less than two hectares, would be
served by the reformed extension system. Total project costs over the five-
year development period, excluding price contingencies, amount to US$29.6
million, approximately US$5.1 per farm family served and US$1.6 per hectare
of cropped land. Recurring incremental costs after the project development
period, which would be met from GOI/State budget sources, would be approxi-
mately US$8.0 million per annum, or approximately US$1.4 per farm family per
annum. These recurring costs would be partially recovered through market
levies on agricultural goods entering commercial markets and through sales
taxes levied on agricultural inputs, the consumption of which is expected to
rise as a result of improved farm practices.
1/ All figures in this paragraph are net of contingencies.



-19-
54.     Attributing a precise level of economic benefits to this type of pro-
ject is difficult, since it is impossible to determine precisely what propor-
tion of the benefits expected from improved agricultural practices is due to
extension alone and what is due to past research efforts, additional pur-
chased inputs, or more work by the farmer. In practice, it is often the com-
bination of all these, with extension acting as the catalyst, that brings the
desired benefits. However, since the incremental cost of the project is very
low per hectare and per farm family, even small and slow production increases
generate a high rate of return. The proposed project, for example, would
generate a rate of return of more than 50% if, by 1988, yields of paddy,
wheat, sorghum and millets (which together cover 60% of the cultivated area)
increase by only 1% over current yield levels. In areas where the new exten-
sion system has already been applied, yield increases have far exceeded these
levels. Moreover, the practices initially stressed by the extension service
usually focus on improved agricultural practices (timely operations, good
land preparation, proper seed rates, weeding, line sowing) which involve
additional labor but require little incremental cash outlay. They are thus
particularly well suited to the needs of the small cultivator.
55.     The establishment of a single, unified, professional agricultural
extension service, through the transfer and training of staff from a number
of formerly separate programs, marks a major departure from past practice in
India. The fact that such a significant reform is underway in large parts of
the country reflects a strong commitment to developing an extension system
capable of serving all farmers well. Nevertheless, it is difficult for
governments to make and carry out such decisions. The main risk, therefore,
is that the State Government will find it difficult to integrate staff from
various sources under an effective single line of command from extension
headquarters to full-time VEWs who work exclusively on agriculture. In an
effort to reduce this risk, substantial efforts were made during project
preparation and appraisal to ensure full understanding on the part of the
State Government of the importance of an integrated and unified service. In
addition, during negotiations assurances were obtained from GOM that the
extension posts transferred to and created in the DOA under the project would
be utilized solely for agricultural extension throughout the project execu-
tion period (para 45). While this obligation extends only through the pro-
ject implementation period, it is clearly the Government's intention that the
extension reform will be a lasting one. Moreover, the merits of the system
should be sufficiently apparent to the Government and to client farmers to
ensure its continuation. Staff changes in the upper ranks of government are
frequent, and thus there is the additional risk of a lack of sustained,
informed and motivated leadership, so crucial during the initial stages of
the extension reform. Once again, the importance of continuity at the
management level has been impressed upon State officials. In response, GOM
has created the post of Additional Director of Agriculture (Extension), and
will maintain a suitably qualified officer in that post, to be specifically
and solely assigned to supervise the proposed project.
56.     Experience with the T&V extension system in other States has shown
other potential risks to be minimal. Farmer responsiveness to recommenda-
tions has been excellent wherever visits are made systematically. The abil-
ity of the service to develop and disseminate recommendations leading to
yield increases well above that needed to generate a 50% rate of return has
also been demonstrated. Initially, at least in most situations, technology



-20-
has not been a major constraint as there is a backlog of research findings as
yet not widely adopted at the farm level. Just bringing the production of
the average farmer up to that of the best farmer brings major yield
increases. In order to further reduce the possibility of declining benefits
due to stagnation in crop research or inadequate dissemination of research
findings, the project supports programs of field trials (executed by VEWs in
cooperation with researchers) and promotes a close relationship between
extension services and the four State agricultural universities.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the Associa-
tion, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the State of
Maharashtra, and the Recommendations of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
58.     Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
59.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Arti-
cles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By
Ernest Stern
March 30, 1981



ANNE TI
Page I of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                      REFERENCE CROUPS (WEIGHTED AV  AGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                      37ST RECENT ESTIM&Ts
TOTAL           3287.6
AGRICULTURAL    1824.0                                HOST RECENT        LW INCS!f             MIDDLE INCTE
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b  ASIA & PACIFIC           ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  60.0        100.0     190.0             212.4                  1114.7
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OP COAL EQUIVALENT)     108. Oc    141.0/c   176.0/c            166.0                  842.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-TEAR (MILLIONS)    434.9       547.6      643.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 11.9         19.7      21.7              20.8                   39.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     974.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      1645.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2150
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      132.0       167.0      196.0             193.2                  376.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    247.0       308.0     353.0              409.6                 2350.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         40.0        42.5      41.4               42.0                   40.4
15-64 YRS.                         56.5        54.6      55.6               55.0                   56.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3. 5        2.9       3.0                3. 0                   3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.9         2.5        2.0               2.2                    2.4
URBAN                              2. 5/d      3.3        3.3               3.9                    4. 1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     43.0        40.0       35.0              37.4                   28.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     21.0        17.0       14.0              14.6                    7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.2         2.9        2.4               2.6                    1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)     64.0      3782.0    4714.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         12.0       16.9              15.6                   39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          98.0       102.0     103.0              101.4                  116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   93.0        92.0      91.0               92.4                  108.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          52.0        51.0      50.0               49.8                   60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       17.0        15.0       13.0              12.0                   18.a
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     28.0        22.0      18.0               17.9                    5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    43.0        48.0      51.0               50.8                   63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..       134.0        ..                ..                    52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        17.0      33.0               30.2                   42.4
URBAN                               ..        60.0       83.0              66.0                   62.1
RURAL                               ..         6.0      20.0               20.0                   29.7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        18.0      20.0               17.7                   52.8
IRBAN                               ..        85.0      87.0               71.3                   71. 1
RURAL                               ..         1.0       2.0                ..                    42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          580.0O/e   4890.0    3617.0              6322.7                 4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     9630.60/e   5220.0    5675.0             9459.0                 2213.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2149.0/f    1629.0    1289.0             1758.4                  819.4
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ADHISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ..                ..                    28.8
HOURSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.2          ..       5.2
URBAN                              5.2          ..       4.8
RURAL                              5.2          ..       5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.6         2.8
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WECI(11TED AVFRGES
- M)ST RFCFNT EST1MATE)
HDST RECENT        LOW INCOME             MIDDLE ItICOME
1960  L     1970 A  ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC             ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 61.0         72. 0      80.0               80.9                   98.6
KALE                  80.0        87.0       95.0               94.3                    99.2
FEtLALE               40.0        55.0       64.0               66.7                   97.7
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  20.0        29.0       28.0               26.6                   55.5
MALE                  30.0        39.0       38.0               34.8                   60.7
FEMALE                10.0        17.0       18.0               18.2                   49.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONLARY)   8.0           6. 0A      ..                9.9                   13. 7
PUPIL-TEACRER RATIO
PRIMARY                            29.0         40.0       42.0               41.1                   34.6
SECONDARY                           16.0        17.0         *-               20.5                   28.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         28.0        33. 0      36.0               40. 9                  85.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0. 7         1. 0       1.3                1.8                    9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          5.0         21.0       24.0               25.8                  118.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           .I        0. 5               2.4                   39.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   11.0        16.0       18.0               13.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0           6.3        3.8                 ..                    4. 9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   189761.4    220670.5  252235.8
FEKALE (PERCENT)                   31. 3        32. 6      32.0               29.4                   36.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               74.0        74. 0      74. 0              70. 5                  51. 9
INDUSTRY (PERCElT)                 11.0         11.0      11.0                11.6                   21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                43.0         40.2       39.2               37.9                   39.1
MALE                                  57.1        52.3       51.3               51.3                   48. 5
FEMALE                               27.9         27. 1      26.2               23.7                   29.6
ECONOMIC DEPElDENCY RATIO                1.0         1.1        1.1                1.2                     1.1
INCOHE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7          26.3/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51. 7         48. 9/I:
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4. 1          6. 7/h
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6          17.2/h
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIHATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       88.0              107.8
RURAL                                 ..          ..       76.0               86.5                  192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCTOE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UEBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                 ..                  182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       40.7               46.2
RURAL                                 ..          ..       47.9               51. 7                  33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
La   The group averages 'or each indicator are population-veighted srithnetic means.  Coverage of countries
smong the Indicators depends on availability of data and Is not ttniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Moat Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Solid fuel conversion factors revised, /d 1951-60;  /e 1962;  /f 1958; A& 1967;  L  1964-65.
Most recent estimate of CNP per capita Is for 1979. all other data are aa of April, 1980.
October, 1980



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEPINITI0fS OP SOCIAL INDPICATORS
Notes   Alth ogh the  ....       draw  tresoresgnnl  judged the veer aubreieed reliable, it should sac be noted that they may no  be inter-
eatioals o1Ymparable because of tho leok of eIaedanied defntod               adceoi   sdb   itrn    onnc   ncletn    h   ae    h   aaae   o.
Ibles,usful to describe orders of eag.it-de, indicate trende, end rihpaineeje  terrain  -aJot diffe..e.cee betneen. co..teiee,
Thte referoece grouneP ar  (1) the saeconr  gnIp  f tie subj-i  countY end (2) u coutr  group with ee,itihravaeinoethen the c. ann..                                    groa
oftiesth   o   onry(          tfr'aitl utiuc Dii  oporee   grop  hte.- "efiddle ino-   Nnrtr Aft ic  ad Lndi   at   ecnn    en                               f srne
lIc  bl   f tie contis  o   grop baa dsna f-ohha_nictr.Sne  b  uvfgei.t coutriesaogteiniauedped   ntpaviallyo
datasad  s nt unform   cation ans  be onerncad Ln reatngavrae  of one indiconur to  nothe.  Theset aveage  ar  only usefuli  n PapLasg tire 'Oa-u
of  .a iLdicau_t en  ti         _ aog th.  _t"nar  aed r_teee_   g~Oape.
APARA(thousand eq.km.)                                                                                   Phyltrra   iveician  _Pupoltion dnonuef by numne  orIprttluie   phip.
Total  T-Tonal sufacl aearveta:    lndaraanIilnd    etee.aiira  qolifiat from  amdical _nnu  a t u_io_it  i_el.
A&ricu1tural -  stmte  fSanruirarlte  acd tompotarils or permnently                         Ponu.Lati parne   ...... parew   _ Populating divided by a.-b-, of preotlcatg
for trapsp.     tre, manatk.  ant kiritcbh   gardaa or no ILe faller; 1977dana.            male and feml  gradeate   uss  prutotuic    vre, at   4selteau  guess..
Peclaio  re    eetlPd-ttal           .  ra, Mattal -Pepegltiom  (te4al,,
Up  Pi CAITA   Its)- GNP P., tapirs  setiatee asC.:,POIt saVa   prte  tl                   chn,ae ua) df tided by thair  -epauim a  Mbr o fees.pinsi hb"
ralard byes  oeve-ion metbd as Wneld  ank Atlas (1977-79 bee.)  1960,                   available to public vet peivate general an   peili    heepiral adnt.r-
1970, and  1979dart.                                                                         btabiliicttle cer   Hs fepitale are ecrblihbastn  peOtnetly eteffd
PER CAPITA- A~l   -pc.. of   --il ... ny    1           by at Least raepheiniaa.  Ztbtairib-ae   povidieg prianipa1ly  retdila
sad lgnit. perolem.otora1 gs.  andthytr-, alarad goberth al slat-                      umener  sot permnenly stf fed by.epbsioi-a (hot by a matinal esisren,
tric ity) in kilogram   uf coleqialn  pa   aita; 1960, 1970, sad 1978                         verse,  idwife, err.)t width offer irp lanseatn- .dento    eat provide a
d.tn.                                                                                         limited rage of  edleal feciliti-a  Pot teteietina    oroc  corsa heagi-
isle ietlde SEts pniecipe  geomol eat epaulised bharitas  eat rurMal
POPI)t.A7IOff API VITAL ITATIOTICIhbopitals.. Ioa  or tota  hoeitale and medical end metrniny  -sp.-
Total Purianion. Hd-Veto (alltuno) s AIf July 1; 196.  .970  and 1978           Adiselon  pe  Hoceitel led - TotIre  otm-e ot ed.Ieitn, no o  di-tharge
data.                                                                                      foom hospitals divided by the nmbu  of hede.
IrbanPo.a.on             eret of total) -  taic of urban to tota  pop.latJon;
ditfereen dafisiclu     of urban erase may affect coparaility of der tipis
enag  u           196i0;lO, :970,. ed 1978 data..Aeaels   fHueod(ess   e   oehl)-ttl   na.etor
PosuaC.; to tsa  2000i - Current popla-ion frrnJ-tiose. at  .a..  on 1.98.n   hi   ot   ol.Abare   rlde  mpO a"e  b   si ti
tota  population by age and  m  eat their mortality eat f-tniliny  -t-n                  the he..eehold for  tatianitl1 pepoes..
Pr-j-ntio  p-rmters for motrailty prse. remptise of thre   eeeser-                     keaenubro   eso.ntre  It-.  tbe. ed rooal   A-rergeum
trig life enpe-a-y nc bi-h i_t_ea  wr                otysprraiaite                        e   fPer.n.. per roa  inel  ebn,  en  rus   runs   neena
le-e,  .an  femal  life eap_cteac   enbiliisit  at 77.5 yas   The pare-- d-lig,reetley                                    lig    Etind "no-easaerttrean
meSsrs-0 c  fertility rate elan bane thes   evl   somn  deniesin.L                       uncupe  parts...d                                                  -..--
fatniLIny acco rding to inton   lsa  ant past f eily plisaia  perfnfmeet.              A.n.. noticriiy   er-et uf twelliagel - rual  urb-am.adtod 
tech cfunr  is ibhs easigned use of thes . ie combisatlen  of mortality                  C      tvniona  dwe1lioge wirb  leteicity inLivn   qurers  aptetg
modfriiyted  Oct prjooiofuroce                                                             t rurl   ra,tdrrldelnespcie
itatiosar  -,paoultiun-Inststio-            ppaatotthere La nu growt  since
the hitchrate is equal no the desti rate,and also the age  tracrte re-                pr._  p
maLts~. ct55t -Thie is oti-evd onlyafit-etility prse. derlieet                          dutdtaol.nptn
the rpaent leve  of molt aen rapoo_tnia  otst, .    ...c eeh genaratifn                  neimary ehuo  f- ntnal. male ea  tfmI  - Grnee runal. male md female
of wn - rpl.c.e iteelf  -notly.  The ernoepponultiosao   e                                  enolot,e   l   gsa   h  piayirla   ecItgen   e                             ob
estimuted nn the basis of the prolertd cheratetie.tice of th   oulto                         riayshool-age pgpuatnes; ntoarmly  isniutII p-bltdrse age  6-ltir
Onthie yn  21000. and the r-te of deLna of te-iinrrai-tuer -lnca-                         yer   u   dutdfrtitfeenmn    fpiaye aim tfor
mont  Yensi                                                                                 bna trcneinhtaive-rdial strato    acthlmeof   maiy anneati10  eren
Yha-er no    -rypoulto   istemd - Thu yea- when ettitnary population                          sic  em  puilsseth         nwo  abets th -1aofficial  c dhoe   ag.. t
eleba e_eeoe.ludr  school -trual. male and _feels - Computed en abes; ennndary
-uiato  ets                                                                              edcuion   qureit aset f-u  yearsof approved primer  ieetrotianl
ke e. . - Myid-ye Ppoplation Pereu-  hiluset-r (100 hoo earns) of                        prrdsgnrlvnail                   1rteher training  ieetruti.ae f or papi3
ttel area.                                                                                 usually  of 12 en 17 years of age; roeep..dc..  ...em   ar  g-eally
Per an. an. asticulnt-   lest - Compared -e above for egiculnu-aI land                        ecluded.
Poroatonbe  Prnrrn(tnsr)-Childeve (D-14 year).   arigag (15-                          tcurnoatl   eeril   robopereeibeessidem
64 years),end retire   (65 year   sod ov P as .per tecage  of aid-year ptpu-         deotlyore  departments of e..c.edary Iio.titutita
la-lon; 1960. 1970, an  1978 data..Pritehrrto-tiay   rdetsde   Totl  tudan  enro1lld J.n
Porulenion Crweb Pane (rman) - rona A-1Ase  growh ters  of mtal altd-               primay  ri  eronayjevl         :dvie  by              fraoeei   h
year popaistions for19)0-60. 1960-70, ad 1970-78.                                  coro.apoeting levels.
Populaton bowe  pate  feetat)     uchas    Annea  gr-hn ratee ot urbo  .pop-      MA.it linereorrna  ferrti  - Luter.te stair  (able en teat ad rite)
letion    Io1900,960-70. and 197-7S.                                                          osaperoettage ofruraHl adult population agd 15yeranoes
Cents Pi1th pate  leer thnnast  - Anua  live birthe pen thousanud of mlf-y...
pepultiun; 1960, 1970, set 1978 dan.tC5PIWI
Cru  De har  pate  f-  thousAd) - A--ul deethe Per tbouseet of gid-yeaf                      esre    ee(a   toag   uaato)-Pasgrcr   Sre                                 ae
Ppuplno;160, 1970, sad i9yg data,tr.een.es  hnsgtprne  eanidee embulasies. h.-ee  end
li.es teep-d-tiuri Rtns - Aveesge erbso of daughters awmnwill buar in                         militaryveile
her noma  rprodunti-a p-ried if eh.eypri-n... prece-n ag-specif in fer-                  Radin  het.ei-ar   fear tosn    rtaair    All typee of rasl-seefoe rsdl
nility  -anes; usuall  rit-yea  aeags.  endin  to lo 6, 1970, and 177.                     hr-dc-n   ognrlpbi  paahuadu   ouain    eldsui-
Foails Piaanies- Acneornre. Annual (th.a.m        nea   oit  fsoeer                            ane   a Etrr  in. caupneriasp, atinh ee.eIrgerto   o   ai   a
ofl hinth-cutru1 da-oes under au.picea of eatinm1 falily planin  program.                  wasin effete; dare far r         tei Y..ts maY nont he   mperbis sign  most
Fn l.'Plnioas - Cears freonsen of marideae) - rPrcenogn  of mried                               tneiss abolished ILcens-ing.
wmn o   hild-bearig age 115-44 peers)  hia.e  birth-conrol devices.t                    TV Ra-i-ers (per. thonaund oeUt.liio) - TV resisr  for borttea.t tn
all mar,iad -one  in sameag  grou...P,                                                      genra  public per thouand poplaio; satiates aliovesd TV ranei..r.
MM AND NUTRITION                                                        L.~~~~~~~~~~~~~i -nmtrle  ant Ia year  when r-giettati   of TV ser  e  n he  ff-mt.
P000AMPf  - PTTIP                                                                            tiwtipriNer Cirnluio   feethnen   ruuata)- Show  the enrge nirerel
_fmeo  Pu  Prdctn  per  arte  (6-71-10  - lden of Porcopets  mon                       tine of "da;ily genoca  itoneret ---ePa . deined as A pe dietitlet
prdcio   fal   otceadnia           rdutn  ecue  seed mod f red eat                    li-tion devted primarily t. ....ordias garieral ass    It is.rinaitmre
Isn .aeen .er isaie.  Cueedtinisecavse.  primar  goods. (e.g.  tuaese              n  he"ol"if itaperatlst four ninesa  week.
inenoad of eugar)  hitch ar  edible and contain  uren   (.g. coffee aed                  Cinom   Au-o-I A-dntnc  re           r  re  Yar  Pcdonthenabet of
te  oeenldud ).  Aggregane p-eductius of ..ob country is based Or                       ihn   eud  urn   the  eu,-  in ludn    disie todriet  cineast
_atiua_isv_ra     rrod--e  pcicseai,hre; 1961-65, 1970, nnd 1978 dana.                      and mehile" dtie
pet day.  Av-tlabie supplies cuepriesdnoei  pr rio                 . pot  loss      f-a--      ao   Pot  Itoae ( - O in -icaly  -cti- Pec..-, innlatieg
opeeadchensg in  toc.  Se   uplie  meludenimial teed, seds                        emd foc-e  And u-epluyd hut satiatig hou-oives,  idente, etc
quantities ead in fond proesin, ar d            asi  d  tibrihti.  Peqai-                Difinitio.s  in variou  cutniee at  not tapareble; ib. 1970ant
mete  _r  estimated by PAC heed 00 phystolOgioal asede I   no-mI acti-                  1078 dan..
city ard health  -onid-rie  eooiroomsntalnepr1 nr bodr weighe., ene                    Pel   rrecI- 1Psa   lahbr turce as Per-etag  ot total labor forts.
ard era dietributinn of populucoi.  oat allowing ii r-oroet for naste so                                  ..iulotfor t) - Lhor tutor in faing, fr-try  hunting and
hoceehold level; 1961-65, 1970,. ad 1977 dana.                                           fishing an percentage of tonal iib-r forte; i960, 1979  at 1978 date.
Per capia  eupnlyof prorae  (gram.tsr day)- Protein.content of per capita    Induatro  (pecet) - Lahb-  force L inling,  .. ton trnine, mef-attring
use Ouply of tut pet  ay,   etsupply  f fondIsd efindusaoe OR-               anti eletricity, outer and gsa en peteaf  o  rra  labor ft..o.; 1960,
quiremenne fur all c-ittise estableihsd by CSlA proide fno s.inim                        1971ofatto91alana
allwane  f.60 groin  of ntal. protein per dy, and 20 Sree of acmial an                 atnpn           ae(aret     oa,vi,ad  feels - Prtiolpatise5
roles pronia. of ebich 10 acn   ehuld he ani-l protein.  These etad-                     snI_yrtsae  upida                     alml,adfml  labrofrsm
odacloethan thos  of 75  -om  ot tonal proisi  end 23 pra          f              ...pnanago   of total, mole mod fml   oplto  o   ies   eap                 vl,y;
anialpooei  a  an -veag  f- orhe wold,  -pre...ed hy tFM  in ths Third            P1960, 1970,. ed 197) deca.  These ar- InO's parnicinanion  anes refle-teag
Itold Pond Surey  1961-65. 197i and 1977 dana.                                          ageca -serue  nof the Vpoplation, sat long tie trred.  A f- anti-
rised  rue anmals et pulae in gnee pa  day;1961-i '19701 ant 1977 dt.      iomo        sdn    Pio-Ratio or populati-on ate  19 and 65 an- en
ChIld (ages1-4I S-talityOats  fret thosad    A-1Ana deaths per tirined in                     to the renal labor ferns
ag   ra  14yas  i   blre   nti S.PAge grup; f- ormot deve.itrm-on
trine deta deri-ed from life table,; 1960, 1970 ned 1977 dane.                         INCO9f  tirRTInOUTIOt
ecnanaofPivartIce I: both  in cah- andkin) - paceiv-d by riubast
MPALTh                                                                 ~~~~~~~5 p-oecean.rihest 7   oret  per    2   otet          de paurse  40 p-roat
Life  fuonctanc   at Birth  (taste) - Averge nubh-  of yeats of life r-ining        of house.holds.
en birth; 1964, 1970 ant 1978 date.f  .ft.    .r..  y-    PVETYTARETGRUP
Access tn Saf s Water (rerct of  rnlto)-tota.  at.ban  en fd rare  - N,                       Abenlote povety incelvl-ste   ntn   ee  below duhIiWKmisml
Aember of peple (toeti  ube, ant rual)wih taomblecra to sat                                 nutrtionally adequate diet plea essential no-feed requirinaat  is mot
warr  ,uply (innlutes  temtd surf ane me!         .ter   cnto=net bnmoealrd             effurdabla.
wa  -ah a  thn -oo  Protected borabhile, sPrings, mod asnit.r                                                                        S.l)n  eiee    eaie   uet   noeLvl(0  .s  .tees'   se   a   oe
perceteogeeo  theinepi   rtepplira. nenubnasa biaualralc   poverytinnm00evelIs oe-thrd .o evraapeetir
futai  orsad tlocated ne-           eetan20mtr  from, e  os   a e                         Pe..sn*.:  incom  of the -untry.  Ohbn level is derived fro  tbe rual
onIdede hing within  es.           il   u  eof chet hoa.                                  .-ulaes  ou  .iitah ut tfur binder co-  of living iLi -rb-sos
ra.....ble-aces  wold implY thet the hnuewit  o  me-lbr o1f th  hosbut                     taiated  Pruanongeo  Ahauluis Povot, I.-em   LeelCrene    -bno.,
tr not hat.t  spend . dieproporti.oite Pen  of the day to fetc.hin  thrd cat.. ~-Per-et -ofppulanin  (urban and  Mual) who ow  "belte P-e
fail' eanet uneda.
p.may" include the tullsotion sad dispoesil  with or withot treatment                                             Eoonumin Aalysia sad Prejetlone  Pepeot
.asslOtniue  1
pin prinies andsiilariielltoe



ANNEX I
Poge 4 of 5
iCONaC DXYE.fliI MITA
PER CAPITA IN 1978:  US$ 180
b/                                                                                                   c
GROSS NATIONAL PIIODUCT IN 1978/79                                                         A12 PATS OF GIN8 (1  constant orices)
US Bln          *                1955156-1L59/60   1960/61-1l64/65   1965166-169/70   1970/71-1974/75   1975/76-1977/78
GNP at  arket Prices                117.08      100.0                     3.7                3.6               3.7               2.8               5.6
Cross Domestic Inv.ttnet             28.28       24.2
Gross National Saving                28.11       24.0
Current Account Balance  d/           0.50        0.4
OUTPUTL. IA10  YOC  AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Addd (-t factor cost)           Labor Force            V.A. Per Worker
US$ DIn. Il alll.                                           U$8        S of National Averase
Agricultur.                        24.5             46.6            130.0       72.1           188               64
Industry                           11.8             22.3             20.2      11.2           3S2               199
S.rvic.s                           16.3             31.1             30.2      6.7              2               1
Totl/avera.e                       52.6            100.0            180.4     100.0           292               100
GOvKRIVDIT FlNANCg                                            /
genral Goysrunwat                                           Central Goermet
197 Sln1974/75!17s5l1797S8/79G
Curreot Receipts                  183.65       19.1         18.3                              107.71       11.2         10.6
Current Repsnditures              177.26       18.4         16.7                              108.99      "
Ctrrent urplus/Deficit              6.41        0.7          1.6                              - 1.28      -0.1           0.5
Capital Ependitures _/             78.41        8.1          7.2                               57.34       6.0           5.1
Internal Assistanc. (set) d/        8.15        0.8          1.4                                8.15       0.8           1.4
MM,T CYNDIT AltD PRICU           1970/71     1973/74     1974/75     1975/76       976/77    I977178      1I97/79  1Suzr 1978   Seotmaber 1979
(Ue Billion outstanding at end of pertod)
Honey and Quasi loney             121.4       198.4       220.3       254.7       308.9       370.4        445.6        398.5          473.7
lank Credit to Govornment (net)    52.6        87.3        95.3       101.1       110.2       134.7       153.9         139.5          161.7
bank Credit to Co_rcial Sector  64c6          107.0       126.7       153.9       185.1       212.2       253.3         225.8          273.8
(P.rcentag. or Index Nmbers)                                           January 1979   Januar  190
Uney and Qu-si Mo.ney se 3
of GDP                          30.1        33.5        31.5        34.5        38.8        41.5        46.3
Whleale Price lndex
(1S70/71   100)                 100.0       139.7       174.9       173.0       176.6       185.8       185.8        185.3          224.0
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Inde                7.7        20.2        25.2        _ 1.1        2.1         5.2           -           0.4           20.9
lank Credit to Govsrveent (net)   10.8         12.3         9.2         6.1         9.0        22.2        14.3          16.9           15.9
lank Credit to Cosrci.l Sector   19.4          22.6        18.4        21.5        20.3        14.6        19.4         15.6            21.3
I/  The per C-pita GNP *stimte is at mrket prices, clculated by the conersion technique  sed La the World Besk Atlase  1979.
All other conDVrsion  to dollrs in this table er. at the averge excbange ret* prevailing during thb  period coereod.
/ Quick Estimtes.
LI Copntod from trend line of GII at factor cost series. includig one observation before first year and one observtion
efter last yoar of listed period.
d/ World lonk estimtes; nt neceasarily consistent ,ith officiel figures.
e/ Transfers betveen Contre and States ha"v been netted out.
l/ All lees. snd advnces to third parties have been netted out.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
RALANCE OF PAYMENTS                   1976/77    1977/78    1978/79     1979/SO          IERCRJISS  WORTS  AVERAGE  1975/76 - 1978/79)
yS IEn.        ^
Exports of Goods                       5,753      6,315       6,976      7,800           Engineering Goods             671        11
Imports of Goods                      -5,928     -7,188      .8.488    -11,000           Ta                            420         7
Trnde Balance                         *  175         8 873   -1,512    -3,200            G                             499          a
NIS (not)                                379        692         SB2      11,050          ClothLng                      378         6
Leather and Leather
Resourc  Balec                           2        -181        -630    -2,153                      roducts              319         5
Jute Henufactures             251         4
Interest Paymnts (nat)  i/              -182      -  89         130        400           Iron Ore                      270         5
Other Factor Payents (net)                -           -          -         -             Cotton Textiles               248         4
Net Transfers   J/                       695       1,077      1,000      1,000           Sugar                         224         4
Others                      2,649        45
Balance on Current Account               717        S07         5 002 750
Official Aid
Disbursemoent                       1,955      1,628       1,695      1,870           UTNAL DEBT. Xi=  31. 1979
Amortization                         -560       -645        -702    -   687                                              US8 billion
Transactions with IMF                   -337       -330        -158        -             Outstanding and Diebursed                15.5
All Other Items                         .200         616        199    - -13             Undiebur ed                               5.2
Outstanding, including                   20.7
Increse in RaFervem (-)               -1,575     -2,076      -1,534    -   250               Undisbursed
Groas Reserves (snd year)              3,747      5,823       7,357      7,607
Net Reserves (end year)  i/            3,276      5,668       7,357      7,607           DIET s       RICE  TIO FOR 197B/79   15.0  percent
*uel and Related Materials                                                               IESD/ID uNmIx.1 DExIxE  31. 197S
Imports                                1,581       1,811      2,043      4,050                                               US$ million
of vhich: Petroleum                 1,581      1,811       2,043      4,050                                           I              IDA
Rxports                                   37         32          24        -            Outstanding and Disbursed       689             4,286
of which: Petroleum                    21         18         n.t.       -            Undisbursed                     614             2,621
Outstanding, including       1,303             6,907
Undisbursed
RATE OF RCHNGE
June 1966 to aid-December 1971            US$1.00 - Re 7.5
Rs 1.00 - US$0.133333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972    t US$l,80 - as 7.27927
Re 1.00 - USS0.137376
After end-Juna 1972                       Floating gAte
Spot RSts end-December 1978               US$1.00 - RS 8.188
Re 1.00 - US0.122
End-Deember 1979                       : US$1.00 * Re 7.907
as 1.00 - USS0.126
h/ ltimted.
Ll Figures given cover a11 inveatmnt income (net). Major payments are interest on foreign loans
and charges paid to Dlu, and njor receipt is interest earned on foreign a"".ts.
J/ Figures given include oirkers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
included within official aid disbursements.
k/ Icludes net use of Ma  credit.
J/  Amortization and interest paymnts on foreign lons es a percentage of mrchandisa exports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 20
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of January 31, 1981)
US$ million
Loan or                                                   (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year Borrower        Purpose               Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
43 Loans/                                          1,313.2
65 Credits fully disbursed                                   3,807.4
342-IN    1972  India   Education                    --        12.0       4.47
378-IN    1973  India   Karnataka Agricultural
Markets                  --          8.0       1.12
390-IN    1973  India   Bombay Water Supply I        --        55.0       1.87
456-IN    1974  India   HP Apple Processing
& Marketing              --         13.0      6.43
1011-IN    1974  India   Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD   52.0         --        14.83
482-IN    1974  India   Karnataka Dairy              --        30.0      19.56
502-IN    1974  India   Rajasthan Canal CAD         --         83.0      31.32
521-IN    1974  India   Rajasthan Dairy              --        27.7      14.36
522-IN    1974  India   Madhya Pradesh Dairy         --        16.4       6.17
526-IN    1975  India   Drought Prone Areas          --        35.0       2.29
1079-IN    1975  IFFCO   IFFCO Fertilizer            109.0      --         1.24
1097-IN    1975  ICICI   Industry DFC XI              94.8      --         1.32
532-IN    1975  India   Godavari Barrage
Irrigation               --         45.0      4.81
541-IN    1975  India   West Bengal Agric.
Development              --         34.0      9.22
562-IN    1975  India   Chambal (Madhya
Pradesh) CAD             --         24.0      2.05
572-IN    1975  India   Rural
Electrification I        --         57.0        .04
585-IN    1975  India   Uttar Pradesh Water
Supply                   --         40.0     17.37
598-IN    1975  India   Fertilizer Industry         --        105.0      35.16
604-IN    1976  India   Power Transmission IV       --        150.0      60.16



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 20
US$ million
Loan or                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year   Borrower      Purpose                Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
609-IN    1976      India   Madhya Pradesh
Forestry T.A.           --       4.0     1.71
610-IN    1976      India   Integrated Cotton
Development             --      18.0    11.61
1251-IN    1976      India   Andhra Pradesh
Irrigation             145.0    --      90.34
1260-IN    1976      India   IDBI II                    40.0    --      16.13
1273-IN    1976      India   National Seeds I           25.0    --      23.14
1313-IN    1976      India   Telecommunications VI    80.0    --        21.98
1335-IN    1976      India   Bombay Urban Transport   25.0    --         8.25
680-IN    1977      India   Kerala Agric.
Development             --       30.0   25.15
682-IN    1977      India   Orissa Agric.
Development             --       20.0   12.00
685-IN    1977      India   Singrauli Thermal
Power                   --     150.0   67.31
687-IN    1977      India   Madras Urban
Development             --       24.0    9.47
690-IN    1977      India   WB Agric. Exten-
sion & Research         --      12.0   12.00
1394-IN    1977      India   Gujarat Fisheries          14.0    --      11.18
712-IN    1977      India   Madhya Pradesh
Agric. Dev.             --       10.0    6.94
720-IN    1977      India   Periyar Vaigai
Irrigation              --      23.0   14.68
728-IN    1977      India   Assam Agricultural
Development             --        8.0    6.87
736-IN    1977      India   Maharashtra
Irrigation              --      70.0   39.26
737-IN    1977      India   Rajasthan Agricul-
tural Extension         --      13.0    9.49
740-IN    1977      India   Orissa Irrigation         --       58.0   39.11
1475-IN    1977      ICICI   Industry DFC XII           80.0    --      15.27
747-IN    1978      India   Second Foodgrain
Storage                 --     107.0   85.53
756-IN    1978      India   Calcutta Urban
Development II          --       87.0   37.29
761-IN    1978      India   Bihar Agric.
Extension &
Research                --        8.0    7.33



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 20
US$ million
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year   Borrower       Purpose                Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
1511-IN    1978      India  IDBI Joint/Public
Sector                   25.0   --          21.17
1549-IN    1978      TEC    Third Trombay
Thermal Power           105.0   -           79.66
788-IN    1978      India  Karnataka Irrigation        --    117.6        88.01
793-IN    1978      India  Korba Thermal Power         --    200.0       161.27
806-IN    1978      India  Jammu-Kashmir
Horticulture             --     14.0        13.79
808-IN    1978      India  Gujarat Irrigation          --     85.0         73.23
815-IN    1978      India  Andhra Pradesh
Fisheries               --      17.5        16.08
816-IN    1978      India  National Seeds II           --     16.0        15.58
1592-IN    1978      India  Telecommunications VII  120.0   -              56.35
824-IN    1978      India  National Dairy              --    150.0       135.44
842-IN    1979      India  Bombay Water
Supply II               --    196.0        189.33
843-IN    1979      India  Haryana Irrigation          --    111.0        59.81
844-IN    1979      India  Railway Modernization
& Maintenance           --    190.0        154.33
848-IN    1979      India  Punjab Water Supply
& Sewerage              -       38.0        27.12
855-IN    1979      India  National Agricultural
Research                --      27.0        26.21
862-IN    1979      India  Composite Agricultural
Extension               --      25.0        20.47
871-IN    1979      India  NCDC                        --     30.0        19.90
1648-IN    1979      India  Ramagundam Thermal
Power                    50.0   -           50.00
874-IN    1979      India  Ramagundam Thermal
Power                    --    200.0       176.70
889-IN    1979      India  Punjab Irrigation           --    129.0       112.29
899-IN    1979      India  Maharashtra Water
Supply                   -      48.0        47.21
911-IN    1979      India  Rural Electrification
Corp. II                 -     175.0       151.91
925-IN    1979      India  Uttar Pradesh Social
Forestry                --      23.0        21.32



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 20
US$ million
Loan or                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year   Borrower      Purpose                Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
947-IN    1979      India   ARDC III                  --     250.0      145.98
963-IN    1979      India   Inland Fisheries          --      20.0       20.00
954-IN    1979      India   Maharashtra
Irrigation II          --     210.0      192.52
961-IN    1979      India   Gujarat Community
Forestry               --      37.0       34.03
981-IN    1980      India   Population II             --      46.0       45.97
1003-IN    1980      India   Tamil Nadu Nutrition    --        32.0       32.00
1004-IN    1980      India   U.P. Tubewells            --      18.0       17.52
1011-IN    1980      India   Gujarat Irrigation II   --       175.0      175.00
1027-IN    1980      India   Singrauli Thermal II    --       300.0      289.17
1012-IN    1980      India   Cashewnut                 --      22.0       21.95
1028-IN    1980      India   Kerala Agricultural
Extension              --      10.0       10.00
1033-IN    1980      India   Calcutta Urban
Transport              --      56.0       56.00
1034-IN    1980      India   Karnataka Sericulture   --        54.0       54.00
1046-IN    1980      India   Rajasthan Water Supply
and Sewerage           --      80.0       79.88
1843-IN    1980      ICICI   Industry DFC XIII       100.0    --          94.87
1887-IN    1980      India   Farakka Thermal
Power                  25.0    --         25.00
1053-IN    1980      India   Farakka Thermal
Power                  --     225.0      225.00
1897-IN    1980      India   Kandi Watershed and
Area Development       30.0    --         30.00
1072-IN    1980      India   Bihar Rural Roads         --      35.0       35.0
1078-IN    1980      India   Mahanadi Barrages        --       83.0       83.00
1925-IN*   1980      India   Bombay High Offshore
Development           400.0    --        400.0
1082-IN    1981      India   Madras Urban Dev. II    --        42.0       42.0
Total                                           2,833.0 8,671.6
of which has been repaid                      1,060.9    71.7
Total now outstanding                           1,772.0 8,599.9
Amount Sold                          133.8
of which has been repaid          128.1           5.7
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/               1,766.3 8,599.9
Total undisbursed (excluding*)                    560.7 3,546.2
* Not yet effective
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 20
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of January 31, 1981)
Amount (US$ million)
Fiscal
Year                    Company                       Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.            1.5        -         1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.             0.9        -         0.9
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                 1.4        -         1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                      0.2        -         0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.          0.6        0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.           0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.         11.8        1.3      13.1
1964            Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.              1.0        0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                1.1        0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                 8.6        2.9      11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.             15.1        3.8      18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                        6.6        -         6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                            4.0        1.2       5.2
1980            Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.        7.5        1.1       8.6
1981            Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0           -        38.0
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS          99.1       11.5    110.6
Less:   Sold                          25.9        1.7      27.6
Repaid                        20.8         -      20.8
Cancelled                      6.2       1.3       7.5
Now Held                      46.2        8.5     54.7
Undisbursed                   44.5       1.1      45.6



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 20
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding rea-
sonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below.
The level of disbursements was US$729 million in FY80, compared to
US$538 million in the previous year. Disbursements in the current fiscal
year through January 31, 1981 totalled US$373 million, representing an
increase of about 20% over the same period last year. The undisbursed
pipeline of US$4,107 million as of January 31, 1981, reflects the lead
time which would be expected given the mix of fast- and slow-disbursing
projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 1097  Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 19 5; Effective
Date: July 1, 1975; Closing. Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1475  Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977; Effective
Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1843  Thirteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of May 16, 1980; Effective
Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-
scale industries, which often employ high technology and are export-
oriented. Loan 1097 is fully committed and disbursements are slightly
ahead of schedule. Disbursements under Loans 1475 and 1843 are also ahead
of schedule.
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors
regarding the progress of projects in execution, and in particular
to report any problems which are being encountered and the action
being taken to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and
with the understanding that they do not purport to present a bal-
anced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 20
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978: Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening
the State Financial Corporations involved. Loan 1511 is designed to
encourage the pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint
ventures. The project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector
investment studies and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing
with the state joint/public sector.
Cr. No. 947   Third Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
Project; US$250.0 million credit of August 20, 1979;
Effective Date: January 2, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Refinancing of lending to farmers has been progressing very well.
Cr. No. 747   Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Satisfactory progress is being made in the construction of bag
storage warehouses, despite problems of land acquisition at some sites.
However, construction of flat bulk warehouses and port silos is not
expected to be completed until 1985, as a result of delays in the employ-
ment of consultants and the longer time required for the preparation of
technical specifications and tenders and the construction itself. The
project is currently under review by the Government of India and some
changes to its scope may be made in April 1981.
Cr. No. 456   Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project encountered prolonged initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems. These problems have been largely resolved, but
construction progress remains slow due to material shortages and severe
winter conditions. Initial packing house operations were undertaken in
the last two seasons with favorable response from farmers. The project is
scheduled for completion by December 1981.
Cr. No. 806   Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 20
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is under strong management and rapid progress
has been made in start-up operations with only minor slippage. The
project's research activities, however, are behind the original schedule
due to poor organization.
Ln. No. 1313 Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan of
July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Ln. No. 1592 Telecommunications VII Project; US$120.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978; ClosinR
Date: March 31, 1982
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily, although as of
July 1980, when they were last reviewed, imports of electronic switching
equipment for the sixth project were behind schedule, resulting in a
reduced growth rate for the installation of direct exchange lines. Insti-
tutional improvements envisaged under the projects have been achieved, and
the financial situation of the Posts and Telegraphs Department remains
sound.
Cr. No. 598   Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit of
December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing
fertilizer production capacity. The project has encountered delays in
sub-project preparation and investment approvals by the Government.
Further, some of the sub-projects identified earlier may not materialize
because of reconsideration by the Central and State governments. IDA has
agreed to a list of sub-projects to replace the ones that are likely to be
dropped. Because of the above, the project is likely to be delayed by
about 18 months.
Cr. No. 378   Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 million
credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7. 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Progress is satisfactory. As of December 1980, construction of the 39
markets originally envisaged under the project was almost completed, and
trade had shifted to more than half of these. An additional eight markets
have been included in the project at the request of the State government,
and these are expected to be completed by June 1981. The credit is
expected to be fully disbursed by the closing date of June 30, 1981.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 20
Cr. No. 342   Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project involves the development of the agricultural universi-
ties in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve
the quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum
of their employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure
to enable it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development.
Considerable progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but
achieving educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by
traditional attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership
falters. Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The
Project Director and others responsible are aware of the constraints and
are supporting efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 390   Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 842   Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 12,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848   Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million credit
of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 899   Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 1046 Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$80 million
credit of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980;
Closing Date: September 31, 1985
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns
caused by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 175),
redesign of major project components and the additi-nn of a s-,ipplementary
study on sewage disposal, Credit 390 is now prc        -..-g satisfactorily.
All works have been successfully complctvd e%_ept for the projects sewege
pumping stations.  Financial perfoni-cice of the project entity is satis-
factory. Implementatior: ,-F Credit 842, a second stage of the ongoing
Credit 390, ts proceeding to schedule. Preliminary work in connection
wit ti iiaplementation of Credit 848 is progressing satisfactorily. Imple-
mentation of Credit 1046 is proceeding satisfactorily. Detailed



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 20
construction programs have been prepared for rural schemes, and prepara-
tion of tender documents for urban schemes have been completed.
Cr. No. 585   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0 million
credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date: February 6, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in t'he
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the phy-
sical execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag
so that disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at
the time of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements
have been made to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 756   Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project i4 proceeding quite well in most sectors, in spite of
country-wide materials shortages and serious Statewide electric power
shortages. Procurement is generally on schedule for equipment and consul-
tants' services, though somewhat behind for larger civil works contracts.
Staff shortages in some of the implementing agencies continue, although
more extensive use of consultants has to a great degree alleviated this
problem.
Cr. No. 687   Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
With respect to the first Madras project, physical progress is
generally satisfactory and costs are within appraisal estimates on most
components. However, land acquisition problems and consequent delays in
construction on one of the three sites and service areas will result in
about 15 months delay in the completion of the final sections of these
areas. Increased attention should be turned to the financial analysis and
marketing strategies required to ensure that anticipated cost recovery in
the sites and services and slum upgrading components and thus replicabil-
ity is actually achieved. Technical assistance is being sought to
strengthen financial management and analysis.
Cr. No. 1082 Second Madras Urban Development Project; US$42.0 credit of
January 14, 1981; Effectiveness Date: March 2, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 20
With respect to the second project, only recently si.gned and
declared effective, early project implementation is proceedin,cg satisiac-
torily, with evidence that the lessons learned under the first project are
being heeded.
Cr. No. 482   Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521   Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522   Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824   National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of June 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL
dairy cooperative scheme in Gujarat State. More than 2,100 dairy coopera-
tive societies (DCS) have been established under the three state projects
(Karnataka-923, Rajasthan-926, Madhya Pradesh-272). Farmer response has
been excellent and project authorities are under considerable producer
pressure to speed up the establishment of DCS. Profitability in almost
all of the DCS is good and construction of dairy and feed plants is now
proceeding at a satisfactory pace. Limited milk processing capacity has
been the major constraint to DCS formation in all three projects. Under
the National Dairy Project, three subprojects with an estimated total cost
of approximately Rs 1,000 million have been appraised by the Indian Dairy
Corporation and a further eight subprojects are in various stages of
preparation and appraisal. Advance procurement of dairy equipment is well
underway though disbursements have been slow, mainly as a result in the
start of project operations.
Cr. No. 532   Godavari Barrage Project; US$45.0 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is proceeding satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 20
Ln. No. 1011  Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 1078  Mahanadi Barrages Project; US$83 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: February 11, 1981; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
Cr. No. 502   Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562   Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1251  Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)       Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window) of
June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million credit of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736   Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740   Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788   Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808   Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date: June
1984
Cr. No. 843   Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978; Closing
Date: August 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 20
Cr. No. 889   Punjab Irrigation Project; US$120.0 million credit of March 30,
1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954   Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1011  Second Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$175 million credit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possi-
ble, to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation.
Canal lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shap-
ing are prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions
have been made to increase agricultural production and marketing by
reforming and upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing
processing and storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of
these projects is generally satisfactory with the exception of the Periyar
Vaigai Project (Cr. 720-IN) where cost overruns have occurred due to sub-
stantial increases of both quantities and unit cost over the original
engineers' estimates. Specific efforts are now underway to redesign this
project so that it can still achieve its original objectives. Difficul-
ties had also arisen earlier in connection with the Nagarjunasagar com-
ponent of Loan 1251, where water losses proved to be higher than antici-
pated. Additional assurances have been obtained from the State Government
concerned, regarding the enforcement of cropping patterns and the sequence
and timing of main canal construction and lining, which should ensure that
this project will also achieve its objectives.
Cr. No. 541   West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The progress of shallow tubewells is well ahead of the appraisal
schedule, but progress in all other areas is slow. The project is not
expected to be fully disbursed by the closing date, and GOI's request for
an extension is expected.
Cr. No. 682   Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690   West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 20
Cr. No. 712   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728   Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737   Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective Date:
February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761   Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862   Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million credit
of February 16, 1979; Effective Date: December 14, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1028 Kerala Agricultural Extension Project; US$10 million credit of
June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 18, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
These eight credits finance the reorganization and strengthening
of agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive
research capabilities in nine States in India. In areas where the
reformed extension system is in full operation, field results have been
very good, both in terms of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of
increased crop yields. In Rajasthan, Assam, Madhya Pradesh and Orissa, in
particular, significant gains have been made under the projects. In West
Bengal, where a change in government brought a review of the organiza-
tional principles underlying the new extension system and an accompanying
hiatus in project implementation, a Cabinet decision has reaffirmed the
State Government's commitment to the project, revised implementation plans
have been prepared, and project activities are resuming. In Bihar, staff
shortages, particularly in supervisory and managerial posts, have hampered
project implementation, although progress in areas where regular extension
visits are being made attests to the efficacy of the system itself. In
Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered under the Composite Agricul-
tural Extension Project, important early administrative and financial
steps have been taken to pave the way for effective operation of the reor-
ganized extension system and field work is off to a good start. In
Kerala, project implementation has just begun.



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 20
Cr. No. 855   National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million credit
of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, due to staff shortages in the
Project Unit, the pace has picked up considerably in recent months. Com-
mitment of funds to research subprojects is proceeding satisfactorily,
although corresponding disbursements may lag somewhat behind the original
estimates. Additions to the staff of the Project Unit have been made to
expedite further progress under the project.
Cr. No. 526   Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Overall progress of this project continues to be satisfactory.
Implementation of most components is proceeding well. Dairying and dry-
land farming components show particular promise for the drought-prone
areas.
Cr. No. 680   Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Project implementation started slowly due to initial staffing and
funding delays. The project has now gained momentum and the planting
operations, which were one season behind original schedule, have been
rephased to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 871   National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing date: December 31, 1984
As of October 1980, when the project was last reviewed, construc-
tion of godowns was progressing well in the States of Haryana and Uttar
Pradesh, although some delays had occurred in the State of Orissa. Con-
sultants had been recruited to assist NCDC and State Cooperative Banks in
strengthening their institutions, although some consultants were yet to be
recruited in Haryana. Disbursements have been progressing well and are
now ahead of the appraisal targets.
Cr. No. 844   Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0 million
credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: January 10, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 20
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce
manufacturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and
to improve their performance and availability. The project is still at an
early stage of implementation but is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 609   Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date:
May 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
A feasibility study financed under this Credit and completed in
November 1979 has recommended the establishment of two mills, one for
sawnwood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-
based industry in Bastar district.
Cr. No. 925   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23.0 million credit
of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3, 1980, Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 961   Gujarat Community Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These projects, designed to expand the social forestry program in
Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, to provide a source of energy to the villages,
and to supply raw materials to cottage industries, are proceeding well.
The projects provide for large-scale tree plantations on public lands,
primarily along roads, rails and canals, on village common lands and on
degraded forest reserves.
Cr. No. 610   Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 mfllion credit of
February 2, *1976;'Effective Date: November 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project's progress remained very disappointing in all areas
until the 1978 season, resulting in negligible disbursements. Due to
renewed interests from GOI and the States, the project has now started to
progress well. Short-term credits are increasing significantly, new pro-
cessing units are being established in Haryana and Maharashtra, and plant
protection activities have started progressing well.
Ln. No. 1273 National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816   Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
Closing Date: December 31, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 20
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by Cr. 816-IN). The first project started slowly due to organiza-
tional difficulties and is almost two years behind schedule. Progress in
the second project States is more satisfactory. The role of various
organizations (National and State) in the production and processing of
seed is being reviewed.
Ln. No. 1335 Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 1033 Calcutta Urban Transport Project; US$56 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: January 31, 1981 (expected);
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The bus procurement program supported by the Bombay project
(Ln. 1335) has proceeded on schedule, with all 700 bus chassis and bodies
having been ordered and 672 already in service. Total fleet strength has
increased from 1,530 buses at the inception of the project to 1,935 buses
in September 1980, in accordance with appraisal estimates. Depot capacity
expansion has lagged somewhat behind fleet expansion, but caught up in
November 1980. However, delays in construction of new workshop facilities
have been more substantial and will not be fully recoverable. As a
result, the loan closing date has been extended by three years. Traffic
management civil works are also somewhat behind schedule, although now
proceeding satisfactorily. Project implementation under Cr. 1033 is
proceeding satisfactorily, a good start having been made on the important
early procurement steps.
Cr. No. 1072  Bihar Rural Roads Project; US$35.0 million credit of December 5.
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.
Construction is scheduled to begin in May 1981 on the firsts
phase of this project designed to construct or rehabilitate 700 km of
rural roads and to improve maintenance of the rural road network in Bihar
as part of the State's overall rural development efforts.
Ln. No. 1394 Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and      million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective date: July 19, 1977;
Cr. No. 695   Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 815   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 20
As of October 1980 when these projects were last reviewed, the
harbor construction works at Mangrol and Veraval in Gujarat had encoun-
tered delays, although the problem with shortages of cement supplies had
been overcome. In Andhra Pradesh, the harbor works at Visakhapatnam, Kak-
inada and Nizampatnam were under way and the pace of implementation had
increased at all three sites.
Cr. No. 963   Inland Fisheries Project; US$20 million credit of January 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 5, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
This project, which is the first of its kind in India, is designed
to increase carp production in five states--West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa,
Madhya Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh--through the construction of hatcheries,
improvements to fish ponds, strengthening of extension services, and the
establishment of training centers. The project became effective in
May 1980. The initial implementation tasks, primarily involving the
establishment of State Fish Seed Development Corporations and Central and
State project monitoring units, are progressing satisfactorily. Site
selection and hatchery design work is under way.
Cr. No. 685   Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793   Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of May 12,
1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978;_Closing Date: March 31,
1985
Ln. No. 1549  Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648  Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50.0 million loan and
and Cr. 874   US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 22, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 604   Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 1027  Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$300 million credit
of June 5, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1988



ANNEX II
Page 19 of 20
Ln. No. 1887 Farakka Thermal Power Project; US$25 million loan and
and       US$225 million credit of July 11, 1980; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 1053  December 10, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Credits 685 and 1027 assist in financing the 2,000 MW Singrauli
development, which is the first of four power stations in the Government's
program for the development of large central thermal power stations feed-
ing power into an interconnected grid. Credit 793 supports the construc-
tion of the first three 200 MW generating units at the second such sta-
tion, at Korba, together with related facilities and associated transmis-
sion. Loan 1648/Credit 874 support similar investments at Ramagundam, and
Loan 1887/Credit 1053, at Farakka. The National Thermal Power Corporation
(NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation of these power
stations. Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500 MW extension
of the Tata Electric Companies' station at Trombay, in order to help meet
the forecast load growth in the Bombay area. All these large-scale ther-
mal power projects are progressing satisfactorily. For Singrauli and
Korba, construction works are on or ahead of schedule, although some slip-
page has occurred in the implementation schedule for the Ramagundam pro-
ject.
Cr. No. 911   Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
This project provides continued support to the Rural Electrifica-
tion Corporation's lending program, and is helping to finance about 1,700
rural electrification schemes in fourteen State Electricity Boards (SEB),
including the newly participating Uttar Pradesh SEB. The project is pro-
gressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1925 Second Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$400.0 million
loan of December 11, 1980; Expected Effectiveness Date:
March 13, 1981; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 981   Second Population Project; US$46 million credit of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: June 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985
The project has as its major objectives the lowering of infant and
child mortality and morbidity, the improvement in the health status of
mothers and children and the lowering of fertility. Implementation works
have started in both project States--Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.



ANNEX II
Page 20 of 20
Cr. No. 1012 Cashewnut Project; US$22 million credit of June 10, 1980;
Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
Implementation has started on this project which is designed to
expand cashewnut production in the States of Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra
Pradesh and Orissa.
Cr. No. 1003 Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project; US$32 million credit of May 12,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
First year's implementation in one test block is proceeding
according to schedule.
Cr. No. 1004 Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project; US$18 million credit
of May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily on this project.
Ln. No. 1897 Kandi Watershed and Area Development Project; US$30.0 million
loan of September 12, 1980; Effective Date: November 18, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
Contract for the construction of Dholbaha dam has been awarded.
Progress in other components are satisfactory.
Cr. No. 1034 Karnataka Sericulture Project; US$54 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation is proceeding well with encouraging pro-
gress in all components.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
Six months.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
The Government of Maharashtra assisted by Bank Group
staff.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of first mission to consider the project
January 1980; June 1980.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
October 1980.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
March 9, 1981.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
August 15, 1981.
Section II:      Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a) GOM to review adequacy of field staff deployed by
March 31, 1984 and make any adjustments found neces-
sary (para 40).



-2-
(b) GOM to deploy staff for the project in accordance
with a schedule acceptable to IDA, to ensure that
agreed extension staff positions would be utilized
only for extension throughout the project period, and
to ensure that the emoluments and benefits of exten-
sion staff would not be adversely affected by reason
of the reorganization (para 45(a)).
(c) GOM to ensure that VEWs and AEOs live in their
respective areas of operation (para 45(c)).
(d) GOM to set up State Extension and Research Committee
by September 30, 1981, this committee to meet at
least twice annually thereafter (para 48).






IBRD 15428
M  A  D  H  Y  A           P  R  A  D  E  S  H        /
|  ' G    U    IA    RX      __ T                                   4 <li              
'~~~~~ JALztZ                                                          >)GAOz  X(N   C  RAVA
XId N      A   LA N  A s    B u L D  H A N  e 
\ Sv      Yw_ X          A G~~~~DU                      A R \                           D H A             
A                              A,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Y A V T M A L                          C N A  NH  R A P REC 
T9b   O A N     pIU  N  E  lU)
X ) 07 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*  S urb s\tat mOoS                     M             AIY        N AsAD e
A R  t--   t  . t q _MoRo,                                 I N D
2.--                                                                        A   N   PROJECT H  RU A
00                       e    )-  -                                                    -\v  Dispo OOUfldNOCr ,o-  AMxLfltf
<& 1                                                                                        lhpr;   SMoi  Resac Attin D> E r   H I   ?
0  P   U   N   E  z ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~  ~  ~  ~  00050  U  0  0  U  20 lO 00  0
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NtuC                                      [D_~Eie  I    AXb_ _



