Document of              <t r
The World Bank                t j%I.            l
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3299-IN
INDIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJEr-
March 23, 1981
Education and Agricultural Institutions Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00           =           Rupees (Rs) 8.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AA      -     Agricultural Assistant
ADA     -     Additional Director of Agriculture
AEO     -     Agricultural Extension Officer(s)
AO      -     Agricultural Officer
APC     -     Agricultural Production Commissioner
Asst.DA -     Assistant Director of Agriculture
AS      -     Agricultural Supervisor
ASDAO   -     Additional Subdivisional Agricultural Officer
BDO     -     Block Development Officer
CDD     -     Community Development Department
CEO     -     Chief Executive Officer
DAO     -     District Agricultural Officer
DDA     -     Deputy Director of Agriculture
DlEA    -     Department of Economic Affairs
DOA     -     Department of Agriculture
DOE     -     Directorate of Extension (GOI)
GOI     -     Government of India
GOM     -     Government of Maharashtra
HYV     -     High Yielding Varieties
ICAR    -     Indian Council of Agricultural Research
JDA     -     Joint Director of Agriculture
PAO     -     Principal Agricultural Officer
RPC     -     Regional Planning Committee
SAO     -     Superintending Agricultural Officer
SDAO    -     Subdivisional Agricultural Officer
SMS     -     Subject Matter Specialist
SPC     -     State Planning Committee
T&V     -     Training and Visit System of Agricultural Extension
VEW     -     Village Extension Worker(s)
VLW     -     Village Level Worker(s)
ziP     -     Zilla Parishad



INDIA                                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. BACKGROUND .1
Introduction.                                                                                                    1
Agriculture   in   India   ...............1..................                                                     I
Agricultural   Extension   ................................                                                      2
Existing   State   Projects   ...............................                                                    3
Agriculture   in  Maharashtra   ............................                                                     6
Agricultural   Services   in  Maharashtra   ..................                                                    7
Training   ..............................................                                                         7
Research   ..............................................                                                        8
Input  Supply   ..........................................                                                       8
Credit ............................                                                                              9
Irrigation   ............................................                                                        9
Marketing   and  Processing   .............................                                                     10
II. THE PROJECT ..................... .                                                  .......                                 10
A.    General  Description   0.......                                                       -.........    l              0
B.    Detailed   Features   1.......                                                   .............    l
The   Extension  Methodology                                   ......................                           11
Incremental   Staff  Requireme..L6   ........................                                                  13
Housing  .                 ..............................................                                       15
Transport   .............................................                                                       15
Equipment   .............................................                                                       16
Operating   Costs   .......................................                                                     16
University  Liaison   ....................................                                                      16
Training .......................... .    16
Monitoring and Evaluation .16
III.       COST  ESTIMATES   AND  FINANCING                          ........       ... ..             ...............             17
A.     Cost   Estimates   ........................................                                                      17
B.     Proposed   Financing   ....................................                                                      18
C.     Procurement   ...........................................                                                        18
D.     Disbursement   and  Audit   ................................                                                     19
IV.      ORGANIZATION   AND  MANAGEMENT   .............                                 ..         ................              20
A.     Linkage   with   Panchayat   Raj   System   .....................                                               20
Linkages between Extension  and  Research  ....                                            ...........          21
Formulation  of   Recommendations   ........................                                                    21
Farm   Trials   ...........................................                                                     22
Monitoring   and   Evaluation   .............................                                                   22
Farm   Information   ......................................                                                     23
V.    BENEFITS,  JUSTIFICATION   AND   RISKS   .........................                                                       23
-    Economic   Benefits   ..................................                                                   23
-    Project  Risks   ......................................                                                    23
VI.    AGREEMENTS   REACHED   ANND  RECOiNENDATIONS   ....................                                                       24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (cont.)
ANNEX I       -      Project Costs
Table 1  -     Summary of Project Costs
Table 2  -     Civil Works
Table 3  -     Vehicles and Equipment
Table 4  -     Training Costs
Table 5  -      Incremental Staff Salaries
Table 6  -      Incremental Operating Costs
Table 7  -     Requirement and Availability of Extension Staff
Table 8  -     Requirement and Availability of Extension Staff
by Sub-Division
Table 9  -     Requirement of Extension Staff by Years
ANNEX II      -      Training
ANNEX III     -      Draft Memo of Understanding Between the Government of
Maharashtra and Agricultural Universities
ANNEX IV
Table 1  -     Implementation Schedule
Table 2  -     Estimated IDA Disbursements
ANNEX V
Table 1  -     Economic Analysis
Table 2  -     Economic Price for Paddy
Table 3  -     Economic Price for Wheat
CHART I       -      Organization Chart - World Bank 22285
CHART II      -      Linkages Between Extension and Research
World Bank 22350
MAP           -      IBRD 15428



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.01      The proposed project would be the ninth in a series of IDA-assisted
projects designed to reorganize and strengthen agricultural extension in
India. 1/  Under the project, the Government of Maharashtra (GOM) would reor-
ganize its extension service to provide farmers, on a regular and systematic
basis, with up-to-date advice on farming practices best suited to their speci-
fic conditions and capable of having an immediate impact on production and
income. This would be achieved by strictly programmed visits from regularly
trained field staff, supported by professional advice from the Department of
Agriculture (DOA) and from research. 2/ The project was prepared by GOM with
assistance of staff of the Bank's Resident Mission in India. Appraisal took
place in October 1980. This report is based on the findings of the appraisal
mission consisting of Messrs. C.P.R. Nottidge, B. Nekby and C.M. Mathur (IDA)
and T. Lohavisapanich (FAO/CP).
Agriculture in India
1.02      The area of India is 3.29 M km  of which 55% is cultivable and about
25% of the net cultivated area irrigated. India's population of over 650 M
is growing at an annual rate of about 2.0%. National income has grown at
nearly 3.5% per annum since 1960, and the per capita GNP reached US$190 in
1979. Although average per capita income has increased, in general there has
been little change in the living standards of the vast masses of urban and
rural poor, conservatively estimated at 300 M people with incomes below the
poverty line of US$79 per capita per year. Thus, GOI's development plans give
priority to alleviating poverty and creating employment, especially in rural
areas.
1/   The e:4>i previous prolects are described in the following appraisal
reports:
Assam Agricultural Development Project, Cr. 728-IN
West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project, Cr. 690-IN
Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project, Cr. 737-IN
Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project, Cr. 712-IN
Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project, Cr. 761-IN
Orissa Agricultural Development Project, Cr. 682-IN
Composite Agricultural Extension Project (Haryana, Gujarat
and Karnataka), Cr. 862-IN
Kerala Agricultural Extension Project, Cr. 1028-IN
2/   The main principles of the proposed extension reform are described in
Agricultural Extension: The Training and Visit System (World Bank 1977).



- 2 -
1.03      Agriculture is the dominant sector of the Indian economy and contri-
butes about 40% of GNP. It engages about 70% of the labor force and provides
the base for about 60% of India's exports. During the last decade, GOI deve-
lopment plans have emphasized agriculture and sought to raise foodgrain pro-
duction by increasing the use of irrigation, fertilizers, plant protection
chemicals, and seeds of improved varieties. In support of this, GOI has
modernized and expanded its agricultural credit institutions and accelerated
the development of irrigation. More recently, increased attention has been
given to the establishment of improved extension services and upgrading the
research capabilities needed to support this extension effort.
1.04      These efforts appear to be bringing significant results.  Over the
past decade foodgrain production has grown at about 2.75% p.a., sufficient
to meet consumer demand, eliminate imports (which had averaged nearly 5 mil-
lion tons per year for the 15 years preceeding 1976) and lower real foodgrain
prices to consumers. At the same time India was able to build up sufficient
buffer stocks of rice and wheat to cope with the 1979/80 drought with compa-
rative ease, and to export about 0.5-0.6 million tons of rice in 1980/81.
While these developments are very encouraging, great efforts will be required
to maintain this pace. Moreover, per capita production of a number of other
important crops, including cotton and oilseeds, has fallen during the period.
Furthermore, India's agriculture is particularly susceptible to the vagaries
of weather and foodgrain production can vary as much as 20% between successive
years. Although expansion of irrigation facilities to reduce this variation
remains a priority, GOI recognizes that the bulk of India's cropped area and
over half of its farmers, cannot, in the foreseeable future, benefit from
water-intensive agricultural technologies. Moreover, although much appropriate
research is available, yields under rainfed conditions have shown little or
no improvement over this period--a fact which prompts this project's emphasis
on rainfed as well as irrigated farming.
Agricultural Extension
1.05      State Governments have direct responsibility for agricultural exten-
sion; they operate through their Departments of Agriculture (DOA), generally
with the cooperation of other state departments. While organization varies
between states, the extension service is generally headed by the Director of
Agriculture who reports to the Secretary of Agriculture. He is assisted by
staff located at state, divisional and district levels.  The Collector (the
senior representative of the civil administration at the district level)
coordinates activities between the various agencies of government, with the
District Agricultural Officer (DAO) representing DOA. Below the district
level, Agricultural Extension Officers (AEO) generally report on routine
matters to the Block Development Officer (BDO), an official of the state
Community Development Department. In some states, locally elected councils
(panchayats) also play a role and the BDO are responsible to these bodies.
Given the multitude of local activities and lack of direct administrative
control by DOA, AEO are often diverted to non-agricultural activities. The
village level worker (VLW), a multipurpose worker, is supposed to spend
75-80% of his time on agricultural extension under the direction of the AED.
However, the VLW is administratively responsible to the BDO and the lack of
a well-defined agricultural program, combined with the demands of his other
activities, generally result in his spending very little time on agricultural
extension. The same is generally true of the AEO. What little extension
work is done is neither planned systematically, nor supervised adequately.



- 3 -
1.06      Over the years, dissatisfaction with the effectiveness of the multi-
purpose worker for increasing agricultural production has led to the develop-
ment of a variety of special programs focusing on particular crops, areas, or
techniques. Staff employed under these schemes are usually under the adminis-
trative control of various subject matter departments of DOA. In a given
state, such schemes usually cover only a few districts and only part (e.g. one
crop) of the farmers' operations. These schemes have tended to dissipate
extension efforts in many uncoordinated directions and divert attention and
resources from the need to reform the main line extension agency.
1.07      In addition to .the organizational problems mentioned above, the ex-
tension service often suffers from inadequate and outdated staff training.
Moreover, there are usually too few staff to cover the farming community
adequately and they lack sufficient mobility to reach farmers systematically
and regularly. Furthermore, government owned housing is scarce and rented
accommodation hard to come by. Additionally. linkages with research have been
tenuous and irregular. All these factors have hampered effective extension
work. They have resulted in a general stagnation in agricultural production,
with most extension personnel having low status, low pay and poor rnorale.
1.08      With yields in irrigated and rainfed areas remaining at levels well
below potential, GOI has become increasingly concerned with improving agricul-
tural extension. A new system of extension--the Training and Visit System
(T&V)--based on frequent and regular farm visits by full-time, adequately
trained extension personnel was developed in 1974 with IDA assistance. Under
this approach, a substantial portion of the multipurpose VLW is transferred
from Community Development Departments to DOA to work exclusively on agricul-
tural extension. The results from the Chambal Irrigation Scheme in
Rajasthan 1/, where the system has been in operation since 1974, were so encou-
raging that the approach was adopted in ten states under the projects discussed
below.
Existing State Projects
1.09      The Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr. 737-
IN, US$13 M, effective in February 1978), was an outgrowth of the favorable
results obtained with the new approach to agricultural extension pioneered
under the Chambal Command Area Development Project (Cr. 562-IN, ef'fective
September 1975) and the Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development EProject (Cr.
502-IN, effective December 1974).  The Government of Rajasthan is presently
reorganizing and strengthening extension and supporting adaptive research to
serve 2.9 M of the state's 3.7 M farm families in 17 districts where an
immediate potential for improving agricultural production exists. Project
implementation has picked up rapidly. Farmers have responded favorably to
the system, and adopted new practices like seed treatment, basal dressing
with fertilizers, and intercropping with kharif pulses which have helped them
grow a good crop even under drought conditions. There is now a need for more
l/   This covered 84,000 farm families and 360,000 ha of which about two-
thirds is irrigated.



- 4 -
intensive work by researchers to develop more sophisticated technological
packages since farmers have developed confidence in the extension staff and
respond favorably towards adoption of new techniques and skills.
1.10      As a result of experience with improved extension activities in the
Chambal Irrigation Command Area, Madhya Pradesh requested IDA assistance in
extending the reorganization of agricultural extension services to cover both
irrigated and rainfed areas in 15 of 45 districts in the state (Cr. 712-IN
for US$10 M. effective September 1977). Progress was good in the early stages
of the project, but slowed down later due to frequent changes in project
management. The major problems noted by the early supervision missions were
staff shortages, slow construction of buildings and houses, inadequate liaison
between research and extension organizations and slow implementation of the
T&V system, although district phasing had proceeded as planned. Despite the
slow start, there has been considerable improvement during the past year and
almost all posts, both in research and extension, have now been filled.
Having overcome cumbersome bureaucratic tendering procedures, the building
program is now gaining momentum. Liaison between research and extension has
been well established resulting in a substantial involvement of research
workers in training extension staff and with greater emphasis being given to
resolving farm related problems within the overall research program. At a
recent survey, 75% of contact farmers were aware of the day of visit of the
VEW and almost all could identify him by name. About 81% of contact farmers
have adopted at least one of the recommended practices.
1.11      In project districts, there has been a 300% increase in the use of
clean and graded seed, a 35% increase in the planting of seed of improved
varieties and a 28% increase in the use of seed dressings.  Fertilizer use,
both under rainfed and irrigated conditions, has increased by 66% over 1976/77
levels (as compared to 48% in other districts of the state) and the use of
soil testing facilities increased by 69%. In October, 1980 IDA appraised a
project to extend the T&V system to cover all remaining districts of the state.
1.12      Eastern India, including Assam, Bihar, Orissa and West Bengal, is
the country's "rice bowl". Despite its high potential, foodgrain yields are
low and production has barely kept pace with population growth. The stagna-
tion of agricultural production has been partly due to the inability of the
extension service to give meaningful advice to farmers; similarly, research
has failed to focus on the majority need for simple, low cost means of im-
proving production. Orissa was the first state to reorganize its agricultural
extension service throughout the entire state (Cr. 682-IN, for US$20 M, effec-
tive June 1977). Virtually all of the state's 3.4 M farmers are now covered
by the program, and, according to the most recent supervision mission, good
progress has been made, farmers have responded well and have accepted, on a
widespread basis, new practices for increasing production, e.g., introduction
of mustard as a new crop, seed treatment, and use of manually operated seed
drills. In addition, the supervision mission has reported favorablv or the
-.iav exrPnsinr mesqa2es qre reaching even the remotest \7Tllages.



- 5 -
1.13      During the preparation and appraisal of the West Bengal Agricultural
Development Project (Cr. 541-IN, effective August 1975), which supports minor
irrigation development in a portion of the state, one of the major constraints
was identified as a lack of effective agricultural extension. Consequently,
the project included a component to strengthen extension in six districts
along the principles established in the Chambal and Rajasthan Canal Areas.
The initial impact of extension rsorganization was so favorable that the state
decided to expand the coverage. This was provided in Cr. 690-IN, for US$12 M,
effective August 1977. Initially, the project was highly promising: 2,400
multipurpose workers were transferred from the Community Development Depart-
ment to the control of DOA and were trained in the dissemination of specific
messages for farmers and, together with DOA technical staff, worked with
farmers in identifying and solving field problems. In the latter part of
1977, however, a new Government of West Bengal (GOWB) suspended its earlier
decision to place the Village Extension Worker (VEW) under the administrative
control of DOA pending a thorough review. This drastically reduced the abi-
lity of VEWs to visit farmers regularly, and extension operations came to a
virtual halt in most of the state. GOWB has now re-established the single
line of command, placing all extension staff under DOA, thus removing the
major obstacle to project implementation. Although recruitment and training
of new VEW has started, the tempo of work has not yet reached former levels
due to an injunction being brought against the government by some staff
transferred from the Community Development Department. The injunction was
partly lifted in January 1981, allowing newly recruited VEW to start field
work.
1.14      Under the Assam Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 728-IN, for
US$8.0 M, effective September 1977), Assam became the third state in the eas-
tern region to reorganize its extension service. The project now covers all
of the approximately 1.9 M farm families in Assam's plains districts. In the
first districts covered, improved farm practices such as line transplanting of
paddy, use of HYV paddy, increased area and higher yields of HYV wheat and
increased consumption of fertilizers resulted. In the more recentLy covered
districts, the effects of extension work are already starting to be seen.
Unfortunately, in view of political unrest in Assam it has not been possible
to superviEr the project since November 1979.
1.15      Under the Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr.
761-IN for US$8 M, effective May 1978), through a reorganization of existing
staff, some 9,000 VEW were to reach all of Bihar's 7.6 M1 farm fam.ilies.  How-
ever, very little progress has been made so far with the reorganization. The
posts of Director of Agriculture and Additional Director of Agriculture
(Extension) remain vacant and the extension system is operating in only 5 of
31 districts. The persistent delay by the Government of Bihar in filling key
posts and general commitment to the project is of great concern. More
recently, government has expressed a renewed commitment to the project and
some staff have been appointed. IDA and GOI are following the situation
closely. The State Government has been alerted that unless significant



progress is made by March 31, 1981, IDA will have tu reassess its involvement
in the project.
1.16      The Composite Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 862-IN for
US$25.0 M) became effective in December 1979. Under this project, the govern-
ments of Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka have undertaken the reorganization of
extension services in their states. The project also includes strengthening
of the capability of the Directorate of Agricultural Extension (DOE) of the
Government of India (GOI) in order that it may assist all states in the imple-
mentation and operation of the reorganized extension system. Extension acti-
-vities are going well in Haryana and Karnataka. In Gujarat, the quality of
extension work is not uniform. While in some districts its impact is highly
effective, in other districts, it has suffered from inadequate supervision
by the State Department of Agriculture. The State Government has been urged
to remedy the situation. The most recent extension project, the Kerala
Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 1028-IN for US$10.0 M) became effective
in June 1980. Recently, there have been changes at the top administrative
and political levels in agriculture with the result that project implementa-
tion has made little progress. A recent supervision mission discussed project
proposals with the new officials and agreed on a modified program for imple-
mentation. Field work has begun in three districts and will start in the
remaining districts in May, 1981.
Agriculture in Maharashtra
1.17      Maharashtra, in southwest India, is the third largest state in the
Indian Union and divided into 25 districts. It covers 30.7 M ha and has a
population of about 60 M (1979). It receives heavy rains during the south-
west monsoon (from June to October), but these only extend inland as far as
the Western Ghats, a range of hills about 1,000 M high and about 50 km, inland,
running the length of India parallel to the coast. The eastern slopes of
these hills and the land lying under this rain shadow are dry (annual rain-
fall is about 500 mm). Rainfall increases gradually as one moves eastward
across the state and reaches about 1,250 mm in eastern districts (where 70%
of rainfall occurs during the monsoon). In addition, the eastern districts
often receive substantial rain towards the end of the monsoon which allow
the growing of rabi (winter) crops on residual moisture. The soils of the
coastal zone are alluvial: paddy is the main crop. In the Western Ghats,
brown and reddish-brown loams and lateritic soils are found; paddy, pearl
millet or other lesser millets are the main crops.  The eastern slopes of
the hills comprise red and black basaltic coils on which paddy can be grown
on higher slopes; at lower altitudes, pearl millet, sorghum and groundnut
are the main crops. Further to the east, on similar brown black clay loams,
sorghum, pulses, cotton and groundnut are found; still further east, in the
higher rainfall areas, the principal crop is again paddy.
1.18      About 18.2 M ha are cultivated by 5.76 M farm families; 1.4 M ha
is cropped more than once; about 8.4% of net sown area is irrigated. Agri-
culture is the most important sector of the State's economy. It contributes
30-35% to the net domestic product and employs some 65% of the labor force.
Over 90% of farms in Maharashtra are wholly owned by the cultivators. The
Last agricultur< ^onR'lc- (Q70/''l qhnTvPc4 tIhnt -46' nf tbe  farms qrp -ma11er
-lnr Fc 7^



- 7 -
1.19      In agriculture, the Bank group is assisting GOM with implementatiorn
of two irrigation projects (Cr. 736-IN and Cr. 945-IN), an Integrated Cotton
Development Project (Cr. 610-IN), National Seeds Project (Loan 1274-IN) and
the Drought Prone Areas Project (Cr. 526-IN).
Agricultural Services in Maharashtra
1.20      The Panchayat Raj institution for peoples' participation in develop-
ment has taken deep roots in Maharashtra during the 18 years since the Act
establishing it was passed in 1962. Agricultural extension, although not
specifically mentioned in the Act, is regarded as a task of the local govern-
ment sector. The present system provides for a multipurpose village level
worker (Gram Sevak) who receive technical guidance from an Agricultural Exten-
sion Officer (AEO) stationed at the Block level.  Both are employed by the
Zilla Parishad (District Council) and work under the direct control of the
Block Development Officer (BDO).  The latter is in turn responsible for all
development activities in the block  to the Panchayat Samiti (Block Council)
and is secretary of the Council.  Administratively, at the district level,
he is responsible to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Zilla Parishad
who is in charge of all development activities entrusted to the Zilla Parishad
and who is the liaison officer with the State Government. The CEO heads a
number of departments at the district level. Agricultural activities are
managed by an Agricultural Development Officer (ADO) at the district level
who mainly deals with input supply questions and who, like other district
departmental managers,operates through the BDOs. See Chart World Bank 22285.
1.21      Parallel with this local government organization, there are a number
of Department of Agriculture state sector schemes mainly concerning cash crops.
These, at the district level, are headed by an Assistant Director of Agriculture
(cash crops), Residuary Officer (statistical tasks, orchards, etc.) or Hybrid
Seed Production Officer. In 1978, these schemes were put under the Chief
Executive officer of the Zilla Parishad but maintained their own village level
field staff (Agricultural Assistants) outside the purview of the BDO and the
Panchayat Samiti.
1.22      There are seven Divisions in Maharashtra.  At this level of adminis-
tration, the activities of the Department of Agriculture are headed by a
Superintending Agricultural Officer, assisted by a number of Deputy Directors
of Agriculture responsible for the technical guidance of the agricultural
activities in their districts. Presently they are not located in the district
and do not come under the jurisdiction of Zilla Parishad.
Training
1.23      There are foujr agricultural universities a,;- -, separate agriculturn.
colleges in the State; about 1,000 students graiuat-e ci7ery year with BSc.
degrees and about 290 with MSc. qualifications.  At present, AA receive two
years training at one of the State's 25 agricultural schools which have a
capacity of 1,200. These schools are under the guidance of the Agricultural
Universities.  Multipurpose workers (VLW) obtain two to six months of genera_
training at one of the nine gram sevak trainina centers. There is also a
farmers' training center in each district.



- aJ -
Research
1.24      Agricultural research in Maharashtra is fragmented.  Although there
are various coordinating committees, none has statutory powers and the four
universities remain basically autonomous. Their influence areas are deter-
mined on an administrative oasis (districts) and two or more universities may
thus be active in a particular agro-ecological zone. Although Crop Coordina-
tors have recently been apnointed at the Universities, they have no powers
(scientific, administrative or budgetary) to influence research outside their
own universities. With four independent Research Department heads, there is
a tendency for research to lack clear-cut direction. This should not detract
however, from the considerable achievements of the agricultural universities,
but lack of coordination and risk of unnecessary duplication has so far made
Maharashtra ineligible for assistance under the ongoing IDA assisted National
Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 855-IN). Efforts at voluntary coordination
are expected to allow ICAR to launch a statewide research review in December
1980. GOM has also appointed a committee to review the Agricultural Univer-
sitv Act. Important recommendations arising out of this review will probab-
ly be used to create a unified service for the universities, to decrease poli-
tical influence, and to bring about effective coordination. The efforts of
ICAR and GOM will undoubtedly clear the ground for strengthening of agri-
cultural research.
Input Supply
1.25      Input distribution arrangements are satisfactory.  Seed, fertilizers
and pesticides are distributed through taluka level marketing and sales socie-
ties, some multipurpose cooperative societies, publicly operated agro-service
centers, Maharashtra Agro-Industries Development Corporation (MAIDC) outlets,
a few Maharashtra Seeds Corporation (1-4SC) sales points (seeds only) and through
private dealers. Indicative of the number of outlets is that in Aurangabad
District (with about 2 million inhabitants) there are reportedly some 250
outlets (1 per 8,000 population) of which 58 are in the public/cooperative
sectors.
1.26      The requirements of inputs are discussed well ahead of the season
at Taluka and District Coordinating Committees. The former is chaired by the
Panchayat Samiti president and consists of the BDO and his agricultural
officers, the manager of the Sales and Purchase Society, the Inspector of
Cooperatives and the Assistant Engineer (irrigation). The District Coordi-
nating Committee is headed by the Zilla Parishad president and includes the
ADO, the Deputy Registrar of Cooperative Societies, the District Marketing
Officer (representing the Cooperative Marketing Federation), the managers
of the District Cooperative Bank, MAIDC or MSC and District Land Development
Bank and the Executive Engineer (irrigation). The Committee's deliberations
are based on a survey (census) of the areas which farmers intend to plant to
different crops and varieties and carried out by BDO using VLW.
1.27      The ADO operating through the BDO and VLW is responsible for super-
vising the distribution of inputs. Complaints from farmers are investigated
and corrective action recommended. The quality of inputs (varietal integrity



of seed, chemical composition of fertilizers, correct weights, etc.,) are
checked by visits to the sales points.
1.28      The ADO/BDO/VLW organization in Maharashtra would remain basically
unaltered by the introduction of the T&V extension system under the project
and there would be no disruption of the existing arrangements for planning
and monitoring input distribution.  An effective linkage between the input
supply activities and the new extension organization would be established
to ensure that extension recommendations are considered in input planning and
that recommendations are modified if the inputs in question cannot be made
available. Intensified contact with the farming community would also result
in a better feedback of farmers' plans and complaints as to input use. On
introduction of the project, the Principal Agricultural Officer in charge of
extension in each of the districts (para 2.08) would participate in the deli-
berations of his District Coordinating Committee and SDAO and appropriate
AEO in those of the Taluka level committee. Furthermore, BDO and ADO would
be invited to attend selected fortnightly training sessions before the start
of the growing seasons in order to exchange information on the input situation.
Credit
1.29      Crop loans are made available through a widespread network of
cooperative credit societies as well as through commercial banks. Default
has, however, made a great number of farmers ineligible for further loans.
Under the rainfed conditions in Maharashtra, crop failure is a common reason
for such default and no satisfactory method for rescheduling delinquent short-
term credit has been developed. Recently, however, loans to defaulters, with
small and marginal rainfed farms, have been written off when default was
found to have been caused by crop failure.
1.30      The Panchayat organization plays no rule either in promoting member-
ship and lending or in loan recovery,as registration and inspection of coope-
rative societies is a state level responsibility. The credit requirements
of members in a primary cooperative society are determined well in advance of
each season.
Irrigation
1.31      The T&V system of agricultural extension was introduced in Maharash-
tra on the Jayakwadi Irrigation Project (Cr. 735-IN) in 1979. Although
regular visits to farmers and training of staff has been initiated, the for-
mulation of technological messages appropriate t-o the needs of the irrigated
project area needs improvement before a real impact on production can be made.
Before the advent oi the project most research concentrated on the problems
oJ rainfed farming although the Agricultural -iCnrv\9rsities are now conducting
research on irrigated cropping. The Maharashtra !I Irrigation P'roject
(Cr. 954-IN), covering eight major irrigation schemes, also includes an exten-
sion service. Command Area Development Authorities in these irrigated schemes
were entrusted with the implementation of the improved extension coverage.
With the emergence of the statewide project, a unifiea extension service would
be created that would encompass the efforts being made under the aforementioned
projects.



- 10 -
Marketing and Processing
1.32      Marketing is regulated by statutory provisions and the administra-
tion of markets is controlled by a committee on which farmers, traders, and
local government bodies are represented. From local markets, produce moves
to the four terminal markets of Bombay, Pune, Nagpur and Kolhapur. The
present marketing and processing systems operate satisfactorily. Since
Maharashtra is a net importer of all major foodgrains except rice, it is
expected to have the capacity to absorb all the immediate production
increases generated by the project.
II. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
2.01      The five-year project seeks to achieve early and sustained increases
in agricultural production throughout Maharashtra's twenty-five districts
through the reorganization and strengthening of the extension service of
DOA. The project would support this reorganization by:
(a) provision of incremental staff (2925 AA/AS: 416 AEO, 167
SMS; 2 SDAO and 1 ADA),
(b) provision of transportation (168 4-WD vehicles, 747 motor-
cycles and 3,000 bicycles), office equipment and audio-visual
aids;
(c)  provision of incremental operating funds, travel allowances,
vehicle operating costs and extension materials;
(d) construction of housing for extension workers (AA/AS, 1,200)
and their immediate supervisors, AEOs (150);
(e) improvement of the capacity of the universities to collabo-
rate with DOA by provision of staff (16 senior posts plus
supporting staff), vehicles (4) and operating costs;
(f) provision of funds for training of extension staff at
different levels; and
(g)  creation of a monitoring and evaluation capacity through
provision of staff, transportation (1 4-WD vehicle, 15 motor-
cycles and 90 bicycles) and operating expenses.



- 11 -
B. Detailed Features
The Extension Methodology
2.02      Under the project, Maharashtra's agricultural services would be
reorganized and intensified throughout the State (see Map IBRD 15428) fol-
lowing the Training and Visit System adopted in other Indian states over the
last four to five years. Project staffing would be phased over a three year
period. The project would provide farmers, on a regular and systematic basis,
with up-to-date advice on farming practices best suited to their specific
conditions and emphasizing proven practices which have an immediate impact
on income. This would be brought about by organizing extension field staff
so that they visit farmers regularly and receive systematic training and tech-
nical support from DOA and from research institutions.
2.03      Each Village Extension Worker (VEW) 1/ would be assigned to work
with a number of farm families. The number would vary depending on local
conditions, population density, cropping intensity and accessibility. Based
on available statistics which probably overstate the number of families, one
VEW would cover about 900-1,000 farm families. In effect, it implies that
on an average, one VEW would cover 800-900 operating farm families with the
actual number varying from around 600 in sparsely populated areas to around
1,000 operating farm families in densely settled areas. Contingency provi-
sion is made for 600 additional VEW, if, in the course of the project imple-
mentation, GOM and IDA determine that more intensive coverage by VEW is
warranted. An assurance was obtained during negotiations that GOM and IDA
would review progress of project implementation by March 31, 1984 to deter-
mine if the number of field staff (VEW) would be increased.
2.04      To reach his farmers systematically, a VEW would divide the operating
families in his jurisdiction into 8 smaller groups of 80-120 each. He would
visit each group regularly on a fixed day of the week in a two-week cycle.
During his visit, the VEW would go to the contact farmer selected from each
group, involving as many other farmers as possible in the discussions and
demonstrations. By the concrete results he achieves with the farmers he
directly meets, the VEW can spread his recommendations more effectively to
all farmers. During each visit, the VEW would concentrate his efforts on a
few strategically selected recommendations relevant for that particular phase
of the crop cycle. The extension message to be communicated to farmers at
the initial stage would be simple, concentrating on the few important crops
in the locality of the most important aspects of crop production practices
at that time. Initially, the emphasis would be on low-cost improvements which
the majority of farmers can afford within their resource capabilities.
l/  In Maharashtra, VEWs are referred to as Agricultural Assistants and
Agricultural Supervisors.



- 12 -
2.05      The VEW would be helped, guided and supervised in his work by an
Agricultural Extension Officer (AEO) 1/ who would normally be a graduate in
Agriculture. One AEO would be normally responsible for about 8 VEW and would
spend at least four days a week visiting them in the field. Once every two
weeks, VEW would receive a full day of intensive training in the recommenda-
tions for that period (relevant to the coming two weeks). The AEO would also
partake in this training session. Thus, every two weeks, VEW would spend
eights days in visiting each of his eight groups and one day in training. On
one day, the AEO would meet all his VEW in the field or at headquarters to
review progress, reinforce practical skills and identify topics to be raised
at the next training session. The remaining working days would be devoted
to farm trials and making up for missed visits.
2.06      To provide regular training, continuous technical guidance and
supervision of field work, three or four subdivisions would be established
in each district (a total of 90 subdivisions for the state) each under the
charge of a Subdivisional Agricultural Officer (SDAO). The SDAO would have
full time and exclusive responsibility for supervising 8 - 10 AEO in his area.
Where there are more than 10 AEO in a subdivision, the SDAO would be assisted
by an Additional SDAO (ASDAO). As some subdivisions are small, the project
would provide 60 teams of SMS, each comprising three Subject Matter Specialists
(one in Agronomy,one in Plant Protection and one in Training/Communication).
Where a team of SMS has to operate in more than one subdivision, the team
would be under the administrative control of the SDAO where the team is based.
This SDAO will ensure that the team divides its time equally between both
subdivisions. SMS, under the control of SDAO would spend one-third of their
time in field visits providing technical support and guidance to VEW and AEO,
one-third in building their own stock of knowledge through a regular dialogue
with research workers and carrying out farm trials, and one-third in partici-
pation in zonal monthly training workshops and attending short training courses.
2.07      At district level, one SMS would be provided for training and exten-
sion. He would provide technical support to SMS at subdivisional level on
communication techniques and extension methodology. He would assist the
Principal Agricultural Officer (District Deputy Director) in coordinating and
supervising the training activities. Additionally, other SMS would be pro-
vided at the district level to cover specializations not covered at the sub-
divisional level and which are significantly important for a particular
district. This could include water management specialists in intensive
irrigated areas or specialists in horticulture, or plantation crops, farm
implements and farm management. The specialists at the district level would
also divide their time evenly between teaching, field visits and improving
their own knowledge.
2.08      The Principal Agricultural Officer (PAO) would be in overall charge
of the effective implementation of the extension program in the District.
Other regulatory functions, input arrangements, coordinating schemes like
the Small Farmers Development Agency, etc., would be looked after by the
1/   In Maharashtra,AEOs are referred to as Agricultural Officers.



- 13 -
Agricultural Development Officer of the Zilla Parishad so that the PAO is free
to undertake frequent visits so necessary to review the extension operation
and guide the field staff in effective implementation.
2.09      A Divisional Joint Director of Agriculture (JDA) at the regional
(zonal) level would be in charge of the three to four districts of his zone.
He would be directly responsible for extension operations in all the districts
in his zone. SAO (para 1.22)would continue to be responsible for input sup-
plies and regulatory functions.
2.10      At the headquarters of DOA, the overall responsibility for general
agricultural development in the state would continue to rest with the Director
of Agriculture. An Additional Director of Agriculture (Extension) 1/ would
be appointed for effective management and technical support of the extension
service. The ADA (Extension) would be exclusively responsible for the day-to-
day operations and management of the extension service both technically and
administratively. He would also be made responsible for training and manage-
ment of extension personnel. He would visit the field frequently and check
on the effectiveness of extension operations.
2.11      Before negotiations, GOM established the post of ADA (Extension),
agreed to maintain a suitably qualified officer in this position and give him
full time exclusive responsibility for implementing the extension system with
no other duties.
2.12      The ADA (Extension) would have a technical support staff of four
SMS of the rank of JDA at headquarters (one each for plant protection, horti-
culture, farm management and farm trials and training). These SMS would be
responsible for improving the technical quality of the extension service in
the area of their specialization, and would develop and interpret farm trials,
promote linkages with research carried out by the four universities in
Maharashtra and elsewhere in the country, organize training programs and
serve as a clearing house of technical information.
Incremental Staff Requirements
2.13      Staff required to implement the reorganized extension system in
Maharashtra would be met by redeploying the staff already available with DOA,
Zilla Parishads, CADA and by hiring new staff. Detailed breakdown of the
staff requirements and availability by year, district and subdivision is
given in Annex 1, Tables 5, 7, 8 and 9. The table below summarizes the staff
available and required by category. Assurances were obtained that GOM would
fill incremental staff positions according to or earlier than the schedules
shown in Annex 1, Table 8.
1/   Initially the appointment might be at the Joint Director level, dependent
on the seniority of the incumbent.



- 14 -
Extension Staff Requirements
Total         Number         Incremental
Required      Available       Requirements
AA/AS             6,000          3,075             2,925
AEO                 747            331               416
SMS (SD)            180             45               135
SDAO                 90             88                 2
ASDAO                18            -                  18
SMS (Dist.)          32            -                  32
PA0                  25             25
JDA                   7            -                   7
SMS (HQ)              4            -                   4
ADA (Ext.)            1            -                   1
2.14      In Maharashtra two cadres of field level workers exist: (i) Agri-
cultural Assistants (AA) who are high school graduates with a two-year diploma
from Agricultural Schools run by the Agricultural Universities; and (ii)
Agricultural Supervisors (AS)--who are agricultural graduates. Both categories
of employees (AA and AS) would be working as VEW. As the table indicates,
6,000 AA and AS are required--out of this, 1,447 AA working in the Agency
Schemes and State Sector Schemes of DOA under the Zilla Parishads (ZP),
1,000 Gram Sevaks, 314 AS from State Sector Schemes and 318 from local sec-
tor schemes under ZP, i.e., a total of 3,075 AA and AS, would be redeployed
and assigned agricultural extension as their exclusive work. Some 2,925 new
recruits would be hired. Output from agricultural schools and the four agri-
cultural universities would be sufficient to meet new staff requirements
(para 1.23).
2.15      Before negotiations, GOM issued a government order transferring
3,075 staff (1,447 AA, 1,000 Gram Sevaks, 628 AS) for agricultural extension
work along with the budget, including those now seconded to CADA,and sanctioned
2,925 new positions, and redesignated the Gram Sevaks as Agricultural Assis-
tants. GOM also agreed that of the total number of field level workers 20%
would be of the rank of Agricultural Supervisor. In addition, GOM transferred
all extension staff currently employed by CADA.
2.16      A total 747 AEO are required for the project.  Some 331 existing
AEO would be redeployed for extension work for which GOM issued orders before
negotiations. The remaining 416 new posts be created and filled.
2.17      New posts would also be created and filled for 135 subdivisional
SMS, 2 SDAO, 18 ASDAO, 32 district level SMS, 4 headquarters SMS, 7 JDA and
one ADA.
2.18      Assurances were obtained that the AA and AS would be used exclu-
sively for agricultural extension and their emoluments and benefits would
not be adversely affected as a result of the reorganization.



- 15 -
Housing
2.19      Under the reorganized extension service extension workers would be
required to make regular and frequent visits to farmer groups. Consequently,
it would be necessary for them to live in or near their area of work. An
assurance was obtained that GOM would ensure that AA/AS and AEO live in or
near the areas of work. As a result of a preliminary survey, the project
would provide housing for about 20% of AA/AS and AEO, i.e., 1,200 houses
for AA/AS and 150 houses for AEO. The details are given in Annex 1, Table 2.
2.20      The houses would be constructed through the Public Works Department
or the PWD wing of the Zilla Parishad using the standard design approved by
the government for the particular category of staff. GOM, when requested,
would provide IDA from the appropriate agency responsible for construction,
the specifications of houses and final cost estimates of construction.
2.21      GOM would agree to furnish IDA (through DOE) information on the
progress of locating sites for housing to be financed under the Credit and
progress on their construction.
Transport
2.22      Effective extension requires a high degree of mobility both to
enable field level staff to meet farmers regularly and to enable technical
and supervisory staff to make frequent personal visits in order to provide
the direct guidance needed. The entire system depends on a high level of
personal contact between all levels of extension workers. To facilitate
this, the project would provide two 4-WD vehicles at each subdivision, one
for SDAO and one for a team of SMS. At the district level, one of the
existing vehicles with DOA would be redeployed and one more would be provided
by the project. At headquarters, one existing car would be used by ADA and
one diesel 4-WD vehicle would be provided for his team of SMS. Details are
given in Annex 1, Table 3.
2.23      AA would be provided loans (3,000) 1/ for the purchase of bicycles
and similarly, loans (750) would be provided to AEOs and SMS for the purchase
of motorcycles. GOM would provide this facility through existing arrangements.
Further details are at Annex 1, Table 3.
2.24      Assurances were obtained that travel allowances would be sufficient
to ensure the use of vehicles. Funds would be provided under the project for
the operation and maintenance of vehicles. Details are given to Annex 1,
Table 6.
1/   On the assumption that only 1/2 of all staff will require bicycles.



- 16 -
Equipment
2.25      Funds for office equipment and furniture, as well as audio-visual
aids would be provided to each district (25) and subdivisional office (90).
Details are given in Annex 1, Table 3.
Operating Costs
2.26      Incremental travel allowances and expenses for the extension staff,
operating costs for incremental vehicles (168) and miscellaneous extension
materials (diaries, charts, instructional materials, samples of small imple-
ments, seeds and pesticides for farm trials) are included in the project.
Details are given in Annex 1, Table 6.
University Liaison
2.27      In order to allow the agricultural universities to perform the role
envisaged under the project (particularly in relation to monthly workshops
with the extension SMS and farm trials) some limited strengthening of these
institutions would be necessary. The project would provide a Director of
Extension Education at each university (4) and eleven university extension
agronomists (to districts where there is no existing university-operated
extension education unit). Supporting staff, vehicles (4) and operating costs
are included. Details are given in Annex 1, Tables 3, 4, 5 and 6. No
strengthening of the university research function is envisaged, as support
under the IDA-supported National Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 855-IN)
is expected to materialize for this purpose (para 1.24). The conclusion of
a memorandum of understanding (Annex 3) between GOM and each university as
to the role of the respective university in project implementation was a
condition of invitation to negotiate the Credit.
Training
2.28      The project would provide funds for one month of induction training
for all VEWs (6,000), pre-season training (3 days) for VEW, AEO and SMS,
special short courses for AEO and SMS, orientation courses for other staff,
monthly district workshops with research staff and some fellowships for B.Sc.
and M.Sc. training. The Agricultural Universities would be responsible for
many of these courses (see Annex 1, Table 4), utilizing existing facilities
(agricultural schools and Gram Sevak training centers). The construction of
a hostel at the Konkan University is, however, included (Annex 1, Table 2).
Agreement was reached between GOM and IDA at negotiations on staffing arrange-
ments for VEW training institutions, the proposed training curriculum and
schedule of training.
Monitoring and Evaluation
2.29      The project would provide for the establishment and operation of a
monitoring and evaluation system specifically designed to provide project
management with current information on the effectiveness of the extension
system. The methodology used would be similar to that described in World Bank



- 17 -
Staff Working Paper No. 272, "A System of Monitoring and Evaluating Agricul-
tural Extension Projects". This system would supplement direct personal
supervision by each level of project management. Assurances were obtained
that GOM would undertake monitoring and evaluation in a form acceptable to
IDA and that results would be forwarded (through DOE) to the Association at
least once a year. For this purpose, the project would include additional
staff at headquarters (5 plus supporting staff), at district (15), and sub-
divisional (90) levels, vehicles (1 car, 15 motorcycles and 90 cycles) and
miscellaneous operating costs. Provision for external evaluation studies
(Rs 150,000) is also included.
III. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
3.01      Detailed cost estimates, based on incremental costs for carrying
out the project over a five-year period are given in Annex 1, Tables 1 to 6.
The following table summarizes the costs:
Rs Million             US$ Million /a         % Foreign
Category            Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    Exchange
Incremental
Staff Costs       114.8            114.8     14.3             14.3
Civil Works          37.8             37.8      4.7               4.7
Equipment &
Vehicles           15.9     6.2    22.1        2.0     0.8      2.8       28
Training             12.5     1.1    13.6       1.6      0.1      1.7        8
Incremental
Operating
Costs              26.3    13.6    39.9       3.3      1.7     5.0        34
Total Base Cost    207.3    20.9   228.2        25.9     2.6    28.5
Contingencies
Physical            8.3     0.8      9.1       1.0     0.1      1.1
Price              62.5     6.2    68.7        7.8     0.8      8.6
TOTAL PROJECT
COST              278.1    27.9   306.0      34.7      3.5    38.2         9
/a   Converted at the rate of Rs 8.0 = US$1.0.
These costs include about US$4.9 M in duties and taxes and an estimated
US$3.5 M in foreign costs. Physical contingencies of 5% have been applied to
civil works, equipment, training, and operating costs and to meet the possible
future need of 600 VEW (para 2.03) to readjust the farm family: VEW ratio.
Price contingencies have been applied as follows: (1980: 10%; 1981-83: 7%
per annum; 1984 and onwards: 5%) and compounded accordingly. As the project
will be implemented in the local sector a 3% agency fee payable by GOM to
Zilla Parishads has been added to the cost of staff transferred.



- 18 -
B. Proposed Financing
3.02      Finance to cover total project costs of Rs 266.4 M (US$33.3 M)
including contingencies, but net of taxes and duties would be provided as
follows:
Amount
Source           US$ Million          Percentage
IDA                   23.0               69%
GOM/GOI               10.3               31%
Total               33.3              100%
The proposed IDA Credit of US$23.0 M would be to GOI on standard terms and
conditions and would finance about 70% of project costs, net of taxes and
duties, but including estimated foreign exchange costs of US$3.5 M. IDA
funds would be channeled through GOI to GOM in accordance with GOI standard
arrangements for IDA assisted state development projects. The balance of
project financing, beyond IDA financing, would come from state government
sources and GOI. GOM has made adequate budgetary provision for the opera-
tion of the first project year as a condition of invitation to negotiate.
C. Procurement
3.03      The main items to be financed are: vehicles including bicycles and
motorcycles; equipment; houses for VEW and AEO; training; project monitoring
and evaluation; incremental staff; and incremental operating costs. Civil
works contracts (US$4.7 M) for 1,350 houses, would be small and dispersed
throughout the state, both geographically and over time; therefore, they would
not be satisfactory for international competitive bidding. Contracts would be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding following local advertisement.
There are numerous qualified local contractors to carry out such work. Arrange-
ments for preparing tenders and overseeing construction were discussed during
negotiations. All contracts for civil works, equipment and furniture estimated
to cost US$100,000 or more would be reviewed by IDA both before bids are in-
vited and contracts awarded.
3.04      About 173 motor vehicles (US$1.5 M) of various types would be required
under the project. They would be purchased in small quantities over three years
and would be widely dispersed in rural areas. As adequate maintenance and avai-
lability of spare parts would be of paramount importance, this would necessi-
tate purchase of locally made vehicles of types already used by government
departments. Thus, procurement would be according to existing government pro-
cedures, which are competitive and satisfactory to IDA. Motorcycles (750) and
bicycles (3,000) (US$0.7 M) would be purchased by individual staff from loan
funds provided by state government.



- 19 -
3.05      Orders for purchase of minor equipment and furniture (US$0.6 M)
would be bulked wherever possible and purchased according to established local
bidding procedures, except where valued at less than US$50,000 when they would
be purchased by prudent shopping through normal trade channels. Assurances on
procurement procedures mentioned in paras 3.03-3.05 were obtained during nego-
tiations.
3.06      The balance of project costs (US$21.0 M) would consist of local
training and fellowships (US$1.7 M), incremental salaries and allowances
(US$13.8 M), monitoring and evaluation (US$0.5 M), and incremental operating
expenditures for offices and vehicles (US$5.0 M) which would not involve
procurement. All of the above figures exclude contingencies which amount
to US$9.9 M.
D. Disbursement and Audit
3.07      Disbursement under the credit would extend over six years and would
be made against:
(a)  100% of the cost of training;
(b)  80 of the cost of civil works, equipment and vehicles; and
(c)  30% of the total eligible staff costs. 1/  The percentage
is calculated to bring total IDA disbursements to about 70%
of the project cost.
3.08      Disbursements against expenditures for staff costs, training, pay-
ments for locally procured vehicles and equipment of Rs 150,000 or less,
payments under civil works contracts not exceeding Rs 300,000 would be
against certified statements of expenditures, the documentation for which
would not be submitted to IDA for review but would be retained by GOM and
DEA. These documents would be available for inspection by IDA during the
course of project review missions. Disbursement against all other items
would be fully documented. Certificates of expenditures would be audited
at least once every year and a report submitted to IDA promptly thereafter.
All disbursement applications would be forwarded and processed through the
Department of Economic Affairs. Schedules of implementation and project
disbursements are presented in Annex 4, Tables 1 and 2.
1/  Extension staff costs eligible for partial reimbursement would be the
following VEW, AEO, SMS, SDAO, ASDAO, PAO, JDA and ADA at village, sub-
division, district, divisional, and state levels and staff of monitorin;
and evaluation unit. Directors of Extension Education and Extension
Agronomists salaries would also be eligible for partial reimbursement.



- 20 -
3.09      Assurances were obtained that separate accounts would be kept of
expenditures made under the project. These would be audited annually for
each fiscal year, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied and the audit reports submitted to IDA as soon as available. In
addition, certified copies of project accounts would be submitted to IDA
within nine months of the end of the fiscal year. Such reports and audits
would show, inter alia that the funds withdrawn were used for the purpose
intended, that goods have been received or work performed, and that payments
have been made. All reports would be submitted by GOM to the Department of
Economic Affairs for onward transmission to IDA.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Linkage with Panchayat Raj System
4.01      In introducing the T&V approach the aim would be to build a profes-
sional extension service which is answerable to the Zilla Parishad but which
cannot be diverted for other purposes except in rare emergency situations.
The proposed organization builds on the existing set-up at the district level
with two parallel lines.  Input supply, regulatory and statistical work, etc.,
would remain under the ADO and be executed through the BDO by village level
workers. The present organization for cash crops would be expanded into a
general T&V extension service and the Deputy Director of Agriculture would
be moved to the District and would, under the CEO, be put in charge of this
service. The Subdivisional Agricultural Officer (SDAO) would be the drawing
and disbursing officer and in charge of preparing the annual performance re-
ports of AA, AEO and SMS serving in the subdivision. Agricultural extension
would be a periodic item on the agenda of Panchayat Samiti meetings and the
2-3 AEO serving in the block would, together with the SDAO (covering 2-3
blocks), be required to be present and report at these meetings. Thus, in
his capacity as Secretary of the Panchayat Samiti, the BDO would be kept
fully in the picture. He would, however, not be in a position to divert
extension staff to report writing, surveys or other activities which, due to
outside pressures in the past, have often taken precedence over extension
work. The extension staff would, at the same time, be kept fully informed
about input supply and other issues. For details see Chart World Bank 22285.
4.02      To minimize the chance of friction, it has been decided to keep
staff presently working under the various cash crop development schemes in
the state sector. Similarly, new recruits would be kept in the state sector.
The number of posts to be transferred from the present gram sevak organiza-
tion has been carefully determined so as to safeguard the satisfactory execu-
tion of tasks remaining with the ADO. This staff would be kept in the local
government sector but requisitioned for service with the extension organiza-
tion. Only volunteers and vacant posts would be transferred in this way.



- 21 -
Linkages between Extension and Research
4.03      The key link between the Universities and the Department of Agricul-
ture would be the monthly district workshop designed to prepare detailed plans
for the fortnightly training of agricultural assistants, and provide a basis
for discussion and feedback from field staff. The Principal Agricultural
Officer and the University Extension Agronomist would jointly organize these
sessions for DOA staff and SMS of the district and subdivision. The Extension
Agronomist would be appointed exclusively for this purpose and would organize
participation of university research staff depending on the time of year and
the crops to discussed. University staff would need to set aside some five
days each month in order to prepare for and participate in these workshops.
See Chart World Bank 22350.
4.04      A zonal seasonal workshop would be arranged at each of the four
university campuses and would cover their respective areas of influence.
Although these areas do not fully correspond to the agro-ecological zones of
Maharashtra, working on this basis would simplify the administration and the
links between the monthly district and zonal workshops. The purpose of the
zonal workshop would be to review agricultural practices recommended as a
result of new research and experience, to plan multi-locational verification
of any new technology; to assess research priorities for the zone and to
review the plans for and results of farm trials executed at the district
level. The Director of Research at each university would be responsible for
organizing the workshop in collaboration with the Additional Director
Extension Education. Zonal JDAs, PAOs and District SMS would participate as
would the Director of Extension, selected Department heads, Crop Coordinators
and Extension Agronomists from the University.
4.05      Zonal recommendations would be presented by the Directors of
Research of the Universities and the Additional Director Extension to the
State Extension and Research Committee which is headed by the Secretary
of Agriculture. Apart from the above, the following staff would also attend--
the Director of Agriculture and other state level expertise, the Vice Chancellors
of the Universities, the Directors of Extension Education, Crop Coordinators and
selected 1-eads of other university departments (appointed by the Vice Chancellors
coordinating committee). The purpose would be to review zonal recommendations
with respect to practicesand research priorities, and to assess progress of
the project especially of research support and any constraints resulting from
deficient coordination. Assurances were obtained that the Committee would
hold its first meeting by September 30, 1981 and meet at least twice yearly
thereafter.
Formulation of Recommendations
4.06      The experience gained from existing recommendations and the results
of farm trials wouild be reviewed at monthly district workshops. Monthly dis-
trict workshops would have two functions: (i) to train SMS; and (ii) to review
recommendations and to adapt them for appropriate transmission to VEWs and
AEOs, and to suggest modification to the farm trials program for consideration
at a zonal seasonal workshop. The State Level Extension and Research Committee
would review the zonal conclusions which would then be passed back as guidance
to the monthly workshops at the district level.



- 22 -
Farm Trials
4.07      While it is clear that the universities are responsible for applied
research and the Department of Agriculture for extension work and adaptive
research, the scope of the latter type of research has remained a grey area.
It is true that the technology developed by the universities requires multi-
locational verification under various agro-ecological conditions. This should,
however, be the task of the universities and would require replicated scien-
tific experiments on substations, DOA farms and occasionally on farmers' fields.
The universities must be equipped to handle such multi-locational verification
(through NARP or other sources).
4.08      The T&V approach does not require government supported demonstrations
on farmers' fields.  The farmer who agrees to try the recommendations on the
whole or part of his field is the best demonstration possible.
4.09      The objective of the adaptive research (a more proper term would be
farm trials) program would be to guide the extension staff on how to adjust
the recommendations to differing farm situations. Even with recommendations
being formulated to fit the various agro-ecological conditions, it would be
necessary to adjust the recommended package of practices in relation to:
(a) various cropping sequences;
(b) reliability of water supply;
(c) farmers' skills;
(d) farmers' resource and risk situation; and
(e) agro-climatic conditions.
The farm trial program,details of which would be planned in the district monthly
workshop on the basis of the various farming situations in the district, would
be executed by the DOA, SMS at the district and subdivisional levels through
the AAs. The university extension agronomist would take an active part in all
phases of the program. The trials would be unreplicated and would compare the
farmers' present situation with some proposed improvement derived from an
analysis of his particular farming situation. Since each AA would have one
or two such trials, the number of trials in any one season is expected to be
fairly large and may lend itself to some statistical analysis. The results
would, in any case, be analyzed in the monthly district workshop and conclu-
sions and recommendations for further trials be reported to the zonal workshop.
4.10      Participating farmers, who would often be contact farmers, would
bear the cost of the trials unless the input costs are substantially higher
than those associated with present practice and/or the risks involved are
significant in which case the extra cost could be borne by the Department.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.11      The Additional Director of Agriculture (Planning, Monitoring and
Evaluation) at headquarters would have responsibility for monitoring and
evaluation. He would be assisted by a Deputy Director and other support
staff. The monitoring and evaluation unit would report directly to the
Secretary for Agriculture.



- 23 -
Farm Information
4.12      The ADA (Extension), through the SMS (Adaptive Trials and Training),
would draw on the services of the existing Farm Information Bureau to produce
pamphlets, charts, posters and other training aids as needed.
V. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
5.01      Total project costs over the five year development period, excluding
price contingencies, amount to US$29.6 M, which is US$1.6 per ha of cropped
land or US$5.1 per farm family, assuming 5.8 M farm families. Incremental
costs after the project development period to be met from state budget sources,
would be about US$8.0 M annually or US$1.4 per farm family. Incremental costs
would be partly recovered through market levies on agricultural produce entering
commercial markets.
5.02      Economic Benefits.  Attributing a precise level of benefits to this
type of project is difficult since it is not possible to determine what pro-
portion of benefits are due to extension alone and what are due to additional
purchased inputs and other factors. In practice, it is the combination of a
number of factors, with extension playing the role of a catalyst, that brings
the desired benefits. It is also difficult to estimate acceptance rates of
recommended practices. However, since the project relies primarily on reorga-
nization and strengthening of an existing extension structure, the incremental
cost is low per hectare and per farm family. Hence, even very small and slow
production increases in the project areas would generate a high rate of return.
This project would be able to generate a 50% rate of return if, by 1988, yields
of paddy (1.5 M ha), wheat (1.2 M ha) and sorghum and millets (8.3 M ha) (which
cover 60% of cropped land area) increase by only 31 kg/ha, 14 kg/ha and 10 kg/
ha, respectively and which requires an increase of under 1% over current yield
levels of all three crops. Details are given in Annex 5. Yield increases
have far exceeded this level where the extension system is operating effec-
tively for a few years. One significant feature of the system is that the
practices initially stressed by the extension service focus on improving
cultural practices (timely operations, good land preparation, proper seed
rates, line sowing and weeding) to maintain adequate and healthy plant popu-
lations over unit area cultivated; as these operations usually involve more
work and little cash outlay, they are particularly well-suited to the needs of
many small farmers.
5.03      Project Risks.  The transfer of multipurpose field workers and
establishment of a single, unified professional extension service marks a
major departure from past practice in India. The fact that such a reform is
underway in large parts of the country reflects a willingness to develop an
extension system capable of serving all farmers well. Nevertheless, it is
difficult for governments to make and maintain such decisions. The main risk,
therefore, is that the state government would find it difficult to maintain a
single line of command from extension headquarters to the VEW who work exclu-
sively on agriculture. In this project these risks are relatively low because



- 24 -
only a small proportion of field staff are to be transferred from
another department. To reduce these risks further, efforts were made during
project preparation and appraisal to ensure full understanding of the impor-
tance of this by the Maharashtra State Government. In addition, an assurance
were obtained during negotiations, that VEWs would remain as full time agri-
cultural extension workers throughout the project period, and that their
seniority, emoluments and other benefits would be protected. Staff changes
in the upper ranks of government are frequent and there is the additional
risk of lack of sustained, informed and motivated management. To avoid this,
it will be necessary for IDA to continue to supervise these projects closely
and frequently and provide constant encouragement and assistance to state
governments until the principles of the extension reform become fully accepted
and permanently institutionalized.
5.04      Experience has shown other risks to be minimal.  Farmers responsive-
ness to recommendations has been generally excellent wherever visits are made
systematically. In addition, VEW have gained confidence in their own profes-
sional ability to introduce innovations. The ability of the service to develop
and disseminate recommendations leading to yield increases well above the
level needed for a 50% return has been demonstrated adequately. Initially,
in most situations, availability of suitable technology for different condi-
tions has not been a constraint as there is a backlog of research findings
as yet not widely adopted. Major yield increases are possible even in the
process of bringing the production level of average farmers to that of best
farmers. To reduce the risk of technological constraints lowering anticipated
project benefits, the project supports programs of field testing of research
results and development of good working relationships with the four Maharashtra
Agricultural Universities to ensure a continuous flow of recommendations
adapted to specific regional problems.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government of
India and Government of Maharashtra on the following matters:
(a) By March 31, 1984 GOM and IDA would jointly review progress
of project implementation to determine if the number of
field staff should be increased (para 2.03);
(b) GOM would fill incremental staff positions according to or
earlier than the schedules shown in Annex 1, Table 8 (para
2.13);
(c) GOM would ensure that AAs, ASs, and AOs would be used exclu-
sively for agricultural extension work under the project,
and that they would not be adversely affected, in respect
of their entitlement to emolument and benefits by reason of
the assignment, (para 2.18);
(d) GOM would ensure that AEOs and AAs/ASs would live in or near
the area assigned for their operations (para 2.19);



- 25 -
(e) GOM would ensure that credit and travel allowances would be
made available to staff on such terms and conditions as to
create incentives for the purchase and use of motorcycles
and bicycles (para 2.24);
(f) GOM would undertake monitoring and evaluation of the project
in the form already agreed with the GOI. Further, GOM would
forward to IDA (through DOE) a yearly summary of results in
a form acceptable to IDA (para 2.29); and
(g) GOM would maintain a State Extension and Research Committee
which would hold its first meeting by September 30, 1981 and
meet at least twice a year thereafter (para 4.05).
6.02      With these conditions and assurances the project would be suitable
for a credit of US$23.0 M to the Government of India on standard IDA terms.



- 26 -
ANNEX 1
INDIA                                                  TABLE 1
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST
(Rs' 000)
(Rs' 000)    Foreign Exchange
Year 1      Year 2       Year 3       Year 4        Year 5        Total       %           Cost
Incremental Staff Costs
- Base Cost                       8,877.4    20,149.4    28,598.0    28,598.0         28,598.0    114,820.8
- Physical Contingency a             -            -            -         1,710.0      3,420.0       5,130.0
- Price Contingency b/              798.9      3,223,9     6,863.5      9,151,4       10,867,2      30,904.9
TOTAL                           9,676.3    23,373.3    35,461.5    39,459.4        42,885.2    150,855.7          -        -
Civil Works
- Base Cost                         192.0      7,537.5    11,306.3    11,306.3         7,537,5      37,879,6
- Physical Contingency c/             9.6        376.9        565.3        565.3         376.9       1,894.0
- Price Contingency b/               17.2      1,206.0      2,713.5     3,618,0       2,864,3      10,419           -        -
TOTAL                             218.8      9,120,4    14,585.1    15,489.6       10,778.7      50,192.6         -        -
Training
- Base Cost                         987.1      2,418.8      3,481,5      3,269.5       3,461.5      13,618,4
- Physical Contingency c/            49.4        120.9        174.1        163.5         173.1         681.0
- Price Contingency b/               88.8        387,0        835.6     1,046,2        1,315.4       3,673,0
TOTAL                           1,125,3      2,926.7      4,491.2     4,479.2       4,950,0      17,972.4        8%     1,L37.8
Equipment and Vehicles
PhBase Cost                     6,413.5      7,259.9      7,506.0        894.0          -         22,073.4
Physical Contingency c/           320,7        362.9        375.3         44.7          -          1,103.6
- Price Contingency b/              577.2      1J161.6      1,801,4        286.0          _          3,826.2
TOTAL                           7,311.4      8,784.4      9,682.7      1,224.7          -        27,003.2    28% dl   7,560.9
Incremental Operating Cost
- Base Cost                       2,662.7      6,321.6    10,278.8    10,296.3       10,396.3       39,955.7
- Physical Contigency c/            133.1        316.0        513.9        514.8         519,8       1,997,6
- Price Contingency   b/            239,6      1,011.5      2,466,9      3,294.8       3,950,6      10,963,4
TOTAL                           3,035.4      7,649.1    13,259.6    14.105,9        14,866,,      52,916.7    34%      17,991.7
TOTAL
Base Cost                      19,132.7    43,687.2    61,170.6    54,364,1         49,993.3    228,347,9
Physical Contingency              512,8      1,176.7      1,628.6      2,998,3       2,779.8       9,096.2
Price Contingency t/            2,362,8     8,545.6    17,005.3    19,639,2        21,150.6      68,703.5
GRAND TOTAL                   22,008.3    53,409.5    79,804.5    77,001.6         73,923,7    306,147.6       9%      26,990.4
a/ Calculated as staff salary of 300 VEW (AA) in last 2 years only for additional
VEW if needed after a mid-term review.
b/ Inflation rate = applied cumulatively at 9%, 16%, 24%, 32% and 38% respectively
for project years 1 through 5 (expected date of loan effective July 1981),
c/ Physical contingency calculated at 5%,
d/ Weighted average of vehicle (25%) and equipment (40%),
e! Includes price contingencies and 3% agency fee to Zilla Parishad.



*            b 
INDIA
MARARAShTRA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION FROJECT
CIVIL WORKS
(Re' 000)
qty  (MI)  (R.m2           Year I             Year 2               Year 3             Year 4             Year 5
bty      (M2)      (Rs/M )       Unit Cost       No.      Cost      No.      Coso.       o.      Cost      N.        Cost      No.      Cost       Total Cost
VEW                                                     1200       36         0.75          27.0               _             240  6,480.0        360  9,720.0       360  9,720.0        240  6,480.0         32,400.0
AO                                                       150       47         0.75          35.25              -              30  1,057.5         45  1,586.3         45  1,586.3        30  1,057.5          5,287.6
hostel!'                                                   1    2400 sft.   8.0/sft.   192.0              1       192.0               -                   -                   -                   -              192.0
Total (Excluding Contingencies.)                                                                                  192.0            7,537.5            11,306.3           11,306.3             7,537.5        37,879.6
Physitel Contingencies (5!.)                                                                                        9.6              376.9               565.3              565.3               376.9         1,894.0
Grand Total                                                                                                       201.6            7,914.4            11,871.6           11,871.6             7,914.4        39,773.6
1/ Housing is provided to 20Z VEWs and Ao..
2/ Hostel for 20 trainees/batch at Konkan Krishi Vidyapeeth.



- 28 -
ANNEX 1
INDIA                                                                  TABLE 3
MAhA8ASRTRA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
VEHICLES AND EQUIffENT
(Re' 000)
Year 1          Year 2           Year 3           Year 4           Year 5
Tvpe        Qt.    Unit Cost    No.    Cost    No.    Cost    No.    Cost    No.    Cost    No.    Cost    Total Cost
Vehicles
headquarter    0- M                       4-ND      1           72.0        1      72.0         -                 -                -                -               72.0
District=v       - SMS                    4_UD    25            72.0        8    576.0       8    576.0       9    648.0           -                -           1,800.0
Subdivision       - SDAO21                4-WD    82            65.0       21  1,365.0    29  1 885.0    32  2,080.0               -                -           5,330.0
_ SMI 4t                4-WD    60            65.0       18  1,170.0    21  1,365.0    21  1,365.0               -                -            3,900.0
TraininFg-
- Konkan Krishi Vidyapeeth                4-WD      1          65.0         1      65.0            -                -              -                -               65.0
- iahat.s Phule Xrirhi Vidyapeeth         4-WD      1          65.0         1     65.0             -                -              -                -               65.0
- Punjabrao Krishi Vidyapeeth             4-WD      1          65.0         1      65.0            -                -              -                -               65.0
- Marathwsda Kri.hi Vidyapeeth            4-WD      1          65.0         1      65.0            -                -              -                -               65.0
Staff-OwnedL/ - VEW                      Cycle 3,000            0.5    1,000   500.0  1,000   500.0  1,000   500.0                 -                -           I 500.06
- AO                   X.Cycle   747             6.0      149    894.0    224 1,344.0    225 1,350.0    149    894.0                -            4,482.0
h' & E Unit    -                          4.UD      1          65.0         1      65.0    -         .      -       -         -       .             -               65.0
-                        Cycle    90             0.5        27    13.5       32    16.0       31    15.5           _                -               45.0
-                      M.Cycle    15             6.0         5    30.0        5    30.0        5    30.0           -                -               90.0
SUB-TOTAL                                                    4,945.5          5,716.0          5,988.5             894.0          -          17,544.0
Office 4qcup..ent and Furniture
Headquar8prs-/                                                  14.0               14.0                             -                               -               14.0
District-                                          25          21.0          8    168.0       8   168.0            189.0           -                -              525.0
Subdivisio.                                        90          25.0         27    675.0    32   800.0        31   775.0            _                -           2,250.0
M & E Unit To                                                                       63.5           55.9             31.0           -                -              1S0.4
TralninSll/                                         4          10.0          4      40.0             -               -                              -               40.0
SUB-TOTAL                                                         960.5        1,023.9            995.0           -                -            2,919.4
Audio-Visual Aids
Headquartes 12!                                                                     50.0                             -      -                       -               50.0
District..                                         25          15.0          8    120.0       8   120.0        9   135.0           -                -              375.0
Subdivisiorl14!                                    90            5.0        27    135.0    32   160.0         31   155.0           -                -             450.0
Field Level (VEi  and AO)lS/                                     0.15   1,350    202.5 1,600   240.0  1,550   232.5                -                -              675.0
507.5          520.0            522.5           -                -           1,550.0
SUB-TOTAL
Total (Excluding contingencies.)                                                6,413.5         7,259.9          7,506.0             894.0          -          22,073.4
Physical contingencies (5.)                                                        320.7           362.9           375.3              44.7                      1,103.6
GRAND TOTAL                                                                     6,734.2         7,622.8          7,881.3             938.7                     23,177.0
1/ Oue 4-WD already available for Add. D.A.
2/ One 4-WD already available for each PAO
3/ Eight 4-WD already available.
4/ None available.
51 one for each agricultural university.
6/ 507. of VEW already own   cycles and motorcycles for 1007. of AO.
7/ Two typewriters at Rs. 4,000 each in year one and one electric duplicator at Ra. 6,000 in year one.
8/ Tvo typewriters at Rs. 4,000 each and one electric duplicator at Rs. 6,000, tables *and chairs,
steel cupboards, racks for each district office.
9/ Two typewritera at Rs. 4,000 each, one electric calculator at R.. 6,000, tables and chairs, steel
cupboard, racks for each subdivision and 50 chairs for 50 trainees/batch for each subdivision.
10/ Two typewriters at Rs. 4,000 in year one and more in year tw, one duplicator at Rs. 6,000 in
year one, 8 sets of tables and chairs in year one for senior staff, 5 sets
in year two and year three respectively, 33 sets of tables and chairs for Junior staffs in year one, 37
and 31 in year tw and year three respectively, 3 calculator at Rs. 6,000 in year 1 and 3 nore
in year 2, record cabinets in year one at a.. 1,500, I.. 1,500 in year two and year three, 32 pocket
calculators at Rs. 400 each in year one, 37 and 36 in year two and year three.
11/ Tables, chairs and cabinets etc. calculated at REs. 10,000 per unit.
12/ Flanel and chalk board, c..ette tape recorder, 35,.-. cener-, sil  screen unit, slide viewers, slide
projector, overhead projector, camers with flash gun, 8m.m. ctamera, tripid screen and projector at Rs. 50,000.
13/ Flanel and chalk boards, casette tape recorder, 35m.m. camera, silk screen unit, slide viewers, slide projector,
overhead projector at Rs. 15,000 for each district.
14/ Flanel and chalk boards, tripid slide projector and overhead projector and small library.
15/ Slide viewer, folding blackboard, insect preservation bo.sa etc. at Rs. 150 per extension worker.



ANNEX I
TABLE 4
- 29 -
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
TRAINING COST
(Rs' 000)
Unit
Cost          Year 1           Year 2           Year 3          Year 4           Year 5
Type of Training                               (Rs' 000)   No.    Cost    No.    Cost    No.    Cost    No.    Cost    No.    Cost    Total
1.  Induction Training (A.A./A.S.)-               0.76   1,200   312.0  2,000   .[?0.P  2,000    51:,:    800   208.0           _        _      1,56C.C
0/
2.  Pre Season Training AA/A.S.-/                 C.07   1,924   134.7  3,912   273.8P  6,000   420.0  6,000   420.0  6,000   420.0    1,66S.5
2/
3.  Pre Season Training (AEO/S.M.S.)-             0.15      305    45.8    615    92.0  1,049    157.0  1,049   157.0  1,049   157.0              60&.8
4.  Special Short Courses AA!AEO-3                0.07   2,164   141.5  4,400   308.0  6,847   479.3  6,847   479.3  6,847   479.3    1,887.4
5.  Special Short Court?s for
S.M.S./other Staff-                          1.2         97   116.4    235   246.0    317   379.,    317   379.2    317   379.2    1,500.0
6.  iroject Orientation Workshops-
at all levels for all Staff                  0.1    2,261   226.1  4,605   460.5  7,164    716.4  7,164    716.4  7,164.0 716.4    2,835.6
7.  De ,utation  of A.A. for B.Sc Course-'    8.0           -      -          32   256.0      50   400.0       50   40t .0      50   400.0    1,456.0
6/
8.  Deputation  of AEO/SMS for M.Sc-
Course                                      15.0        -      -         16   240.0       25   375.0       25   375.0       25   375.0    1,365.0
9.  Monthly District Training Workshop
for S.M.S./S.D.A.C ASDO S.M.S.(Dist)
P.A.C.                                       0.1       106    10.6    225    22.5    346    34.6    346    34.6    346    34.6                136.9
1C.  Refresher Course for AA/AlO7                  0.25          -             -       -        -      -       400    100.0 2,000   500.0          600.C
Total (Excluding contingencies)                               987.1          2,418.8          3,481.5          3,269.5         3,461.5   13,618.4
Physical Contingencies (57.)                                   49.4            120.9            174.1             163.5          173.1        681.0
GRAND TOTAL                                                 1,036.5          2,539.7          3,655.6           3,433.0        3,634.6   14,299.4
1/ The training will be I month imparted by university staff at Konkan, Sholapur, Manjri, Parbhani.
In first year only 1,200 can be trained against a capacity of 2,000.
2/ rotal for both seasons.
3/ Includes courses by D.O.A. or univeristy.
4/ Includes course in Maharashtra and other states, National and International Institutes.
5/ Project orientation for all staff at different levels. The cost is sufficient to include
expenditure on special workshops or seminars on Extension (T&V System) or Technology or any
workshop for the improvemenit of the system.
6/ Two A.A. per district for B.Sc. Course starting from second year. (2 years)
7/ Refresher courses will be given to the AA/AS by the institutions providing Induction lraining
after they finish these - all from year IV.



ANEX 1
_30 -                                                                  TAbdLE S
INDIA
MAhARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
INCREMENTAL STAFF SALARIES AND INCENTIVES
(Rs' 000)
Annual
Unit Cost         Year 1            Year 2             Year 3            Year 4             Ye ar
(Rs' 000)      No.     Cost      No.      Cost     Na.      Cost      No.     Cost      No.      Cost      Total Cost
Incromnrtal 1 ftensian Staff
Headq-artars- Add. Dir . Agric.                           5.3-'         1        5.3       1       5.3       1        5.3       1       5.3       1        5.3           26.5
- SMS                                      14.5           4       58.0      4       58.0       4       58.0      4       58.0       4       58.0          290.0
Division      - JDA                                      26.5           7      185.5       7     185.5       7     185.5        7     185.5       7      185.5          927.5
Dlstrict      - INS                                      12.2          11      134.2     21      256.2      32     390.4      32      390.4      32      390.4        1,5b1.6
- AO                                       10.0           8       80.0     16      160.0      25      250.0     25      250.0      25      250.0          990.0
Subdivisions  -SDA0O-                                     0.6          27        1.6     57        3.4      88        5.3     88        5.3      88        5.3           20.9
13.4           -         -       2       26.8       2      26.8       2       26.5      2       26.8          107.2
-  SMS                                     12.2          37     451.4      90   1,098.0    135   1,647.0    135   1,647.0    135   1,647.0             6,490.4
- ASDAO                                    10 0           7       70.0      16     140.0      18     180.0      18      180.0      18     180.0           750.0
Field Level  - VEU5A4.A.                                  59.7/       681   3,881.7  1,669   9,513.3  2,357  13,434.9  2,357  13,434.9  2,357  13,434.9             53,699.7
-    )A.S.                                  7.5-        150   1,125.0    396   2,970.0    568   4,260.0    568   4,260.0    568   4,260.0             16,875.0
- AO                                       10.0         128   1,280.0    293   2,930.0    416   4,160.0    416   4,160.0    416   4,160.0            1I,6SO.0
SUB-TOTLL                                                      7,272.7          17,346.5          24,603.2           24,603.2          24,603.2        98,428.8
Incrrental Support Staff
Headquarters-        6                                                          11.8              11.8               11.8              11.8               11.8           59.0
Dictrict/S.bdivliior6                                                          528.4           1,398.1           2,307.5            5,307.5           2,307.5        e Ydt.7
SUB-TOTAL                                                        540.2           1,409.9           2,319.3            2,319.5           2,319.5         8,908.0
M & E Unit        - H/.dq..rj?r-                                                   103.9              142.4             142.4             142.4              142.4          673.5
_adqutrg7r-                                                       50.0             100.0              150.0             150.0             150.0           600.0
- SDbsdititi_                                                    202.5             442.5             675.0              675.0             675.0         2,670.0
SUR-TOTAL                                                        356.4             684.9              967.4             967.4             967.4         3,943.5
Traislog          - Koskan iriahi              10dybppeeth-/   11/                 123.1             123.1              123.1             123.1              123.1          615.5
- Tahatika Phule KrVidysppe-th-1    lit                          216.1             216.1             216.1              216.1             216.1         1,080.5
Pusgab-so Krishi VidyIpdt,h                                    214.8             214.8             214.8              214.8             214.8        1,074.0
- Narathwada Erishi Vidyopeeth-                                                    154.1             154.1              154.1             154.1           770.5
SUB-TOTAL                                                        708.1             708.1              708.1             708.1             708.1         3,540.5
Total (Excluding costingenciee)                                             8,877.4           20,149.4          28,598.0           25,598.0          28,598.0      114,820.8
Physiral cuetlofeectee                                                          -                 -                 -        300   1.700.0    600   3 420.0          5,130.0
GRAND TOTAL                                                   8,877.4           20,149.4          28,598.0           30,308.0          30,308.0      118,240.8
1/ Exiating past of JDA could be upgraded as Add. DA, the additional  snnual pay in Rs. 5,301.
2/ Additional ansual pay of Rs. 60 for 88 esisting SDAO,  ad R.. 13,400 for 2 new SDAO per acao
included apeoia  additional pay of Rs. 60 per annum furs year 2 onwards.
3/ Agricoltcral Diplpoe (Too year Diploae).
4/ Agricultoral graduate.
5/ Seven clerks froa year one o-trds at RN. 6,000 pee annau  each, one driver fran year one onwards at Rs. 5,800 per annun.
6/ 8 Atsistant Administrative Officers at Rs. 12,400 per annum in year 1, 16, 25 in year 2 sad year three onwards. Ten
onsior clerks at RN. 7,500 in year 1, 37, sad 70 in year 2 and year three onwards.  Forty-saves driv-r. at RN. 9,750 pet aorm
is year use, 105 and 167 in year 2 and year 3 oswards.  (All are cumulative figures).
7/ One Head of N & E Unit (JDA) at Re. 26.5 per annum fram year one onwards, one Deputy Director (icosnoic) at Re. 15.7 per ansue
fron year one onwards, one Deputy Dir. (Statistics) at Rs. 15.7 per Cnon fros year one onwards, oar Senior Statistical Assistant
at Re. 10.0 per anecm in year S and one eors in year two onwards, one key punch operator at Rs. 7.5 per aenum in year 1 and one eare
is year two onwards, two computers at 7.5 per asnsn  each in year I and two nore in year two onwards, one senior clerk at Es. 7.5 per
-nanu fran year one onwards, one junior clerk at Rs. 6.0 per aannu in year one and one oors in year twa anwards.
8/ Fi-e Senior Statistical Assistants at Rs. 10.0 per annu  each ia year one, 5, and Seoillion year twa and year three respectively.
9t/ Nwnty seven junior statitical assistants at Rs. 7.5 per annum in year one, 32 and 31 more in year twa aed year three respectively.
.lO/ One Director of Extension Education at Rs. 26,500 froee year one onwards, one eatension agroDamiat at Re. 22,600 per asnum fr.e year
one onwards, two assistant professors at Rs. 31,000 per annum free year 1 onwards, one superintendent at Rs. 12,300 per snsue fra.
year I onwards, one senior clerk at RN. 8,100 per snnum, twa stenogr-phers (Dower grade) at Re. 8,350 per ansuu; and one driver at
Ra. 5,750 par annu froa year one anwards.
11/ One Director of Extension Education, at Rs. 26,500 per ansun, four extenaion agronseists at Rs. 90,400 pee annum, two assistant
professors at Rs. 31,000 per annum, one superintendent at Rs. 12,300 per ensue, one senior olerk st Rs. 8,100 per aenue, five stear
stenographers (toser grade) at Rs. 8,350 and one driver at RE. 5,750 fro. year one onwards.
12/ One Director Extecelon Education at Re. 26,500 per ancn, three satension agronmlsts at R.. 67,800 per annu, two associate professor
at Rs. 45,200, one assistant professor at Re. 15,500 per ann=, one superintendent at Re. 12,300 per ensn, one senior clerk at RE. 8,100
per ennu, four stenographers (lower grade) at RE. 8,350 per arso  and one driver at RE. 5,750 pear annun fran year ass onw rds.
13/ One Director Extenslon Education at Re. 26,500 per anon, three extension agrononist/specialist at Rs. 67,800 per *ann, one superintendent
at RE.  12,300 per anen, senior clerk at RE. 8,100 pear ann, four stenographers (lower grade) et Re. 8,350 per  non= and one driver at
Rs. 5,750 pear an.u fran year one oneerds.



-' 31-ANNEYX I
TABLE 6
INDIA
MAIIARASHTRA AGRICUTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
INCREMENTAL OPERATING CCSTS
(R.' 000)
Annual            Year I             Year 2             Year 3              Year 4             Year 5
Unit Cost       No.      Cost      No.      Cost      No.      Cost       No.      Coat      No.      Cost       Total Cost
Operating Expenses & Extension
Materials
VEJ/AC      2/                              0.5-        2,194     548.5   4,614  1,730.3  6,747   3,373.5   6,747  3,373.5    6,747  3,373.5               12,399.3
Other Staff-l                                1.0-         104      52.0       216     160.5    327       327.0       327     322.0      327    327.0        1,193.5
10              Other Pxpenses-                              5.0            35    175.0         75    375.0      115      575.0      115      575.0      115    575.0        2, 275.0
3eadquarters                                 1.0                     1.0                1.0                1.0                 1.0                1.0            5.0
Tratnin /4                                   2.0           4        8.0         4       8.0       4        8.0         4       8.C        4       8.0           40.C
M & E Unit - H.Q.5/                                                17.5                30.0               52.5                70.0               70.0          240.0
- District                      3.0             5      15.0       10      30.0      15       45.0        15      45.0       15      45.0          180.0
- Subdiviston                   1.5            27      40.5       59      88.5      90      135.0        90    135.0        90    135.0           534.0
SUB-TOTAL                                                         857.5             2,423.3            4,517.0            4,534.5            4,534.5       16,866.P
Incremental Travel allowance
and Expenses
VEY                                         0.6           831    498.6    2,065  1,239.0  7,925   1,755.0   2,925  1,755.0    2,925  7,755.0                 ' 00 .6
AO-                   2/                     1.02         128    130.7        293    298.9    416        424.3       416    424.3       416    424.3         5,202.5
Subdivisional Staff-                        9-68           27    259.2         59    566.4       90      864.0        90    864.0        90    864.0         3,417.6
District                                    4.8-            8      30.4        16      76.8      25      120.0        25    120.0        25    120.0           475.2
District/Subdivision
(support staf                               1.8-l        18      32.4        71    127.8    166        798.8      166     298.8       166    298.8        1,056.6
Division Ste                               12.0              7     84.0         7      84.0       7       64.0         7      84.0        7      P4.0          420. 0
Headquartera-                              6.0             4      24.0         4      24.0       4       24.0         4      Z4.0        4      24.0          120.0
M 6 E Unit - Senior Statistic
Assistant                    1.02            5       5.1       I0      10.2      15       15.3        15      15.3       15      15.3           61.2
- Junior Statistic
Assistant                   0.60           27      16.2        59      35.4      90       54.0        90      54.0       90      54.0          213.6
SUB-TOTAL                                                         1,088.6          2,462.5             3,639.4            3,639.4             3,639.4      14,469.3
Rent For SDAU Office                           10.6            27       286.2    59    625.4        90      954.0        90     354.0       90    954.0         3,773.6
Vehicle Operating Cost
Subdivisional 4-WD dis?el-/                6.0            39        234.0    89    534.0    142         952.0       142    852.0       142    852.0        3,324.0
District 4-WD1 diesel-   1                 10.0             8         80.0    16    160.0        25      250.0        25     250.0       25    250.0           990.0
Headquarters fTry]  diesel -               13.2              1        13.2      1      13.2       1       13.2         1      13.2        1      13.2           66.0
Training 4-WD-y 4                          10.0             4         40.0      4      40.0       4       40.0         4      40.0        4      40.0          200.0
M & E Unit 4-W3-                           13.2              1        13.2      1      13.2       1       13.2         1      13.2        1      13.2           66.0
External Evaluation                                                     -              50.0                 -                   -               100.0          150.0
Bs.e Lioe Studies                                                     50.0               -                   -                  -                 -             50.0
SUB-TOTAL                                                           430.4             810.4            1,168.4            1,168.4             1,268.4        4,846.C
Total (Excluding costingencies)                                   2,662.7          6,321.6            10,278.8           10,296.3            10,396.3      39,955.7
Physical contingenctes (57.)                                         133.1            316.0              513.9               514.8              519.8       1,997.6
GRAND TOTAL                                                       2,795.8          6,637.6            10,792.7           10,811.1            10,916.1      41,953.3
1/ Includes printing of diaries, charts and instructional materials, sample of small implements, seeds, pesticides etc.
for field trials and training demonstrations, poster papers and paints for simple visual aids. Taken at 50/. of unit
cost in year 1, 75% in year 2 and 100Y thereafter.
I includes SMSs, at District subdivision, SDAO and PAO.
3/ Calculated at Rs. 5,000 per annum for each subdivision and district office.
4/ Calculated at Rs. 2,000 per year unit.
S/ Running costs are Rs. 10,000, 15,000, 20,000, 35,030 and 35,000 in year 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 respectively.  Computer
time at Rs. 2,500, 5,000, 7,500, 10,007 and 16,000 in yeer 1, 2, 3, 4 aod 5.  Ad-hoc studies at R8. 5,000, 10,000, 25,000,
25,000 in year 1, 2, 3, 4.and year 5.
6/ Motorc',cle mileage allowance of Rs. 85 per month (about 10 kh/day at RA. 0.43 per kh).
7/ PTA of SDAO at Rs. 300 per month,RTA of SMS at Rs. 300 per month plus PTA for drivet at 200 per nonth.
8/ PTA of SM5 at Rs. 300 per month plus PTA of driver at Rs. 100 per month.
9/ PTA at Rs. 150 per month for Asst. administrative staff and senior clerks.
1O/ PTA of JDA at Divisional level at Rs. 1,000 per mouth (including public traosport allowance.
11/ PTA of SMS at Rs. 500 per month (including public transport allowances.
12/ 15,000km/year at Rs. 0.40/km.
13/ 25,000km/year at Rs. 0.40km.
14/ 53,000km'y-er at Rs. 0.40/kb.



- 32 -
ANNEX 1
Table 7
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
REQUIREMENT OF EXTENSION STAFF BY PROJECT YEAR
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5
VEW (AA) plus (AS)   Existing: Yearly           1,120       918    1,037
Cumulative    1,120    2,038    3,075    3,075    3,075
New:      Yearly           831    1,234        860
Cumulative       831    2,065    2,925    2,925    2,925
AO                    Existing: Yearly            115      103       113
Cumulative       115      218       331       331      331
New:      Yearly           128       165       123
Cumulative       128      293       416       416      416
SDAO                  Existing: Yearly             27       30        31
Cumulative        27       57        88        88       88
New:      Yearly            -          2        -
Cumulative        -         2         2         2        2
ASDAO (AO)            New:      Yearly              7         7        4
Cumulative         7        14       18        18       18
SMS (S.Div)           Existing: Yearly             17       11        17
Cumulative        17        28       45        45       45
New:      Yearly             37       53        45
Cumulative        37       90       135       135      135
PAO                   Existing: Yearly              8         8        9
Cumulative         8       16        25        25       25
SMS (Dist.)           New:      Yearly             11       10        11
Cumulative        11        21       32        32       32
JDA (Div.)            New:       Yearly             7        -        -
Cumulative         7         7        7         7        7
ADA/JDA (Ext.)        Existing: Yearly              1
Cumulative         1         1        1         1        1
SMS (HQ)              New:      Yearly              4
Cumulative         4        4         4         4        4



-33-
1'            -   -               -   A      A   -       -         -   -   -   -     -
A.O              -   -     -   -     -   -      -   -      -   -.    -   -        -      -
o Al
 H
A                                                 ,I,I,,r,I
Al          AAA    AAAA    AAAA    AAAAA    *AAAAA
A         A         A          A          A         -                    A
A                              A         A         A          A          A          A         A         A A
-              A                                              -          A          A         A         A   A
2                  A  A - - A- A - A  A A
A   A               A         A         A          A          A         4          A        A   A
4         A         A          4          A         A
4
A A A      AAAA A    A A A -A   A A A     A A A A A   A A A A A    A 4 A A    A A A A  A A A A
CAA              A         A.      A            A           A         A         A         A A
A           C 0   AAA  0       AA 0      A    0   A.A    C         A    AAA  0          0 A
A AAACAA        AIAA  A   A AACAAIACAA.    000  A A AAA
AA A    AAA  A    004 A     AAA  A A AAAO  A   -4.0  A Al AOA A    ACA A A
AA.A   Al            4AAAAAAAAAAA0A AAAIACAAAl44 A CZAAAA
A                    A          A4.,*              AA
A    AA A A A AAAA  A I       ACIAAA              AAAAA  A A



*      .a 'a 0              C |       rvr"G  : r              Co oo 0r                                                                  Ca                     0t  ':-                            oo             0  .SC     73:         .___ 
Fe oo ,w                    to          co-                     o4    a                          'o           .,        'o  O1  0-o                   _,   w>z    i'  C0  0100  044DGr   Cge
o    _0                 _                -                                                                   0-  _            _                    _           __                       H                                0o
O''- -               00      _'         0      O.               -0                          o O                      40              0-    0 4 0               HH                              H OH  
_0    0     OH                                000              H    440               0 _00                   H    0-H               H     04 0                0-    00 0                H 300 0 C00-'-wowo w'  D   u    O        sl =_; a  
H.                                                  -                                  - W- _ _                                                                                                                            44    ^ _ _             
0-   D-                                  0                                                                    - W                                              -            H                                         44 _  0
0     H                                 H                      w                       H                      0                      w-                        ,,,                       0-                           z 
44                          _                               _         -_         _     -   _           _           -    w-       _    '  _00                   H             w                   -     _o             0   _          0   '  v__________
o 0000n-44                               H     00               0   _-~0               0     0_               0   _-0            _ -   _-0-                w        _- OC                0   _0- O                   H        _     0               s_____~r
-:,,,,,,O, ,,,, .    0   _                            ,          J                     0-                                                                                                                             I_.     -  I   ,  0    fir  
>~~~~~~ r                              -    .          .    H.   -    ..     H.    H    r 0         H      ,.,  -                                                                                           H    _0 s,                  
_    , 4        11      1                ,-    I               .-  4 _ _- Hi00                                0       40  I _    _   w    _ _ _                                          _        _ 4                          4   0
H    _                            _          _0 _                      0- _      _    _H                                             -     0--0                                          -        -                   0 
I:    _                         _         _            _    0                 I    _                 _    _                                           _ 4    I'                         
~~~~~~I                         I                                       4     4                 I    I                 I     I                   I     I                   I     I                              -  0  0n
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
I  I    I   I  I   1    4                       I                       I                         I                   I    I                            0- 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ g
-0~ ~~~~~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ r-  H    -          -                                          
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e _t- 



ANMEX 1
TABLE
Page 3
Field  Level                                                       Sab-dois loyal Level                                                                    Di-trice  Level
N. of Fare                                                                                                        Meeter                         Aceis-tav              (P.L.O.) DY.                     Sebjact
Feel live/              P51lage  Letessive                egric.                    Sobdsvlcsee                Special lee                    Svtd ivis ion                Director                     haetter                      AsrcIc
Dletctct/bobdivttloe                                     a/ D00 ) ~Worker                               Dificec                  Ascii. DfIIer                iSublieislvv)                 Dtticec  (AD .),              of AfrIc.                  Srciliet                      DEflcet
Req.b/ Avail.c/ Nlee    Req.d/  Neava.c/ Nev              De1.6| VADel.s/  Ree    Req.b/ Dvail.i/ NeZ    Re.jLf A-vail.    Nw    Req k/ Avail.    Sep    Req. m/ A-1.    B Ne                             Req.m/ Avail.    N-e
Year i1l
17)  ThPae                                                                                                                                                                                                              i          i         _       I           _        1       1           _
1.  There                                     43                43                            S                                                  - I   _                     2
2.   Bhveav1d55                                                  55                            2                            1           I        -       2          -        2
3.  Dah-iu                                    63                 63                           P                             I           I        _       2
Di-tric  Total                               161               161         55       116      'O           8       12i        i 3        i                6          -         6      -           _        -       I          i         _       I           -        I       I           -
IS)  Dhule                                                                                                                                                                                                               I         I          _       I          _         I       I          _
1.   Bindkhedt                                 73                73                                                         I           I                2          2        -
2    beko-i                                   55                 S5                            7                            1           1               2          -        2
3.  Sbahado                                    3P                36                           4                             1           1        _       2
DietriAt Total                               164                Ib4        95        65      '            R       12         3 3                 -       6           2        4      -           -         -I                                                        I      I                     I
19)A   aa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     _                  _                            _I
l.  A naBt                                    6                  71                           9                             1           1        _       2
2.   liasije                            '96                97                           1                              1           I        -       2          -                I           -         I
.                                             9beoceo  DO        83                          II                             1           1        _       '          _         2      1           _         I
4    baPero                                                       2                          I'                              I          I        -       2           _        2       _          _         -
Di-trief  Total                               32                133       145       iTO      42          ID       32        4           4        _       A                    6
2D)  Kolbhaue                                                                                                                                                                                                            I         i          _                   _        I       I          -I
1.   4adbivgiaJ                               b9                b9                            9                             1           1        _       2                    I 3
2.  Ilatkangalc                               91                 91                          11                             1           1        -       2          -         2      1           -         I
3  Ka vv 1                         8 ~ ~~                     ~         ~        ~~             ~             ~ ~~5 i~5  111 1       __I                                              _        I
4.  Radh-avaar                                  2                52 I7                         7                             1                   -       2 7           _ 
Dietri-i   Tot-l                             3012               332        14         10'    Id          1 '      20        4           4        -       P           1        1       2                    2       1         1          -      I           -         I      I           -
21)  Osmanabed                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I            I
1.  Oemeabad                                   72                76                           9                             1           1        -       2 
2.   Foijapoc                                 43                49                            n                             I           I        -       2          -
13 Latc                                       64                64                            8                             1           1        _                  -         2
S    Udgip                                     53                51                            7                             1          1        -       I           -        2
DistrLic   or-al                               37               '42       134       1108     30          26      11         4           4        -                   2        6                       -            I         I         -        I          _         1       I          _
*1  Yeeotla II                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I          -      I                                   
1.  Yeotm.1                                   53                 33                            I                            1           1        _                  2
7.   PavdhsrDevedv                            S6                 S63                           7                            1           1 I
3    Pueed                                    3                 9                             7                            1           1        -                  I '
Di-erict Total                               167                362        '44(1-     77      '1         10       ii         3          3        _       6           S        I       _          _         _       1         I          _      I           -         I       I          -
'31   -m. I .-l- I
1    I                                        S3                                             11)                                                                                      3 1  -                                                                                I _
2.   nell at                                  4G                4h                            6                             1           31I
1.   M-ohi                                    15                 75                           1                             I           I
LiotrictiTot-1                               274                 04       13n        74      25          13       12         1          3                                                                          I         I '  ..   - _  _                        I       1 _
'4)  BIhbdats                                                                                                                                                                                                            3         2          - I-                         IIII
1.   B  -d-e                                  43                42                             5                            I           I
.  Thmear                                     41                 41                           S                             1           1
3.  G.odLi                                    44                44                            6                             1           1        - I-
4  .,  gaon                                   40                 4C                            5                            1           i        _       -          -
S.  SkeOli                                    51                 51                           6                             1           1 _
Diatrict Total                               21"                 15        b2       15                   3        3         5           I        -      10           -       1)1
S)   iardh                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
1.  WasdhS                                    5e                 59                            7                            '           I
?.Arvi                                        44                46                            6                             1           1                           I
Dtvtroci  Total                              13220              1O1        14         ,1      13          9        4                             _       ,,          3        1      _           _         _       I         I          _      I                     I                            I
Sub-Tote)  Scat  111                       1,270             1,042      1,237       560    23'          113      123       31          'I        -     1           17       1        4           _         0      '          '                             _ S              9           _        q
<cndPttot)                                 13,762            13,0130    3,173    2,-3       72,         331      417       03                          ItO         41      1        I            _       I                  -          _-



- 36 -
ANNEX 1
TABLE 8
Footnotes
a/ Sources:- 1976 sample Agric. Census Figures.
b/ One VEW/(AA) sper 1000 farm families with some additional VEWs
in irrigation project areas.
c/ Includes Agric. Assistant (1443) from various Special Schemes in
State Sector (1000) former, A.A.S. now working in Z.P. as integrated
V.L.W. and 632 Agric. Supervisors from Local Sector Z.P. (318) and
314 from State Sector Special Special Scheme.
d/ One A.O. for supervision of about 8 V.R.W. (A.A.) work.
e/ 331 A.Os. 200 from E.P. Local Sector Schemes and 131 from special
scheme in State Sector.
f/ One S.D.A.O. each for 90 subdivisions.
I/ 88 Class-lI officers merged from Special Schemes.
h/ S.M.S. two per subdivisions are required.
i/ 45 Class-II officers merged from Special Scheme.
j/ One A.S.D.A.O. for subdivision where no. of A. Os. is more than 10.
k/ Existing 25 Dist. Dy. Director of Agriculture, will be principal
Agric. Officer.
m! One S.M.S. and one A.O. per district.



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
REQUIREMENT OF EXTENSION STAFF BY YEARS
Farm
Holding                        New
District                           ('000)       Req.   Avail    Req.        AO             SDAO      Sub-Div. SMS  Sub-Div. A(t  DDA              Dist. SMS-   Dist. AO
Year I
1.  Raigad                                  195         200      63       137  25   6  19   4   4   -   8   1   7   -   -   -   I   I   -   1   _   1   1   _   1
2.  Julgaon                                 248         283     385        98  35  20  15   3   3   -   6   3   3   2   -   2   1   1   -   1   -   I   1   -   I
3.  Solqpur                                 244         255     108       147  32   8  24   3   3   -   6   1   5   1   -   1   1   1   -   I   -   1   1   -   1
4.  Satara                                   320        331      117      214  41  19  22   4   4   -   8   1   7   2   -   2   1   1  -                 I   -   1   1   -   1
5.  Aurangabad                              278         318     183       135  40  23  17   4   4   -   8   2   6   2   -   2   1   1  -                 1   -   1   1   -   1
6.  Akola                                   202         217     241       -24  27  16  11   3   3   -   6   5   1   -   -   -    I   1  -                1   -   1   1   -    1
7.  Buldhara                                180         185     124        61  23  13  16    3   3   -   6   2   4   -   -   -   1   1  -               1   -   I   1   -   1
R   Nagpur                                  152         162      99        63  20  10  10   3   3   -   6   2   4   -   -   -   1   1  -                I   -   I   I   -   I
SUB-TOTAL                  1,819       1,951  1,120        831 243 115 128  27  27   -  54  17  18    7   -   7   8   8  -    8   -   8   8   -   8
Year 1I
1.  Ratmagirl                               399         299      87       312  50  15  35    5   5   -  10   -  10   1   -   1   1   1  -                I   -   1   1   _   I
2.  Nasik                                   252         268     102       166  33  12  21   4   4   -   8   1   7   -   -   -   1   1  -                 I   -   ]   1   -   1
3.  Pune                                    323         333     116       217  42   9  33   4   4   -   8   1   7   3   -   3    1   1  -                1   -    I         1   1
4.  Sungli                                   243        243       68      175  30   9  21   3   3   -   6   2   4   1   -   1   1   1--                  1   -   1   1   -   1
5.  Nanded                                  200         222     183        39  28  11  17   3   3   -   6   3   3   -   -   -   I   I  -                 1   -   1   1   -   1
6.  Parbhani                                223         244      183       61  30  13  17   3   3   -   6   2   4   2   -   2   1   1  -                 1   -   1   1   _   1
7.  Beed                                    211         216       87      129  27  16  11    3   3   -   6   2   4   -   -   -   1   1  -                1   -   1   1   -   1
8.  Chandrapur                              216         227       92      135  28  18  10    7   5   2  14   -  14   -   -   -    1   1  -               1   -   1   1   -   1
SUB-TOTAL                  2,067       2,157     916    1,234 268 103 165  32  30   2  64  11  21    7   -    7   8   8  -               8   -   8   8   -   8
Year III
1.  Thane                                   161         161       55      106  20   8  12   3   3   -   6   -   6   -   -   -   1   1  -                 1   -   1   1   -   1
2.  Dhule                                   164         164       99       65  20   8  12   3   3   -   6   2   4   -   -   -   1   1  -                 1   -   1   1   -   1
3.  A' nagar                                322         333     145       188  42  10  32   4   4   -   8   2   6   2   -   2   1   1  -                 1   -   I   1   -   1
4.  Kolhapur                                302         302       84      218  38  18  20   4   4   -   8   1    7   2   -   2   1   1  -                1   -   1   1   -   1
5. Osmanubad                                237         242     134       108  30  20  10   4   4   -   8   2   6   -   -   -   1   1  -                 1   -   1   1   -   1
6.  Yeotmal                                 167         167     244       -77  21  10  11   3   3   -   6   5   1   -   -   -   1   1  -                 I   -   1   1   -   1
7.  Amararati                               204         204     130        75  25  13  12   3   3   -   6   2   4   -   -   -   I   1  -                 I   -   I   1   -   1
8.  Bhandara                                219         219       62      157  27  17  10   5   5   -  10   -  10   -   -   -   1   1  -                 I   -   I   I   -   1
9.  Wardha                                  100         105       84       21  13   9   4   2   2   -   4   3   1   -   -   -   1   1  -                 1   -   1   1   -   1
SUB-TOTAL                  1,876       1,897  1,037        860 236 113 123  31  31   -  62  17  45   4   -   4   9   9  -                9   -   9   9   -   9
'CiTAL                     5,767       6,000  3,075    ?,925 747 331 416  90  88    2                       18   -  IP  25  25  -   25   -  25  15   -  25
1/ Seven additional provided for certain districts.



ANNEX 2
- 38 -                          Page 1
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Training
1.        The Agriculture Extension Service has an important role in increasing
agricultural productivity and thus farmer incomes.  To do this, farmers need
knowledge and skills for efficient management of their crops, livestock, physical
resources, and farm business as a whole. Essentials of success include incentives
for production, evolving suitable technology, and availability of credit, inputs,
transportation, and markets. The responsibility of the extension agents is to
provide the farmer with the knowledge to improve his income, and to verify new
technology as it develops. A training program is thus essential both for extension
worker and farmers. Practical training is essential for extension workers since
they must be able to demonstrate to farmers the actual techniques of improved crop
husbandry.
The New Program
2.        Training programs for extension workers and agricultural administra-
tors must be strengthened to provide better dissemination of advice as a means
of overcoming production constraints and assist farmers in the adoption of
improved husbandry practices. The Training and Visit System is the basis for
an improved extension service. This system depends on sustained and regular
training of extension workers and transfer of appropriate recommendations to
farmers through regular visits by VEW. The keynote is continuous practical
training of VEW and AEO by SMS who are conversant with the latest research
results, active in the identification of local problems, and participate in
local verification trials. Training in administration and management is re-
quired for the higher level of staff.
Training Strategy
3.        Since the extension service is to improve the quality of farming
practices, training of research - extension - farmer teams must be such that
it imparts the specific information needed. There is little merit in merely
telling the farmer to do something. The farmer needs to know how to carry out
a task. It is best if the extension worker actually works with the farmer in
performing specific tasks. This implies that VEW must be able to perform all
tasks and, likewise, AEO and SMS who train VEW must also be able to perform
all tasks. Furthermore, trainers of SMS (usually research workers and senior
staff) need to be acquainted with farming operations and how they are best
performed. This requires a change in present training methods from a reliance
on lectures to "learning by doing."



- 39 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
4.         The first step in designing of appropriate training programs is an
identification of the skills and knowledge required by the farmer to improve
his production. The second step is to identify which of these would be taught
by VEW to the farmer. The order of operation and their seasonal priority is
then determined so that VEW can get appropriate training at the proper time.
AEO, as supervisor of VEW, would also need training in what is to be passed
on to the farmer. AEO should also be able to answer more advanced technical
questions, and to identify practical problems. For subdivisional and district
SMS, even greater depth of knowledge is required so as to be able to instruct
both VEW and AEO.
5.         Research workers have to develop ability to identify factors limit-
ing farm production in the field and target research programs to the practical
resolution of these problems. This implies joint farm visits by research and
extension workers; cooperation in design, execution and analysis of trials
on farmers? fields; and continuous exchange of information and ideas between
research, extension and farmers. Both this project and the National Agricul-
tural Research Project support these activities.
Tests and Demonstrations
6.         To provide a measure of the effectiveness of training programs and
permit trainees to assess progress, short tests of knowledge and demonstration
of skills would be integrated into the training program. Precourse testing
would assist instructors in emphasizing those areas in which the trainees need
the most assistance and eliminate instruction in areas in which they already
possess adequate skill or knowledge. Pretesting helps the trainee identify
areas in which he needs assistance and thus provides some motivation to learn.
Testing may include identification of limiting factors such as diseases, in-
sects, nutritional deficiencies, or demonstrations by the trainee of crop
production techniques. Emphasis should be placed on the practical rather than
extensive testing of written knowledge. Comparison of pre and post course
tests will permit the trainee to identify what he has learnt and the instructor
to evaluate the effectiveness and adequacy of his instruction.
Training for Extension W4orkers
7.         Fortnightly training of VEW and AEO by SMS would be a major feature
of the project. Additional and more specialized training would be provided
for each category of extension worker. These are described below.
Village Extension Workers (VEW)
8.         Preservice Training.  VEW have generally completed secondary school.
They are usually given a two year diploma course.  The content, in the past,
included subjects related to community development in addition to agriculture.
These courses need more emphasis on practical training. Several states have
already adopted shorter courses concentrating on agriculture.



- 40 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
9.         Orientation Training.  All VEW would receive special training in
extension methodology and the T&V System.
10.        Fortnightly Training. A major feature of the T & V System is training
of VEW once a fortnight. This training is carried out by SMS and reviewed by
AEO and his VEW in the alternate week. For sessions given by SMS, the basic
training unit would be a group of 30-40 VEW and AEO. They would meet on a
regular day, once in two weeks, to receive training from SMS and SDAO of subdivi-
sion, supported as necessary by district staff and research workers. Most
sessions would be held where there are means for practical application of
lessons taught, viz., a farmer's field, a seed farm, an experimental station,
or a training center. Training would cover actual farm situations most likely
to arise over the next two week period. Time would be allowed for VEW to carry
out field operations and practicals. During training, the VEW would have a
chance to raise and discuss problems encountered in the previous fortnight.
Representatives of cooperatives, banks, input agencies, agro service units,
and irrigation would be invited to attend part of the session to ensure coor-
dination of related activities. On the intervening training day in each two
week period, VEW would meet with their AEO to review current problems.
11.        Preseason Training. Prior to each of the two main agricultural
seasons (kharif and rabi), VEW would receive a 3 day training covering the
main seasonal crops and practices recommended for them. The training would
be held at subdivision level. The DDA, SMS and SDAO would organize and attend
this session. This training would initiate the extension campaign for the
coming season.
12.        Special Short Courses.  Some VEW would be given training in par-
ticular disciplines/crops which are of special importance to their areas.
13.        Promotional Training. Training grants would be available to selected
VEW to enable them to obtain a degree and thus qualify for promotion as AEO.
Agriculture Extension Officers
14.        Preservice Training.  AEO would generally be university graduates.
A number of them would be experienced VEW promoted as AEO.
15.        Orientation Training.  All AEO would receive special training in
extension methodology and the T&V System.
16.        Fortnightly Training. AEO would attend all training sessions of
VEW. They are expected to assist SMS in fortnightly training. In addition
to visiting each VEW in the field, AEO would conduct a review training meeting
for the VEW each fortnight as necessary. AEO would also be given extra train-
ing by SMS to develop greater subject matter competency.
17.        Preseason Training.  The AEO would participate in the 3 day preseason
training prior to the main cropping seasons (kharif and rabi). The training
would be held at district level and the training group would consist of
university and state headquarters staff.



- 41 -                                ANNEX 2
Page 4
18.         Special Short Courses. Selected AEO would be given specialized train-
ing for a week in particular crops and disciplines which are of importance to
their area of operation.
19.        Promotional Training.  AEO who show exceptional talent would be
provided opportunities for higher .raining.  Such AEOs will be deputed for
a two year M.Sc course at the four universities.
Subject Matter Specialists (SMS)
20.         SMS play an important role in providing technical support and train-
ing to VEW and AEO. There would be SMS with different levels of training and
competence at subdivisional, district and state levels. Selection criteria of
SMS has been considered at national level and following qualifications have
been proposed for guidance of the state governments in recruitment of this
category.
Fresh Recruits: M.Sc (Agri) with specialization in agronomy
or other disciplines, preferably with two years of field
experience.
21.        Orientation. Suitable instruction would be given in extension
methodology and the T&V System to all SMS. Their specific roles would be
explained to them in detail.
22.         Inservice Training. The SMS would participate in the divisional workshop,
pre season training, specialized short courses and monthly workshops.
(a)   Zonal Workshop: To provide effective training to VEW and
AEO once every two weeks, the SMS would have to be up to
date in their area of specialization and ensure that train-
ing has a practical bias.
(b)   Preseason Training: The SMS would participate in the 3
day preseason training prior to the main cropping seasons
(kharif and rabi). The training would be held at district
level.
(c)   Special Short Courses: In order to build up professional
competence of SMS it is considered necessary to provide them
opportunities for higher training in agricultural
universities, and research institutions of national impor-
rance. SMS with exceptional talent could be provided oppor-
tunitles for training in such international research insti-
tutions as IRRI (Philippines).
23.         Promotional Training.  Such of the SMS who do not possess M.Sc degree
would be provided opportunities for higher training (M. ScAgri) at one of
the four universities.



- 42 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5
Administrative Personnel
24.        In addition to subject matter training and training in extension
methodology, administration and management training would be available to SMS
and other staff (SDAO, DDA, Joint Directors and ADA).
25.        Orientation.  All supervisory personnel would undergo training in
extension methodology and the T&V system. Their specific roles would be ex-
plained in detail.
26.        Inservice Training.  Special training programs would be organized
by the Director of Agriculture for staff at supervisory levels.
Responsibilities
27.        The Additional Director of Agriculture (Extension), in consultation
with the four universities and other appropriate agencies, would be responsible
for planning and organizing all training programs. He would be assisted by the SMS
team at headquarters. A summary of the training activities is as under:
(see attached page)



ANNEX 2
-43 -
Type of Training          Participants       Venue      Duration    Frequency        Trainers
1.  Induction            A.A./A.S.        Agr. Schools  1 month    10 year at    University
Training                              G.T.C. of the              each of five  Staff
University                 Centres
2.  Pre-season           A.A./A.S.        Sub Division  3 days       2 times a      SDAO
Training                                                         year           S.M.S.
P.A.O.
2a. Pre-season           A.E.O/S.M.S.   District         3 days      2 times a      University
Training                                                         year           Staff
H.Q. Staff
Used District
District S.M.S.
3.  Special Short        AA/A.E.O         District or   7 days       Once a         University
Courses                              University                  year           District Staff
H.Q. Staff
4.  Special Short         S.M.S.,         University    2 to 24    As needed        Res. Inst.
Senior          out of State  weeks                       in India
Staff                                                     Universities
etc.
5.  Orientation                           H.Q.           2 days         -           D.A.E./ADA
District       2 days         -           ADA Staff
S.D.           2 days                     PAO Staff
6.  Deputation  of AAs  A.A.              University    4 years    50 per year           -
for B.Sc. Course
7.  Deputation  of       A.E.O/S.M.S.   University    2 years    25 per year             -
A.E.O/S.M.S. for
M.Sc.
8.  Monthly District    All S.M.S.        Research       2 days      12 times a    Selected Staff
Workshop             SDAOIASDAO       Station or                                of D.A.O/
of District    any suitable                               University and
location                                  the District
Extension
Agronomist



- 44 -                       ANNEX 3
Page 1
Draft Memo of Understanding between
The Government of Maharashtra and
the Agricultural University
1.        The Government of Maharashtra expects to conclude a project agree-
ment with the International Development Association for the reorganization and
strengthening of the agricultural extension services in the State in accordance
with the Training and Visits approach. The project is expected to become
effective before Kharif 1981 and cover a period of five years. The new approach
will be introduced in a phased manner over a period of at most three years.
2.        The Department of Agriculture will be responsible for implementing
the project. Its success will, however, depend not only on the increased
capacity to disseminate information but also on the formulation of appropriate
messages to be disseminated and the training of extension staff in these messages.
Feedback of research problems and constraints from the field will be essential
for the long term agricultural development in the State. Appropriate linkages
between research and extension will thus be of utmost importance and the fol-
lowing arrangements have been agreed:
A. Monthly District Workshop
- Participants      : DOA          Deputy Director
District SMS
SDAO
Subdivision SMS
University  Extension agronomist
Crop agronomists 1/
Crop protection staff 1/
- Agenda              Farm trial plans, progress, analysis
Lesson plans for practical training in
crop proctices at forthcoming two
fortnights
Feedback on farmer reaction to impact points
Items requiring more research efforts.
- Venue and length   The two day workshop should be held at re-
search station. Research staff should be
prepared to devote 5 days monthly (one for
preparation, one for workshop and one for
follow-up field visits). The DDA and the
University extension agronomist would be
responsible for drawing up the agenda and
program for each workshop in advance, identify
topics, trainers, teaching methods and place
for practical training.
1/ For crops and problems relevant to each season. Participation may vary but
university representatives would mainly be drawn from the station in question.



- 45 -                            ANNEX 3
Page 2
B. Seasonal/Zonal/Regional Workshops
-  Participants: DOA                 Additional Director (Extension)
Deputy Director (districts
covered)
District SMS ( "             ")
University         Director of Research
Extension agronomists (from districts)
Selected heads of departments (e.g.
agronomy/plant protection)
Selected crop coordinators
Senior scientist of main stations
in zone/region (where monthly
workshop is conducted)
Agenda:
Review recommendations for zone
Propose new research areas and establish priorities
Arrange multilocational verification of new research results
Review district farm trial plans and results.
- Venue:
For administrative convenience the zones will initially be made
to coincide with the influence areas of the four universities.
The zonal meetings will thus be held at the main campus of the
University. The Director of Research in consultation with the
Additional Director of Extension will be responsible for organizing
and planning the workshops. In formulating recommendations
differences due to variations in agro-ecological conditions within
the influence area have to be recognized.
- Length:
2-3 days twice a year.
C. State Research and Extension Committee
-  Participants:  DOA             Secretary Agriculture, Convener
Director of Agriculture
Additional Director Extension
Senior STate Specialist
University      VCs
Directors of Research (presenting
zonal research)
Directors of Extension
State Crop Coordinators.
Selected specialists in key
disciplines (VC Committee appoints)



- 46 -                            ANNEX 3
Page 3
- Agenda:
1) Review and approve zonal extension recommendations
2) Review research results and programs.  Recommend new
projects for financing.
3) Review progress in general.
- Venue:
alternate between Universities
- Length:
1-2 days four times a year.
D. Training
Each University would be expected to arrange 5-6 short courses
annually for DOA, SMS in the influence area. The topics will
be selected jointly. The Universities would also be expected
to arrange 4-6 weeks orientation training for new recruits and
staff transferred as AA. Some of the agricultural schools may
be converted for this purpose and would later be used for re-
fresher courses.
3.        With reference to para 2 above the           Agricultural University
undertakes to:
A. Organize monthly workshops for
district from                as
starting date          station
district from                at
it       .t
it       if                 ..
and to make available the appropriate staff for a 5 day period on
each occasion.
B. Organize at                 in                    and _
month                  month
each year a zonal workshop.



ANNEX 3
- 47 -                             Page 4
C. Participate in State Research and Extension Committee.
D. Arrange in consultation with the additional director (extension)
short courses.
E. Convert the agricultural schools at
from
location                   date
to orientation and refresher training of AA and to develop in
consultation with the Additional Director (Extension) a
suitable syllabus.
4.        To facilitate the universities participation GOM would under the
project make available funds:
A. For recruiting extension agronomists (M.Sc. Level) with the
main tasks of organizing, preparing for and follow-up on
monthly district workshops (including farm trial program)
to be stationed at
from
station                       date
Each agronomist would be provided with a car and annual
contingency funds of Rs _
B. For recruiting the following teaching staff
Speciality    Station       Purpose    Starting Date
C. For creating/upgrading posts as Director of Research and
Director of Extension (University).
D. Other.
5.        The University component under the extension project will thus amount
to Rs            and will be released in the following annual installments:



- 48 -                             ANNEX 3
Page 5
Year                            Rs.
.t
'9
*,                              ..
Separate accounts will need to be kept and normal University auditing pro-          I
cedures followed.
I



- 49 -
ANNEX 4
Table 1
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule: All Components
Pre Board          Pre                           Months after Effectiveness
Item                 Presentation  Effectiveness         1   6   9  12  15  18  21  24  27  30  33  36  39  42  45  48  51                 60
Civil Works
Site Selection
Prepare Tenders                                                                                   _
Construction                                                        24OVEW           360VEW                360 VEW      240 VEW
Vehicles &                                                           30AEO            45AEO                 45 AEO        30 AEO
Equipment
Prepare Tenders
Purchase
Vehicles                                               53            58           62
Equipment
Staff
Appoiat SDAO                                                    27 ex.           32 ex.           31 ex.
Select/Appoint                                                   - new           30 new           31 new
SMS                             62 ex.                        72 ex.      71 ex.
S17 nw                       11 new      17 new
Select/Appoint258   .                                           283   .    249  x.
AEO                              113 new                      103 new    113 new
Select/Appoint
VEW                              1120 ex.                     916 ex.    3075 ex.
Training                             831 new                     1234 new   2925 new
Orientation
All Other
Coordination
Committees
Project Monitoring
Select/Appoint
Staff
Data Collection/
base line survey
Evaluation                                            __-_-
ex.- existing.



- 50 -
AN'NEX 4
Table 2
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Estimated IDA Disbursements
(US$ Million)
Disbursements              Semester           Cumulative
(IDA FY)
1981
2nd /a               0.0                  0.0
1982   1st                   0.1                 0.1
2nd                  0.2                  0.3
1983   1st                   0.6                 0.9
2nd                  1.5                  2.4
1984   1st                   2.1                 4.5
2nd                  2.5                  7.0
1985   1st                   3.5                10.5
2nd                  3.5                 14.0
1986   1st                   3.0                17.0
2nd                  3.0                 20.0
1987   1st                   2.0                22.0
2nd                  1.0                 23.0
/a   Estimated effectiveness date Sept. 1, 1981.



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
CONOMIC ANALYSIS
--------------------- Rs '000 --------------------------
Incremental   Incremental                  Total Cost Dis-        % Benefit        Discount      Present Value
Year                                Ext. Cost   Training Cost  Total Coat   counted at 507            Achieved         Factor         of Benefits
1                                    16,212         2,235         19,133          12,286                  -           0.666               -
2                                   39,468          3,175         43,687          18,933                10            0.444              0.044
3                                    55,574         4,238         61,171          17,704                 30           0.296              0.088
4                                    49,039         4,026         54,365          10,454                 60            0.197             0.118
5                                   44,376          4,218         49,993          6,366                 80            0.131              0.105
6                                    12,235          3,443        15,678          1,364                  90           0.087              0.078
7-20                                 12,235          3,443         15,678          2 665                100            0.170              0.170
69, 72                                                 0.603
The annual incremental value of crops (1980 prices required from year 7 onwards to achieve a 50% rate of return is Rs. 69.77 H or Rs. 116 M
0.603
Present Yearly   Prices of      Present Yearly
Area      Present Yields   Production         Crops         Value of Crops
M.ha       Tons/ha           (M tons)        Rs./Ton             Rs. M
Paddy                              1.5          2,220              3.33          2    2165=/       7,209
Wheat                              1.2          1.026               1.23         2,280-            2,804
Other Crops                        8.3          0.740              6.14            960-            5,894
15,907
116
To obtain Rs. 116M. all yields must increase by 15,907 or 0.7% on all cropped areas or 1.47 on 507 of cropped area-yield increases required would thus be:
Paddy                31          kg/ha
Wheat                14           kg/ha
Other Crops          10           kg/ha
1/ Sorghum and Millet.
2/ See table a and b.
3/ Farmgate prices has been used as these crops are not traded.
I-  U



-52-                                 ANNEX 5
TABLE 2
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
ECONOMIC PRICE FOR PADDY
1.  Milled Rice - Bombay                                    US$
Price milled rice 25-35% brokens
f.o.b. Bangkok                                         358 I/
Add c.i.f. to Bombay and handling to
wholesale outlet                                      48
$406 ton in Bombay
wholesale market
Rs 3,248/ton 2/
2. Cost of Milling and Handling Rice from
Farmgate to Wholesale Market
Paddy - Farm to mill, transport, in-store
handling and storage charge
Rs/ton
Transport                                       25 3/
Milling and Handling                            37 4/
62 ton/Paddy
93.9 ton/milled rice
Milled Rice - Transport, storage and handling
to wholesale market
Transport, mill to railhead 5/                  32.5
Handling to wholesale market 6/                 80.0
112.5/ton/milled rice
Financial cost of Rs 206.4/ton adjusted by SCF - 0.8
to give economic cost of Rs 165/toh.
3. Economic Price of Paddy at Farmgate
Imported rice Bombay wholesale market (Rs 3,248) less milling and handling
charges farmgate to wholesale market at Rs 165/ton and converted to paddy
at 66% 7/ = Rs 2,165/ton.
1/ From Bank Commodity Price Forecast, October 1979, for milled rice 5%
brokens at US$ 551/ton x 0.65 for price of 25-35% brokens.
2/ At exchange rate of US$1.0 = Rs 8.0.
3/ Transport farm to railhead at Rs 2.5/pq 1.
4/ Milling cost at Rs 2.7/ton + Rs 10/ton commission and other charges for 66%
outturn.
5/ Say 50 km haul at Rs l.OO/pq 1 for 15 km plus Rs 0.50/pq 1/km over 15 km.
6/ Handling charges and commission.
7/ Milling percentage.



- 53 -
ANNEX 5
TABLE 3
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
ECONOMIC PRICE FOR WHEAT
1.  WTheat - Bombay                                         US$
Price of f.o.b. Canada                                 236 1/
Add c.i.f. to Bombay and handling
to wholesale market                                   60
$296 ton in Bombay
wholesale market
Rs 2,368/ton 2/
2. Cost of handling wheat from Farmgate
to wholesale market                                   Rs/ton
Transport and handling up to railhead 3/                30
Handling to wholesale market 4/                          80
110
Financial cost of Rs 110/ton adjusted by SCF = 0.8
to give economic cost of Rs 88/ton.
3. Economic Price of Wheat at Farmgate
Imported wheat Bombay to wholesale market (Rs 2,368/ton) less handling
charges from Farmgate to wholesale market (Rs 88/ton) = Rs 2,280.
1/ From Bank Commodity Price Forecast, (October, 1979).
2/ Converted at official exchange rate of US$1.0 = Rs 8.0.
3/ Say 50 km haul.
4/ Handling charges and commission.



- 54 -
INDIA
MAHARASHIRA EXTENSION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
LEVEL OF ADMINISTRATION
|DIRECTOR OF AGRICULTURE 
STATE      (ADDITIONAL DIRECTOR OF   1
L   EXTENSION)         f
DIVISION 171      JOINT DIRECTOR OF
|AGRICEULTUHt:~   k 
ZILLA PARLISHAD
(TECHNICAL)             |CEO _ 
DISTRICT 125)           PAOH                     __ SM                                               ADO_{  X
SU8-DIVtSINlQ             SDAO t SMS         ._    __ _
I  _   I        1             | ~~~~~~~PANCHAYAT SAM IT] 
BLOCK                AEOll                                    i      | 
VILLAGE |AA                                                                        {3
AA
World Bank - 22285



- 55 -
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Linkages Between Extension and Research
Department of                         State Extension
Depariculturent of    , ____.        and Research
Agriculture                   1       Committee                                  l
4%                                                                    I
4%4 r4  Zonal Workshops   L                Agriucitural Universities1
010       (4 Zones)                                (4  1)l
0100~~~~~~~~~
-10                                                14%
District DDA      -                   onthly District                      Di--stitRsation
aDistric SMS  _W_ MorkshlyoDistrictp                *         _  __          Station
and SMS       _ _  _-        _       Workshop          _             _ Extension Agronomist
T---
Subdivision SDAO
+ SMS
World Bank 22350



I



8BRD 15428
,M   A   D   H   Y   A                 P   R   A    D   E   S   H
Gy   U  J                         *A                                                                                             AL\S                 CHAND R A T 
I    b   R  SS \ 8 F *~D                            ALUGRAON                    GRAV8ATI5J\rs     l
0 n A N Wf 9\\ J ' /_ 9 P A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R  B H A   N                                                                     A  -XS SW 
ROIObs  O  t >V P U N E I t v ~~~~4/                                                                                                    /  '/
r    ,,,    K'                   ---S                                     MANA3AD
C  ~~~~~~~~~~-'~~~~-
N A
Kpr'p.A uC ._(>-                                        \ c  9 N     A
-                  .                 -J 45                                                                    YAVATM^,|    ,                                                           t
AN   r                                                                                                                                                                    -5AN,
OH          / 2       "                                                                 5'~~~~~~~~~~~~~BH       A      A  -,
p-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I1
I   AN A  ADo                                    A   N 'D   H ' d                     /          /
Borohoy                                                                                                                               A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
0   M.., T.-  ..d Q-\.4, 
5-     p5,~~~--  w,   ..dr
~~~~   50(4044  Shotp~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'0  6
U                                                                                      INDIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ml  o 6



