'CREDIT NUMBER 1135 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Maharashtra Agricultural Extension Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1135 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1981, between
INDIA, acting by its President    ereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the State of
Maharashtra (hereinafter called Maharashtra) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to Maharashtra the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter
provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
Maharashtra;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and "Project Agreement"
means the agreement between the Association and Maharashtra of
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement and
all agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to eighteen million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 18,900,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1 commencing September 1, 1991, and ending March 1,
2031, each installment to and including the installment payable
Gn March 1, 2001, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿-3-
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause Maharashtra to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
Maharashtra to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to Maharashtra in accordance with the Borrower's stan-
dard arrangements for development assistance to the States of
India.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Maharashtra shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement; and
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that Maharashtra will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof; namely, that the events specified in
paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and
shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and
Maharashtra.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by Maharashtra, and is
legally binding upon Maharashtra in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.02. The date 6 1kat tb2 OF/            is hereby
specified for the purposes of ection 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary in the
Department of Economic Affairs of the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi
India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-5-
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INDIA
Authori"ed Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                  SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Equipment, furniture          2,630,000       80%
and vehicles (in-
cluding motorcycles
and bicycles)
(2) Civil works                   4,110,000       80%
(3) Training                      1,490,000       100%
(4) Salaries and                  9,020,000       30%
allowances for
eligible staff
(5) Unallocated                   1,650,000
TOTAL         18,900,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.


﻿-7-
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other rights power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 8 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to assist Maharashtra in improving
agricultural production. It consists of the reorganization and
strengthening of the agricultural extension services in Maharash-
tra over a five-year period by provision of incremental staff and
funds for training extension staff; provision of vehicles, office
equipment and audio-visual aids, incremental operating funds,
travel allowances and extension materials; construction of hostel
facilities for extension trainees and houses for village extension
workers and agricultural extension officers; improvement of the
capability of the universities to support agricultural ex-tension
services in Maharashtra by provision of staff, vehicles and
operating costs; and provision of staff, vehicles and operating
expenses for monitoring and evaluation.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.


