Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2329 
Operation Name 
MA-ENERGY SECTOR DPL 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
General energy sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P099618 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MORROCCO 
Implementing Agency 
Ministère des Finances et de la Privatisation 
Avenue Mohamed V 
Quartier Administratif 
Rabat, Royaume du Maroc 
Tel. : (212-37) 76 31 71 ; 76 38 47 
Fax : (212-37) 76 15 75 
Date PID Prepared 
April 13, 2006 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
July 25, 2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 19, 2006 
Key development issues  
 
At the identification stage three development issues have been identified: 
1. 
Enhancing energy security both in economic and political terms, i.e. reduce the political and economic 
vulnerability of Morocco stemming from high energy dependency. 
2. 
Relying on competition and market liberalization to minimize the cost of energy services, for electricity 
and petroleum products and gradually eliminating the monopolies in electricity sector (ONE) and oil 
downstream products (SAMIR). 
3.  Maintaining access to modern energy (particularly LPG) for the poor, with an affordable impact on 
government budget. 
 
Rationale for Bank involvement 
The involvement of the Bank group in energy sector dialogue will be important to: 
1. 
Accelerate the consensus building process between the various government agencies involved in energy 
sector policy formulation and implementation; 
2.  Support the development of policies for managing the budgetary and macroeconomic impact of the 
international energy price shock; 
3. 
Support the government in the formulation of energy conservation and renewable energy policies, action 
programs and financing mechanisms under PPP; 
4.  Support the government in designing a targeted social safety net to ensure that the weaker consumers 
retain access to affordable modern energy (butane and kerosene in particular); 
5. 
Provide access to knowledge for designing utility reforms and strengthening sector regulation; and 
6. 
Stimulate competition in petroleum downstream markets. 
 
Proposed objective 
 
The development objectives of the first EDPL operation are to support the following energy sector dialogue 
priorities:  
Page  2
(i) 
To create a competitive high voltage market and adopt regulation to allow open access of competitors 
to the downstream hydrocarbon sector by 2008. 
(ii) 
To reduce subsidies to petroleum products and design a social safety net to protect socially vulnerable 
consumers. 
(iii) 
To put in place the regulation and the institutions which will increase energy security through the 
development of renewable energy, the diversification of sources of energy and the reduction of the 
country’s energy intensity. 
 
Preliminary description 
 
The DPL is expected to support reform in three development areas:  
 
Enhance energy security
Lower the dependency on imported energy through:
 
Promoting Domestic gas and oil exploration.  
Developing Renewable Energy.  
 
Mitigate international energy market risk through
:
Energy diversification  
Gas diversification 
Electricity supply diversification 
Development of domestic solar and wind energy resources 
Constituting strategic stockpile  
 
Strengthen competitiveness of the Moroccan economy through competition in the energy sector
Encourage competition in the electricity market through:
 
Ensuring long term electricity sector financial viability 
Developing a competitive high voltage power market 
Reinforce power sector regulation. 
 
Foster competition in the downstream petroleum products market
 
Preparing for the introduction of competition 
De-bottlenecking logistics and infrastructure for petroleum products.  
 
Ensuring social and environmental sustainability of energy sector reforms 
Lowering Morocco’s energy intensity for environmental sustainability 
Increasing end-use energy efficiency 
Valuing carbon emissions reductions 
 
Developing a social safety net to accompany the reform of diesel oil, kerosene and butane subsidies.
 
Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
100 
 Total 
100 
 
Contact information 
Page  3
Task Team Leader 
Ananda Covindassamy 
Adviser 
Tel: (202) 473- 8320 
Fax: (202) 477-1998 
e-mail: 
acovindassamy@worldbank.org
 
