                                      Document of
                                     The World Bank



                                                      Report No: ICR00001223



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                         (Loan-74480-MOR)



                                      ON A

                                     LOAN


                            IN THE AMOUNT OF
                        US$100 MILLION EQUIVALENT
                             (EUR 75 MILLION)




                                       TO

                        THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                                     FOR AN

              ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN

                              November 30th, 2009




Sustainable Development Department
Middle East and North Africa (MNA)
                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                         (Exchange Rate Effective December 5, 2006

                               Currency Unit = Moroccan Dirham
                                    MAD1.00 = US$ 0.119
                                    US$1.00 = 8.353 MAD
                                          FISCAL YEAR

                                   JANUARY 1 ­ DECEMBER 1

                                    WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                                        Metric System

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



CDER                        Centre de développement des énergies renouvelables, Center for the
                            development of renewable energy
DHM                         Moroccan Dirham
GOM                         Government of Morocco
MEMEE                       Ministère de l'Energie, des Mines, de l'Eau et de
                            l'Environnement, Ministry of Energy, Mines, Water and the
                            Environment
MAEG                        Ministère des Affaires Economiques et Générales, Ministry of
                            General and Economic Affairs
ONE                         Office National d'Electricité, National Electricity Office
ONEP                        Office National d'Eau Potable, National Water Office
OPCS                        Operations and Country Services Department of the World Bank
PD                          Program Document
PDO                         Program Development Objectives
PERG                        Programme d'Electrification Rurale Généralisée, General Rural
                            Electrification Programme
PNAP                        Plan National d'Actions Prioritaires, National Priority Action Plan




List of staff responsible at approval:
                                 Vice President: Daniela Gressani
                               Country Director: Theodore Ahlers
                                Sector Manager: Jonathan Walters
                              Task Team Leader: Silvia Pariente-David
                               ICR Team Leader N/A


List of staff responsible at ICR:

                                 Vice President: Shamshad Akhtar
                               Country Director: Mats Karlsson
                                Sector Manager: Jonathan Walters
                              Task Team Leader: Silvia Pariente-David
                               ICR Team Leader Georg Caspary
                                                    MOROCCO

                       ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN


                                                   CONTENTS




 Data Sheet
 A. Basic Information
 B. Key Dates
 C. Ratings Summary
 D. Sector and Theme Codes
 E. Bank Staff
 F. Results Framework Analysis
 G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
 H. Restructuring

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 7
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 21
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 22
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 26
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 28
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.............. 29
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 30
No such survey conducted.Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....... 30
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................... 31
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 32
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 33
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 34
A. Basic Information
                                                                          MA-Energy Sector
Country:                Morocco                 Program Name:
                                                                          DPL
Program ID:             P099618                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-74480
ICR Date:               07/17/2009              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     DPL                     Borrower:
                                                                          MORROCCO
Original Total
                        USD 100.0M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 104.1M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 100.0M
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Economy and Finances
 Ministry of Energy, Water, Mining and Environment
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: -

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:        03/23/2006    Effectiveness:             07/31/2007       07/31/2007
Appraisal:             02/12/2007    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              05/29/2007    Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2007       12/31/2007

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower            Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:         Moderately satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                        Moderately satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                        Moderately satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                    Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                               Highly Satisfactory
                                                    (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                             Quality of
                        Yes                                                 None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
District heating and energy efficiency services                        16                  16
General energy sector                                                  16                  16
Oil and gas                                                            22                  22
Power                                                                  24                  24
Renewable energy                                                       22                  22



Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Climate change                                                         17                  17
Legal institutions for a market economy                                33                  33
Pollution management and environmental health                          17                  17
Regulation and competition policy                                      33                  33

E. Bank Staff
       Positions                          At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Shamshad Akhtar                       Daniela Gressani
Country Director:          Mats Karlsson                         Theodore Ahlers
Sector Manager:            Jonathan D. Walters                   Jonathan D. Walters
Program Team Leader:       Silvia Pariente-David                 Ananda Covindassamy
ICR Team Leader:           Georg Caspary                         N/A
ICR Primary Author:        Georg Caspary                         N/A




                                                   ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

        (i) Improve energy security through the development of domestic renewable energy
              aiming at substitution for imported fossil fuels, the enforcement of policy and
              regulation supporting renewable energy, and the formulation of a long-term energy
              supply strategy.
        (ii) Foster competition in the energy market through regional system integration,
              liberalization of the high-voltage domestic electricity market and encouraging self-
              generation for large industries, and open access of competitors in the petroleum
              downstream market by 2009.
        (iii) Reduce Government budgetary subsidies for petroleum products while protecting
              low-income consumers.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally        Actual Value
                                              Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
    Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                approval         Target        Completion or
                                              documents)         Values         Target Years
                   Legal framework fully in place to implement the eventual elimination of leaded
Indicator 1 :
                   gasoline and 10,000 ppm diesel by 2009
                                           "Arrété" on the
Value
                   No legislation in place elimination of
(quantitative or                                                              Fully achieved.
                   for leaded gasoline     leaded gasoline
Qualitative)
                                           adopted
Date achieved      2007                    12/28/2007                        2008
Comments
(incl. %           100% achieved.
achievement)
                   New Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy (EE/RE) Law progressing in
Indicator 2 :
                   the legislative process
Value              Law adopted by
                                            Law submitted to                   Subject to legal
(quantitative or   Council of Government
                                            Parliament                         revision.
Qualitative)       on May 10, 2007
Date achieved      05/10/2007               12/28/2008                         (not fully achieved)
                    Now EE / RE legislation re-drafted as three separate laws:
                        - 1./2. RE law and law for RE / EE implementing agency respectively,
                            both passed by Council of Gov and Council of Ministers and now
Comments
                            submitted to parliament for approval.
(incl. %
                        - 3. EE law ­ little progress, but according to Government `on way to
achievement)
                            being approved'.

                   Currently at best 50% achieved, but potentially on way to 100% by first quarter


                                                iii
                   2009 if laws clear remaining `hurdles'.
Indicator 3 :      Self-Generation Capacity Ceiling Increase
Value
                                           Increase
(quantitative or   No increase.                                                Increased ceiling.
                                           implemented.
Qualitative)
Date achieved      2007                      06/30/2008                         Since 06/30/2008
                   Capacity ceiling for self-generation raised, allowing industry and consumers to
Comments
                   produce their own power up to 50 MW.
(incl. %
achievement)
                   100% achieved.
                   Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee in charge of developing a long-term
Indicator 4 :
                   energy supply strategy - Launch of the Energy Supply Strategic Study
                                                                             ToRs and parts of
                                                                             relevant analytical
Value                                       Formal Bidding
                                                                             work done, but
(quantitative or   TORs being finalized Process for Study
                                                                             study not
Qualitative)                                launched
                                                                             completed.
                                                                             Committee formed.
Date achieved      06/14/2007               01/30/2008                       (not achieved)
Comments
(incl. %           Without completion of study, at best 30% achieved.
achievement)
                   Reduction of Subsidy Burden from Liquid Petroleum Products - Market-
Indicator 5 :
                   Reflective Pricing
Value              First increases in
                                          Further increase in              Decrease in April
(quantitative or   February 2006 and Sept
                                          July 2008.                      2009.
Qualitative)       2007
Date achieved      09/2007                07/2008                         04/2009
Comments
                   Series of price adjustments aimed at market-reflective pricing. However,
(incl. %
                   subsidies remain substantial. 80% achievement.
achievement)
                   Reinforcement of Ministry's sector monitoring capacity - agreement reached on
Indicator 6 :
                   indicators to be used by MEMEE for sector reform monitoring
                                                                              Energy Information
Value              No indicators agreed Set of monitoring
                                                                              System established
(quantitative or   upon.                    indicators agreed
                                                                              for better
Qualitative)                                upon.
                                                                              monitoring.
Date achieved      2007                     06/30/2008                        2009
Comments
                   Despite initial achievements, still no dedicated monitoring unit, and no
(incl. %
                   evidence of actual use of indicators. 50% achieved.
achievement)




                                                iv
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                              Values (from                     Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value                            Revised
                                                 approval                     Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                               documents)                      Target Years
                   Reinforcement of the institutions promoting EE/RE(CDER) - Restructuring
Indicator 1 :
                   Plan
Value                                      Restructuring Plan               Restructuring plan
(quantitative or   No Restructuring Plan of CDER formally                   adopted and
Qualitative)                               adopted                          implemented.
Date achieved      2007                    06/30/2008                       2009
Comments
(incl. %           100% achieved.
achievement)
                   Electricity Liberalization Law in place - associated Interministerial Steering
Indicator 2 :      Committee meeting regularly to discuss the future law (No. of formal
                   meetings documented with minutes)
                                             Initial
                                             `liberalising' laws
                                             for the sector,
Value              No new initiatives on notably on
                                                                               Initial `liberalising'
(quantitative or   electricity sector        reinforcement of
                                                                               laws in place.
Qualitative)       liberalization.           local power
                                             exchange capacity;
                                             and on self-
                                             generation.
Date achieved      2007                      03/30/2008                        2009
Comments
                   Initial `liberalising' laws in place. However, steering Committee has only met
(incl. %
                   twice, in early 2007. 50% achieved.
achievement)
                   Energy Consumption Survey carried out. Reinforcement of Ministry's
Indicator 3 :
                   Monitoring Capacity for the Sector.

Value                                                                           Survey launched
                   TORs of Survey           Survey launched
(quantitative or                                                                and completed.
                   finalized                & completed
Qualitative)

Date achieved      06/14/2007               06/30/2008                          2009.
Comments
                   Full achievement on survey, but Ministry's general monitoring capacity at best
(incl. %
                   marginally improved. 40% achieved.
achievement)



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

         Date ISR                                                                    Actual
 No.                              DO                           IP
         Archived                                                                Disbursements


                                                  v
                                                                   (USD millions)
  1    06/18/2007            Satisfactory          Satisfactory              0.00
  2    07/24/2007            Satisfactory          Satisfactory              0.00
                             Moderately            Moderately
  3    05/13/2008                                                         104.13
                            Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)

Not Applicable




                                             vi
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., Program Document (PD) /
Implementation Status Report (ISR), not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale for Bank
assistance)

Broader Reform Context

Energy sector reform is part of an overarching Government of Morocco (GOM) agenda of
structural reforms. Energy sector reforms have been brought to the forefront of the Government
agenda e.g. by the situation in international energy markets such as volatile prices, and ongoing
reform efforts or sweeping changes in other major policy areas (liberalizations in the trade,
transport, telecoms, housing, or water sectors). Increasing energy demand and environmental
concerns also dictated the importance of energy in the GOMs agenda. The GOM does, however,
realize that these reforms must be combined with specific and targeted social strategies (such as e.g.
assistance to the poor to cope with potential higher post-reform prices) to enhance both economic
growth and social indicators.

The broader liberalization reforms (i.e., those beyond the energy sector) have so far paid off
for Morocco by enhancing the overall productivity of the economy, macroeconomic
fundamentals, and boosting infrastructure development. Successful privatization of several
state enterprises, including concessions for electricity and water distribution, has also attracted
foreign direct investment (FDI), as Morocco has become the main recipient of FDI inflows in the
Maghreb countries from an annual average of 545 mn USD during the 1990s to 1653 mn USD in
2005 and 2577 mn USD in 2007, according to the World Investment Report. Similarly, among
multiple infrastructure developments, new roads and the construction of the Tangier-Med port not
only increased public investment, but continue to have an enormous potential to increase private
investment in the future and open the domestic market to competition, particularly by allowing
competitive import of petroleum products.

Political and Social Issues

The energy DPL was designed and initiated in the context of broader efforts on the
employment and poverty fronts. The unemployment rate had declined steadily since 1999.
Unemployment remained, however, stubbornly high among the youth (31%) and among those
holding a diploma (20.6%). Poverty rates had also decreased from an estimated 19% in 1999 to
an estimated 15% by 2005, but continued to disproportionately affect rural areas, with 22% of
rural households living below the poverty line (vs. 12% of urban households). Vulnerability was
also particularly high in rural Morocco, due to exposure to droughts of both rainfed and irrigated
agriculture. Yet, many social indicators were improving e.g. access to potable water had
improved dramatically in rural areas over the previous decade. Some education indicators had
also improved, among them the illiteracy rate (down to 57 %), and girls enrolment rate (up to
78.5 %). In the housing sector, the number of unfit dwellings was yielding to the governments
slum reduction program, although aggressive effort are still needed even today to keep up with
new slums and unzoned neighbourhoods that are mushrooming in the peri-urban and semi-rural
belts of large cities. All these activities required reliable access to modern energy at an affordable
price. The PERG (Programme d'Electrification Rurale Généralisée) had succeeded in raising


                                                  1
access to electricity in rural areas from 65% in 2002 to 86% in 2006, 93,0 % in 2007 and 95,4 %
in 2008.

Economic Developments

The DPL started against the backdrop of fundamentally sound external and internal balances.
The balance of payments had benefitted from record-high tourism receipts and remittances, which
offset a widening trade deficit due largely to rising energy imports, thus maintaining a surplus in the
current account for six consecutive years. International reserves were high at close to 1 year of
imports. And improvements in the fiscal account had also benefited from high revenues, a lower
public payroll, and tight control over expenditures.

Prior to the initiation of the DPL, GDP growth had been volatile and low in the previous
fifteen years. Indeed, growth averaged less than 3% between 1990 and 2005. This performance
derived from the slow diversification of the economy and the persisting exposure to a volatile,
drought-vulnerable agricultural sector, which grew at an annual average of 0.4%: Non-agricultural
GDP grew at an annual average rate of 3.3%, and export growth remained in single digits. Since
2000, however, the economy had recovered a modest expansionary stance. Several sectors,
including construction, transport, communications, electricity and water, had regained dynamism
leading to a higher, yet modest average growth rate of 4.2% over the period. The overall economic
growth resulted in an increase of energy demand of more than 4% p.a., entailing (in the absence of
corrective policy) a significant growth in GHG emissions and investment needs in excess of 300
MW per annum in the electricity sector alone, plus a need for reinforcement of the energy
transmission and distribution systems as load expanded.

Low inflation had been achieved by sound monetary and debt management. Tight monetary
policy was helping contain inflationary pressures stemming from higher prices of domestic
petroleum products. Prudent monetary management had absorbed excess liquidity, while active
debt management had diminished debt payments, reducing external debt exposure and improving
investor confidence. However, high energy costs contributed to propel inflation to 3% by the end of
the year.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The original program development objectives were:

        (i)   Improve energy security through the development of domestic renewable energy
              aiming at substitution for imported fossil fuels, the enforcement of policy and
              regulation supporting renewable energy, and the formulation of a long-term energy
              supply strategy.
        (ii) Foster competition in the energy market through regional system integration,
              liberalization of the high-voltage domestic electricity market and encouraging self-
              generation for large industries, and open access of competitors in the petroleum
              downstream market by 2009.
        (iii) Reduce Government budgetary subsidies for petroleum products while protecting
              low-income consumers.

As for the ,,indicators requested under the section heading above, there is no unequivocal set of
indicators stated in the Programme Document (PD). Paragraph 49 of the PD gives a set of ,,direct
results that are highly specific ("Reduce budgetary subsidies for energy by US$250 million per


                                                 2
year for 2007 and thereafter") but relate to the results of the entire program (i.e. to the series of
three DPLs). They therefore ought not to be considered relevant to this ICR.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification

N/A. Only applicable for IL.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

I. Energy Security and Sustainable Development:

    -   Reduce energy import dependency through the development of an enforceable framework
        for EE and RE;

    -    Reduce energy supply risk;

    -   Reduce the environmental and health impact of the energy sector.

II. Energy Sector Productivity

    -   Opening of the electricity market to competition;

    -   Stimulating competition in the petroleum products market:

III. Government Financial Exposure in the Energy Sector:

        - Reduce Government subsidies for liquid petroleum products:

IV. Energy Policy Evaluation, Monitoring, and Communication

    -   Development of an information system and a database for the energy sector.
    -   Implementing communication plan on energy reforms.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)

N/A. No restructuring done.

1.6 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations)

The DPL was planned to be programmatic, i.e. as a flexible, medium-term approach involving a
series of single-tranche operations that are sequentially presented to the Banks Board, with a
medium-term framework specified at the outset, in line with the relevant OPCS Guidelines.
However, due to slower implementation than initially planned for, the initial timeframe could not
be adhered to because the maximum 24-month timeframe between two operations within the
series was exceeded. (According to the relevant OPCS Guidance Note, "A programmatic series is
considered to have lapsed 24 months after the Board approval of the previous operation in the
series.") Hence, the approach was eventually changed to a sequence of separate DPLs (of which
the second is now under preparation).

                                                   3
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes


2.1 Program Performance (supported by a table derived from a policy matrix)

       Table 1a: DPL disbursement summary
    Tranche #        Amount       Expected            Actual Release              Release
                                Release Date                Date
    Tranche 1      USD 100 mn Sept 30th               July 31st 2007     Regular
                                2007

Following the framework for the DPL laid out in the Project Document, and based on the
analytical work carried out by the Bank in collaboration with the Government of Morocco, the
design of the key prior actions and indicators under the program are the following:

Table 1b: Prior Actions for the DPL .
                                             Tranche 1
List conditions from Legal Agreement/ Program Document                   Status
Prior Actions of the Energy DPL and of the First Loan:
1. Energy security and sustainable development
Environment and public health
Adoption of a schedule for the elimination of 10000ppm sulphur           Met
diesel fuel and confirmation to the Bank, through an announcement in
the Policy Letter that leaded gasoline will be eliminated by 1 January
2009.
Framework for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy
Approval by the Council of Government of the Law for Energy              Met (but subsequently
Efficiency and Renewable Energy.                                         subjected to a legal
                                                                         revision process for
                                                                         resubmission)
2. Regulatory and price reform in the energy sector

Electricity markets liberalisation
Approval by the Council of Government of the Law for increasing the      Met
self generation ceiling as a first step for establishing a competitive
power market.
Formal creation of a Committee for the Implementation of Electricity     Met (but committee only
Sector Reform under TOR agreed with the Bank (sector regulation,         ever met on March 27th
creation of competitive power market and restructuring of ONE, the       and May 17th 2007, and
Office National d'Electricité).                                          has not met since)
Efficiency and competitiveness of the petroleum products sector
and market
Announcement in the Policy Letter, that future adjustment of prices of   Met, but the amount of
all liquid products will be based on international prices to reduce      energy subsidies remains
subsidies and prepare for a competitive petroleum product market (the    high
Government however may temporarily suspend the systematic
adjustment of consumer prices when price increases are very large).




                                                4
2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

The Government's commitment to the DPL and by implication to the broader energy sector
reform agenda has been considerable. This is evidenced by the number of actions and
consultation / discussion initiatives undertaken, the most important of which arguably was an
early petroleum product price increase. (However, as section 5.2 a will argue the objectives not
achieved were unfortunately significant, and the mentioned consultation / discussion initiatives
were not always followed up by ,,implementation actions.)

Many of these actions represented the first of their kind in Morocco (see details in Table 2 below).
Examples of such topics where new ground was broken include that
    the Government organized the ,,Journée de lEnergie in October 2006, where it publicly
       presented the relevant strategies and received input to the energy reform process. This
       was important, as it was the first time this was done by the Moroccan government. An
       energy strategy for the short-, medium and long-term was developed, and was presented
       by HM King Mohammed VI on July 8th 2008. This strategy was presented and shared at a
       second event, the ,,Assises dEnergie on March 6th 2009.
    the government agreed on a number of measures concerning Energy Efficiency (EE) and
       Renewable Energy (RE), providing a start on rooting these issues in the Moroccan energy
       system;
    monitoring and communication systems for the energy sector were set up for the first
       time.

There was a considerable level of stakeholder involvement: a steering committee was formed,
reflecting the multi-sectoral nature of the DPL, including the Ministries of
Energy/Water/Environment; Economic and General Affairs; Finance; and sometimes also the
Interior Ministry. Under the Plan National dActions Prioritaires, eight working groups were
formed:
      Petroleum products
      Power generation options
      Roll-out of CFLs
      Residential, industrial and transport Energy Efficiency
      Tariff structures: incentives; social issues.
      Very high voltage and high voltage clients
      Contrats Programme
      Load management

Stakeholder involvement was ensured through the Journée dEnergie and the Assises dEnergie.
Also, several public debates on TV were organized around the issue of energy reform.

The design of the operation reflected a high degree of realism, and was at a degree of
complexity that was adequate for Morocco. It was supported by sound background analysis
providing a rationale for the intervention. In fact, a consensus quickly existed in the country on
the DPL in general and on many of the detailed measures it entailed. Nonetheless, the scope of
the DPL was broad, and the number of issues covered large. While feasible in theory, it turned
out that this program may have been too ambitious in the context of a change of administration
relatively soon after the start of the DPL, a period during which implementation was therefore
slowed. In this context, the launching of strategic studies early on in the implementation process ­
while important in principle ­ arguably proved an additional distraction and led to more delays.


                                                 5
A number of relevant risks to the operation were identified at appraisal. The corresponding risk
management plan was developed together with Moroccan authorities. The focus of these efforts
were
    energy market risks (namely, that international oil prices fluctuate significantly);
    private sector ,,appetite for participation in a liberalized energy sector;
    weakening of political consensus for energy reforms after the 2007 elections;
    lack of social acceptance of petroleum price increases;
    most broadly, capacity to implement the complex sectoral reforms the DPL stipulates
      (notably by ensuring high capacity in the new Energy Management Institution).

This list of risks is comprehensive and was adequate at the time, as were many of the mitigation
measures, e.g.:
     mitigating the risks associated with governmental changes by using a single-tranche
         programmatic lending instrument in a medium-term framework, allowing for adaptation
         to changes after elections;
     fluctuations in international energy prices were mitigated through a mechanism which
         smoothes price fluctuations and included safeguard provisions for extreme price
         fluctuations. However, the extent of the spike in raw materials was foreseen only by few,
         and proved a substantial obstacle to some of the reforms foreseen in the DPL.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

For each objective of the DPL, a series of concrete actions was defined which were to be taken by
the Government and could be tracked over the course of the DPL implementation. A number of
aide-memoires then lay out the actions taken to keep track of progress on these actions. The
nature, number, and complexity of this set of actions was sound and appropriate for the required
energy reform process in Morocco. However, the presentation of the initial monitoring matrix in
the Project Document was somewhat confusing; and the aide-memoires did not explicitly take up
or at least refer to this monitoring system as initially set up. Both factors were likely
disadvantageous to the follow-up process during the course of DPL implementation.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):

As mentioned earlier, a second DPL as follow-up to the first one had been discussed in depth with
the Moroccan authorities. A Concept Review Meeting was held on February 19th 2009, with a
decision meeting scheduled for late 2009 and Board Approval for mid- 2010.

Key pillars include:
   1. security of supply, and sustainability aspects
   2. competitiveness of the sector
   3. institutional capacity building

The second DPL is set to mostly focus on
- reorganization of the electricity sector (encompassing notably clarification of the status and role
of the ONE and other relevant actors; and a review of the types of contracts between actors and
types of power purchase agereements) to improve sector performance;
- kickstarting the Energy Fund;
- implementing the PNAP (Plan National d'Actions Prioritaires, National Priority Action Plan)
as developed by the Government into practice, notably its institutional and regulatory framework;
- price risk management in the energy sector, once pricing fundamentals have been established;

                                                 6
- improvements in pricing policy for electricity and petroleum products (where the first DPL only
focused on the latter).

The triggers for the negotiation of the Energy DPL Second Loan in the programmatic series are
listed below.

Reinforcing energy security and sustainable development
    Adoption of implementing decrees on Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy:
       Progress so far has been that the EE/RE law was revised and split into three separate laws
       of which two (RE and institutional reform RE / EE) have been resubmitted for
       parliamentary approval in the fourth quarter of 2009, and one is still in the initial stages
       of the approval process (currently pending Government approval). Hence, for none of
       these issues the implementing decrees and norms have so far been adopted.
    Norms for wind and photovoltaic equipment adopted: The RE law is not yet approved;
       therefore the implementing decrees and norms are not yet adopted.

Competitiveness of Moroccan economy and energy sector
   Electricity Liberalization law presented to Parliament: The electricity law was delayed
      by the new Governments desire to review the sector strategy.
   Regulatory function ready for implementation (including key staff to be appointed) upon
      approval of the Electricity law. Given that the Electricity Liberalisation Law has not yet
      materialised (see previous point), the regulatory function is not ready yet (with any
      regulatory function following only once liberalisation is underway).

Several of these triggers are closely related to the objectives for and actions of the first DPL, and
they are a continuation of the long-term energy reform program supported by the World Bank,
and more specifically of the first DPL. Examples in this respect include the fact that RE
implementation policies would get more specific through norms for equipment for specific RE
technologies; or that the electricity law would be followed up on through definition of the
relevant regulatory functions. Clearly, since the original programmatic series was changed to a
sequence of stand-alone DPLs, the original triggers are not anymore a formal prerequisite to
negotiate the new second stand-alone DPL.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The First Energy DPL was designed to be embedded in broader priorities and in the Banks
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Morocco. It did so with respect to the three following
broader issues:

Competitiveness and improved business climate: though the energy sector was not specifically
identified as a strategic objective in the 2005 Morocco CAS, the proposed energy DPL operation
is consistent with its overall framework, and has, notably through its second ,,pillar, been
contributing to achieving this first one among the CASs strategic objectives.

Growth and poverty reduction: pursuing reforms of the energy sector that improve energy
security, sustainability and competitiveness was a sound entry point towards addressing the two



                                                  7
key development challenges underpinning the latest CAS preceding the DPL: (i) accelerated
growth and job creation and (ii) reduction of poverty and economic exclusion.

A policy lending approach: the DPL has been consistent with the CASs recommendation,
which emphasized the use of policy lending instruments under a results framework approach that
allowed flexibility for responding to changing contexts. This is clearly the case in the energy
sector, as exemplified by the recurrence and magnitude of the hydrocarbon price shocks.
However, at the same time complementarity was ensured with related concurrent collaborative
efforts, notably the ONE support loan that helped the company adapt to a new competitive
environment, and the governments own efforts to ensure that ONE would be financially sound.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between policy actions supported by operations and
outcomes)

In the most general terms, this DPL was important in that it put energy back into Moroccan
economic policy and re-established the relevant policy dialogue with the government. It triggered
the government to prepare a medium-term strategy for the sector, and a vision for the sector
announced by the King. In addition, implementation of responsibilities for certain aspects of the
sector (so far notably for Energy Efficiency efforts) are to be governed by "agreements"
(,,conventions in French) between the Department of Energy, the Agency, and the relevant sector
ministry; presently, five agreements have been signed with the Industry, Housing, Education,
Tourism, and Transport Ministries. Similarly, agreements have been signed with in five pilot
regions (Souss Massa Draa ­ Tadla Azilal ­ Oriental ­ Meknès Tafilalet ­ Rabat Zemmour Zaërs).
This heralds a new era of vertical and horizontal governmental collaboration in the energy sector.

More specific objectives achieved include the following:

Objective of Energy Security and Sustainable Development:

A first outcome under the DPL is the alignment of the Moroccan oil stock policy with
international best practices (Ministerial Decree on Security Stocks published in April 2008). This
positive outcome is all the more important for Morocco as a condition for European market
integration is to comply with their security stock standards (a strategic stock equivalent of 90
days of petroleum products consumption ­ 30 days at refineries, 60 days at distributors). This
condition could also apply to the Mediterranean market, in which case Moroccos energy policy
would comply with the requirements. The actual replenishment of the countrys security stock
will be part of future reforms as 2008 was a year of high prices with limited incentives to
replenish stocks. However, funding for this is currently a major challenge.

A second major outcome under the DPL has been to shift towards cleaner petroleum products.
The 10 000 ppm and 350 ppm diesels so far used in Morocco are no longer produced by the local
refinery and no longer sold. The new standard for Moroccan diesel is 50 ppm. Similarly, leaded
gasoline is no longer produced, imported or sold in the country. Thus, Morocco has joined long-
list of middle income countries that had already earlier restricted sale of leaded gasoline or even
achieved a complete phase-out by the mid-1990s (Brazil, Colombia, Thailand). The health
benefits from this are beyond doubt: lead is a neurotoxin that causes renal damage, neurological
dysfunction, and anemia, and retards the mental and physical development of children, even at
low levels of exposure. Extensive studies carried out in Europe and the US have demonstrated a
remarkably close relationship between changes in the lead use in gasoline and blood lead levels.


                                                8
The world-wide move to low-sulfur diesel is somewhat more recent, making Morocco, through
having taken the above measures, something of an early-mover in middle-income countries (with
the phase-out process of 500 ppm diesel having only started in 2006 even in the US). Nonetheless,
the benefits are clear here as well, as moving to low-sulphur diesel reduces particulates and soot,
and ultimately air pollution.

Some experts interviewed for this ICR have, however, questioned whether lowering the standard
to 50 ppm was advisable since (i) below 500 ppm low sulphur is promoted primarily to take
advantage of advanced vehicle exhaust emissions control devices (not widespread in Morocco),
and (ii) in terms of comparative ,,environmental health risk assessments the difference between a
500 ppm and a 50 ppm standard is unlikely to rank highly.

Third, the WB and GoM are now collaborating on developing options for sustainability and
security in the energy sector in Morocco. To this end, three new laws are underway. The first
concerns the modernisation of the Centre de Developpement des Energies Renouvelables
(CDER), notably making it into an agency (i.e. an ,,implementor rather than the ,,think thank-
type institution it was previously) in charge of promoting RE and EE. The Department of Energy
and Mines has started promoting EE / RE, with the specific objectives for 2020 that RE will
represent 15% of final energy consumption and that EE energy efficiency gains will be of 12%. -
The second law concerns RE, and provides the basic legal framework for power production from
renewables. (Additional work on RE include the establishment of a contractual framework for
grid-connected wind projects, and initial work on a fiscal framework conducive to RE, focusing
on solar water heaters, given that Morocco in certain regions presents excellent conditions for
both wind and solar.) Both of these laws have been approved by the Council of Government and
Council of Ministers respectively and are planned to be approved by parliament soon. The third
law, on EE, has yet to be approved by all three aforementioned institutions. During recent
discussions with the relevant officials in Morocco, several interlocutors expressed strong
confidence that the first two laws will be passed in the remaining quarter of 2009 and the last at
the latest in the first quarter of 2010.

Finally, an Energy Development Fund (EDF) has been created and ,,operationalised through the
2009 Finance law which specifies the utilization of the funds, largely for renewable energy and
energy efficiency. The EDF consists of US 1 billion, through three contributions: a US$ 500
million grant from Saudi Arabia, a US$ 300 million grant from UAE, and a US$ 200 million
from the Fund Hassan II. The fund is to be managed by a public company; the general manager
is being appointed.

Objective of Regulatory and Price Reform in the Energy Sector:

Significant work has been undertaken by the GoM with the WBs technical assistance with
respect to restructuring of the electricity market, increasing competition in the energy sector, and
reducing the Governments financial exposure in the energy sector. This included, at the general
level, a strategic study of electricity sector development.

Regarding regional electricity market integration, the reinforcement of power exchange capacity /
connections with neighbouring countries was significant, alongside a training programme for
system integration and modernization. The ,,50 MW law was also established, according to
which industry can produce its own power up to 50 MW. On the institutional side, progress has
been made on the restructuring of ONE, in particular with (a) the liberalization of production
(new capacity being installed mostly by the private sector); (b) the improvement in the financial
situation through the recapitalization done with two government grants of DHM1.5 billon and

                                                 9
DHM 820 million respectively; And (c) the reduction in demand with the CFL (Compact
fluorescent lamp) program. A decision has been taken to ,,regroup ONE with ONEP (Office
national deau potable). The next step is to operationalize the decision. (However, despite the
successful restructuring of ONE, the institutions financial situation remains delicate: EBIT
(Earnings before interest and tax) is structurally negative (tariffs being too low to cover costs), as
is the free cash flow (given low profitability and substantial investment). However, after a very
difficult year 2008, general profitability now may be on an upward path, given some limited
productivity measures and lower fuel prices. Tariffs have marginally increased in the non-
residential segment, but increases in the residential segment may also be necessary.)
With respect to the efficiency and competitiveness of the petroleum products sector and market,
periodic reviews are being conducted for petroleum product prices to ensure that domestic prices
are in line with international prices. Secondly, a formula to adjust petroleum products prices have
been revised and prices were increased in July 2008, February 2006, January 2007 and July 2008,
and decreased in April 2009. Third, logistical bottlenecks through lack of infrastructure access for
certain fuels were also addressed through standards work and granting of third party access at
several terminals.

Objective of Energy Policy Evaluation, Monitoring and Communication:

At the beginning of the reform program, only the already-established ,,Observatoire  fulfilled the
functioning of energy sector monitoring, focusing mostly on documenting relevant developments,
and providing statistics.

Under the current DPL, an Energy Information System was established and demonstrated to the
team. The system focuses on energy resource statistics and electricity statistics, thus laying the
basis for further monitoring of the sector. Furthermore, the creation of a Communications
Department in the MEMEE, combined with specific large-scale energy communication events,
helped increase the Ministrys outreach capacity and transparency efforts. Nonetheless, only very
initial steps appear to have been taken on the set-up of a monitoring unit in MEMEE that would
specifically monitor the reform process.
Table 2 gives the relevant details on objectives, actions agreed, and actions implemented under
the DPL.




                                                 10
Table 2: Objectives, Actions agreed, and Actions implemented
Objectives                         Sub-Objectives                           Actions agreed (prior          Indicators of progress made on
                                                                            actions in bold)               actions
1: Energy Security and Sustainable Development
1.1. Energy Security and          A. Ensure reliability of the              Finalise ToR for a energy      ToRs and parts of relevant
Independence                      energy supply in the long-term            supply strategy study. Form    analytical work completed on
                                                                            inter-ministerial steering     energy supply.
                                                                            committee.                     Inter-ministerial steering
                                                                                                           committee formed.


                                  B. Revise policy for strategic oil        Set-up ad hoc steering group   Group not set up ­ relevant
                                  stocks                                    to design a policy for         Technical Committee (set up in
                                                                            strategic oil stocks           2002) considered sufficient.


                                                                            Adopt strategy on strategic    Strategy adopted, in line with
                                                                            oil stocks                     international best practices.
                                                                                                           Reduced 105 day stock to 90 day
                                                                                                           stock, in line with European
                                                                                                           standard. However, so far only
                                                                                                           done at regulatory level, has to be
                                                                                                           implemented over next years.
                                                                                                           Obstacle: financing gap of about 5
                                                                                                           bn DHM.
1.2. Environment and Public       A. Reduce the adverse impact              Provide Bank with              Schedule announced.
Health                            from fuel emissions on public             schedule to only market
                                  health                                    lead-free and low-sulphur
                                                                            petrol and diesel.
                                                                            Implement this schedule.       Lead content: leaded gasoline
                                                                                                           phased out.

                                                                                                           Sulphur content: allowable



                                                                       11
                                                                                                      sulphur content reduced to 50 pp.

                                                                                                      [Measures also resulted in only
                                                                                                      these two fuel types now on the
                                                                                                      market vs six fuel types pre-
                                                                                                      reform, leading to cost gains in
                                                                                                      distribution.]
                                B. Reduce air emissions caused        Prepare regulation on           (No evidence to date of relevant
                                by the energy transformation          emissions from refineries and   regulation.)
                                sector (refineries and power          power plants.
                                plants)
1.3. Framework for Energy       A. Develop institutional              Adopt restructuring plan for    Restructuring plan for institutions
Efficiency (EE) and Renewable   capacity to manage EE and RE          the institutions in charge of   in charge of EE and RE adopted.
Energy (RE)                     implementation                        the development of EE and            CDER: responsibility for
                                                                      RE energy (notably CDER).               EE, and develops basis for
                                                                                                              RE development (e.g.
                                                                                                              provides data on RE
                                                                                                              potential for certain
                                                                                                              regions).

                                                                      Relevant institutions to        CDER and ONE produced
                                                                      promote EE and RE (other        implementation plan for wind
                                                                      than grid-connected wind)       power promotion.

                                                                                                      CDER and ONE started work.
                                                                                                      Examples includes RE-dedicated
                                                                                                      industrial zones (several in
                                                                                                      preparation). Target of 15% RE
                                                                                                      use and 12% EE gains in
                                                                                                      transport, energy, buildings, both
                                                                                                      by 2020. (WB awaiting matrix
                                                                                                      with precise actions from CDER.)




                                                                 12
                                                                 Fonds de Developpement
                                                                 d'Energie created as instrument
                                                                 for EE and RE promotion. Funded
                                                                 jointly by Saudi Arabia ($500
                                                                 mn), Abu Dhabi ($300 mn), and
                                                                 Hassan II Fund / Morocco ($200
                                                                 mn).
                                      ONE to promote             Contractual framework elaborated
                                      development of grid-       by ONE for grid-connected wind
                                      connected wind             projects, including bidding
                                                                 procedures. ,,ENERGIEPRO-
                                                                 Programm, has so far lead to term
                                                                 sheets over 860 MW, 200 MW
                                                                 about to be established.


B. Prepare general legislative        Council of Government to   Law on Energy Management (EE
framework on EE and RE                approve Law on EE and      and RE) prepared.
                                      RE
                                                                 Council of Government approved
                                                                 EE / RE Law. (Subsequently
                                                                 revised.)

                                                                 Now EE / RE legislation re-
                                                                 drafted as three separate laws:
                                                                     - 1./2. RE law and law for
                                                                         RE / EE implementing
                                                                         agency respectively, both
                                                                         passed by Council of Gov
                                                                         and Council of Ministers
                                                                         and have been submitted
                                                                         to parliament.
                                                                     - 3. EE law ­ no progress.



                                 13
                                                                                                     (WB awaiting evidence from
                                                                                                     government on abovementioned
                                                                                                     state of progress of these laws.)
                                  C. Establish fiscal framework         Reduce VAT on solar water    Reduced VAT on solar water
                                  conducive to EE and RE                heaters.                     heaters

                                                                                                     Harmonised VAT and custom
                                                                                                     duties for energy efficiency

                                                                                                     Enforced fiscal incentive measures
                                                                                                     in the 2007 Budget Law.
2. Regulatory and price reform in the energy sector
2.1 Electricity markets            A. Physically integrate power        Reinforce local power            -   Power exchange capacity
liberalisation                     networks                             exchange capacity                    with Spain and Algeria
                                                                                                             strengthened.
                                                                                                         -   Connections with Spain
                                                                                                             doubled.




                                  B. Integration and liberalization     Conduct strategic study of   Study conducted but not released.
                                  of Moroccan power system              electricity sector
                                                                        development, and other
                                                                        relevant studies.




                                                                   14
C. Coordinate interministerial        Coordinate interministerial   Steering group for electricity
steering group for electricity        steering group for            sector reforms set up. (However,
sector re-organisation                electricity sector re-        Steering Group never met.)
                                      organisation


D. Increase competition through       Raise capacity ceiling for    Capacity ceiling for self-
allowing for increased                self-generation               generation raised: ,,50 MW law
generation                                                          established, allowing industry and
                                                                    consumers to produce their own
                                                                    power up to 50 MW.




                                 15
2.2 Efficiency and competitiveness   A. Revise cost component in             Revise the reimbursement        Reimbursement rate revised.
of the petroleum products sector     price formula                           rate for transport and
and market                                                                   petroleum products
                                     B. Prepare market                       Check regularly that            Periodic review of prices for
                                     liberalization for main products        adjustments of liquid           petroleum products conducted to
                                     from 2009 onward                        petroleum products based        ensure that domestic prices are in
                                                                             on international prices,        line with international prices.
                                                                             while taking into account
                                                                             social and political            Price increases implemented in
                                                                             constraints.                    February 2006 (7% rise in VAT
                                                                                                             levied upon fuels marketed at
                                                                                                             service stations), September 2007
                                                                                                             and July 2008, as well as a
                                                                                                             decrease in April 2009. However,
                                                                                                             subsidies remain substantial.
                                     C. Address logistical bottlenecks       Establish third party access    Standards set establishing third
                                     (unloading, storage) for fuels          to infrastructure for butane.   party access to infrastructure for
                                                                                                             butane

                                                                                                             Third Party Access provided to
                                                                                                             terminals of Nador, Jorf Lasfar
                                                                                                             and Agadir.

3. Facilitation of energy policy: follow up, evaluation and communication
3.1 Improved monitoring &             A Reinforce statistical         TOR for the survey of                  Achieved.
evaluation of the energy sector       instruments and forecasting     Energy consumption.
                                      capacity                        Establish Energy Information           Established Energy Information
                                                                      system:                                System:
                                                                          - Facilitating access to                a. Energy resource statistics
                                                                              information on                          (GIS-based);
                                                                              energy                              b. Electricity statistics.
                                                                          - Energy information
                                                                              sharing with other



                                                                        16
                                                                            ministries.

                                                                    First development of a model    -   Achieved at PD: first
                                                                    for the energy sector.              development of a model for
                                                                                                        the energy sector.

                             B. Monitor and evaluate                Finalise indicators for        Achieved at PD: study of the
                             implementation of energy policy        monitoring the                 indicators for the follow-up of the
                                                                    implementation of the energy   implementation of energy policy
                                                                    policy



                                                                    Monitoring of reform           Preparations for set-up of
                                                                    progress in energy sector      monitoring unit in MEMEE
                                                                                                   through contacts with professional
                                                                                                   monitoring firms.
3.2 Improved communication   A. Ensure effective                    Adoption of communication      Achieved at Project Document
about the energy sector      communication on content and           plan                           stage: establishment of the
                             implementation of energy sector                                       communication dept in MEMEE.
                             reforms                                Implementation of 2007
                                                                    communication plan             Prepared communication plan of
                                                                                                   MEMEE.



                                                                    Holding communication          Organised Journée de lEnergie in
                                                                    events                         October 2006, 15 Focus Groups,
                                                                                                   and Assises dEnergie in March
                                                                                                   09.




                                                               17
Progress towards broader objectives of the programmatic series

While not the primary objective of this ICR, it is worth also briefly investigating the progress
beyond the actions for the first DPL in the programmatic series towards the final results that were
expected under the series (expected results from the programmatic series underlined):

    1. Energy Security and Sustainable Development

    1.1 Energy Security and Independence: First steps have been taken at broader energy risk
reduction by preparing the ground for a diversification of sources (notably towards renewables).
While a strategy on strategic oil stocks has been adopted, they have not been fully constituted.

     1.2 Environment and Public Health: concrete figures on reductions in the amount of lead
and sulphur emissions are so far, to the best knowledge of the team, not available (according to
uncited figures provide by the Moroccan Government, the exclusive use of 50 pp diesel and lead-
free gasoline will allow for the reduction of 64 000 tons of sulphur emissions and 760 of lead
p.a.).

    1.3 Framework for EE and RE: CDER appears operational and to have a new mission.
Quantitative targets for new wind capacity (1000 MW) and self-generation (150 MW) were,
however, only set for dates after the completion of the present ICR (2012 and end-2009
respectively), making it impossible to evaluate progress towards this final expected result.

    2. Regulatory and price reform in the energy sector

2.1 Electricity markets liberalisation: Targets for the reorganisation of the power sector and
partial opening of a competitive market for high voltage and very high voltage are set for ,,from
2010 onwards, but seem highly unlikely to be reached given the delay in the passing of the
electricity law. Several other expected results under this topic for the programmatic series were
phrased in somewhat general terms ("Transparency in the management of generation,
transmission and distribution"; "Interministerial cooperation for electricity sector reforms";
"Transparent transactions in the power sector") but appear at best partially achieved.

2.2     Efficiency and competitiveness of the petroleum products sector and markets: The
reduction in the subsidisation of petroleum products clearly took place (though subsidies remain
substantial), and obstacles were removed to the entry of new operators for butane.

    3. Facilitation of energy policy: follow-up, evaluation and communication. An analytical
base for the formulation of energy policy has been constituted through the Energy Information
System, and quality energy information been disseminated at relevant communication events
(though arguably not yet frequently enough). The monitoring unit in the Ministry is not
operational yet, and consequently the evaluation of progress in implementing energy policy /
sector reform is lacking. A communication plan has been prepared but not yet implemented.

Overall, it appears that on most topics at least partial progress towards the final expected results
of the programmatic series was achieved, with Topic 2.2 likely the closest to the final expected
results and topic 2.1 the farthest. It remains to be seen whether further progress to the final
expected results can take place either in separate ,,cooperation-contexts between the Bank and
the GoM, or in a different energy reform effort altogether.



                                                18
3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs)

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

The PDOs were highly relevant to both the governments and the Banks broader objectives for
the sector and for the broader Moroccan economy. A number of the PDOs were achieved, but too
many were missed to make for a ,,satisfactory rating, as outlined in Table 2 above. While some
of the ,,Factors influencing implementation (Section 2.2) may explain why several PDOs were
missed, no clear explanation exists for some of these ,,misses (e.g. why the electricity steering
group never met over the entire period of implementation; or why, after the EE / RE law had been
undone, no new law has been fully passed in more than two years).

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

There were strong analytical underpinnings for the social-, poverty- and environmental impacts of
this DPL. In this section, we will treat social- and poverty impacts jointly first, then
environmental impacts second. Gender aspects were not considered separately under this DPL.

Social- and poverty analysis of pricing changes in liquid petroleum products:

Prior to launching the DPL, an analysis was conducted of data from the Morocco Poverty Survey
of 2000-2001, which in turn is based on a national household expenditure survey. The data were
presented as a percentage of annual household consumption in DHM on a per capita basis and as
a percentage share of the household budget.

The results showed that the most widely used forms of household energy in Morocco are Liquid
Petroleum Gas (LPG) and electricity, although other sources including wood, charcoal and
kerosene are also used (with many households using a combination of several different energy
sources to meet their needs).

Hence, an analysis of the social impacts of the reduction in LPG subsidies was conducted, which
showed that pre-DPL subsidies on LPG were regressive ­ the higher the income group, the higher
the net benefit. Hence the subsidy reform was desirable from a distributional viewpoint. At a
national level, the top quintile gained more than a third of the government subsidy and the poorest
quintile received less than 10 percent. At the same, the analysis showed that gains by the poor
from the diesel and petrol subsidies (e.g. from reduced cost in public transportation) were likely
to be negligible.

Environmental and Health Impacts of the DPL:

According to a 2003 World Bank study, air pollution in Morocco is estimated to generate health
costs worth around 3.6 billion DHM per year (about 1% of Moroccos GDP in 2000), of which
2.1 billion related to outdoor air pollution, and 1.5 billion to indoor air pollution. The incidence
on the poor of these impacts is likely to be significant, on account of the presence of significant
pockets of poverty in large urban areas exposed to high concentrations of pollution, and of the
more limited access of the poor to the health care required to treat respiratory diseases and other
ailments generated by air pollution.

                                                19
Analytical work quantified positive effects in this respect from the RE and EE components, as
well as from the phase-out of high-lead and ­sulphur fuels. Most notably, the pre-DPL analytical
work presented the following estimated benefits of reduced air emissions:

Table 3: Estimated benefits of reduced air emissions

Year                    Emissions avoided (000 tons)                 Avoided damage (% of
                                                                     Morocco's 2000 GDP)
                     SO2             Nox            Suspended       Low end          High End
                                                     particles
2009                130.19           1.95             1.61            0.3%             0.9%
2010                148.57           5.98             4.99            0.4%             1.1%
2011                170.50           8.72             6.57            0.4%             1.3%
2012                191.18          11.28             8.05            0.5%             1.4%
2013                202.82          13.72             10.10           0.5%             1.5%
2014                209.11          15.45             11.77           0.6%             1.6%
2015                216.74          17.36             13.53           0.6%             1.7%

These figures of avoided emissions and damage are significant. In addition, the evidence on the
health benefits from a phase-out of high-lead and ­sulphur fuels are widely documented in
numerous countries (notably from relevant phase-out programmes in OECD countries in the
1980s and 1990s).
Other environmental issues:
The pre-DPL analytical work conducted also looked at the legal framework in Morocco for
addressing environmental impacts of energy production. It concluded that the legal framework
was fairly comprehensive for this purpose, but concluded that in some instances the effectiveness
of these laws hinged on the adoption and enactment of related, more specific secondary
legislation. Notably, for the case of air pollution, this is the reason why the package of DPL-
supported reforms included the issuance of norms establishing caps for atmospheric emissions
from refineries and power plants.

Other medium- to long-term environmental benefits from the DPL are of course to be expected
from the fact that it contained a strong focus on rooting RE and EE in Moroccos energy policy.
One result that may already be linked to this DPL pillar is Moroccos leading role in the regional
roll-out of Concentrating Solar Power (likely supported with a substantive sum from the WB-
administered Clean Technology Fund), in which Morocco is hosting three pilot projects.

On the downside, earlier discussions of the environmental goals of the DPL were aimed at
providing a component for better Environmental Assessment for energy infrastructure; however
this did not come to pass. Similarly, the development of wind power was meant to be a major
component of the RE-pillar of the DPL (given the great potential for this technology, including
for export). Outcomes of this component were also limited, and this is likely linked to the
movement towards RE generally being slow during the time of implementation.

Overall, this first energy DPL was likely too limited and short to have major social and
environmental impact to show yet. The likely big exception on the social front is pricing reform,

                                               20
on which the evidence is scarce for the time being (given that pricing reform so far has only
covered petroleum products pricing but under the DPL2 will also cover electricity-pricing, a very
,,socially sensitive component) but which may show earlier impact than other social- and
environment-related components. Going forward, the key question on the social impact of this
DPL and the next will likely be the treatment of indexation of oil prices, and how these changes
in international oil prices will be passed on to consumers.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The DPL contained a number of measures for institutional change and strengthening. Notably,
 - the CDER was restructured as an effective RE / EE institution;
 - ONE saw some minor institutional strengthening for its role in the issues addressed under
     the DPL, e.g. RE / EE;
 - the ,,Direction dObservation et de Previsions was created in the Ministry of Energy, giving
     the Ministry institutional capacity for tracking / monitoring of data in the sector.

These institutional change / strengthening measures were adequate given the nature of the DPL.
However, given that considerably fewer measures were implemented under the DPL than planned
for previously, the question arises whether this is at least partly due to lack of institutional
capacity in the implementing institutions, and if so, whether follow-up work (notably on the DPL
2) should likely contain a stronger institutional strengthening component. It appears that this
explanation holds at least partly: firstly, because it became evident throughout the implementation
process that the MEEM is short of staff and funds given the tasks it has been assigned, including
under this DPL. Secondly, because the implementing institutions found it easier to conduct initial
measures that would aid reform objectives rather than implementing measures that would more
concretely and definitely anchor the reform objectives in Moroccos energy policy, suggesting
that ,,implementation capacity needs to be strengthened vis-à-vis ,,planning capacity. However,
it is important not to overinterpret institutional strengths and weaknesses when seeking reasons
for the performance of different DPL components, and consequently creating exaggerated
expectations for institutional capacity building programs in MEEM.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

N/A

3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

There were no such beneficiary surveys or stakeholder workshops at the end of the DPL.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
(I.e., the risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or expected outcomes) will
not be maintained or realized)

Rating: Moderate.

We would, in this context, notably like to highlight the risks




                                                 21
- of oil price changes, given high import dependence. This risk is real but is more contained than
previously through the periodic review of prices for petroleum products, ensuring that domestic
prices are in line with international prices; and the broad move towards EE and RE.
- from the external environment for the RE component of the DPL, e.g. by negotiations with
Europe on export of power from renewables turning sour. However, we judge Europe (in light of
its considerable commitment to scale-up of RE use) to be eager to maintain a sound external
environment for RE. Moreover, given that Morocco plans to sell RE to Europe at best in the long-
term, this is at best a long-term risk. An arguably more short- to medium term risk for the
development of renewable is the question whether current incentive structures continue to favour
fossil fuels.
- of capacity for financing the needed expansion efforts, given projected demand growth.
Addressing this problem will likely mean addressing the current financial troubles of the caisse
de compensation, especially if oil prices continues to rise.
- of the social acceptance of oil price fluctuations or increases; as well as of other social /
distributional impacts of energy reform. Relevant mitigation efforts are needed, as is monitoring
of their effectiveness.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating: Satisfactory.

The Government and the Bank collaborated through a number of preparatory missions
successfully to ensure high quality at entry. In particular, the Bank team went to considerable
lengths to re-engage with the Government after a lengthy absence of any WB-GoM cooperation
in the energy sector, constituting a team with the relevant skills set on the Bank side and seeking
out the relevant partners for an energy sector reform program on the Moroccan side. In addition,
this led to a broader set of fields of cooperation between the GoM and the World Bank, e.g. on
the restructuring of ONE and on potential CTF (Clean Technology Fund) -funded scale-up of
renewable energy projects.

This reengagement was no easy feat given the lack of previous involvement by the Bank in the
Moroccan Energy sector for 15 years, and the Governments perception of, according to some
WB staff members interviewed for this ICR, previous failed WB-GOM cooperation in the mining
sector and of the Banks supposed mistakes in power sector restructuring in other client countries.

Key to the preparation of the Energy DPL were the inter-ministerial and inter-disciplinary
working groups that prepared much of the detailed work (notably the matrix presented in
shortened form under Table 2 that allowed for monitoring and evaluation of progress). This was
an unprecedented excercise that was to a considerable degree the result of the Bank teams
continued efforts. (On the slightly negative side, no such working groups were kept in place for
follow-up once the DPL was underway.)

The DPL was assessed by QAG (Quality Assurance Group) in the context of its QEA8 (8th
Quality at Entry Assessment), valuating a sample of projects under preparation over FY06-07).
QAG gave the maximum ratings (100% satisfactory) to each of the 9 variables it assessed during

                                                22
its QEA8 (which covered a sample of over 115 operations selected randomly, of which 19 were
DPLs). The following table gives a sense of how the QAG assessment of the Energy DPL fared
compared to the overall sample of DPLs in MNA and in the Bank):

Table 4: Rating of first Morocco Energy DPL in 8th QAG Quality at Entry Assessment
            Overall    Criteria   Criteria   Criteria   Criteria   Criteria   Criteria   Criteria   Criteria   Criteria
                       1          2          3          4          5          6          7          8          9
Morocco     100        100        100        100        100        100        100        100        100        100
Energy
DPL
MNSSD       100        100        100        100        100        100        100        100        100        100
(2 DPLs
reviewed)
MNA (4      100        100        100        76         100        100        100        100        76         100
DPLS
reviewed)
Bank (19    80         90         90         77         91         100        85         95         87         81
DPLs
reviewed)


Below is the definition of each assessed criteria (QAG calls Quality Dimension, or R1, R2, R3,
etc.),

R1 = Strategic Relevance and Approach
R2 = Technical, Financial and Economic Aspects
R3 = Poverty, Gender and Social Development
R4 = Environmental Aspects
R5 = Fiduciary Aspects
R6 = Policy and Institutional Aspects
R7 = Implementation Arrangements
R8 = Risk Assessment
R9 = Bank Inputs and Processes

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including Monitoring & Evaluation arrangements)

["The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the operation and
supported effective implementation through appropriate supervisions (including ensuring
adequate transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loan / credit
closing), towards the achievement of development outcomes."]

Rating: Satisfactory

There was intensive supervision on this DPL, with numerous supervision missions (many of
which covered both supervision of the DPL 1 and one ONE support loan, and preparation of the
DPL 2) and an ongoing intensive dialogue with the government and other stakeholders. Timing
and focal topics of the missions were on several occasions adjusted to key emerging topics
(governmental change and partial change in priorities by new government; oil price hikes). Inter-
task-team dialogue ensured the flow of relevant information between projects; for instance, the
DPL benefitted from the insights of the team working on a separate project on ONE restructuring.

                                                        23
There were some minor problems given a disconnect between the monitoring framework set-up
as defined in Annex 2 of the PD and the monitoring eventually carried out during the mission, as
(i) the monitoring matrix could have been constructed in a clearer fashion; (ii) some of the
mission aide-memoires do not provide a clear-cut picture on where implementation stood on all
relevant indicators defined under the monitoring framework.

It should also be noted that during recent discussions between the government and the Bank,
criticisms were voiced of the Banks lack of flexibility in the application of the conditionality to
trigger the appraisal of DPL 2, in particular on the enactment of the new energy efficiency law.
To ensure the continuity between the DPL 1 and 2, the government argued that the Bank should
have weighted all the actions carried out by the government which were not foreseen in the DPL
1 document but were nonetheless relevant to the defined policy objectives. The present ICR has
attempted to do precisely this at the end of Section 3.2.

Nonetheless, the Government requested continued assistance from the Bank in a number of areas,
which could lead to a DPL 2 to complement other financing instruments which the Bank is
considering:
            
             Mobilisation of financial resources for CDER / ADEREE (Agence pour le
                Développement des Energies Renouvelables et l'Efficaté Energétique).
             Continued restructuring and regulation of the electricity sector, including TA for
                PPAs.
             Reform (and potential financing) of energy pricing and social protection.
             Capacity Building (see section on ,,Lessons learned below for more detailed
                discussion of capacity building needs).

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

(For justifications see a. and b. above.)


5.2 Borrower Performance

"the extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing agency or
agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes."

(a) Government Performance
    Rating: Moderately satisfactory

Overall, there is an impressive number of achievements to show, as can be seen from Table 2.
Indeed, achievements numerically clearly outweigh failures. However, substantive gaps remain,
including some important objectives that ought to be considered central to the DPL. The new
legislation on RE and EE is a particular case in point here, and it is very much hoped that it will
indeed be passed in the last quarter of 2009 as planned. Another example is the fact that the
steering group for electricity sector reforms has not met once, making effective interministerial
planning for electricity sector reform difficult.


                                                24
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
   Rating: Moderately satisfactory

The Ministry of Energy, Mines, Water and Environment displayed a leadership role in the
implementation of this DPL and ought to be credited with much of what was and what was not
(see Section 3.2). The rating provided here should therefore mostly be seen as a rating of this
Ministry in light of the achievements of the DPL.
The Ministry of Finance has evidently had less of an ,,implementing role nor of any role relating
to technical details of the energy sector reform but was a partner at many stages of the process,
notably as related to general progress of the reform program and to WB-GOM cooperation.
ONE only had a small role to fulfil in this DPL, but did its limited share (elaboration of
contractual framework for grid-connected wind projects; together with CDER, produced
implementation plan for wind power promotion).
CDER underwent fundamental restructuring under this DPL to be transformed from a research
centre into an agency. However, despite reminders the Bank team did not receive a work plan for
this institution for the next months and years.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
    Rating: Moderately satisfactory

Section 3.2 above discusses at length the Governments achievements under this DPL, while
Table 2 presents them in a schematic format. Particularly important are the establishment of a
strategy on strategic oil stocks; the move towards lead-free gasoline and sulphur-free diesel;
reinforcement of power exchanges; periodic review of prices for petroleum products; rise in
prices of certain petroleum products; and kickstarting of significant work on information /
communication about and monitoring of the sector.

Despite these evident and important successes, there are a number of shortcomings that prevent
the results from this DPL from being yet more positive. These include that

    -   Little was implemented on electricity restructuring, despite a relevant strategic study,
        although a financial recovery plan for ONE was adopted.
    -   Oil price subsidies were not reduced as much as anticipated because of the very sharp
        increase in international prices (crude oil prices per barrel where around 60 $ in between
        mid-2006 to mid-2007, ie during the period when the DPL was negotiated and approved,
        but subsequently saw an extremely sharp rise to over 140 in mid-2008).
    -   The revision of the RE / EE legislation is somewhat regrettable, particularly given that it
        was a prior action for disbursement of the DPL. The justifications for the government
        provided for this have to be recognised, of course: they include the change in
        government; the time it took to conduct the strategic study for the sector; and the
        considerable amount of consultation and preparation in the sectors concerned. The
        government also points out that the new texts are much better as they clarify the
        responsibilities for energy efficiency across all economic sectors. Finally, there was a
        change in the way laws are being processed in Morocco: namely, contrary to previous
        practice, a draft law now has to be presented to the Council of Government with at least
        some of its implementing decrees already finalised. That being said, it is to be noted that
        after over two years since the decision to revise the initial law, no new law is in place.
    -   CDER restructuring has happened slowly, with the relevant legislation only having gone
        to parliament at the time of drafting of this ICR. Resistance to the restructuring efforts



                                               25
        and delays in assigning effective leadership meant the CDER has been taking much time
        on its way to becoming an effective institution.

It is these several shortcomings, and their relative significance, that currently prevent the
Borrower Performance from reaching ,,satisfactory. In light of this, the Bank performance of
,,satisfactory leads of course to a disconnect between Bank and Borrower performance in this
ICR, but in light of the continued engagement shown by the Bank team throughout
implementation, the links established with other ongoing operations in the Moroccan energy
sector, and other positive assessments provided under 5.1 above, the Bank performance of
,,satisfactory continues to hold.

At the same time, it might be useful to consider some of the likely key factors that impeded the
DPL from reaching all its objectives:

    -   The world fuel crisis. The DPL was designed when the oil price at 60 USD; the price
        subsequently rose to 140 USD per barrel. This made the adjustment of petroleum product
        prices according to world market prices impossible, since now price fluctuation risks
        could not be passed on to consumers any longer. The Government therefore chose to
        make use of a clause in the agreement allowing it to suspend indexation.
    -   The change of government. Following the 2007 elections, the King requested the
        government to take the time to take stock of the energy sector and to develop a new
        strategy. As a result, the MEMEE undertook a series of new activities: it commissioned a
        prominent consulting firm to develop a strategic plan 2030, including a plan of priority
        actions. During this fundamental review of the energy sector strategy, detailed changes in
        the sector were ,,naturally stalled.
    -   The number of (partially competing) actors present, which proved a challenge notably to
        the restructuring of the electricity sector (actors: Ministry of Energy which oversees ONE,
        and the Ministry of Interior, which plays a major role in distribution, and oversight of
        concessions). As a result, the draft electricity law was reconsidered, and has not yet been
        finalised to date.

While these shortcomings have to be mentioned in the context of this ICR, they are partly
compensated by the positive results discussed under 3.2, making for an overall moderately
successful borrower performance. It should also be mentioned that during consultations, several
other stakeholders (notably other donors) noted an increase in the governments interest, efforts,
transparency, and responsiveness in collaboration on energy reform matters over the course of the
DPL. This bodes well for the second DPL that is currently being planned and that will represent
an opportunity to build further on the significant achievements of the first DPL outlined above.

6. Lessons Learned
(both operation-specific and of wide general application)

Client consensus, buy-in, ownership of the operations objectives and implementation measures,
and a strong ,,champion to lead the relevant reforms, are key to the success of policy lending,
particularly in the highly political energy sector. Emphasis on wide consultation and consensus
was introduced early on in the operation design and was continued during implementation.
Moreover, consultation was integrated into the operations design through the following: (i) the
creation and close coordination of multi-agency Government working groups to discuss and agree
on the sector reforms priority objectives and measures, (ii) organization by the Government in
October 2006 of a sector-wide stakeholder awareness campaign and consultation on the reform
during the national energy sector conference ("Journée de lEnergie"), as well as a second similar

                                               26
event in Marc 2009 ("Assises dEnergie"), (iii) continued interaction and support to the
Communications Unit of the MEMEE, (iv) permanent contact between the Bank team and other
donors active in the energy sector in Morocco as the content of the reform program was
developed, and (v) preparation of a communication plan on energy sector reforms with MEMEE.
All in all, the DPL set in motion a dynamic medium- to long-term reform process in the sector.

One particular lesson is the importance of ensuring that the client prioritises achievement of
reform objectives over the implementation of a set of measures. To that effect, the proposed
operation includes strengthening of the accountability framework for reforms implementation,
monitoring and impact evaluation. To facilitate this, the Bank has made considerable efforts
during preparation in encouraging and supporting the Energy Sector Observatory Department of
the MEMEE to take on the responsibilities of monitoring the progress and impact of sector
reform. However, this effort is an example of what might have been a lack of focus on
achievement of tangible reform objectives ­ namely, the performance on pillar 3 is strong on the
background work for sector monitoring such as the establishment of an energy information
system, and on communications events such as the assises d'energie, while nonetheless lacking
concrete achievements of monitoring or evaluation ,,outputs on the sector or on sectoral reform.
It should also be noted in the context that the planned Prior Actions for the stand-alone Energy
DPL 2 (Box 1 of the PD Concept Version) include a pillar on implementation capability and
accountability. Given the above, this is necessary and appropriate.

It may also be useful, in this context, to take into account the particular time and effort it takes for
implementation rather than ,,background work on formulating laws and sector strategies. This
means providing for the time and work required for relevant by-laws, decrees and their adoption
by the appropriate institutions as well as relevant complementary capacity-building needed for
effective application of the new provisions. The original ambitious timetable for the
programmatic DPL could not be adhered to, in part due to the complexities of the programme.
This raises the question whether a programmatic (rather than single-tranche) DPL, and the
adherence to a timeline for the individual components it implies, is the right instrument for this
kind of broad policy reform in the Moroccan energy sector (with its complexities and consequent
tendency to slow reforms, and its large number of interest groups involved). A single-tranche
DPL may be more ,,manageable, and thus ultimately more effective ­ unless the team is highly
confident of being able to meet the time schedule associated with a programmatic series, which
was not the case in the present one.

The problems that arose for the DPL from the change in government have been alluded to several
times in this ICR. This raises the question of timing of the starting time for he DPL, and suggests
that a complex energy DPL might better be started somewhat earlier in a governments term. This
may mitigate problems arising from the changes in political preferences, key staff, or even
institutional structures that a new government may bring, replacing it with the important
continuous engagement throughout implementation with the very same government that had
initially agreed on the measures contained in the DPL. ,,Aligning the DPL- and governmental
,,calendars in this way generally minimises the risk of a new government revisiting part of the
prior actions, as did in fact occur. (However, the time between start of the DPL and the elections
was still sufficient to make this appear a ,,calculated risk with hindsight, bearing in mind that
DPLs take such preparation effort that they can hardly be initiated by a government at the very
beginning of its term.)




                                                  27
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers

Monthly meetings took place with other donors (European Commission ; Kreditanstalt fuer
Wiederaufbau (German Development Cooperation) ; the African Development Bank ; and the
Agence Française de Développement) for coordination purposes. also for them to put energy back
on agenda. In its 2007 ­ 2010 program for energy reform in Morocco (76 million Euros), the EC
based a number of its agreed actions on those of the DPL. They stated that in planning this grant
they benefitted from the relevant dialogue the Bank was already conducting with the government.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

(No comments received)




                                               28
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
          Names                         Title                 Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
 Pierre Audinet           Sr Energy Economist               MNSSD
Silvia Pariente-David     Sr Energy Specialist              MNSSD
Rachid Bouhamidi          Junior Professional Associate     MNSIF -
Khalid Boukantar          Program Assistant                 MNSSD
M. Ananda Covindassamy    Consultant                        AFTEG
Dominique Lallement       Consultant                        MNSSD
Michael Hamaide           Sr Energy Specialist              MNSSD
Marc Heitner              Lead Financial Analyst
Khalid El-Massnaoui       Sr Economist                      MNSPR
Raffaello Cervigni        Sr Natural Resource Economist     MNSSD
Pierre Messali            Fin. Management Specialist        MNAFM
Fred Sexsmith             Consultant
Gregorio Bettiza          ET Consultant
Nicolas Perrin            Social Development Specialist      SDV
Dominique Bichara         Sr Counsel                        LEGEM
José Lopez Calix          Lead Country Economist            LCSPR
Dominique Dietrich        Language Program Assistant
Supervision
Silvia Pariente-David     Sr Energy Specialist              MNSSD
Ilhem Baghdadli           Energy Economist                  MNSSD
Pierre Audinet            Sr Energy Economist               MNSSD
Angeline Mani             Program Assistant                 MNSSD
M. Ananda Covindassamy    Consultant                        AFTEG
Michael Hamaide           Sr Energy Specialist              MNSSD

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
              Stage                                         USD Thousands (including
                                     No. of staff weeks
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY06                                        42                       254.02
  FY07                                        57                       314.24
  FY08                                                                   2.09
                          Total:              99                       570.35
Supervision/ICR
  FY06                                                                    0.00
  FY07                                                                    0.00
  FY08                                                                    2.72
                          Total:                                          2.72

                                         29
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

No such survey conducted.




                                               30
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
         (if any)

No such workshop conducted.




                                        31
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

To collect relevant information for the ICR and discuss the draft, desk-research-based ICR with
the Government, the team undertook an ICR mission from September 29th to October 5th 2009.
The draft conclusions of the ICR were presented and discussed with the following entities :
     Ministère des Affaires Economiques et Générales
     Ministère de lEnergie, des Mines, de lEau et de lEnvironnement
     Ministère de lIntérieur
     Office National de lElectricité
     Centre de Recherches des Energies Renouvelables.

(In addition, the mission had meetings with donors, whose comments are discussed separately in
Annex 5 of this ICR.)

Borrower comments a the draft ICR stages focused in particular on the Borrower Rating, which at
,,moderately satisfactory was considered to be somewhat low by some borrower representatives.
The borrower hence requested that the ICR provide
     details of the circumstances leading to some non-achievements of the PDOs (the team
        complied with this request by revising Sections 2.2 and 5.2 c appropriately);
     a matrix that would go beyond an ,,achieved-not achieved-approach by detailing the
        work done by the borrower on each action, even on those components were only partial
        progress was made (the team complied with this request in Table 2);
     insights into relevant achievements that carried the relevant parts of the energy sector
        reform process further even if they did not constitute an agreed action strictly speaking.
        (The team did so on several occasions in the text, e.g. by highlighting the raising of
        additional funds through the Fonds de Developpement d'Energie that would support
        further some of the DPL goals.)

The team also shared the final report with the Government. The Government gave a number of
detailed suggested changes to the main text, the majority of which were integrated into the final
text by the ICR team. The Government chose not to provide stand-alone comments for inclusion
in this annex.




                                               32
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

During the ICR mission, the team also met representatives of other donors, namely the European
Commission ; Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (German Development Cooperation) ; the African
Development Bank ; and the Agence Française de Développement.

While only the EC could provide insights from a large energy support programme of its own, the
discussion with these donors was crucial for the extensive contextual discussions in the ICR,
notably
     Major Factors Affecting Implementation (Section 2.2); and
     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome (Section 4).

The European Commission also provided written comments on the ICR subsequently.
It highlighted in particular
      that capacity building was an integral component of its own support programme to the
         Energy Sector, and would represent a focus within this support programme notably from
         2010 onwards;
      the relevance of medium-term and regional efforts to the DPLs goals, notably the Plan
         Solaire Méditerranéen;
      the synergies between the World Banks and the ECs assistance to the energy sector, and
         the use the EC had made of the World Banks efforts when designing its own assistance
         to the sector (see Section 6 b).




                                             33
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

(none)




                                        34
