Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7448-MOR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Energy Sector Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated  June 8, 2007 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7448-MOR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated  June 8, 2007, entered into between KINGDOM OF 
MOROCCO (
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of 
the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia,
 of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has 
already taken under the first phase of the Program (“the First Phase of the Program”) and 
which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) the Borrower’s 
maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy framework.  The Borrower and 
the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of seventy five million Euros (EUR 
75,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the First 
Phase of the Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time.  
 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion 
Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
2.09 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.10 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information 
relating to the provisions of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, 
reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROGRAM 
 
3.01 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which 
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance and Privatization. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministère des Finances et de la Privatisation 
Avenue Mohammed V 
Rabat 
Kingdom of Morocco 
 
Cable: 
     Facsimile: 
MINFIN     212-37-67-75-30/31 
Page  5
-
4
-
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Rabat, Kingdom of Morocco, as of the day and year first above 
written.  
 
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO 
 
By /s/ Fathallah Oualalou 
 
 
 
 Authorized 
Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By / s/ Theodore O. Ahlers 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions Taken by the Borrower under the First Phase of the 
Program
The Borrower has: 
 
1. 
continued to maintain a satisfactory macroeconomic framework, consistent with 
the objectives of the Program, as determined on the basis of macroeconomic 
indicators agreed between the Borrower and the Bank; 
2. by 
a
 decision (“arrêté
”) of the Minister of mining and energy no. 1596-05 of 04 
regeb 1426 (August 10, 2005) amending the decision (“arrêté
”) of the Minister of 
mining and energy no. 1493-02 of 17 joumada II 1423 (August 26, 2002) relating 
to characteristics of main petroleum products, adopted a schedule for the 
elimination of 10000ppm sulfur diesel fuel, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank; 
3. 
adopted, through its Council of Government, a draft law on energy efficiency and 
renewable energy, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; 
4. 
adopted, through its Council of Government, a draft law, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, to, 
inter alia:
 (a) increase the ceiling for self-generation 
of electricity to 50 MW; and (b) provide access to Self-generators of electricity to 
the Borrower’s national electricity network; and 
5. 
established an inter-ministerial Committee to prepare and oversee the 
restructuring of the Borrower’s electricity sector, with composition and terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank.  
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A.
 General. 
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
B.
 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Loan shall be withdrawn in a single tranche.  
The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan Allocated 
(expressed in Euros) 
Single Tranche 
 
75,000,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
75,000,000 
 
C.
 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
Page  7
-
6
-
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank 
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; 
and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 
Bank. 
 
D.
 Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines 
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
E.
 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2007. 
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (
“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
November 15, 2011 
May 15, 2012 
November 15, 2012 
May 15, 2013 
November 15, 2013 
May 15, 2014 
November 15, 2014 
May 15, 2015 
November 15, 2015 
May 15, 2016 
November 15, 2016 
May 15, 2017 
November 15, 2017 
May 15, 2018 
November 15, 2018 
May 15, 2019 
November 15, 2019 
May 15, 2020 
November 15, 2020 
May 15, 2021 
November 15, 2021 
May 15, 2022 
November 15, 2022 
May 15, 2023 
November 15, 2023 
May 15, 2024 
2.42 
2.50 
2.59 
2.68 
2.78 
2.87 
2.97 
3.08 
3.19 
3.30 
3.41 
3.53 
3.66 
3.78 
3.92 
4.05 
4.20 
4.34 
4.49 
4.65 
4.81 
4.98 
5.16 
5.34 
5.52 
5.78 
Page  9
-
8
-
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (
“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
Page  10
-
9
-
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
Page  11
-
10
-
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower:  
 
Group Sub-group 
Description 
of 
Item 
 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
718 718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
728 
 728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and 
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems) 
971 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold 
ores and concentrates) 
Page  12
-
11
-
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds 
during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation. 
 
2. 
“Self-generators of electricity” means any individual or entity generating 
electricity mainly for its own use.  
 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
4. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
implement a program of reform aiming at reinforcing the security of energy 
supply, improving energy sector productivity, reducing the Borrower’s budgetary 
exposure in said sector and developing a monitoring and evaluation system for 
policy implementation in said sector during the period 2007-2009, which 
Program consists of actions and policies that have already been taken and 
adopted by the Borrower under the First Phase of the Program as well as actions 
and policies that the Borrower intends to take and adopt prior to the subsequent 
phases of the Program, and set forth or referred to in the letter dated  
April 11, 2007 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the 
Bank in support of the Program during its execution. 
 
5. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the 
“International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Plans; Documents and Records
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
6. 
Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a 
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan 
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
Page  14
-
13
-
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“Program” means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in 
support of which the Loan is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”. 
Page  15
-
14
-
wb77754 
M:\legmn\MOROCCO\Energy sector DPL\LA2(conformed).doc 
06/14/2007 2:47:00 PM
 
