ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                                 A World Froc of Povorty  v
w~InfoShop
Report No AC75
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 05/16/2003
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: KOSOVO                                   Project ID: P079259
Project: Community Development Fund 11 Project    Task Team Leader: Caroline Mascarell
Authorized to Appraise Date: July 14, 2003        IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: October 30, 2003                   IDA Amount ($m):
IDA GRANT FOR POST-CONFLICT: 4
Managing Unit: ECSHD                              Sector: Other social services (100%)
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme: Other social development (P)
Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The objectives of the proposed Community Development fund 11 (CDF Il) Project will be to:
(i) Improve the quality, access and availability of community infrastructure and services in poor and
conflict-affected communities and for vulnerable groups, including returnees.
(ii) Promote institutional capacity-building and social capital formation at the community and municipal
levels so as to improve the quality and sustainability of service delivery and enhance greater stakeholder
participation and empowerment in local development.
The proposed Community Development Fund 11 Project (CDF II) will build upon the highly satisfactory
program carried out under the ongoing CDF Project designed to improve the quality and availability of
community infrastructure and services in poor and conflict-affected communities, as well as promote
institutional capacity building at the local level. Under the CDF Project, the community infrastructure
and social services projects sustained by capacity building have generated a visible development impact
in terms of social and economic benefits to poor communities in rural and urban areas throughout
Kosovo, including mixed and minority communities. The majority of projects proposed and carried out
in the communities involved small-scale school infrastructure rehabilitation, sewerage and roads. Within
a short period of three years since its inception in November 1999, the CDF completed 164 community
infrastructure projects and 70 community services projects. In particular, the CDF has been able to reach
out to extremely poor communities in isolated and remote rural areas in Kosovo, and implement
microprojects and services projects that have had a significant impact on their living standards.
The CDF II project will further enhance the impact of its program in Kosovo by forging partnerships and
strengthening institutions at the local level which can serve as effective vehicles for individual and



2
ISDS
community empowerment. The follow-up operation will be closely integrated as part of Kosovo's
medium-term development program focusing on sustainable development activities, consistent with the
evolving role of government. The medium and long-term challenge of the CDF II project will be to build
upon the decentralized process started under the first operation, and move forward to an integrated
development framework. Such a framework will not only respond to community needs but will also
enhance community participation, instill ownership, and build the needed capacity for the decentralized
management of efficient service delivery. Thus, the design of the CDF TI focuses on an improved
poverty targeting strategy, enhancement of community participation and ownership, and strengthening
local capacity to carry out development activities on a sustainable basis.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The project components listed and described below, are supported under an integrated institutional
framework consisting of institutional arrangements, participatory methods, service delivery, and capacity
building designed to strengthen institutions and enhance social capital at the local level.
Components:
1. Community Investment Projects
1.1 Community Infrastructure
1.2 Community Social Services
2. Support for Institutional Capacity Building
2.1 Capacity building and TA at the community investment project level
2.2 Capacity building and TA at the local government level
2.3 Community profiling, needs and capacity gaps assessment
3. Institutional Support to the CDF 11 PIU
3.1 Support to the general administration and management of project
3.2 Capacity building and TA to staff in CDF 1I PIU
3.3 Financing of annual financial and technical reviews
3.4 Financing of special studies, assessments and reviews
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
As in the case of the ongoing project, the CDF II project will operate throughout Kosovo, and in all
municipalities. Within municipalities, most of the microprojects will be in rural areas, with selected projects
financed in urban areas. The microprojects (typically schools, neighborhood access roads, primary health
clinics, small-scale water supply and sewerage) will not be in proximity to any protected areas, or natural
habitats, or any culturally or socially sensitive areas.
B. Check Environmental Classification: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
Comments The CDF 11 Project would: (i) finance community infrastructure projects implemented by the
Community Project Committees; and (ii) finance community social services projects implemented by local
NGOs for the benefit of local communities. Thus, the CDF 11 PIU will function as a financial intermediary,
and ensure that community investment projects meet the environmental requirements of Kosovo, and are
consistent with the Bank's guidelines.



3
ISDS
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                    * Yes O No    0 TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                            O Yes * No    O TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                       O Yes * No    O TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   O Yes * No    O TBD
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                               * Yes ONo     O TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                Q Yes * No    O TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                       0 Yes 0 No    0 TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                 O Yes * No    O TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)         0 Yes 0 No    0 TBD
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                 0 Yes 0 No    0 TBD
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data
II.D.Ia. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Given the relatively small size and rehabilitation nature of most community infrastructure projects, no
major environmental issues are anticipated under the proposed CDF II Project. Civil works will mainly
involve the rehabilitation of existing structures. However, certain microproject types such as water
supply rehabilitation schemes and neighborhood access roads to be funded under the project may require
special environmental mitigation measures to protect quality of the water source (in-situ and upstream).
Environmental mitigation measures may also be needed in the case of sewerage, sanitation systems and
irrigation rehabilitation works sub-projects. Environmental concerns will be mitigated in the selection
and implementation of sub-projects, as described Section II. D. 3. below.
Since civil works under the CDF II Project would largely consist of rehabilitation of existing structures,
and given that new construction if any, would occur in state owned lands, no land acquisition is expected.
Furthermore, experience under the CDF I suggests that encroachments on the Right of Way will not be
an issue. However, to address the possibility that there may be minor (less tan 10% of individual land
holdings) land acquisition or encroachments on the Right of Way under the project, the Operational
Manual will include a Policy Framework that details the mechanisms to deal with these issues should
they arise.
Impacts in the forin of chance finds of physical cultural resources are also expected to be minor. The
environmental section of the OM will address the procedures to be followed should they occur.
The Project Team has reviewed the legal framework and central and local capacity to conduct
environmental assessments and reviews. The legal framework on environmental issues is set out in the
Environmental Protection Law adopted by the Assembly on January 16, 2003. Under this law, the
ministry responsible for implementing environmental policies and protection is the Ministry of
Environment and Spatial Planning (MESP). Other ministries that oversee activities with environmental
impact include the Ministries of Trade, Health, Transportation and Communication, and Agriculture,
Forestry 'and Rural Development. At the local level, municipalities are responsible for specific



4
ISDS
environmental protection activities, which are specified in the Environmental Protection Law. As stated
in this law, individual citizens, citizen organizations, and non-governmental organizations may contribute
to the enforcement of environmental protection objectives and implementation activities for the
protection and improvement of the environment. Although the Environment Department of the MESP
has a staff close to 70, the capacity at the local level to follow up and enforce legislation remains limited.
Local capacity, while limited, is considered sufficient for case-by-case review and assessment of
environmental impacts and recommended mitigation measures (ER) by CDF staff and limited
environmental assessments (LEA) by outside local consultants. Projects requiring a full environmental
impact assessment would not meet cost effectiveness criteria for CDF funding and would not be eligible
for financing. During the pilot phase, and the ongoing CDF Project, staff successfully identified, jointly
with the community, mitigation measures and monitored their implementation (e.g., traffic safety trainiig
and signage accompanied a road rehabilitation project). To further enhance capacity, the CDF 1I Project
will finance training for CDF technical staff in environmental assessment procedures.
II.D.l b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
No cumulative impacts due to the application of the above mentioned safeguard policies are anticipated.
II.D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
No potential long-term impacts are envisaged at the present time.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
N/A
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies are covered in
Section E 5. on Environmental issues, in the Project Appraisal Document. Currently, the CDF reviews
all proposals for community projects against a set of eligibility criteria, including environmental criteria,
which are specified in the Operational Manual (OM). During project appraisal, the CDF staff screen
projects for environmental impacts according to a checklist included in the Operational Manual. At this
stage, the need for an in-house environmental review (ER) or a limited environmental assessment (LEA)
conducted by local consultants is determined.
In the case of negative impacts, the OM includes recommended mitigation measures of various project
types (water supply, schools, health clinics, neighborhood access roads, small-scale irrigation, and
sewerage), which are in accordance with environmental guidelines generally approved by the World
Bank for social funds. In the case of a positive impact, CDF staff explores ways in which, it could be
maximized. In the case of a neutral impact, attention is focused on the possibility of converting it into a
positive impact. All project appraisal data, including environmental data are be tracked through the
Management Information System (MIS) and available for post review. These procedures and practices
will be continued under the CDF 11 Project.
The environment section of the OM and the related Policy Framework will be disclosed in country (local
language) and in Infoshop before the project appraisal mission.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.



5
ISDS
The proposed project will provide a participatory framework designed to strengthen the institutional
arrangements both at the project management level, as well as the community level, with the objective of
enhancing the overall effectiveness and accountability of the CDF Tl PIU and of the local counterparts.
The project will place special emphasis on enhancing community participation mechanisms consisting of
the following stages:
(i) Investigative Stage. This stage will consist of listening to the members of diverse communities
regarding their interests and capacity for participating in the project, community outreach and
promotional activities. The latter will focus on: (a) institutional assessments of the local government and
communities interested in participating in the microprojects with particular attention to the structure,
function and responsibilities of these local groups; (b) needs assessments/identificationi of these local
groups in terms of priority community investment projects; and (c) training needs assessments to
determine the capacity gaps of the key stakeholders.
(ii) Consultation and Information Dissemination Stage. This stage will involve consultations with local
groups involving public meetings and interviews to discuss and determine priorities and concerns that
would engender ownership and distribute information on the CDF II program and on relevant
Government sectoral policies, including environmental policies and the Environmental Protection Law of
2003.
(iii) Negotiations/Preparation Stage. This stage will involve the close collaboration of CDF technical
staff working together with Community Project Committees in microproject design, planning and
management, including environmental aspects.
(iv) Implementation/Supervision Stage This stage will enhance and support the involvement of the local
communities through the active participation of communities in the management and supervision of
microproject activities. Participatory appraisal and planning techniques will be designed to enable
communities to prioritize, plan and implement their own development and to give voice to the poor.
(v) Beneficiary Impact Assessment Stage: The impact of the project with regard to key stakeholder
participation and overall satisfaction with the CDF program will be systematically monitored throughout
the life of the project. Beneficiary assessments will be independently contracted out by the CDF 11 PIU
to provide feedback and evaluation from the community concerning what is perceived to be the project's
direct and indirect impacts regarding improved access and quality of services, improved environment,
local participation and organization, attitudes and values, local government relations, partnerships
formed, and sustainability. Such feedback should also help stakeholders to improve their own
performance.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
S3. -No safeguard issues
[X] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or



6
ISDS
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.



7
ISDS
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:            Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                  6/30/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                              6/30/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                               6/30/2003
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                           Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:                Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:                                         Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                   Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by        Name                                         Date
Task Team Leader:             Caroline Mascarell                            May 16, 2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                          Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Jane E. Holt                               May 15, 2003
Sector Manager/Director:       Michal Rutkowski                             May 16, 2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
LSEARCH       I F|ED8ACK     1SE MJIAP      l SHOWCA_E     I



