                                        Document of
                                    The World Bank

                               FOROFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                        ReportNo: 26268




                         PROJECTAPPRAISALDOCUMENT

                                          ONA

      PROPOSEDINTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATIONGRANT

                       INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR2.9 MILLION
                           (US$4.0 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                         TO THE

      UNITEDNATIONSINTERIMADMINISTRATIONMISSIONINKOSOVO
         FORTHE BENEFITOFKOSOVO, SERBIAAND MONTENEGRO

                                          FORA

                COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENTFUNDI1PROJECT

                                   OCTOBER29,2003




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bankauthorization.


HumanDevelopmentSector Unit
Europeand CentralAsia Region

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                       (Exchange Rate Effective October 28,2003)

                              Currency Unit = EURO
                                  EURO 1.0 = US$1.177
                                      US$1.0 = EURO0.85

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1 -- December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CDF      Community Development Fund
CPC      Community Project Committee
DGA      Development GrantAgreement
EA       Environmental Assessment
FMR      Financial Management Report
FMS      Financial Management System
IDA      International Development Association
IDP      Internally Displaced
K C F    Kosovo ConsolidatedFund
KFOR     Kosovo International Peacekeeping Force
KOS      Kosovo Office o f Statistics
KPA      Kosovo Poverty Assessment
LEA      LimitedEnvironmental Assessments
LSMS     Living Standards Measurement Study
MESP     Ministryo fEnvironmentand SpatialPlanning
M I S    Management Information System
MFE      MinistryofFinanceandEconomy
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
OM       Operational Manual
PISG     Provisional Institutions o f Self-Government
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PMRs     Project Management Reports
PSC      Project Steering Committee
SA       Special Account
SRSG     Special Representative o f the UnitedNations Secretary General
TSS      Transitional Support Strategy
UNMIK    UnitedNations Interim Administration Mission inKosovo
WFP      World Food Programme

-                             Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu
                Country ManagerDirector:         Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                  Sector ManagerDirector:        Michal Rutkowski
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Caroline Mascarell

                                                                     FOROFFICIAL USEONLY


                                                     KOSOVO
                              COMMUNITYDEVELOPMENTFUNDI1PROJECT


                                                    CONTENTS




      A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page

         1. Project development objective                                                      2
         2. Key performance indicators                                                         3

      B. Strategic Context

         1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supportedby the project      3
         2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         4
         3. Sector issues to be addressedby the project and strategic choices                  7

      C. Project Description Summary

         1. Project components                                                                 9
         2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      9
         3. Benefits and target population                                                     10
         4. Institutionaland implementation arrangements                                       11

      D.Project Rationale

         1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          17
         2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies      18
         3. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design                                 18
         4. Indications o f recipient commitment andownership                                 20
         5. Value added o f Bank support inthis project                                       21

      E. Summary Project Analysis

         1. Economic                                                                           21
         2. Financial                                                                          22
         3. Technical                                                                          24
         4. Institutional                                                                      24
         5. Environmental                                                                      25
         6. Social                                                                             27
         7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 30




This document has a restricted distribution and may beusedby recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

F. Sustainability and Risks

   1. Sustainability                                                                     30
   2. Critical risks                                                                     31
   3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     32


G. Main Grant Conditions

   1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            32
   2. Other: Condition ofNegotiations                                                    33

H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          33

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                             33



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          34
Annex 2: DetailedProject Description                                                     40
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         44
Annex 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary                                             45
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    54
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                    55
           (B) FinancialManagement and Disbursement Arrangements                         64
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     69
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                                                    70
Annex 9: Statement o f Loans and Credits                                                 71
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            73
Annex 11: Project ImplementationPlan                                                     74
Annex 12: Poverty Targeting Strategy and Regional Allocation o f Funds                   75
Annex 13: Community Investment Project Typology                                          78
Annex 14: The Project Steering Committee                                                 80
Annex 15: Environmental Mitigation Measures and Review Checklist                         82
Annex 16: The Community Development Fund, its Board, Structure and Statutes              91
Annex 17: The Institutional Structure o f the Community Development FundI1Project        97




MAP(S)
IBRD30432R

                                                    KOSOVO
                                        Community DevelopmentFund11Project
                                         ProjectAppraisal Document
                                            EuropeandCentralAsia Region
                                                     ECSHD

 Date: October 29, 2003                                  Team Leader: CarolineMascarell
  Sector Manager: MichalRutkowski                        Sector(s): Other social services (100%)
  Country Director: OrsaliaKalantzopoulos                Theme@): Other social development (P)
 Project ID: PO79259
 Lending Instrument: Specific InvestmentLoan(SIL)



   For LoanslCreditslOthers:
   Amount (US$m):4.00

I BORROWEWRECIPIENT                                                    0.00                 0.00        0.00
  LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                            I       0.42                 0.00        0.42
  IDA GRANT FORPOST-CONFLICT                                           3.17                 0.83        4.00
  Total:                                                               3.59      IIII       0.83 IIII   4.42-
                                                               I                 I                I
   BorrowerlRecipient: UNMIK
   Responsibleagency: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND
   Address: PerandoriJustinian4, Prishtina,Kosovo
   ContactPerson: Ms.Flaka Surroi
   Tel: 381-38-249-677               Fax: 381-38-249-679              Email: flaka@kcdf.org
 ~~EstimatedDisbursements( Bank FY/US$m):




   Project implementationperiod: 3 years
   Expectedeffectivenessdate: 01/01/2004 Expected closing date: 12/31/2006

A. Project DevelopmentObjective

1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objectives o f the proposed Community Development FundI1(CDF 11) Project will be to:

(i)    Improve the quality, access, and availability o f community infrastructure and services in poor and
       conflict-affected communities, and for the most vulnerable groups, including returnees; and
(ii)   Promote institutional capacity building at the community and municipal levels so as to improve the
       quality and sustainability o f service delivery, and enhance greater stakeholder participation and
       empowerment inlocal development.

The proposed Community Development Fund I1Project (CDF 11) will build upon the highly satisfactory
program carried out under the ongoing CDF Project designed to improve the quality and availability o f
community infrastructure and services in poor and conflict-affected communities, as well as to promote
institutional capacity buildingat the local level. Under the CDF Project, the community infrastructure and
social services projects, sustained by capacity buildmg, have generated a visible and inclusive development
impact in rural and urban areas throughout Kosovo, including mixed and minority communities.           The
majority o f projects proposed and carried out in communities involved potable water supply, school
infrastructure, sewerage and roads. Within a short period o f four years since its inception in November
1999, the CDF completed 182 community infrastructure projects and 76 community services projects. In
particular, the CDF has been able to reach out to extremely poor communities in isolated and remote rural
areas in Kosovo, and implement microprojects and services that have had a significant impact on their
living standards.     The recent Beneficiary Assessment carried out, showed that 77 percent o f the
beneficiaries interviewed declared that the project had improved their living conditions

At a broader level, through the efforts of the CDF Project, an important process is gradually emerging in
support o f the decentralized management o f basic social services.      Under the framework o f the CDF
Project, community members have been progressively engaging in self-generated development activities
combined with training activities aimed at having communities better appreciate and take part in ensuring
the quality, effectiveness and sustainability o f service delivery. The CDF has promoted the concept o f
self-help mechanisms, increased the sense o f community ownership, enhanced the efficiency o f local
communities and government institutions in service delivery, and has set the foundation for a future
community development operation. Furthermore, in mixed communities, the CDF provided an effective
framework for eliciting the interaction o f community members o f different e t h c groups in designing and
implementingpriority community projects that are mutually beneficial.

The CDF I1Project will further enhance the impact o f its program in Kosovo by forging partnerships and
strengthening institutions at the local level which can serve as effective vehicles for individual and
community empowerment.          The follow-up operation will be closely integrated as part o f Kosovo's
medium-term development program focusing on sustainable development activities, consistent with the
evolving role o f self-government. The medium- and long-term challenge o f the CDF I1Project will be to
buildupon the decentralization process started under the first operation, and move forward to an integrated
development framework responsive to the priorities o f the poor, vulnerable groups, and returnees. The
most vulnerable groups include the disabled, the elderly, widows, the destitute, victims o f the conflict,
children at risk, mixed and minority communities, and communities in remote and mountainous villages.
An integrated development framework will not only respond to community needs, but will also enhance
participation and capacity building at the local level.    This will be achieved by instilling ownership,
buttressing the interactive partnership between the public and the government, and building the needed



                                                     - L -

capacity for the decentralized management o f efficient service delivery. Thus, the design o f the CDF I1
Project focuses on an improved poverty targeting strategy, enhancement o f community participation and
ownership, and strengthening local capacity to carry out development activities on a sustainable basis.

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicators set out in Annex 1 reflect monitorable outcomes and impacts under the
project covering key project activities. These include quantitative indicators (i.e. measurable improvements
andoutputs) relatingto project benefits and qualitative assessmentson demand-driven mechanisms, service
delivery, and community participation. The specific areas that will be assessedinclude: (i)   project impact
interms ofsocial andeconomic benefitsto poor communities inruralandurbanareasthroughout KOSOVO,
including mixed and minority communities, relating to the improvement o f the quality and availability o f
community infrastructure and services in poor and conflict-affected communities, and promotion o f
institutional capacity building at the local level; (ii)outputs relating to successful completion of
cost-effective and good quality community infrastructure and services projects which are sustainable, and
those relating to timely and effective capacity buildmg programs benefiting local governments and
communities, as well as capacity building at the national level to effectively carry out poverty monitoring
on a regular basis; and (iii) processes relating to poverty targeting, participatory mechanisms, capacity
building, and monitoring andevaluation.

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R99 - 178        Date of latest CAS discussion: July 25, 2002

The Bank's current development assistance strategy for Kosovo is set out in the Transitional Support
Strategy (TSS, document number: 24275-KOS). The TSS, which is a substitute for the CAS, was
endorsed by the Board on July 25, 2002. As noted in the TSS, although Kosovo has moved passed the
emergency phase and much o f the reconstruction has been completed, it faces many o f the structural issues
as other low-income, rural, transition economies. Moreover, Kosovo has to address these challenges inan
environment o f declining donor funding. Building upon previous contributions to reconstruction and
economic recovery in Kosovo, the Bank's current assistance strategy focuses primarily on poverty
alleviation and limited budget support, with an extensive program o f analytical work.           The latter, in
particular, is designed to respond to the priorities o f the new Kosovar authorities relating to economic
growth, poverty reduction, fiscal sustainability, and good governance.

The Bank's assistanceprogram to Kosovo provides for a total o fUS$ 15 million o f IDA resources on grant
terms for commitments during CY2002-03. The main focus o f the Bank's assistance program is on poverty
reduction. Accordingly, the financial assistance program provides for a Community Development FundI1
Project (US$ 4 million), which is essentially a continuation o f the ongoing project that has effectively
targeted areas with conflict-related damage as well as poor and vulnerable groups.         The CDF supports
small-scale infrastructure and social services microprojects at the local community level, and operates on a
demand-driven basis with a strong emphasis on community participation. As envisaged in the TSS, an
Education Project (US$ 4.5 million) has begun operations designed to improve educational attainments at
the primary and secondary levels and to enhance access o f vulnerable groups to education. This project
would be complemented by the CDF I1Project, which includes school rehabilitation or construction in its
program for small-scale infrastructure. To assist the authorities in promoting pro-poor economic growth,
the Bank's assistanceprogram includes an Economic Assistance Grant IV (US$ 5 million) to help integrate
key policies relating to fiscal sustainability, and improvement o f the business environment and
privatizatiodliquidation o f socially-owned enterprises.   Since the energy sector is critical to economic



                                                     - 3 -

growth, the Bank's assistance program also includes a Second Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project
(US$ 1.5 million) to primarily finance a feasibility study for priority investments, and strengthen
management in the electrical power sub-sector, building upon the comprehensive energy sector study
already carried out. In addition to the above, the Bank will continue its policy dialogue with the Kosovar
authorities, provide policy advice as needed, and maintain its role indonor coordination.

2. M a i n sector issues and Government strategy:
Kosovo remains one o f the poorer territories in Eastem Europe - largely reflecting the impact o f the
suspension o f autonomy within former Socialist Federal Republic o f Yugoslavia and withm Serbia in
1989, and ethnic conflict which intensified in 1998 and 1999. The majority o f the population is of
Albanian ethnicity (88 percent), followed by the Serbians (7 percent), Slav Muslims (2 percent), Roma (2
percent), and others (1 percent).

The conflict ended in June 1999, leaving Kosovo's population estimated at 2.1 million with a collapsed
state o f industrial and agricultural output. The Bank's Poverty Assessment Report o f December 2001,
found that half the population o f Kosovo livedbelow the poverty line, and that 12 percent o f the population
lived in extreme poverty. The report also found that, overall the 'typical' household in extreme poverty
was o f Albanian ethnicity, with seven members and a high dependency ratio. It lived in a rural area, had
been displaced at least once during the conflict, and had returned to its original residence. Poverty was,
and still is, multidimensional in character, particularly in terms o f lack o f physical assets and market
opportunities, and the relatively low level o f human development, as reflected in education and health
indicators.   Another dimension o f poverty consists o f special problems faced minority communities,
particularly the Serbian communities living in "enclaves", with poor access to public services. Given the
social tensions that exist between the Serbian minorities and the majority ethnic Albanianpopulation, these
"enclaves" continue to be protected by police stations and patrols composed o f the UNCivilian Police and
the Multi-Ethnic members o f the Kosovar Police Service.

The main social sector issues relate to:

(i) The Extent ofPoverty. Despitehouseholdtransfers from relatives abroad, food aid, andother
forms o f humanitarian assistance, as noted above, 12 percent o f the population lived in extreme poverty,
with consumption levels below the food poverty line. The latter was estimated as the cost o f the food
basket required to provide 2,100 calories per day per adult, equivalent to approximately US$ 0.813. The
overall picture that emerges is one o f a small core o f extremely poor households, a small proportion o f very
rich households, and a large proportion of households on either side o f the poverty line. This is reflected in
the relatively low level o f income inequality, as measured by an estimated Gini coefficient o f 0.29. Wages
and eamings from business activities remain the main source o f income for the average household, while
transfers from relatives form the second most important source o f income for the average Albanian
household. Nearly 50 percent o f these households receive remittances in cash or kind from abroad. In
contrast, only 5 percent o f the Serbs receive transfers from relatives. At the time o f the Living Standards
Measurement Study (LSMS) in 2000, over 60 percent o f the population had received food aid, winter fuel,
and clothes from a variety of donors. Besides, high dependency ratios and the lack of land resources and
employment opportunities, one o f the correlates o f extreme poverty is the lack o f sewerage andpiped water.
The existence o f extremely poor communities, living inisolated and remote villages, without access to basic
public services, is a cause for concem -- signalling a key priority for concentrating poverty reduction
efforts. As noted inthe TSS, while economic growth will help reduce the overall level o f poverty, specific
anti-poverty interventions are required to meet the needs o f the extremely poor.




                                                     - 4 -

(ii)      Educational Standards. Education in Kosovo suffered a setback in the 1990s following the
adoption o f Serbian as the official language for formal education. Consequently, the ethnic Albanians
(majority group) were forced to adopt an informal "parallel system" o f education for the primary,
secondary, and tertiary levels. Furthermore, the provision o f education was severely curtailed inthe areas
affected by the conflict. This lack o f access to formal education in the 1990s resulted in an increase o f
illiteracy from 15 to 22 percent among the 16 to 25 year olds. Also, according to the Kosovo Poverty
Assessment Report, the lack o f education is highly correlated with the extent o f poverty. This situation i s
expected to improve dramatically with the current high rate o f enrollment estimated at 97 percent at the
primary level. However, at the secondary level, significant inequalities exist across gender, ethnic groups,
and urban and rural populations. Overall, enrollment at the secondary level remains one o f the lowest in
Europe -reflectingthe key challenges inthe education sector. These include the lack o f adequately trained
teachers, limited supplies o f materials and equipment, `teacher-centered' curricula, lack o f standardized
testing, and vocational programs with narrow specializations.          In particular, school infrastructure is in
urgent need o f rehabilitation or construction as significant deterioration had taken place prior to the
conflict, and a number o f schools were destroyed during the conflict. The lack o f adequate school
infrastructure, has resulted inovercrowding inand poor access to schools. The high cost o f education also
i s a major barrier to school enrollment, and affordability o f education by the poorer householdremains an
issue. The United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) and the Provisional
Institutions o f Self-Government (PISG), with the assistance o f the World Bank and other donors have
begunto address these issues.

(iii) HealthStatus. KosovoranksthelowestinEuropeonvirtually everyhealthindicator, according
to the limited information available. Infant mortality, matemal mortality, and the decline in immunization
coverage indicate serious deficiencies inhealth amongst the Kosovar population. The infant mortality rate
o f 45 deaths per 1,000 live births is the highest in Europe. These indicators reflect serious deficiencies in
the quality, availability, and equity o f health service delivery. Health care is hospital- and specialist- based,
while primary care is provided by a network of clinics called health houses and `ambulanta'. Access to
health care (in terms o f distance to facilities) i s constrained by the lack o f an adequate number o f primary
health clinics, especially inthe rural areas. Those most affected by distance and safety factors are senior
citizens, especially those over 70 years old. Moreover, access by the poor to health services i s constrained
by demand for out-of-pocket payments for health services.             Apart from the lack o f adequate health
facilities, KOSOVO'S  health status remains badly affected by serious inadequacies in safe drinkingwater and
sewerage disposal.

(iv)      Unemployment.      Estimates o f unemployment vary widely in Kosovo, primarily due to the
seasonality o f employment inrural areas. According to the Kosovo Labor Market Study o f June 2003, the
"most likely" unemployment rate in Kosovo is estimated at 23-33 percent o f the labor force, although the
formal labor market analysis based on adjusted labor force survey data indicated an estimate o f around 40
percent in2001. Notwithstandingthese discrepancies, unemployment remains a major social problem, and
some noteworthy insights have been provided by the Kosovo Poverty Assessment (KF'A) based on the
LSMS. The KPA found that after a decade o f discrimination, the Albanians felt `discouraged' in their job
search, and therefore stopped looking for work. Among the Serbs, agriculture is the most common source
o f employment, and non-agricultural self employment is minimal. In contrast, Albanians are most llkely to
be in paid employment, followed by agricultural employment. Households without working members are
the poorest; on average 9 percent o f the households have no earners, and this proportion is higher for the
Serbs.    On the whole, the poorest households were characterized by a large average proportion o f
agricultural workers. Conversely, the richer households had a larger proportion o f workers in the formal
sector or those in self employment. Another significant finding was that education was the most important
correlate o f employment status.


                                                        - 5 -

(v)      Resettlement of Returnees and the Security Situation.         The Kosovo Poverty Assessment found
that 70 percent o f the population was displaced during the 1999 conflict.          At the time of the study, 4
percent o f the total population and 8 percent o f all Serbs were intemally displaced (IDPs) and an additional
3 percent were `diaspora retumees' who were outside Kosovo before the conflict. The study found that both
categories were twice as likely to be extremely poor as the rest o f the population due poor access to land
and lack o f non-agricultural employment opportunities. Improvement o f conditions for retumees remains
and issue that needs to be addressed. Although the security situation has improved, the return o f displaced
Kosovar Serbs remains limited        --reflecting decreased but continuing occurrences o f harassment o f
minorities, and impediments to freedom o f movement. As a result, the access by minority communities to
essential services and employment is limited.

(vi)     Institutional Capacity for Service Delivery at the Local Level.              The lack o f institutional
capacity at the local government and community levels to effectively address social sector issues remains a
major issue. In broad terms, the lack o f institutional capacity at the local level has arisen from: (i)
institutionally weak local governments, with limited financial resources; (ii)inadequate systems o f
accounting, financial planning, and budgeting at the local level; (iii) the lack o f effective partnerships at the
local level; (iv) the lack o f involvement o f citizens inthe decision-making process indevelopment activities
and service provision; and (v) the lack o f access to basic information regarding services andentitlements on
the part o f local communities, particularly inrural areas. Some progress has been made inaddressing these
problems, and as a result, all 30 municipalities have been certified by an independent auditor on the
adequacy o f budget and financial systems, and ability to provide municipal services. Whde some o f the
larger municipalities have received attention through donor-assisted programs, smaller municipalities,
along with local communities, particularly in rural and remote locations, are receiving much less attention
and financial support. Although responsibilities are being gradually transferred from UNMIKto the PISG,
including local government institutions, capacity gaps may impede this process. Consequently, capacity
building will be crucial to discharge these responsibilities effectively.

Government Strategy

The Evolving Role of Government.            Since the end o f the conflict in June 1999, Kosovo has been
progressively moving towards self-government. Followingthe adoption o f the Constitutional Framework in
May 2001 and the Kosovo-wide elections held in November 2001, responsibility for administering the
territory is now shared between the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMTK)
and the Kosovar Self-Government. While the Provisional Institutions o f Self-Government (PISG) have
significant responsibility in goveming KOSOVO,      the Special Representative o f the United Nations Secretary
General (SRSG) retains the power to ensure security, exercise a number o f specific reserve powers, and set
the "broad parameters" o f fiscal policy, including the overall budget for Kosovo. The 2002 budget marked
an important stage inthe transfer o f power; 72 percent o f public resources from the Kosovo Central Budget
were under the authority o f the PISG and the municipalities in 2002.           A major source o f municipal
revenues both in 2001 and in2002 were from transfers from the central budget to municipal governments.

Further progress in the direction o f self-government has been made since January 1, 2003, and in March
2003, UNMIK and the Kosovar authorities agreed on a "Mandate                          to Establish Substantial
Self-Government".      A Transfer Council to be established to facilitate this process will focus on: (i)
competencies that have not been fully transferred to the PISG which include policy formulation and
management in the areas o f agriculture, culture, youth and sports; education, science and technology;
health; labor and social welfare; public services; and finance and economy; (ii)     increasing the involvement
of Kosovars and local institutions in the areas reserved for the SRSG under Chapter Eight o f the


                                                        - 6 -

Constitutional Framework; and (iii)  shiftingUNMIK's focus toward monitoring andevaluating progress by
Kosovo Institutions including municipalities to ensure compliance with the UNSCR 1244 o f 1999 and the
Constitutional Framework, as well as progress towards the benchmarks. It is expected that these initiatives
will be completed by December 31,2003.

Government Priorities. The PISG's current development strategy aims at, inter alia, addressing the
above-mentioned issues, within the overall framework o f economic development. Accordingly, the four
broad priorities outlined by the PISG are:

(i)      Fostering economic development and growth, and increasing employment, through creating the
         conditions for a market economy;
(ii)     Improving the living standards o f vulnerable groups, and enhancing the quality o f and access to
         education andhealth;
(iii)    Ensuringan efficient andtransparent public administration; and
(iv)     Providing equal opportunities for all citizens.

3. Sector issuesto be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The Community Development Fund Project I1 would support the second, third, and fourth o f the
Government's priorities mentioned above, through the project's focus on rehabilitation o f social and
economic infrastructure. The project would target its activities especially in the education and health
sectors, and on the provision o f social services, sustained by capacity building, to help improve the living
standards o f the poor and vulnerable groups. The project's support for capacity buildingat the local level
is designed to enhance the capacity o f local govemment officials and communities to effectively address
post-conflict and social sector issues on a sustainable basis.

The Approach: As in the case o f the ongoing CDF Project, the CDF I1will follow a community-based,
demand-driven approach. The mid-term review o f the ongoing CDF has shown that this is well suited to
meet Kosovo's social development needs in a post-conflict environment. First, by working directly with
communities, the CDF is well-placed to improve service delivery in a way that is responsive to citizens'
priorities. Second, the ongoing project has made significant progress incapacity buildingat the local level,
focused on training project committee members inpreparing project proposals, developing business plans,
enhancing community participation and partnerships with local govemments, NGOs, selection o f
contractors, and supervising project implementation. However, more needs to be done in establishing and
strengthening relationships amongst the local stakeholders. Third, the ongoing CDF Project has proved to
be a flexible instrument that can rapidly respond to local needs in a demand-driven manner, in a fast
changing institutional environment. While maintaining this flexibility under the CDF 11, it will include a
special fund for responding more rapidly to the problems o f mixed andminority communities. Based on this
approach, the CDF I1Project will address the following areas:

Improving the Quality and Coverage of Social Infrastructure: The proposed project will help address
the poverty issue by improving the quality o f life o f the poor through rehabilitation or construction o f
small-scale social and economic infrastructure, and by targeting o f project funds to the poorest, especially
those in remote isolated villages, and in mixed and minority communities, including returnees.          Such
projects would include primary and secondary schools, health clinics, water supply and sewerage,
neighborhoods roads, community centers, and other facilities that would benefit local communities. In
mixed communities, the project will help bring members o f various ethnic groups to work together on
microprojects for a common good. (A market place constructed in a mixed community under the ongoing
CDF is a good example in this regard).           In minority communities (essentially Serb communities),



                                                      - 7 -

microprojects such as neighborhood or access roads will have the effect o f linking these communities to
those o f other ethnic groups, as social tensions ease and the local security situation gradually improves. To
carry out these activities more effectively, local government capacity will be strengthened and communities
will be empowered through training and information dissemination.           The project will help address the
unemployment issue through short-term employment related to infrastructure rehabilitation works, and
technical assistance through local consultants.

Responding to Priority Social Service of Communities:               The proposed project will continue the
development program o f the ongoing CDF project through its support in responding to communities'
demand for certain types o f social services. These cover a variety o f services such as health education for
children, literacy courses for elderly women, civic education for children in minority communities, sewing
classes for women inmixedcommunities, and a number o f operations and maintenance projects relating to
community infrastructure projects financed by the CDF. The recent Beneficiary Assessment has shown
that such projects have helped buildconfidence inmembers o f vulnerable groups, and have improved their
prospects o f integrating into society in a more meaningful manner.       A similar demand pattern for social
service projects is expected over the medium-term, and the CDF I1Project would effectively respond to
such demand.

Strengthening Capacity for Service Delivery at the Local Level: The project would continue the work
of the ongoing CDF Project in helping to build a development process at the local level based on
participatory approaches -- particularly citizen participation in decision-making processes -- and
community-based schemes. These approaches are valuable in enhancing local capacity and strengthening
transparency and accountability. First, the project would support the PISG's programs which, inter alia,
are aimed at improving service delivery inhealth, education, and social assistance within to communities a
decentralized framework. Support would be provided through technical assistance and training to local
government officials in fields o f relevance to the work o f the project. Second, the project would provide
training to stakeholders at the municipal level to help establish a development framework designed to
facilitate equitable access to social services and information, and respond to the common good o f the
community.      Such a framework would help build the needed capacity that would facilitate: (a) the
rehabilitation or construction o f schools, health clinics, and other social service centers; (b) the delivery o f
priority social services by qualified local NGOs covering activities in education, health and social
protection; and (c) the promotion o f effective participatory mechanisms for community development
through the active engagement o f communities in local government decision-making processes. The
proposed CDF I1 Project will enhance capacity building efforts through more effective outreach and
promotion, a community profiling and needs assessment, and an enhanced capacity building program.
Capacity building will be focused, in particular, on medium-sized and smaller municipalities and
communities with little or no donor financing, and on local communities.




                                                      - 8 -

C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description andAnnex 3 for a detailedcostbreakdown):



                                                                   Indkative                   Bank-     % of
                                                                     costs                   Financing   Bank-
                                                                    (US$M)                    (US$M)   financing
 1. Community Investment Projects                                      3.33          75.3         2.97     74.3
 1.1 Community Infrastructure - microprojects
 1.2 Goods for micro-projects
 1.3 Grants for Community Social Services
 1.4 Community Infrastructure Designand Supervision

 2. Institutional Capacity Building                                    0.25           5.7         0.23      5.8
 2.1 Capacity buildingat the community micro-project level
 2.2 Capacity buildingat the local government level
 2.3 Community profiling, needs and capacity assessment
 2.4 Special studies, technical reviews and assessments
 2.5 CDF I1staff training

 3. Project Management                                                 0.84          19.0         0.80     20.0
 3.1 CDF I1Operating Costs
 3.2 Financial audits


                                              Total Project Costs I    4.42        100.0          4.00    100.0
                                      Total Financing Rewired     I    4.42        100.0          4.00    100.0
The total cost o f the project is estimated at US$4.42 million, of which an IDA grant would finance US$ 4.00
million equivalent. An estimated US$ 0.42 million would be contributed by local communities to micro-project
costs and grants for community social services and any tax obligationson local goods and services.

2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will support key policy and institutional reforms consistent with the Government's current
development strategy and the related "Mandate to establish Substantial Self-Government". This would be
accomplished through improving living standards o f the poor and vulnerable groups as well as mixedand
minority communities, strengthening local institutions and providing equal opportunity for all citizens
through community investment projects and capacity building programs. The project will support the
current and future efforts to transfer responsibilities to the PISG and municipalities by strengthening their
capacity to absorb and carry out their new responsibilities within the development framework o f the
project.




                                                       - 9 -

3. Benefitsandtarget population:
The project will have a wide range o f benefits that will improve the living standards o f the Kosovar
population andhelp address specific problems o f minority communities, through participatory and inclusive
development processes at the local level. These benefits include:

         Improvement in living standards o f poor communities through improved quality and equitable
         access to social and economic infrastructure;
         Community services that would help community members, especially from vulnerable groups, to
         improve their prospects o f integrating into society ina more meaningful manner;
         Special attention to needs o f mixed and minority communities and o f returnees through appropriate
         community infrastructure and services;
         Increasedparticipation o fwomen incommunity decision-making through development activities;
         Generation o f short-term employment at the local level through the community infrastructure
         component and through technical assistance providedby local consultants;
         Cost-effective use o f public funds in community-initiated infrastructure rehabilitation and services
         projects.
         Greater ownership andaccountability at the local level, to strengthen maintenance arrangements;
         Increased community participation and local institutional strengthening with improved ability o f
         community groups to organize, plan andmanage their own activities;
         Support for the gradual transfer o f functions from UNMIK to the PISG through the reinforcement
         o f partnerships at the local level, information dissemination, and the active involvement and
         engagement o f local governments and communities inthe delivery o f services to the poor; and
         Enhancement o f the participation o f bilateral donors, international and local NGOs, and
         community groups.

Target Population:

In the absence o f a poverty assessment at the time the CDF began its operations, the CDF adopted a
methodology o f targeting project funds on the basis o f two criteria: vulnerability (poverty) and conflict
damage. The CDF used World FoodProgramme (WFP) data
aid - - as                                                       - - thenumber o f persons qualifying for food
          an indicator of vulnerability (poverty). With regard to conflict damage, the CDF used the number
o f houses destroyed, as measured by the IMGHousing Damage Assessment. Fielddata on these indicators
were converted to coefficients ranging from 1-10 for vulnerability, and 1-5 for damage for each o f the 30
municipalities. The sum o f these coefficients together with the population defined the allocation o f funds
for each region. To date, the CDF has targeted all o f the 30 municipalities o f Kosovo. In addition, a
special allocation was earmarked for investments inmixed and minority communities that were affected by
the conflict, and for particular vulnerable groups, such as widows and disabled.

The lack o f a population census i s a major impediment to constructing a poverty map for Kosovo.
However, the availability o f poverty indicators following the Bank's recent Poverty Assessment Report
provides an opportunity to improve the CDF's methodology o f targeting project funds. The objective o f the
revised poverty targeting strategy is to ensure regional equity in the use o f CDF I1project funds, and to
provide a basis for planningthe disbursement o f project funds by region. Based on the discussions in the
field during the Mid-term review mission, targeting of project funds may be best approached through a
two-stage process, as described below:




                                                     -10-

Stage I Regional Targeting: First, from the total o f approximately US$ 2.60 million allocated for
          --
community infrastructure projects (civil works), a special fund amounting to 10 percent o f the total,
equivalent to US$ 0.26 million will be allocated to the Serbian communities (who constitute about 7
percent o f the total population), including returnees. Second, an additional amount o f US$ 0.26 million will
be allocated to mixed and minority communities, including returnees. The balance (US$ 2.08 million) is
then allocated to the five regions on the basis o f a methodology that involves population size, the incidence
o f poverty, extreme poverty, and the severity o f poverty by region. Specifically, these allocations are
calculated on the basis o f composite population-poverty index (P-P index).            The five regions are:
North-East (Prishtine); South-West (Prizren); West (Peje); North (Mitrovice); and South-East (Gjilan). (
see Annex 12).

Stage I1 Local Community Targeting: A demand-dnven approach is followed within each region for
          -
targeting funds (from its regional allocation defined above) to specific communities. This could be done by
invitingproject proposals from communities, andselectingprojects on the basis of detailed criteria such as:
the state o f physical and social infrastructure; socio-economic status o f the community; presence of
vulnerable or marginalized communities; presence o f ethnically mixed or minority communities;
under-representation o f women indevelopment activities at the local level; under-representation o f youth in
development activities at the local level; capacity o f communities to plan and implement community
investment projects; under-funded communities; community commitment and proactiveness; ability to make
a community contribution infinancial terms; and security considerations. Inaddition to the special fund for
Serbian communities, including returnees mentioned above, as in the case of the ongoing CDF Project, the
special allocation mentioned above would be used for investments in mixed and minority communities,
including returnees affected by the conflict, and for particular vulnerable groups, such as widows and
disabled. To ensure effectiveness o f such investments, a special assessment has been carried out on the
project approach indealing with such communities.

These and other relevant criteria will be further refined, based on the experience o f other donors who have
been active at the community level on UNMIKprograms. The promotion team o f the CDF Office will use
these criteria to select communities for initial discussions on community needs, priorities perceived by the
communities, microproject possibilities, and modalities o f operation o f the CDF. However, the formulation
and presentation o f microproject proposals will have to be carried out by the communities.

4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The CDF I1will benefit from the effective institutional and implementation arrangements already in place
under the current CDF Project. After close to four years in operation, the Project Implementation Unit o f
the CDF has gained valuable experience in all aspects o f project management and administration, laying a
solid foundation for the CDF I1Project. The Beneficiary Assessments carried out under the project have
revealed the high performance and dedication o f CDF staff as perceived by communities benefiting under
the project. Supervision missions in the field together with special reviews and assessments undertaken
under the CDF Project have benefited the first project. This work covered technical, administrative and
procurement issues, as well as quantitative impact assessments o f the benefits o f the projects. Inaddition,
a Mid-term mission was carried out in October 2002 with the objective o f assessing overall project
performance to-date, the current issues and future direction o f the project.

Special Reviews: In-depth reviews were carried out under the ongoing operation covering quality o f
works, beneficiary assessments, and those related to supervision missions and a Mid-term review.
Specifically these reviews covered the development impact o f the project, community outreach and



                                                      - 11-

participation, community infrastructure and social services projects, capacity building activities, financial
management and administration, procurement, and a cost-effectiveness analysis.           In addition, during
Appraisal a special socialkonflict assessment was carried out on the project approach indealing with such
communities. It built upon the experience o f the ongoing CDF Project in dealing with such communities,
andexplored ways inwhich operational procedures couldbe improved.

As a result o f the Mid-term mission and the work carried out under the Beneficiary Assessment, and
Quality o f Works reviews, the CDF made considerable progress in addressing issues highlighted in these
assessments and reviews. In particular the CDF improved coverage o f Serb communities, upgraded the
Management Information System, and has made muchheadway in improving procedures covering all areas
o f the microproject cycle. The CDF has revised procedures highlighted inthe CDF 11Operational Manual
focusing on enhancing community outreach and participation, strengthening the coordination with line
ministries to ensure complementarity and sustainability o f projects, and an improved poverty targeting
methodology.

I. Institutional Set-up and Administrative Structure of the CDF 11:                       The Community
Development Fund, an autonomous non-governmental organization, was established on November 1, 1999,
and became an independent NGO on November 8, 2000, to carry out the activities under the Community
Development Fund Project. It is govemed under the Statutes o f the Community Development Fund
registered in Kosovo in accordance with the UNMIK Regulation No. 1999/22 dated November 15, 1999.
The World Bank provided grant fmancing to the Community Development Fund, as the Recipient o f the
Bank's Grant, with the endorsement o f UNMIK. This arrangement was considered to be the appropriate
approach at that time within the Kosovo Trust Fund Framework, and in the absence o f the Constitutional
Framework and the formation o f the PISG. Under the proposed CDF I1Project, in accordance with the
current initiatives under way to transfer functions from UNMIK to the PISG, the institutional structure o f
the project will be modified to meet new institutional challenges and the evolving role o f Government.
Under the new structure, the Recipient o f the IDA Grant would be UNMIK. This would be in accordance
with the TSS which refers to the practice followed under the Bank's Trust Fund financed program and
which is consistent with U N M I K ' s legal status and responsibilities in Kosovo under UN Security Council
Resolution 1244. The counterpart ministrywould be the Ministryo f Finance and Economy (MFE), andthe
project implementing agency for the project would be the CDF PIU. The structure would also include a
Project Steering Committee established by a Government Decision. The institutional structure o f the CDF
I1Project, the mainroles and responsibilities ofeach entity are set out inAnnex 17.

The CDF, as a local foundation, would function as the CDF I1 Project Implementation Unit (Pnr)
administering its operations as an autonomous entity, governed by its Board, and reporting to a Project
Steering Committee, set up specifically for overseeing the activities o f the CDF I1Project. The independent
set-up o f the CDF I1PIU will be critical to ensure that the Unit will carry out day-to-day operations in an
efficient and effective manner. The CDF I1P I U will have the full authority to manage and administer its
program under operating guidelines and procedures set out in the project's Operational Manual.           All
financial management activities will be carried out by the CDF I1PKJ. Its legal status for carrying out the
activities o f the CDF I1 Project are defined in the I D A Development Grant Agreement to be signed
between UNMIK (the Recipient o f the Grant) and IDA, and in On-granting Arrangements comprising
two separate bilateral agreements. The First On-Grant Agreement would consist of an agreement
between UNMIK and the Ministry of Finance and Economy (MFE), the Counterpart Ministry in the
PISG. The Second On-Grant Agreement would be an agreement between the MFE and the CDF. The
execution and delivery of these two bilateral agreements, satisfactory to IDA, will constitute a
Condition of Effectiveness. These two agreements will be designed in an operationally effective manner
so as to facilitate the smooth flow o f funds from IDA to the CDF.


                                                      - 12-

Inaccordance with the on-granting arrangements mentioned above, the framework for theflow of IDA
funds will consist o f the following stages: (i)IDA Grantfunds will flow to a Special Account to be opened
by UNMIK at Commerzbank, Frankfurt, Germany; (ii) CDF will open a bank account at a commercial
                                                          the
bank acceptable to IDA (CDF I1Bank Account ) for receiving, holding, and disbursing project funds; (iii)
the MFE will, within five business days o f receipt o f a request from the CDF for Project funds, remit the
requested amount of funds from the Kosovo Consolidated Fund (KCF) to the CDF I1Bank Account; and
(iv) UNMIKwill reimburse the KCF from the Special Account, based upon financial reports produced by
the MFEdetailing all transfers made from the K C F to the CDF I1Bank Account.

Within the flow of funds framework described above, under the First On-Grant Agreement UNMIK will
also delegate to the MFE the authority to prepare WithdrawalApplications (WAS) for replenishment o fthe
Special Account and supporting documentation, together with the power to sub-delegate to the CDF under
the Second On-Grant Agreement to prepare the WASand the supporting documentation. The WASwould
be signed jointly by one duly authorized representative each o f the MFE and the CDF. To ensure
operational efficiency, the MFE will transmit to IDA the WAS,duly signed by the W E and the CDF,
within five business days o f their submission by the CDF,with a copy to UNMIK.

With regard to reporting requirements, the CDF I1PIU would submit quarterly and annual progress
reports, annual financial audit reports ina timely manner, through UNMIK,to the MFE and to IDA.

The CDF I1 PIU will recruit office staff and technical consultants, as needed, on a competitive basis
according to qualifications and selection criteria set out inthe Operational Manual. The CDF I1PJU will
also have the authority to enter into consultant services and civil works contracts and to manage the
project's financial accounts.

The CDF 11Board: The CDF will be governed by its Board o f Directors which will have the ultimate
responsibility for the policies and financial affairs o f the foundation. The main functions o f the Board
include: (i) supervision and direction o f all operations o f the Foundation; (ii)approval o f the Foundation's
annual budgets and work programs; (iii)    approval o f financial and other reports; and (iv) taking decisions
with respect to the dissolution o f the Foundation. The composition o f the Board, the appointment o f its
members, its functions and responsibilities, are set out indetail inAnnex 16.

The CDF Z I Project Steering Committee: Given the multisectoral activities under the CDF I1Project
which fall within the areas o f responsibility transferred to the PISG under the Constitutional Framework,
the proposed Project Steering Committee has been established by a satisfactory Government Decision
signed by the Prime Minister on September 5, 2003. This Decision met one o f the conditions of
Negotiations. This document specifies the composition o f the Committee, its key roles and responsibilities
(including quorum, voting, and calling o f meetings), and the responsible authorities for appointing the
members. The Committee will be chaired by a representative from the Ministry o f Finance and Economy,
w h c h has the budgetary responsibility for expenditures across all sectors served by the CDF I1Project.
Other representatives on the Committee will include: (i)       one representative from key relevant ministries
including the Ministries Education Science and Technology, Health, Labor and Social Welfare,
Environment and Spatial Planning, and Agriculture, Forestry, and Rural Development; and (ii)a
representative from UNMIK (a principal international officer) as an observer. The Executive Director o f
the CDF I1PIU will attend meetings to provide the needed information and to clarify issues, but will have
no voting rights. Bank representatives associated with the CDF I1 Project, may attend Project Steering
Committee meetings as observers. The appointment of at leastfour members of the Steering Committee
will be a Condition of Effectiveness. The duties and responsibilities o f the Project Steering Committee at


                                                      - 13-

the administrative level will be to guide and supervise the administration and operations o f the CDF I1
program in accordance with the broad objectives o f the project. At the technical level, the Committee will
be responsible for reviewing and formulating recommendations on quarterly and annual reports. It will
ensure that project activities are consistent with social sector strategy priorities and government reform
programs inrelevant sectors. Inaddition to routine Committee meetings, the participation and involvement
o f the Committee will be enhanced by setting up periodic field visits for Committee members to
demonstration projects, and by organizing workshops and seminars with key stakeholders on special project
related themes. The Committee will prepare annual reports to the PISG, UNMIK, the World Bank, and the
CDF I1PIUreflecting the Committee's activities and assessmentso f the effectiveness o f the operations and
administration o f the CDF I1program. Details on the composition o f the Committee, its key roles and
responsibilities are described inAnnex 14.

The key institutions participating in the implementation o f the CDF 11, and their respective roles are
described below.

(1)      Project ImplementationUnit (PIU). The Organizational Structure o f the CDF I1PIU would
basically remain the same as the one in the ongoing CDF operation.                 However, implementation
responsibilities, particularly related to community outreach and promotional activities, will be strengthened
to enhance community participation, engagement and mobilization and information dissemination.               In
addition, with regard to staffing, to facilitate operational activities in Serbian areas, the CDF has already
hired as part o f their staff, a full-time Serbian engineer. Furthermore, the CDF will contract a local NGO
with experience indealing with multi-ethnic communities to provide assistance with operational activities in
those communities. The CDF I1Project will be headed by an Executive Director andwould be staffed with
technical specialists in the areas o f Community Outreach and Promotion, Training and Technical
Assistance Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation, Community Infrastructure and Social Services,
Procurement, Accounting and General Administration. The CDF I1 staff will provide technical and
administrative support on CDF I1 operations under each stage o f the microproject cycle involving
promotion, project identification and preparation, appraisal, approval and implementation, supervision and
monitoring.

The other participating institutions under the project include: (i)  the Community Project Committees (Le.,
local govemments and community members) responsible for the implementation o f the community
investment projects; and (ii)   private contractors who compete for microproject contracts for design and
rehabilitation works. A briefdescription o f the composition, roles and functions o f these institutions are set
out below:

(2)      Community Project Committees. The community-based organization, referred to as the
Community Project Committee (CPC), is directly responsible for microproject implementation. The CPC
will be responsible for the identification, prioritization o f needs and consensus building on small-scale
investment priorities which maximize public benefit projects for their communities. Lessons from other
social funds have shown that effective participation at the community level comes from the active
participation o f local govemments and community associations (formal and informal) as members of
community implementing agencies. These institutional entities are important, particularly for: (a) asset
management, operations and maintenance o f the facilities renovated or rehabilitated under the
microprojects; and (b) improvement o f programs and services provided at the local level. The composition
of the CPC under the CDF I1will therefore support this partnership by including representatives from the
local government, established community associations (i.e. School Boards, Water Users Associations) and
community members. Given the importance o f having adequate representation o f community members in
the CPCs, a minimum o f five members on this committee will be required. The roles and responsibilities o f



                                                     -14-

the CPC are spelled out in the Operational Manual. The representation o f women on the CPC will be
adequate to ensure their active participation in the design and implementation o f community-based
development activities. The CPC will be responsible for carrying out the microproject under a Framework
Agreement with the CDF 11. The Committee will be responsible for microproject proposal, design, up-front
collection o f a financial and in-kindcontributions, and operation and maintenance o f facilities. The CPC
and the CDF I1 PIU will ensure that there is an adequate flow o f information from the CPC to the
community at all stages o fthe project cycle.

(3)      Private Contractors: Private local contractors will compete for microproject contracts for design
and rehabilitation works.     Contractors will be supervised by the CPC and a qualified local on-site
supervisor.   Local supervisors under the CDF I1 will be recruited by the P I U on a competitive basis.
Contractors will be paid directly from the CDF I1PIU, based on certified statements and accomplished
works that meet quality standards.

11.     ImplementationArrangements: The project would be implemented over a period of three years
(January 1,2004 to December 31,2006) in accordance with a Project ImplementationPlan (see Annex 11).
Implementation arrangements under the CDF I1Project will be govemed by the guidelines and procedures
set out in the Operational Manual (OM). The OM approved by the Bank, was adopted as a legal
document. Any changes in the proceduresset forth in the OperationalManual, including pilotingof
new procedures, will be subject to the approval of both UNMIK and the Bank, prior to being
implemented. The OM has been upgraded based on the lessons leamed and the experience gained in the
management and implementation o f the first CDF operation in Kosovo. The refmed and upgraded version
o f the OM defines the roles and responsibilities o f the institutional structure o f the CDF I1 Project,
processes, and procedures covering administrative arrangements for project implementation, as well as
operations and maintenance o f infrastructure facilities. The approvalofthe CDF I1OperationalManual
by the Association,was compliedwith as a Conditionof Negotiations.

Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements: Procurement and disbursement arrangements have been
developed based on the experience and lessons leamed under the first CDF operation.             Procurement
arrangements under the project are designed taking into account the capacity o f the CDF I1 PIU to
administer procurement activities. A procurement capacity assessment o f the PIU (see Annex 6 (A)) was
carried out as part o f Appraisal. Disbursement arrangements will be based on traditional disbursement
methods and Financial MonitoringReports will be used for project monitoring. The FMRs currently being
prepared by the CDF will continue to be used. The CDF I1PIU will maintain a Bank Account to receive
funds transferred from MFEinaccordance with the on-Granting Arrangements described above. Additional
accounts will be opened for the CDF I1PIU for the communities' co-financing o f microprojects, and others
as needed. Detaileddescriptions o f procurement and disbursement arrangements are provided inAnnex 6.

FinancialManagement, Accounting and Auditing: The FinancialManagement System (FMS) developed
under the current CDF Project will form the core o f the financial management and accounting system for
the CDF I1Project. This system was judged to be capable o f producing satisfactory FMRs. The CDF will
maintain a financial management system acceptable to the Bank. The intemal controls and procedures for
the ongoing project were reviewed and found to be satisfactory and the financial management arrangements
of the project are considered to be acceptable to the Bank. These procedures will also be used for the
proposed CDF I1Project. The Operational Manual sets out procedures relating to financial management,
accounting and auditing. This manual provides a comprehensive source o f information on the various
aspects o f the Entity's regulations, organization, activities, accounting and financial procedures, intemal
controls and flow o f funds. The CDF I1will also benefit from the qualified and trained staff in charge o f
financial management activities under the current project. These staff have acquired substantial experience


                                                     - 15-

in carrying out the administrative, accounting and reporting fimctions to ensure accountability for the
operation o f the CDF.        See Annex 6 (B) for a detailed assessment o f the financial management
arrangements under the project.

The CDF financial statements andthe project financial statements will be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank and on terms o f reference acceptable to the Bank. The annual audited statements
andaudit report will be providedto the Bank within six months o fthe endofeach fiscal year.

The auditors should be members o f a professional accounting body that is a member o f the International
Federation o f Accountants (IFAC). In addition, the audits will need to be conducted in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing (HA) as issued by the IFAC and on terms o f reference acceptable to
the Bank. The auditor will be appointed inthe beginningo f the financial year, preferably for more than one
year.

The CDF will maintain acceptable financial management on a cash basis o f accounting, including
additional commitment information as explained in the section on accounting policies and procedures in
Annex 6 (B).

Management Information System (MIS): To better assist and monitor project implementation, as well as
to meet the Bank's new reporting requirements (Financial Management Reports - FMRs), the CDF has
initiated a process o f upgrading its M I S which will in broad terms, integrate general information on
microprojects with the financial management and accounting modules, as well as with the procurement
module. It will track project activities in the sub-project cycle, including basic microproject data, monitor
progress o f works based on microproject supervision mission, and flag microprojects experiencing unusual
delays and signal possible cost overruns. MIS-generated reports would be an integral part o f the monthly
reports submitted by CDF management to the Board for their review and o f quarterly reports and
comprehensive annual reports submitted, through UNMIK,to the MFE and IDA.

Monitoring andEvaluation:Project monitoring activities will be thejoint responsibility o fthe CDF I1PIU
(under the supervision o f UNMIK and the Project Steering Committee), the CPCs, and the Bank
supervision team, contracting out these h c t i o n s when appropriate. Monitoring activities under the project
will entail a process o f reviewing and assessing continuously and systematically different aspects o fproject
implementation. The objectives o f the monitoring and evaluation activities would be to: (i)       ensure that
procedures carried out for implementingmicroprojects, executing contracts, and managing project accounts
are in compliance with the Operational Manual; (ii)provide information regularly on progress toward
achieving project objectives and facilitate reporting to the Board o f Directors, the Government, and donors;
(iii)provide information on project performance interms of social development outcomes; (iv) alert
managers to actual or potential problems in implementation so that corrective actions can be taken in a
timely manner; (v) determine how the project i s affecting the intended beneficiaries; and (vi) provide a
vehicle whereby beneficiaries could reflect and improve on their performance.            The monitoring and
evaluation framework o f the CDF I1would comprise: (i)community investment project monitoring and
reporting by CDF I1 staff, Community Project Committees, and local supervisors; (ii)the Management
Information System (MIS), (iii)technical and financial project audits; (iv) annual beneficiary impact
assessments; (v) special evaluations o f community investments to be carried out by CPCs between the
interim and final hand-over o fprojects; (vi) informal surveys o f the impact o f community investments to be
conducted by the CPCs on a pilot basis; (vii) Bank supervision missions carried out semi-annually with a
mid-term review scheduled for June 15, 2005; and (viii) quarterly and annual progress reports to be
prepared by the CDF I1PIU.



                                                      - 16-

 D. Project Rationale
 1. Projectalternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Two project alternatives were considered and the reasons for rejection are as follows:

(1)       Extension of activities under the Framework of the current CDF Project: The current CDF
Project was prepared incalendar year 2000 in support o f the key goal o f the TSS which was to mitigate the
impact o f the conflict, focusing in particular on restoring adequate living standards. To carry out this
objective, a framework was developed for the project consisting o f a core institutional support structure
based on a local foundation providing service delivery at the local level in response to priority social and
infrastructure needs. This approach was considered the best option at that time, given the uncertain roles
o f national and local government institutions, and the absence o f the Constitutional Framework. In these
circumstances, the CDF as a local foundation, was selected as the recipient o f the Project reporting directly
to the Bank, with no formal reporting responsibilities to UNMIK, nor to self-government institutions.
Nevertheless, the CDF conducted frequent consultations with central institutions and key sector ministries
on a case-by-case basis (depending on the nature o f the microprojects), to ensure inter-sectoral consistency
and complementarity o f activities. At the local level, relationships with institutions consisted o f seeking
compliance with regulatory requirements (e.g., municipal permits, environmental clearances) and some
institutional involvement in microprojects. Although efforts were made under the current CDF Project to
coordinate activities with both central and local institutions, the lack o f their formal involvement limited
their effective participation and their oversight roles ofdevelopment activities under the project.

The above approach is no longer viable under the CDF I1Project, given the current administrative roles o f
UNMIK and the evolving role and responsibilities of the PISG. As stated in the current TSS, UNMIK
would be the Recipient o f the Grant, which would be in accordance with the practice followed under the
Bank's Trust Fund financed program and which is consistent with UNMIK's legal status and
responsibilities inKosovo under UN Security Council Resolution 1244. Inregard to the PISG, the current
context is that responsibilities are being transferred from UNMIK to the PISG institutions, and that these
institutions will assume a major role in development activities o f Kosovo. Thus, under the institutional
framework o f the CDF 11, UNMIK will be the Recipient o f the Grant and a Project Steering Committee
with representation of relevant key ministries will provide supervision and oversight on project activities.

(2)      The other project alternative considered was to transfer the managing and implementing
responsibilities o f the CDF I1Project to the PISG. This second altemative was rejected for the following
reasons: (a) the uncertainty o f the mandate o f the PISG and the level o f capacity o f sectoral ministries and
local government to effectively administer the project and be sufficiently responsive to community-driven
project proposals under a community-driven type operation; (b) the recent cost-effectiveness study has
shown that costs o f microprojects completed under the current CDF Project to be lower than those carried
out by other NGOs for local governments; (c) experience has shown that the management and
implementation o f development objectives o f community-driven type operations has worked best under the
administration o f an autonomous entity with minimal bureaucratic processes; and (d) capacity will be
strengthened at the local level to carry on community driven microprojects inthe future.




                                                      - 1 7 -

2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
                                                                                     Latest Supervision
               Sector Issue                I              Project                       (PSR) Ratings
                                                                                 (Bank-finance1 projectsonly)
                                                                                Implementation   Development
 Bank-financed                                                                    Progress(IP)   Objective(DO)

 Education Administration and               Kosovo Education andHealth                 S              S
 Financing                                  Project
 Design o f Basic Safety Net and Social     Kosovo Social Protection                   S              S
 Welfare System                             Project
 Social Protection                          Community Development Fund                 S              S
                                            IProject
 Education                                  EducationParticipation                     S              S
                                            Improvement Project
 Xher development agencies
 UNICEF and Government o f Japan            School Reconstruction,
                                            Rehabilitation and Repair
                                            Program
 UNICEF and Government of Finland           Special Needs Educational
                                            Program for Children inLapje,
                                            Selo and in ShtimeBtimlje
 LJNDP-Japanese funded                      ADR4 School Reconstruction
                                            Program
 UNDP                                       Local Governance Training
                                            Program
 DFID                                       Training to Support Reform at
                                            the Central Government Level
 USAID                                      Technical Assistance on Legal,
                                            Banking and Other Sectoral
                                            Issues
                                           I
 '/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), t (Highly Unsatis

3. Lessonslearned and reflected in the project design:
Indesigning this operation, the Bank and CDF staff have drawn from the following key sources: (i)          CDF
operational experience gained over the four-year implementation period o f the ongoing Kosovo Community
Development Fund; (ii)key lessons learned in Bank funded projects in supporting the transition o f
countries involved inconflict; and (iii) World Bank experience with social funds inmore than 95 countries
since 1987.

Post Conflict Reconstruction: The current Kosovo Community Development Fundwas designed to focus
on post-conflict development interventions.       The project successhlly met its overarching objective o f
improving the access, quality and availability o f community infrastructure and services in poor and
conflict-affected communities, sustained by capacity buildmg. The small-scale activities supported under
the project responded to urgent needs under a comprehensive and interrelated package of interventions



                                                     - 18-

focusing on post-conflict development. The community investment projects implemented under the project,
such as potable water supply, schools, sewerage and roads, have generated a visible and inclusive
development impact in rural and urban areas throughout Kosovo, including mixed and minority
communities. The CDF has promoted the concept o f self-help mechanisms, increased community
ownership, and enhanced the efficiency o f local communities and government institutions in service
delivery. Such an approach has been effective in restoring confidence and trust in mixed and minority
communities in a post-conflict environment. This approach is also consistent with the Bank's Operational
Policy on Development Cooperation and Conflict (OP 2.30), which requires development assistance that
minimizes potential causes o f conflict.     The CDF I1 Project will build upon and expand t h s positive
experience o f the current CDF project andcontribute to the broader social development agenda o f Kosovo.

Community Driven Development and Social Cohesion: Positive experience documented under the
current Kosovo Community Development Fund Project has demonstrated the importance having a
community-based project serve as a catalyst for a process in which citizens inthe targeted communities,
especially in mixed and minority communities, gradually come together over time and participate in the
design, implementation and monitoring o f projects which respond to the common good o f the community.
The project has shown that one o f the key ingredients for implementing projects in mixed communities
yielding positive results, is to allow the time that is needed for community interaction to evolve. Thus, an
incremental, progressive and flexible approach must be built into the participatory mechanisms and
appropriate procedures developed under the project. Equally important is the creation o f a setting for the
participation o f community members where there is a common interest and a common goal and where, over
time, community residents come to appreciate that their interaction is mutually beneficial. Furthermore, the
creation o f a reserve fund targeted to mixed and minority communities has proven to be an effective
mechanism for ensuring equitable access to project resources.

SpecialMeasures in dealingwith Serbian Communities: Under the current CDF Project, some valuable
lessons have been leamed inreaching Serbian communities. At its initial stages, the CDF had encountered a
number o f operational constraints in access to and carrying out the microproject cycle in Serbian
communities. To overcome these constraints two special measures were adopted: (i)          the contracting o f a
Serbian engineer, as part o f the CDF PIU staff to facilitate the implementation o f all stages o f the
microproject cycle; and (ii)   the sub-contracting o f Serbian contractors for the effective implementation o f
community works projects.        Building upon these effective measures, the CDF I1 has strengthened its
procedures relating to community outreach, promotion and participation for reaching the Serbian
communities more effectively. A local NGOwith mixed representation will be also be contractedunder the
CDF I1Project to carry out these activities. To support these measures, a special allocation equivalent to
10 percent of the total IDA Grant funds available for community works, has been set aside to target
Serbian communities.

Management and Administration of a Community Development Fund: The Community Development
Fund, as the local foundation in charge o f managing and administering the CDF Project, has proven to be
very effective in carrying out project activities mainly due to the recruitment o f professionally competent,
hard working, and committed staff. The CDF team has established itself as a credible, independent and
operational entity. More importantly, it has been very effective inthe delivery o f technical, managerial and
organizational support to community members throughout Kosovo.

Sectoral Policies and Investment Priorities: Experience under social funds has shown that there is a
critical need for ensuring that social fund activities are consistent with social sector strategy priorities,
government reform programs, and activities o f municipal, NGO, UN, and donor agencies. It is therefore
important to ensure that projects focus on greater coordination o f social fund-type activities with relevant


                                                      -19-

sectoral policies (i.e. health and education) and investment priorities. Under the proposed CDF I1project,
t h s will be achieved through the Project Steering Committee which will ensure that project activities are
consistent with social sector strategy priorities and government reform programs inrelevant sectors. It will
be further strengthened through the implementation o f an effective information, outreach, and
communications strategy designed to explain sectoral policies and priorities to beneficiary populations.

Sustainability:Experience under the implementation of several social fund operations in the Region has
clearly demonstrated the critical need to improve project sustainability. To improve project sustainability,
lessons learned have pointed to the development o f a comprehensive framework encompassing strong
institutional support from the Project PIU, effective systems and procedures, and greater involvement of
key stakeholders.      Specifically, PIUs need to focus on strengthening their organizational structure and
institutional mechanisms to: (i)    improve the quality o f works through compliance with technical standards
and closer supervision; (ii)develop the capacity o f local authorities through training and technical
assistance to help formulate budgets which provide adequate financing for operation and maintenance o f
completed community-based microprojects; (iii)        carry out effective monitoring and evaluation program
under the joint responsibility o f the PIU and the project committees; (iv) strengthen local government and
community involvement in the design, implementation, and maintenance o f microprojects; and (v) enhance
information dissemination activities under the project benefiting communities members. Social fund-type
programs need to put primacy on capacity-building aimed at improving the ability o f community groups
participating in microprojects to progressively enhance their roles as active agents in their communities
with a greater sense of commitment, ownership and accountability in service delivery on a sustainable
basis.    The framework o f the proposed CDF I1 Project incorporates these measures to ensure the
sustainability o f its development program inKosovo.

PovertyTargeting:Some o fthe lessons learnedunder social funds financed by the Bank relatedto poverty
targeting are: (i)a clearly formulated poverty targeting strategy and an allocation mechanism based on
objective criteria and poverty data ensures the flow o f project benefits to the neediest segments o f the
population; (ii)  the use o f a well developed poverty targeting strategy and an allocation mechanism will
mitigate political pressures inthe allocation o f funds; and (iii) well developed poverty targeting strategy
                                                                   a
should have sufficient flexibility, within the overall allocations, to target specific needs on a demand-dnven
basis. The design o f the CDF I1Project incorporates an improved poverty targeting strategy and a regional
allocation mechanism based on population estimates, poverty indicators from the recent Poverty
Assessment Report, and detailed criteria at the community level. The allocation mechanism also includes
sufficient flexibility in dealing with mixed and minority communities. As noted above, two special funds,
each equivalent to 10 percent o f the total IDA funding for community works projects, will be allocated to
the Serbian, and mixed and minority communities, respectively, including returnees, for microprojects in
these communities.

4. Indicationsof recipientcommitment andownership
Central, regional and municipal UNMIK authorities who have participated under the current CDF Project
have welcomed the continuation o f project activities under a proposed follow-up operation. Meetings with
the Ministry o f Finance and Economy (PISG) and with the Central Fiscal Authority during the Mid-term
mission o f the CDF Project (October 2002) have confirmed the general agreement on the need for a
follow-up project to the ongoing CDF, considering the project's poverty focus and its tangible results in
providing infrastructure and social services in poor communities throughout Kosovo. There was also
agreement that the CDF Project should evolve as a an integral part o f Kosovo's medium-term development
program focusing more on sustainable development activities.




                                                      - 20 -

5. Value added of Banksupport inthis project:
Kosovo-wide efforts to support community development have focused narrowly on quick impact
interventions to achieve rapid, visible results. The current Community Development Project has proven to
be a cost-effective operation which has generated a visible development impact in terms o f social and
economic benefits to poor communities in rural and urban areas throughout Kosovo, including mixed and
minority communities. Inparticular, the CDF has been able to reach out to extremely poor communities in
isolated and remote rural areas throughout KOSOVO,implemented microprojects which have had a
                                                        and
significant impact on their living standards. As donors in Kosovo are gradually decreasing their levels o f
assistance, the CDF as a development institution is considered to be gaining increasing importance. The
proposed CDF I1Project will further enhance the impact o f its program by forging and strengthening
institutions at the local level which can serve as effective vehicles for individual and community
empowerment. Drawing from its extensive intemational experience, the comparative advantage o f the
World Bank lies inbeing able to strengthen the llnkage between emergency and development assistance,
and in being able to do so by working in close coordination with the UNMIK and the PISG. Thus, the
proposed community-based project will support an integrated development program on a sustainable basis,
designed to consolidate the transition from conflict to peace, in keeping with Kosovo's post-conflict
priorities.


E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessmentsare inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
0 Costbenefit         NPV=US$million; ERR= % (see Annex 4)
0 Costeffectiveness
0 Other(specify)

As in other social fimd operations, the demand-driven character o f the microprojects precludes the use o f
traditional methods o f cost-benefit analysis ex ante for the proposed CDF I1 Project.             Instead, a
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis was initiated during the Mid-term Review mission, and the field work was
carried out subsequently. The main approach o f the review was to examine: (i)    the project rationale within
the broader economic context o f national development objectives, government strategy, and the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy; and (ii)the cost-effectiveness in the use o f public funds for CDF
microprojects compared with those carried out under local government programs, and those assisted by
NGOs. The analysis showed that the project rationale was consistent with the Kosovo Government's
development strategy, the UNMIK assisted programs, and the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy. As
regards cost-effectiveness, the approach was to examine costs o f microprojects completed under ongoing
CDF Project in relation to those implemented under local government and NGO programs.
Cost-effectiveness comparisons showed that the costs o f school rehabilitation and construction carried out
under the CDF were substantially lower (by 19 percent) than those under NGO programs; the result was
even more favorable inthe case o f roads projects, where the average cost o f microprojects was lower by 34
percent compared to NGO programs. Inwater supply and sewerage projects, CDF microproject costs were
only marginally lower (by 2 percent) than those carried out under NGO programs, primarily due to the
more complex technical nature o f the projects.

The Cost-Effectiveness Analysis has suggested that the proposed CDF I1Project will be a cost-effective
means o f meeting the social infrastructure needs o f the poor, provided that the same standards o f technical
and economic efficiency are maintained, or further improved. In regard to water supply and sewerage
projects, considerations o f cost-effectiveness and consumer satisfaction (evident from the Beneficiary
Assessment) call for greater caution in dealing with technically complex projects, mainly inthe rural areas.


                                                    -21 -

In urban areas, projects which involve large integrated and complex water supply and sewerage systems
need to be avoided.       The same is true for projects which are typically the responsibility o f large
municipalities. Cost-effectiveness is expected to improve since technical standards will benefit from the
quality o f works enhancement program, while the implementation o f a simplified cost accounting system
will help improve cost-efficiency.

In implementingthe CDF I1Project, community investment projects funded will be selected according to
criteria described in the Operational Manual, which integrate simple quantitative economic analysis,
consistent with the size o f the microproject, cost per beneficiary, and local capacity. The project will help
communities to use least-cost analysis incomparing various technical solutions, including the expected cost
o f operations and maintenance.

Inqualitative terms, the Cost-Effectiveness Analysis has demonstrated far-reaching benefits ofthe ongoing
CDF Project for a project size o f US$10.3 million. It has improved living conditions of many low income
communities by supporting basic small-scale social and economic infrastructure rehabilitation (e.g.,
schools, water supply and sewerage, health clinics, and roads). Likewise, the CDF I1 Project with an
investment o f US$4.42 million would respond to community demands for priority social needs and is
expected to produce tangible benefits to thousands o f community members.                 While a variety o f
microprojects are expected to be financed under CDF 11, the majority o fthese are expected to:

0    rehabilitate or construct primary and secondary schools to help implement basic education programs;
0    improve water supply and sewerage for rural and urbancommunities;
0    rehabilitate or construct neighborhood access roads, and thereby improve mobility and access to
     services;
0    rehabilitate or construct primary health-care clinics to support health services at the community level;
     and
0    rehabilitate or construct local community centers to promote social cohesion and inter-ethnic
     participation incommon activities.

The CDF I1Project will generate short-term employment for the poor through the construction phase o f a
microproject. It will also stimulate the development o f the local construction industry through introducing
competitive procurement and encouraging small-scale contracting firms      -- buildingupon the success in this
field under the ongoing CDF Project. More importantly, through the use o f participatory mechanisms and
its demand-driven approach, significant qualitative benefits from the CDF I1Project will be the increased
sense o f ownership, trust, social cohesion, and empowerment inmany communities.

2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)

No detailed financial analysis showing the net present value and the financial rate o f return was undertaken
since CDF I1is mainly a non-revenue generating project.

Financial Management. The CDF i s already implementing a Bank-financed Grant.                 The CDF has a
financial management system, which is capable o f producing satisfactory FMRs. The same system will be
utilized for the proposed project.     The intemal controls and procedures for the ongoing project were
reviewed and found satisfactory and these procedures will be used for CDF 11.

The project will benefit from the effective financial controls established under the ongoing CDF Project,
with trained staff who have been handlingfinancial responsibilities and accounting for the past four years.


                                                     - 22 -

The CDF I1Project will also benefit from an accounting system effectively linked to the Management
Information System which was developed under the ongoing CDF Project. Accounts will be maintained in
accordance with the required financial standards and World Bank guidelines, and will be audited annually
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. In addition, a simplified cost accounting system will be
integrated with the upgraded M I S to strengthen monitoring and to ensure the cost-effectiveness o f
microprojects under the CDF I1Project.

Cost Recovery. As inthe case o fthe ongoing CDF Project, community investments will be inthe areas o f
social and economic infrastructure, community services, and environmental improvements. Priority will be
given to projects with high social, economic and environmental impacts, but many investments will be
non-revenue generating ones. However, for revenue-generating investments, such as water projects and
solid waste disposal, the CDF will ensure that cost recovery mechanisms are established for charging user
fees to cover operations and maintenance costs. For village-based water supply investments, which form
the largest share o f CDF investments, cost recovery guidelines have been drafted. These provide guidance
to communities on how to establish the organizational capacity to operate and maintain their system, as
well as how to determine the level o f user fees. The focus on cost recovery would buildlocal awareness o f
the need to pay for such services and help build the local revenue base to ensure the sustainability o f
investments andthereby reduce the demand for future subsidies.

Cost Sharing. Communities are required to finance up to 15percent o f the project cost. This is a feasible
target since community contributions under the ongoing CDF Project have averaged 19 percent to date. It
i s also a requirement that the full amount should be in cash. The contribution may come from the
community itself and/or from the local municipal authority. The cash contribution must be provided to
CDF infull before contracting. Communities determine their own means o f collecting the contribution. (In
some communities, better-off households subsidize lesser-off ones; others spread costs evenly.)

Cost sharing between CDF and project beneficiaries is considered essential to: (i)   get community "buy-in"
to the project; (ii) the proposed project addresses a legitimate need; and (iii) communities an
                    ensure                                                              give
incentive to keep projects no larger than needed and in line with the local capacity to sustain them. The
CDF recognizes that the poorest communities may not have the means to make a 15 percent contribution.
Hence, they have developed criteria on which basis a community may be eligible to provide a lower cash
contribution, and with no cash involvement in exceptional cases.

Fiscal Impact:

The principal fiscal benefit from the project will be substantial savings in UNMIWPISG expenditures,
mainly on education, water supply, and roads, that would have been necessary inthe absence o f the project.
There will be no fiscal burden on the Government from this project, as financing is grant-based and
provided to the CDF.      Project financing will contribute to meeting substantial financial requirements
necessary to develop local infrastructure and services to a reasonable level. Local government resources to
meet such investment requirements are limited. Municipalities have only been recently established and
have insufficient funds to cover recurrent expenditures, let alone capital investment.

Microprojects and social services under the CDF I1will be targeted towards low-income communities that
largely rely on their own limited resources to improve services. Such capital grant financing is justified in
this context. Care will be taken to ensure that project appraisal takes into account the level o f recurrent
expenditures necessary to operate and maintain the investments. Combined with a strong focus on cost
recovery, investments made would be in line with the local capacity to sustain them. The other fiscal
impact relates to project's contribution to tax revenues: (a) income taxes from CDF staff salaries and



                                                   - 23 -

wages; and (b) profit taxes paidby contractors executing microprojects.

3. Technical:

The CDF I1 Project will support the financing o f well defined, technically sound and cost-effective
microprojects. Indoing so it will address the key technical issue concerning quality o f works which will be
enhanced by: (i)      the development o f techmcal norms and standards for each type o f microproject
conforming to national norms and standards; (ii)enforcement o f these norms and standards through
technical designs, effective procurement procedures, and systematic project supervision at the local level
focusing on contractor performance by qualified technical consultants and CDF PIU staff; (iii)  engagement
o f technical experts in the design and supervision o f works; (iv) consultations with technical experts in
microprojects in which special advice may be needed, as for example irrigation, water supply, or
environmental projects; (v) training o f CDF I1PIU staff, implementing agencies and contractors inrelevant
fields o f quality enhancement; (vi) annual procurement and technical reviews; and (vii) semi-annual Bank
supervision missions and the Mid-term review.

4. Institutional:


4.1 Executing agencies:
The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) o fthe CDF I1Project will be the executing agency for the project in
partnership with local governments and communities. This partnership is reflected inthe community-based
implementing agencies, which will have the primary institutional responsibility for implementing
community infrastructure and services projects through local contractors. The CDF I1 Project offers a
strengthened development framework to support these agencies through: (i)     enhanced institutional support
from the CDF I1PIU, which places primacy on: a) community outreach programs to better assess, inform,
engage and prepare communities for their involvement under the project; b) the ongoing effective
management and supervision o f technical works with a focus on enhancing the quality o f works; and c) the
provision o f enhanced training through institutionally sound and implementable training programs to build
the capacity o f local government and community groups in their new management responsibilities o f rural
infrastructure facilities and social services programs; (ii)a strengthened institutional structure o f the
Community Project Committees (CPCs) to ensure greater commitment and accountability through the
participation o f local governments, and community-based associations and community members as
citizen-consumers; and (iii)  systematic client consultation feedback mechanisms to assess the effectiveness
o f the institutional arrangements and the social impact o f the project.
4.2 Project management:
The PIU o f the proposed CDF I1 Project, under the supervision o f UNMIK and the PSC, will be
responsible for the overall management o f CDF operations covering institutional, technical and
administrative matters. The P I U will benefit from the valuable experience and lessons leamed through the
ongoing CDF Project under which the PIU has demonstrated strong capacity and competence in project
management. The four year CDF program has provided substantial investment in training and technical
assistance to the PIU, which has been beneficial in laying the foundation for an effective management o f
CDF operations. The CDF P I U will continue to benefit from additional training and technical assistance,
which will be provided on an ongoing basis throughout the life o f the project. In accordance with the
current initiatives under way to transfer functions from UNMIK to the PISG, the institutional structure o f
the project will be modified to meet new institutional challenges and the evolvingrole o fGovernment. The
CDF as a local foundation, will fhnction as the CDF I1P I U administering its operations as an autonomous
entity, governed by its Board, and reporting to a Project Steering Committee and UNMIK. The CDF I1


                                                     - 24 -

P I U will have the fill authority to manage and administer its program under operating guidelines and
procedures set out in the Project's Operational Manual. The Executive Director o f the CDF I1PIU will
have the overall responsibility o f ensuring effectiveness and timeliness o f CDF operations. The Project
Steering Committee will oversee the quality o f project management and ensure its consistency with
Government policies and programs. UNMIK, as the Recipient o f the IDA Grant, will ensure that the CDF
will carry out its responsibilities for the implementation, management and administration o fthe Project.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement arrangements under the proposed project have been designed taking into account the capacity
o f the current CDF P I U to implement project procurement.          Detailed procurement arrangements are
outlined inAnnex 6 (A) to this PAD. An implementing agency Procurement Capacity Assessment has been
carried, the results o f which are also included inAnnex 6 (A).
4.4 Financial management issues:
The Financial Management System (FMS) developed under the current CDF Project will form the core o f
the financial management and accounting system under the CDF I1Project. A Financial Management
Assessment (see Annex 6 (B)) carried out during Appraisal has confirmed that the financial management
arrangements established under the current CDF Project are acceptable to the Bank. The assessment
covered: (i)  general financial management issues in Kosovo; (ii)implementing entity and staffing; (iii)
accounting arrangements; (iv) reporting, monitoring and information system; and (v) riskanalysis.

As o f the date o f this report, the Grant Recipient for the on-going CDF Project is in compliance with its
audit covenants. CDF's current project financial statements and auditing arrangements are acceptable and it
has been agreed that these arrangements will be replicated for CDF 11.The annual audited project financial
statements will be provided to the Bank within six months o fthe end o f each fiscal year.

N o Financial Accountability Assessment Report (FAA) has so far been made. But a mini-FAA has been
planned to be conducted before the end o f June 2004. The initial preparations for this report were made
during the Appraisal. Technical solutions for budgeting and the computerized treasury system appears to
be well developed. Support for internal and external audit is starting now, but in all aspects o f financial
management more needs to be done to enhance the local capacity. The CDF is not part o f the public
accountability system. It is considered to be an NGO and is reporting to UNMIK in that capacity. The
CDF has developed its own financial management capacity and systems to secure proper financial
accountability of its activities.

The banking sector in Kosovo is still in its infancy. Therefore the banking arrangements in place for the
first CDF project that were adjudged to be satisfactory will be maintained for this project. More
specifically, a Special Account will be opened by UNMIK at Commerzbank in Germany. A Bank Account
will be opened andmaintained by the CDF PIU in a commercial bank inKosovo acceptable'to the Bank to
facilitate payments to local suppliers.

All financial management activities will be carried out by the CDF I1PIU.


5. Environmental:                            Environmental Category: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The CDF I1Project will continue the programs o f the ongoing project, and finance small-scale social and
economic infrastructure microprojects, such as water supply and sanitation, rural roads, school


                                                     - 25 -

construction, and environmental projects, as well as social services programs and environmental projects.
Some o f these projects clearly have beneficial environmental impacts (e.g. sanitation, solid waste
management), but others may have negative impacts if they are not designed and implemented correctly.
These negative impacts are, however, generally remediable or can be mitigated.

The Project Team has reviewed the legal framework and central and local capacity to conduct
environmental assessments and reviews. The legal framework on environmental issues is set out in the
EnvironmentalProtection Law adoptedby the Assembly on January 16,2003. Under this law, the ministry
responsible for implementing environmental policies and protection is the Ministry o f Environment and
Spatial Planning (MESP). Other ministries that oversee activities with environmental impact include the
Ministries o f Trade, Health, Transportation and Communication, and Agriculture, Forestry and Rural
Development. At the local level, municipalities are responsible for specific environmental protection
activities, which are specified in the Environmental Protection Law. As stated in this law, individual
citizens, citizen organizations, and non-governmental organizations may contribute to the enforcement o f
environmental protection objectives andimplementation activities for the protection and improvement o fthe
environment. Although the Environment Department o f the MESP has a staff o f approximately 80, the
capacity at the local level to follow up and enforce legislation remains limited.

Local capacity, while limited, i s considered sufficient for case-by-case review and assessment o f
environmental impacts and recommended mitigation measures (ER) by CDF staff and limited
environmental assessments (LEA) by outside local consultants. Projects requiring a full environmental
impact assessment would not meet cost effectiveness criteria for CDF funding andwould not be eligible for
financing. During the pilot phase, and the ongoing CDF Project, staff successfully identified, jointly with
the community, mitigation measures and monitored their implementation (e.g., traffic safety training and
signage accompanied a road rehabilitation project). To further enhance capacity, the CDF I1Project will
finance training for CDF technical staff inenvironmental assessmentprocedures.

At the initiative o f CDF staff, project eligibility criteria applied during the pilot phase have now been
modified to provide additional incentives for communities to propose environmental improvement projects.
Communities already benefiting from one project (usually infrastructure) may, in principle, qualify for a
second project ifthe project: (i)  provides a social service; or (ii)
                                                                   benefits the environment. This is explained
to communities during the promotion phase. The expectation is that this will result in a larger number o f
environmental improvement projects.


5.2 What are the main features o f the EMP and are they adequate?
The need for an EMP will be determined on a case-by-case basis, depending on the typology o f the project
selected by the local community.


5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
                      Date o f receipt o f final draft: N/A

5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
o f consultation that were used andwhich groups were consulted?
The key stakeholders o f the community infrastructure projects will be the Community Project Committees
i.e. local government officials and communities. Stakeholders will be consulted on a case-by-case basis,
depending upon the nature o f the proposed microproject, during the screening process, during the


                                                        - 26 -

development o f plans to address potential environmental impact, and during microproject supervision to
assess environmental aspects o f microprojects. Typically, CDF promotion staff and appraisal engineers
will hold discussions on-site with the community during screening and with both the community and the
municipality in preparing and reviewing environmental assessments and environmental management plans,
if and when required. No microproject involving involuntary resettlement will be eligible for financing
under the CDF I1 Project. Whenever possible, experts within the municipality will participate directly in the
preparation o f environmental assessments and plans. Communities will be required to obtain all necessary
permits and clearances from the municipality before final approval by the CDF o f any microproject
proposal. During project implementation, follow-up engineers will monitor and supervise the quality o f
works and assess the environmental standards of the microprojects. In addition, annual technical reviews
will be carried out by independent consultants to assess the quality o f works, including environmental
standards, o f a number o f selected projects o f different types. Bank supervision missions, in particular,
will examine compliance with safeguard policies, inthe implementation o fthe CDF I1Project.
5.5 What mechanismshave been established to monitor and evaluate the impact o f the project on the
environment? D o the indicators reflect the objectives and results o f the EMP?
Performance indicators (see Annex 1) developed will monitor the impacts o f CDF I1Project interventions,
such as number and type o f project proposals submitted, reflecting better quality in terms o f enhancement
o f environmental standards; number and type o f environmental improvement projects and indicators o f
quality o f works; number and type o f environmental projects receiving positive evaluation, as compared to
total number o f projects reviewed, under the annual technical reviews camed out. Inaddition, the project
will finance beneficiary assessments that will include assessments o f environmental, quality of life and
health impacts.


6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Key social issues relevant to these objectives include the following:

    Poverty in Kosovo is both extensive and multi-dimensional in character. The latter manifests itself in
    low human development indicators in education and health, such as low enrollment rates in secondary
    education, high infant mortality rates, and the lack o f adequate infrastructure facilities to improve
    education and health outcomes. Another dimension o f poverty is widespread unemployment resulting
    from the lack of market opportunities inthe economy for gainful employment throughout the year. The
    project will address the poverty issue through improvement to social and economic infrastructure, and
    grants for specific social services -- which will improve the living conditions o f the poor in tangible
    terms.

    Improvement of conditions for returnees remains an issue that needs to be addressed. Although the
    security situation has improved, the retum o f displaced Kosovar Serbs remains limited      --  reflecting
    decreased but continuing occurrences o f harassment o f minorities, and impediments to freedom o f
    movement. As a result, the access by minority communities to essential services and employment
    remains limited. The project includes mechanisms, such as the use o f multi-ethnic NGOs and Serbian
    sub-contractors, to help implement microprojects and social services in Serbs communities, and to
    promote a gradual process o f social integration through access roads, and common facilities (e.g.
    marketplaces and community centers).

    The living conditions o f the vulnerable and marginalized groups is another major social issue that


                                                    - 27 -

     warrants urgent attention. These groups mainly comprise the elderly, women as heads o f families, the
     disabled, destitutes, and marginalized or minority communities, such as the Roma, Ashkalia,
     Egyptians, as well as the Bosniaks. The project will provide social service grants (e.g. literacy courses,
     civic education for children, computer courses) to small groups o f vulnerable community members to
     improve their prospects o f integrating insociety ina more meaningful manner.

The project aims at responding to community needs with a focus o f improving the quality o f life and
prospects for the future. It will enhance community participation, instill ownership, and build the needed
capacity for the decentralized management o f efficient service delivery. The expected social development
outcomes o f the project focus on three key areas o f social development: (i)advancing community
development in the poorest communities; (ii)       promoting participatory, inclusive processes in communities
that identify common goals and priorities cutting across subsets o f the community; and (iii)    strengthening
linkages between the CPCs andparticipating local govemment institutions. The social development strategy
implicit inthe project design includes frameworks to address all three areas. The community-drivenproject
i s designed to ensure that the poor andor vulnerable and various ethnic groups are able to participate in
andbenefit from project activities. Community outreach, information dissemination andimpact monitoring
activities under the project will be key for ensuring access to information and the involvement o f
communities. Community investment projects will be the main framework under which communities and
local govemments are closely involved in the preparation, design, implementation, and subsequent
operation o f microprojects. The proposed project will support community development at the local level by
giving primacy to the active involvement o f local governments and communities in the decisions and
activities which affect the quality o f their lives, andthereby enhance social cohesion.


6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating inthe project?
The proposed project will provide a participatory framework designed to strengthen the institutional
arrangements both at the project management level, as well as the community level, with the objective o f
enhancing the overall effectiveness and accountability o f the CDF I1PIU, o f the CPCs, and o f the local
counterparts. The project will place special emphasis on enhancing community participation mechanisms
consisting o f the following stages:

(i) Investigativestage: This stagewill consist oflistening to and gathering information from the
members o f diverse communities regarding their interests and capacity for participating in the project,
community outreach and promotional activities. The latter will focus on: (a) institutional assessments o f
the local government and communities interested in participating in the microprojects with particular
attention to the structure,       functions      and responsibilities  o f these local groups;      (b) needs
assessmentshdentification o f these local groups in terms o f priority community investment projects; and (c)
training needs assessmentsto determine the capacity gaps o f the key stakeholders.

(ii)     Community Profiling, Consultation, and Information Dissemination stage:              This stage will
involve: (a) consultations with local groups involving public meetings and interviews to discuss and
determine priorities and concems that would engender ownership; (b) community profiling to be carried out
jointly by CDF I1 staff and a specialized local NGO; and (c) information dissemination on the CDF I1
program and on relevant govemment sectoral policies, including environmental policies and the
Environmental Protection Law o f 2003.

(iii) ConsensusBuildingStage:Thisstagewillinvolveconsensusbuildingatcommunitymeetingson
priority projects, the selection o f the Community Project Committees (CPCs), and clarification o f their
respective roles and responsibilities.


                                                       - 28 -

(iv)     Negotiations/Preparation Stage: This stage will involve the close collaboration o f CDF technical
staff working together with Community Project Committees in microproject design, planning and
management, including environmental aspects, and with local contractors on competitive bidding
procedures. During this stage the following activities will be carried out: approval o f projects, signing o f
Framework Agreements, collection o f community contributions, and selection o f contractors through
competitive bidding.

(v)      Implementation/Supervision Stage: This stage will enhance and support the involvement o f the
local communities through the active participation o f members o f the CPC in the management and
supervision, operations and maintenance o f community investments.

(vi)     Monitoring and Evaluation Stage:           This stage will involve the process o f monitoring and
evaluating continuously and systematically different aspects o f project implementation. Monitoring and
evaluation activities will the joint responsibility o f the CDF PIU (under the supervision of UNMIK and the
Project Steering Committee), the CPCs, and the Bank supervision team. The impact o f the project with
regard to key stakeholder participation and overall satisfaction with the CDF program will be
systematically monitored throughout the life o f the project. Beneficiary assessments will be independently
contracted out by the CDF I1P I Uto provide feedback andevaluation from the community concerning what
i s perceived to be the project's direct and indrect impacts regarding improved access and quality o f
services, localparticipation and organization, attitudes andvalues, local government relations, partnerships
formed, and sustainability.       Such feedback should also help stakeholders to improve their own
performance. Informal surveys o f the impact o f community investments will also be carried out by CPCs
on a pilot basis. Technical reviews with regard to different aspects o f the project will also be conducted
regularly during project implementation.         These reviews will be carried out by a combination o f
independent consultants, CDF PIU staff, and Bank supervision team members, as described in Section C o f
PAD.


6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The participatory process described above is heavily dependent on the participation o f community-based
organizations (either pre-existing or developed as part o f the microproject preparation process). Local
NGOs will participate under the project as direct beneficiaries o f the CDF I1 Project as implementing
agencies for services and environmental improvement programs.


6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The institutional arrangements under the project have been designed with social development outcomes in
mind. The institutional structure, systems and procedures under the CDF I1Project have been enhanced
with the aim o f strengthening and supporting institutional, structural andprocedural activities at the project
management level and at the local community level.            Mechanisms developed under the current CDF
program and enhanced under the proposed CDF I1Project will be used to carry out effective community
outreach and participation, information dissemination, mobilization and impact monitoring. As part o f
monitoring and evaluation, project beneficiaries will be encouraged to articulate their experiences with a
view to providing lessons, not only for the project as a whole, but also to help beneficiaries enhance their
own effectiveness. The monitoring and evaluation system will track the impact at project sites to ensure
that the project objectives achieves its social development outcomes.


                                                        - 29 -

6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms o f social development outcomes?
The performance monitoring indicators include social indicators that will be used. The MIS will track
percentage and types of beneficiaries within communities as an indicator o f inclusiveness. Beneficiaries
and stakeholder assessments will examine community views on inclusion, attitudes and modes of
cooperation between communities and local government institutions and mobilization strategies within
communities.

7. Safeguard Policies:




7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies are covered in
section 5.0 Environmental.

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Experience under the ongoing CDF Project has shown that community members and contractors
participating in CDF projects are in general better prepared and willing to participate in projects financed
by the CDF, as well as in projects financed by other donors. Local Governments, in particular, are also
more conscious o f operations and maintenance issues and recognize that they have an important role in
ensuring the sustainability o f the facilities rehabilitated or constructed under the CDF Project. Over the
past three years, the CDF has made efforts to actively engage community members in self-generated
development activities combined with training activities aimed at having communities better appreciate and
take part in ensuring the quality, effectiveness and sustainability o f service delivery. Buildingupon this
positive experience, project sustainability o f CDF I1 will be enhanced at the local level through the
following mechanisms.

Project Quality. The CDF will ensure that: (i)     microprojects selected in response to priority needs, clearly
demonstrate potential net benefits to the communities, in terms o f facilities created and short-term
employment generated; (ii)    quality o f works are maintained through adherence to standards, use o f qualified
staff, and periodic assessments; and (iii)   there is strict adherence to agreed microproject typology, which
will, inter alia, preclude technically complex and large projects inurban areas, and those which clearly fall
within the responsibility o f large municipalities



                                                      - 30 -

Involvement of Communities: Municipal authorities and community groups will have key roles as
members o f the Community Project Committees. They will receive training to plan, manage, monitor,
supervise and maintain community investments and improve the quality o f service delivery. The roles and
responsibilities o f the CPCs are defined in the CDF I1Operational Manual, for effective engagement and
mobilization o f members at all stages o f the microproject cycle and to strengthen community-municipal
partnerships at the local level. The community will also provide a share o f the financial contribution for
microprojects, which will serve as an effective mechanism for the involvement o f local authorities and local
resource mobilization.

Maintenance of Public Facilities by Municipalities. To help maintain the assets created or rehabilitated
under the project, special training to local government officials will be provided from specialized
institutions in the areas o f financial management and budgeting (i.e. development o f three-year budgets
with provisions for maintenance of public facilities); and asset management (i.e. inventory monitoring,
operation and maintenance o f public assets).        The understanding would be that municipalities would
assume greater accountability and full responsibility o f maintaining the public assets beyond the life o f the
project, from their own resources.

Cost Recovery.        For revenue generating investments such as water projects or solid waste disposal
projects, the CDF will ensure that cost recovery mechanisms are established for charging user fees to cover
operations and maintenance costs. For village-based water supply investments which form the larger share
o f CDF investments, cost recovery guidelines have been drafted by the CDF PIU.

Cost Sharing. To ensure greater ownership o f the assets created or rehabilitated under the project, local
governments and communities together will be required to finance up to 15 percent o f the microproject
costs. This is a feasible target since community contributions under the ongoing CDF operation have
already averaged 19percent.

Sustainability o f facilities created under the project assumes considerable importance, particularly after the
life o f the project, as Bank funds are not likely to be available for the extension o f project activities beyond
the proposed CDF I1Project. Therefore, all efforts including the above-mentioned measures, are required
to place project activities on a sustainable development path, so that Bank financing could be phased out at
the closure o f the CDF I1Grant.


2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found inthe fourth column o f Annex 1):
                      Risk                         Risk Rating                  Risk Mitigation Measure              ~~




 +om Outputs to Objective
 ,ack o f willingness o f local communities             M           The risk o f inadequate community contributions
 o contribute, participate, and help sustain                        i s small, considering the experience o f the
                                                                    ongoing CDF Project, under which community
                                                                    contributions exceeded targets. However,
                                                                    adequate participation and sustainability will be
                                                                    ensured through:
                                                                    - Effective community outreach and promotion
                                                                    by the CDF I1PIU.
                                                                    - Development    o frelevant and effective training
                                                                    programs for local government officials and
                                                                    communities.



                                                       -31 -

                                                                     - Strengthening o f local government capacity
                                                                     and accountability on effective asset
                                                                     -management.
                                                                       Ensuringgoodquality ofworks through
                                                                     quality enhancement and procurement.
                                                                     - Buildingeffective partnerships amongst key
                                                                     stakeholders at the local level.
Access to Serbian communities might                     S            - A full-time   Serbian engineer has been hired as
hinder CDF I1activities insuch areas.                                a CDF staff member to facilitate activities in
                                                                     Serbian communities.
                                                                     - A local multi-ethnic NGOwould be contracted
                                                                     to cany out programs inmixed and minority
                                                                     (including Serb) communities.
                                                                     - Serbian sub-contractors will be hiredwhere
                                                                     -necessary.
                                                                       The CDF I1Project would include
                                                                     microprojects for public goods (e.g. access
                                                                     roads, or community centers), w h c h require the

Slow transfer o f functions and                         M            -participationdiscussions
                                                                                    bymore thanone community.
                                                                       Basedon                  with UNMIKand PISG
responsibilities from UNMIKto PISG                                   officials, the initial set o f local institutions that
institutions, which could hinder                                     are to assume new responsibilities will be
maintenance o f facilities rehabilitated or                          identified. Thereafter, capacity building
constructed under CDF 11, as well as the                             activities will carried out to the extent that such
capacity buildingcomponent o f the                                   institutions will be involved inCDF I1activities.
project.
From Components to Outputs


Overall Risk Rating
Risk Rating H (High Risk), S (Substantial Ri:
            -                                    1,M (Modest Risk), F Negligible or Low Risk)


3. PossibleControversialAspects:



G. Main Grant Conditions
1. EffectivenessCondition

0   The execution and delivery o f an on-granting arrangement consisting o f two separate bilateral
    agreements between UNMIKand the MFE (PISG), and between the MFE (PISG) and the CDF, each
    satisfactory to the Association, formalizing the flow o f funds from UNMIK,through the MFE, to the
    CDF.

0   The appointment o f at least four members o f the Project Steering Committee.




                                                      - 32 -

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the LegalAgreements.]
Condition ofNegotiations

0  The CDF I1Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Association, has been adoptedby the Board o f
   Directors o f the CDF.

0  The Government (PISG) Decisionestablishingthe CDF I3 Project SteeringCommittee has been issued,

H. Readinessfor Implementation
0 1.a) Theengineeringdesigndocumentsforthefirstyear'sactivitiesarecompleteandreadyforthestart
        o fproject implementation.
   1.b) Not applicable.

  2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete andready for the start o f
     project implementation.
  3. The Project Implementation Planhas beenappraised and found to be realistic ando f satisfactory
     quality.
04. Thefollowingitemsarelackingandarediscussedunderloanconditions(SectionG):

Due to the nature o fthe project, engineering designdocuments would be completed once the microprojects
have been selectedduringthe course o fproject implementation.

I. Compliancewith Bank Policies
El 1.This project complies withallapplicable Bankpolicies.
                                                                                 /
0 2.Thefollowing exceptionstoBankpoliciesarerecommendedforapproval. Theprojectcomplieswith
     all other applicable Bankpolicies.




Team Leader




                                                   - 33 -

                               Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                       KOSOVO: Community Development Fund II Project
                                                           Data Collection Strategy
                                                                                            Critical Assumptions
iector-related CAS Goal: Sector Indicators:                Sector/ country reports:      (fromGoal to Bank Mission)
'overty alleviation.      1. Numbero f rehabilitated       ,.Poverty  assessments o f    1. Commitment by UNMIK
                          social and economic              ~osovo.                       and PISG to address poverty
                         infrastructure targeted to        !.Household surveys by the    and strengthen social
                         poor, mixed and minority          hatistical Ofice of Kosovo.   protection.
                         communities, and vulnerable       ). Beneficiary Assessments o f2. Stable macroeconomic
                         groups.                           3DF I1Project.                performance and a good track
                         2. Percentage o f community       1. Economic reports by the    record in structural and sector
                         investment projects carried       3ank and the IMF.             reforms.
                         out inmixed and minority          j. MIS generated data on      3. Steady progress inthe
                         communities.                      argeted communities.          transfer of functions from
                          3. Number o f social services                                  UNMIKto the PISG.
                         grants responding to priority                                   4. Donor participation in
                          social needs of vulnerable                                     social sector and capacity
                         groups and marginalized                                         building activities that
                          communities.                                                   complement the project.
                         4. Number o f trained local
                          govemment officials and local
                          community members inthe
                          delivery of social services.




                                                      - 34 -

                                     Key Performance             Data CollectionStrategy
 Hierarchy of Objectives     -           Indicators                                                   Critical Assumptions
'reject Development            Outcome I Impact                Project reports:                   from Objective to Goal)
Ibjective:                     Indicators:
 ,Improve the quality, access 1. Improvement o fthe quality - CDF progress reports.               L .Poverty targeting strategy is
md availability o f community and availability o fcommunity    - World  Bank supervision         idheredto.
nfrastructure and services in infrastructure and services:     mission reports.                  l. Project incentives are
)oar, mixed and minority      - Percentageo fthe population - MIS-generated data.                 mforced to maintain
iommunities and for           intargetedregions benefiting - Quality ofWorks reviews,             :ommunities commitment to
ulnerable groups, including   from improved                    - Mid-Term Review report.         xojects.
etumees.                      social/economic infrastructure   - Beneficiary  Assessments.        3 . Infrastructure facilities are
                              and social services.                                               naintained.
                              - Total number and types o f                                       1. Projects approved are
                               projects completed by the                                          :ost-effective.
                              communities.
                               - Percentage o fprojects                                           5 Moderate levels o f tension
                                                                                                 ietween ethnic communities
                              carried out in mixed and                                           muring equitable access for
                              minority communities.                                              ninority communities.
                               - Average cost per beneficiary
                              for completed projects.
                               - Feedback from communities
                               on: (i) o f satisfaction
                                      levels
                               regarding their participation
                              inproject cycle; (ii)level of
                               satisfaction regarding access
                              mdquality of community
                              infrastructure and services.

:.Promote institutional       1. Improved capacity o f local   - Technical assessments of        '   Local governments,
apacity-building and social   governments to identify         benefits and improved              :ommunities and contractors
apital formation at the       xiorities, manage, and          performance resultingform          ire interested inparticipating
ommunity and municipal        naintain local investments       training programs.                 ntraining activities.
:vels so as to improve the    mdimprove service delivery.      - Post evaluation of the           ' Effective training and
luality and sustainability of .Timely andeffective             maintenance o f facilities        I'echnical Assistance to be
ervice delivery and enhance    mplementationo f training       financed under the project.        xovidedby the CDF I1PIU
;rester stakeholder           xograms.                         - Quarterly reporting on          indby firms andor
larticipation and             .MIS generated reports on        training activities to provide    :onsultants contracted to carry
mpowerment in local            heproject's training activities the status of activities, issues, )utspecific training
.evelopment  .                 ncluding costs, profiles on     and revisions in the training      xograms.
                              )articipants, and training       plan.                              '  Coordination o f activities
                               '1rmS.                                                            vith other agencies on
                               'Number o f training            -- Beneficiary Assessments.
                                                                 M I S generatedreports on        mplementationcapacity
                              irograms and trained             capacity buildingactivities.      iuildingprograms at the local
                              jeneficiaries in different                                          evel.
                              ields.
                                Feedback from local
                              ;ovemments and
                              :ommunities on the
                              :ffectiveness o f the capacity
                              raining efforts.




                                                           -35-

- 36 -

                                       Key Performance           Data Collection Strategy
  Hierarchy of Objective!                 Indicators                                             Critical Assumations
Dutput from each               Output Indicators:                'roject reports:            (fromOutputsto Objective)
Zomponent:
I.Rehabilitatedand             - Number o f infrastructure        Beneficiary Assessments.    - Local govemments and
naintained social and          facilities, total andper           Quarterly and Annual       communities are willing to
xonomic infrastructure         benefiting target groups.         'rogress reports.           participate and to sustain
ienefiting targeted groups.    - Number and percentage o f        Mid-Term review Report.    facilities.
                               projects inmixed and               Quality of Works reports.  - Community members are
                               minority communities.              MISgenerated information   willing to provide
                               - Number andtypes of              )nperformance indicators.   contributions to the
                               beneficiaries for each             Bank supervision reports.  microproject costs.
                               community project.                                            - Supply of qualified
                               - Percentage of population                                    contractors willing to
                                intargeted regions benefiting                               participate.
                               from projects.                                                - Supply of competent
                               - Client satisfaction with the                                consultants can be identified
                               quality o f infrastructure                                    (technical design, supervision,
                               -facilitiesand works.                                        trained social and institutional
                                 Percentage o f microprojects                                              local promoters).
                               with environment impact                                       -specialists,approved are
                                                                                               Projects
                               receiving positive client                                     cost-effective.
                               feedback.

!. Community programs anc      - Number andtypes of              iame as above.              - Community demand exists
iervices, capacity building    community services projects.                                  for CDF assistance.
md special initiatives target1 - Number and types o f                                        - Supply of competent
o vulnerable groups, and       beneficiaries o f community                                   consultants to provide TA
nixed and minority             services projects.                                            and training required for
:ommunities.                   - Number o ftrained                                           community services projects.
                               communities for managing                                      - Communities are willing
                               and administering community                                   and able to provide required
                               services.
                               - Number                                                      contribution for the financing
                                           o f follow-up                                     o f the project.
                               community service projects.                                   - Timely   and effective
                               - Percentage o f mixed                                        implementation o f training
                               minorities participating in                                  programs.
                               zommunity service projects.                                  - Reasonable accessto
                                                                                            minority communities
                                                                                            notwithstandingmoderate
                                                                                             levels o f inter-ethnic tensions.

  Increasedparticipation an'  .Number ofCPC members              lame as above.             - Communities' interest i s to
:apacityo f Community          who have participated in                                     participate at all stages o f the
'roject Committees (CPCs) t    :raining.                                                    microproject cycle i s
ilan, implement, manage an    .Number andtype oftraining                                    maintained.
ustain community               indtechnical assistance                                      - Effective community
nfrastructure projects.        x-ograms carried out.                                        outreach and promotional
                               .Number o f CPC members                                      activities to assess, inform,
                               ictively engaged at all stages                               train and engage
                              )fthe microproject cycle.
                               .Number o finfrastructure                                    -communities. are clear about
                                                                                               Communities
                               irojects operational and                                     their specific roles and



                                                           - 37 -

                                maintained one and two year                                     ,esponsibilities as members o f
                                after investments are                                           he CPCs.
                                completed.                                                        Effective leadership inthe
                                - Number of women                                               :PC to mobilize and engage
                                participating in CPCs.                                          )thermembers at all stages o f
                                                                                                 he microproject cycle.
                                                                                                 Willingness o f local
                                                                                                Covemment officials to
                                                                                                )articipate inCPCs.

4. Improved capacity o f local  - Number o f training             ' Beneficiary Assessment       Effective training o f local
governments in decentralized programs organizedby                 .eports.                      Covemments carried out undei
planning, management and        training type and number o f      ' Quarterly and annual reports he project.
service delivery.               officials trained.                  Mid-Term Review reports.     Willingness o f local
                                - Number ofpositive                 MISgenerateddata on         :ovemment officials to
                                evaluations received on            raining programs and         )articipate intraining
                                training programs.                )articipants.                 xograms.
                                - Number of projects assessec     ' Bank supervision mission     Availability o f firms to carry
                                to be well managed and            .eports.                      )uttraining.
                                maintained as a result o f the
                                training received.
                                - Client satisfaction on
                                training received.
                                - Positive feedback from
                                community members
                                regarding their perceptions o
                                local govemment officials in
                                terms o f trust, leadership, ani
                                effective service delivery.

5. Continued growth and         - Feedbackreceivedinvariol        ' Bank Supervision reports.     CDF staff tumover is kept to
development o f the CDF I1      technical, audit and                CDF Quarterly and Annual    t minimum.
PIU as an efficient,            supervision reports on CDF's      %ogress reports.                Sufficient priority i s given to
transparent and accountable     management o f community          ' Mid-Term Review report.      raining CDF staff.
local institution that supports projects, project finances,        Annual Beneficiary            Willingness o f CDF staff to
community development           procurement and the services      Yssessments reports.          Iarticipate in training.
throughout Kosovo.              -CDF  provides to the clients.      Quality o f Works reports.    CDF to regularly strengthen
                                  Action taken by CDF staff t       Cost Effectiveness report.  iervices and adjust procedures
                                address issues and                  Annual Financial audit      is needed as a result o f
                                recommendations made in           'eports.                      kedback received from
                                technical, audit and                                            iarious reviews and
                                supervision reports.                                            tssessments conducted.
                                - Number of CDF staff who
                                have participatedintraining.
                                - Positive feedback from
                                beneficiaries regarding the
                                quality o f services receivedb:
                                CDF staff at all stages o f the
                                microproject.




                                                             - 38 -

                              Key Performance    I   Data Collection Strategy
 Hierarchy of Objectives                                                            Critical Assumptions
'roject Components /                                                             from Components to
sub-components:          :omponent)                                              3utputs)

:ommunity Investment      IS$3.33                  - Annual  Beneficiary         The CDF PIU will
'roj ects                                         Assessments.
                                                   - Quarterly                   lemonstrate the continuation
                                                                and Annual       ifstrong supervision,
                                                  Progress reports.              iccounting, auditing and
                                                   - Bank Supervision Mission    ndependentreviews.
                                                  reports.
                                                   - Bank Mid-Term report.
                                                  --- Quality of Works reports.
                                                      Procurement Review reports.
                                                     Financial Management
                                                  Review reports.
                                                  - Annual    Financial Audit
                                                  reports.

Institutional Capacity    JSS0.25                  Same as above                 The CDF will strengthen
hilding                                                                          nstitutions at the local level
                                                                                 which can serve as effective
                                                                                 iehicles for community
                                                                                 :mpowerment.

'roject Management        JS$0.84                I Same  as above                The continuation o fkey staff
                                                                                 nthe CDF PIUwho have
                                                                                 ienefited from the training
                                                                                 md experience under the first
                                                                                 ZDF operation and under the
                                                                                 'ollow-up operation.




                                             - 39 -

                                Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                        KOSOVO: Community Development Fund II Project

The project components listedand described below, are supportedunder an integrated institutional
framework consisting o f institutionalarrangements, participatory methods, service delivery, andcapacity
buildmgdesigned to strengthen institutions at the local level.

By Component:

Project Component 1 US$3.33 million
                       -
Community InvestmentProjects

This component would finance on a grant basis, small-scale community works and services projects
selected on a demand-driven basis with the active participation o f community groups and local
governments. It will respond to both the demand and critical needs inKosovo for carrying out small-scale
community infrastructure and services projects. These types o f projects are crucially important inbringing
communities to work together in designing and implementing community projects which yield tangible,
visible and immediate improvements o f local living conditions designed for the common good' o f the
community.       Such community-based initiatives can enhance interpersonal trust and strengthen
intra-community bonds and cooperation. The CDF 11team will focus their efforts on strengthening the
demand orientation o f projects, community outreach and participation. Inparticular, procedures under the
proposed CDF I1 Project will be strengthened with regard to community participation (process and
outcome), engagement, mobilization and information dissemination.           The guidelines and procedures
covering technical and administrative aspects o f Community Investment Projects are reflected inthe CDF I1
Operational Manual.

1.       Community Infrastructure Sub-component:             This component would address the need for
rehabilitation and construction o f small-scale social and economic infrastructure at the local level through
the financing o f community investment microprojects.        These investments are necessary for economic
growth and employment creation, and are essential for human development and poverty reduction. To
ensure sustainability o f project outcomes, the CDF I1Project would promote institution building in rural
and urban communities. Accordingly, the project would finance a comprehensive capacity building and
technical assistance program, benefiting Community Project Committees, local governments, and
contractors.

Microprojects will be selected on a demand-dnven basis by community members in open meetings
organized by the CDF Promotion team. These projects will reflect priority infrastructure and services needs
o f communities targeted under the project. The microprojects will be carried out by Community Project
Committees (CPCs) and would focus on renovation, rehabilitation, or construction o f key infrastructure
facilities mainly covering education (i.e., landergarten, primary and secondary schools), health (Le. primary
health care facilities), small-scale water supply and sewerage, community access roads, and other
small-scale priority social and economic infrastructure. The maximum size o f investments for community
infrastructure projects is set at US$200,000. In addition, this sub-component will finance consultant
services for microproject design and supervision to assure good quality o f works. Community contribution
under the project will be mandatory and will serve as an effective mechanism for community participation
and local resource mobilization.     The community contribution will be set at 15 percent o f the cost o f
microprojects, with a minimum o f 5 percent for poor communities, based on an assessment o f poverty and
capacity to pay. Guidelines and procedures covering microproject appraisal are set out in the Operational
Manual.


                                                     - 4 0 -

Based on the experience o f the first CDF operation, inthe selection o f community infrastructure projects,
careful consideration would be given to ensure that the proposed microprojects are consistent with the
agreed project typology, and with community participation at a manageable level. Furthermore, a careful
assessment would be made by the CDF team as to whether a proposed project clearly falls within the
purview o f a large urban municipality, to determine the eligibility o f CDF funding such a project. During
Appraisal, agreement was reached on a typology o f eligible and ineligible microprojects. In addition, to
ensure the sustainability o f CDF financed microprojects, agreements will be required inwriting with other
parties who have agreed to collaborate infinancing complementary works associated with the microproject.


2.       Community Social Services Sub-component: This component will support community services
programs targeted to address the needs o f vulnerable and disadvantaged groups in Kosovo with a view to
promote inter-community integration by actively engaging citizens in the development process o f their
communities.     Community services projects would be carried out by qualified local NG0,s and would
focus on a wide range o f programs benefiting different groups in support o f the decentralized management
o f basic social services. Some o fthese projects might include: Education Sector: programs to support local
governments in organizing transportation for school children inrural areas; traffic sign training for school
children; Health Sector: community health awareness/education programs, including dissemination o f
information and workshops on safe motherhood, information on treatment o f sexually transmitted diseases,
water and sanitation; Social Services: programs to assist returning families in their communities, programs
to support community-based day care centers for the disabled, elderly and other marginalized and
vulnerable groups o f the population, fund raising campaigns to support programs for the disabled,
programs to support inter-ethnic activities such as sports events and open market places, literacy courses
for elderly women, civic education for minority children, sewing classes for women in mixed communities,
computer courses, and special programs for women who were victims o f violence during war. In addition
to these programs, the CDF will finance social services covering operations and maintenance type
programs o f different types o f activities (i.e. solid waste dump sites, water and sanitation, garbage
collection systems). The maximum size o f social services projects will be set at US$ 25,000. The criteria
for the selection o f community social services are outlined inthe Operational Manual.

Project Component 2 US$0.25 million
                       -
Institutional CapacityBuilding

This component would complement the community investment component, enabling local level institutions
and community groups to address the needs and priorities for local development through a comprehensive
capacity buildingprogram which would be consistent with current transference o f responsibilities under the
Mandate to establish Substantial Self-Government.           A community profiling, needs, and capacity
assessment will be carried out as a first step to systematically identify the priority social needs o f
communities. The proposed local level institutional strengthening program would focus on two key levels,
the microproject level and the local government level.

At the Microproject level, institutional strengthening would focus on local governments, communities and
contractors participating incommunity infrastructure and services microprojects. The composition o f these
participating local groups will be such that there will be substantial representation o f women who will
benefit from microproject training activities carried out intheir communities. The focus will be on building
the capacity o f these local groups to plan, manage, operate, supervise and maintain investments and
improve the quality and availability o f local service provision. At every phase o f the microproject cycle,
on-the-job training would be provided benefiting these groups and would be carried out by promotion,


                                                    -41 -

appraisal and follow-up teams from the PIU. These teams would provide technical, managerial and
organizational support to these community groups, thus enhancing their capacity to perform functions
related to the community investment projects. Specific topics to be covered under the training program,
would include: (i)  roles and responsibilities o f members o f the Community Project Committees; (ii)  project
identification and formulation focusing on developing project proposals together with cost estimates; (iii)
project costing and accounting; (iv) competitive bidding procedures; (v) operations and maintenance o f
micropojects covering roads, potable water and sewerage, (vi) mobilization o f community involvement in
construction and maintenance activities; (vii) creation o f incentives to mobilize and maintain community
involvement in social programs; (viii) management o f partnerships with local governments (LGs), NGOs,
and other entities; (ix) disseminating information to community members on microproject activities; (x)
formulation o f business plans; (xi) quality control; and (xii) monitoring and evaluation. Additional training
would be assessed during the course o f implementation, which may require special training to be provided
by local andor foreign trainers.

At the Local Government Level the project will focus on capacity buildingneeds inmunicipalities with the
aim o f enhancing the understanding o f municipal authorities o f their potential role in facilitating and
supporting community-based initiatives to address major priorities. Given that local level capacity building
programs supported by key donors (i.e. USAJD and UNDP), have targeted only a small number o f
municipalities, and where municipal staff trained have been replaced as a result o f municipal elections, the
CDF I1Project will complement these efforts by selectively targeting its capacity buildingprogram on a
few municipalities, where the needs are assessedto be o f high priority. Thus, the training activities would
be carried out on a selective basis inthose municipalities where the CDF promotion team would be worhng
inand which meet the required criteria, so that training activities would be carried out inparallel with the
project cycle o f the community investment projects. As part o f community outreach activities under the
project, close coorclmation will be sought with key donors working in Kosovo to ensure effective planning
o f capacity building programs, as well as complementarity o f activities. This cooperation will also be
important to ensure that different programs are compatible in their approach and that they are not sending
different or conflicting messages to different municipalities in terms o f various aspects and principles o f
municipal administration. This sub-component will promote and enhance the institutional linkage between
the municipality and the community w h c h is critical in community-based development. The selection o f
participating local govemment officials in the respective training programs, will be determined during
promotion, based on the results o f a combined capacity needshstitutional assessment to be carried out in
municipalities where CDF has initiatedpromotional activities.

The participants selected for local government training would receive both on-the-job training provided by
the CDF P I U team and some additional training to address capacity gaps identified in the capacity
needshstitutional assessment.      The capacity building program at the municipal level will focus on
enhancing the capacity o f local government officials in developing their slulls for facilitating
community-based initiatives, within the framework o f community investment projects. These areas would
include financial management and budgeting (i.e. development o f three-year budgets with provisions for
maintenance o f public facilities); asset management (i.e. inventory monitoring, operation and maintenance
o f public assets), donor coordination, and information dissemination (ie. community meetings, public
hearings and referendums, surveys, and information materials). Specifically, the training financed under
the project will support local govemments to: (i)    develop, plan and manage budgets related to community
investments; (ii)acquire a basic knowledge o f asset management o f public facilities rehabilitated or
constructed under the CDF I1Project, covering inventory monitoring, operation and maintenance o f assets,
and planning o f future investments; and (iii)improve communications and information flows to local
communities and marginalized groups, as well as to the donor community. The framework for the local
govemment capacity buildingprogram is included inthe CDF I1Operational Manual.


                                                     - 42 -

Capacity Needs/Institutional Assessment: During Appraisal it was agreed that the Community Outreach
and Promotion team o f the CDF I1 PIU would carry out systematically capacity needshstitutional
assessments. It was also agreed that a local NGO, with mixed and minority representation, would be
sub-contracted to carry out such assessments in Serb communities. The aim o f this activity would be to
assess the social and institutional context at the local level, enhance the project's focus on participation and
local govemmentkivil society cooperation, while also addressing the changing legal, policy, and financial
framework for local govemance and community development.              Specifically, the assessment would: (i)
identify the needs o f municipalities, local communities, and associated organizations, for capacity building
support; (ii) the social dynamics and community relations which might impact on project activities;
               assess
and (iii)carry out a community mapping or profiling for the participating communities in the targeted
municipalities, utilizing standard profiling instruments. Such a combined assessment will provide a firm
basis o f information on all participating beneficiaries, and will facilitate a more effective planning and
initiation o f microprojects and the related capacity buildingprogram.

This component will also finance training to CDF staff              in areas to be identified during project
implementation, including study tours andworkshops.

Project Component 3 US$ 0.84 million
                        -
Project Management

T h i s component will support the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) covering operating costs such as
acquisition o f minor additionsheplacements o f ofice h i t u r e and equipment, communications, local
travel, utilities and publications, office rent, office supplies, fuel, intemet service, bank commission
charges, vehicle maintenance and repair, and CDF staff salaries. It will also finance financial audits.




                                                      - 43 -

                                           Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
                           KOSOVO: Community Development Fund II Project

                                                                                                                        Foreign                    Total
                                                                                                                      US $million             US $million
Community InvestmentProjects                                                                        2.21                    0.73                     2.94
Institutional CapacityBuilding                                                                      0.23                    0.00                     0.23
ProjectManagement                                                                                   0.80                    0.00                     0.80
Total Baseline Cost                                                                                 3.24                    0.73                     3.97
 Physical Contingencies                                                                             0.21                    0.07                     0.28
 Price Contingencies                                                                                0.14                    0.03                     0.17
                                         Total Project Cost2                                        3.59                    0.83                     4.42
                                 Total Financing Required                                           3.59                    0.83                     4.42




Civil Works for Sub-projects                                                                           2.14                     0.83                    2.97
Grants for Community Social Services                                                                   0.13                     0.00                     0.13
Goods                                                                                                  0.08                     0.00                     0.08
Consulting Services and Training                                                                       0.45                     0.00                     0.45
Incremental Operating Costs                                                                            0.79                     0.00                     0.79
                                                           Total Proiect Costs1                        3.59                     0.83                     4.42
                                                 Total Financing Required                    I         3.59       I             0.83      I              4.42

  1
   Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (USSm) and the total project cost, net oftaxes, is 4.42 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 90.5% o ftotal
  project cost net oftaxes.




                                                                     - 44 -

                           Annex 4: Cost EffectivenessAnalysis Summary
                       KOSOVO: Community Development Fund II Project


Summaryof benefitsandcosts:

Introduction. The objective o f this annex is to assess the cost-effectiveness of the CDF I1Project as a
poverty alleviation mechanism. The demand driven nature o f the project    -- which responds to microproject
proposals from poor communities during the life o f the project      --clearly precludes the ex-ante use o f
traditional methods o f cost-benefit analysis. Instead, the approach adopted is to assess the project at the
macro and micro levels. At the macro level, the focus i s on assessing the project rationale within the
broader context o f Kosovo's development objectives, govemment strategy, and the Bank's country
assistance strategy and programs. At the micro level, the focus is on examining the cost-effectiveness o f
microprojects completed under the ongoing CDF Project (also referred to as CDF I)compared with those
completed through NGO programs - with the implicit assumption that cost-effectiveness under CDF I1
would be at least the same as that o f the ongoing CDF Project. The micro level assessment inthis annex is
based on the findings o f a cost-effectiveness analysis carried out by a team o f local consultants, as part o f
project preparation.

Benefitsand Costs. The CDF I1Project is expected to generate far-reaching benefits to a large number o f
low income communities, asjudged from the experience o f the ongoing CDF Project. With a project size o f
US$10.3million, the ongoing CDF Projecthas improved, and is continuingto improve the livingstandards
o f many low income communities by supporting basic small-scale social and economic infrastructure
rehabilitation (schools, potable water supply, health clinics, and access roads).        Building upon this
experience, the CDF I1 Project with an investment o f US$ 4.42 million would respond to community
demands for priority social needs and is expected to produce tangible benefits to a large number o f poor
communities in a cost-effective manner provided that the same standards o f technical and cost efficiency
are maintained or improved. While a variety o f microprojects are expected to be financed under CDF 11,
the majority o f these are expected to comprise:

e        the rehabilitation or construction o f primary and secondary schools to help implement basic
         education programs;
e        improvement o f water supply and sewerage for rural and urban communities;
e       the rehabilitation or construction o f neighborhood roads, and thereby improve mobility and access
         to services;
e       the rehabilitation or construction o f primary health-care clinics to support health services at the
         community level; and
e       the rehabilitation or construction o f local community centers to promote social cohesion and
         inter-ethnic participation incommon activities

The CDF I1projects will generate short-term employment for the poor, at least through the construction
phase o f a microproject. It will also stimulate the development o f the local construction industry through
introducing competitive procurement and encouraging small-scale contracting firms.         More importantly,
through the use o f participatory mechanisms and its demand-driven approach, significant qualitative
benefits from the CDF I1project will be the increased sense o f ownership, trust and social cohesion inmany
communities throughout Kosovo.




                                                    - 45 -

Main Assumptions:

 (i)     the CDF I1Project is consistent with Kosovo's development strategy;
(ii)     the microprojects under CDF I1will be more cost-effective than those carried out by NGOs;
(iii)    the unit costs o f construction and impact upon communities will be more favorable than under
         alternative projects; and
(iv)     microprojects will be selected according to criteria described inthe Operational Manual, which
         integrate simple quantitative economic analysis, consistent with the size o f the microproject, cost
         per beneficiary, and local capacity.

Part I:Rationale of the CDF I1Project within KOSOVO'S           Development Strategy Within the overall
framework o f economic development in Kosovo, supported by the United Nations InterimAdministration
Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) and other key donors, the Kosovar Government i.e., Provisional Institutions
of Self-Government (PISG) have outlined four broadpriorities:

    Fostering economic development and growth, and increasing employment, through creating the
    conditions for a market economy;
0   Improving the living standards o f vulnerable groups, and enhancing the quality o f and access to
    education andhealth;
0   Ensuringan efficient andtransparent public administration; and
0   Providing equal opportunities for all citizens.

The Community Development FundProject I1supports the second, third, and fourth o f the PISG priorities
mentioned above, through the project's focus on rehabilitation o f social and economic infrastructure,
especially in the education and health sectors, and the provision o f social services, to help improve the
living standards o f the poor and vulnerable groups. The project's support for capacity buildingat the local
level is designed to enhance the capacity of local government officials and communities to effectively
address post-conflict and poverty related issues on a sustainable basis.

The ongoing CDF project has proved to be an important tool for the PISG and UNMIK in poverty
alleviation within a post-conflict environment.      I t forms an integral component o f the PISGs goal to
improve accessibility, sustainability and quality o f social services provided to the poor.        It has been
effective in carrying out this mandate by financing the construction and rehabilitation o f social and
economic infrastructure, to complement the work of other line ministries. The CDF has also been crucial in
making a start in the activation o f a significant number o f local contractors, and providing short-term
employment opportunities to the low income groups.

The objectives o f the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy (TSS, Document number 24275-KOS) are
consistent with PISG priorities. The TSS focuses primarily on poverty alleviation and limited budget
support, with an extensive program o f analytical work. The latter, inparticular, i s designed to respond to
the priorities o f the Kosovar Government to promote economic growth, poverty reduction, fiscal
sustainability, and good governance.

The proposed CDF I1Project would support the TSS objective o f poverty alleviation, through its support
for small-scale infrastructure and social services at the local level, and its operation in a demand-driven
manner, with strong emphasis on community participation.           Already, the ongoing CDF IProject has
performed highly satisfactorily in meeting its key objective o f improving the quality and availability o f


                                                     - 46 -

community infrastructure and social services in poor and conflict-affected communities. The project has
targeted poor communities in all regions o f Kosovo responding to community priority needs through 182
community infrastructure microprojects (works) mainly comprising potable water supply, school
infrastructure, roads, and sewerage, making up 70 percent o f the project portfolio. Residents in these
communities are now benefiting from better access, quality andavailability o f community infrastructure. It
has also generated approximately 100,000 job days o f employment.

The proposed CDF I1 Project is also consistent with the objectives o f the Bank's Fourth Economic
Assistance Grant (US$5 million).        Apart from its main focus on promoting economic growth and
development, it envisages positive impacts on poverty. This i s to be achieved through improved allocation
o f resources in line with medium-term priorities and ensuring adequate and sustainable service delivery -
which would progressively target public spending towards improving access to and quality of services to
the poor. In addition, the proposed CDF I1Project, through its programs for rehabilitating or constructing
schools, would complement the Bank-financed Education Project (US$4.5 million), w h c h aims at
improving educational attainments at the primary and secondary levels, and at enhancing the access o f
vulnerable groups to education. The proposed CDF I1Project is also consistent with the main findings and
recommendations o f the Bank Economic and Sector Work (ESW). The Bank's 2001 Poverty Assessment
found, inter alia, poor educational attainment and poor health status to be strong correlates o f poverty.
The same point is emphasized in the recent Public Expenditure Review. The proposed CDF I1Project,
through its social infrastructure programs would help implement corrective actions inboth these areas.

Part 11: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of Microprojects.
Since an ex-ante analysis o f microprojects i s precluded by the demand-driven nature o f the microprojects,
the approach adopted is: (i)   to assess the cost-effectiveness o f the CDF Imicroprojects vis-a-vis projects
completed by other NGOs; and (ii)if the results are favorable, to assume that the CDF I1microprojects
will also be as cost-effective, provided the same standards o f technical and economic efficiency are
maintained.

Cost-effectiveness indicators:
Analysis of CDF I Microprojects. Inaccordance with the above approach, the first step was to conduct a
cost-effectiveness analysis o f a representative sample o f CDF Imicroprojects. The analysis was conducted
by a three-member team o f local consultants identified during the October 2002 Mid-term review. The
work was camed out in close collaboration with the Executive Director and Staff o f the CDF Office.
They selected a representative sample o f 50 microprojects covering all 30 municipalities, factoring in the
number and the financial value o f microprojects in each municipality. The sample o f 50 microprojects
comprised schools     (lo), water supply (19), sewerage (9), and access roads (12).        These categories
accounted for 77 percent o f the number o f CDF Imicroprojects completed as o f end September 2002, and
80 percent interms o f value. The average costs o f microprojects and their respective unit cost (i.e. cost per
sq. meter, cost per meter etc.) are shown inTable 1.

                         Table 1: Average Costs of CDF I Microprojects by Type




                                                     - 47 -

 Microprojects completed under CDF Ihave had a far-reaching impact on the people o f Kosovo. Table 2
 shows the number o f direct and indirect beneficiaries from a sample o f completed CDF 1microprojects
 valued at euro 4.24 million. One significant feature is the wide variation inthe cost per drect beneficiary
 across the different types o f microprojects, reflecting, in part, the nature of the microprojects and
 differences inproportions o f direct and indirect beneficiaries from each type o fmicroproject.

                        Table 2: Cost per Beneficiary of CDF IMicroprojects by Type
IProject Type      1Total Investment IDirect Beneficiaries  1
                                                           I        Indirect        I
                                                                                    I Cost per Direct   1
            ~~
                         (euro)              (No.)            Beneficiaries (No.)    Beneficiary (euro)
 Schools                 1.048.240   I       1.712                    9.312                  612
                           I   ,
 Water Supply            1,662,655          31,823                   35,500                    52
 Sewerage                  656,887          19,590                   51,500                    34
 Access Roads              870,082          67,111                   26,457                    13
 TotalIAvg.              4,237,864         120,236                  122,769                    35

 Cost Effectiveness Comparisons. The next step was to compare CDF Iconstruction costs with those o f a
 selected number o f comparator NGOs. The selection o f these comparator organizations was based on the
 similarity o f their completed microprojects with those o f CDF I,  and their willingness to share information.
 As shown inTable 3, costs o f school rehabilitation and construction under CDF were substantially lower
 (by 19percent) thanthose carried out under NGOprograms; the result was even more favorable inthe case
 o f roads projects, where the average cost o f microprojects was lower by 34 percent compared to NGO
 programs. Inwater supply and sewerage projects, CDF microproject costs were only marginally lower (by
 2 percent) than those camed out under NGO programs, primarilydue to the more complex technical nature
 o f the projects.

 Another important dimension o f CDF microprojects relates to the speed o f getting results on the ground.
 The cost-effectiveness analysis showed that CDF construction is, on the whole, speedier relative to its
 comparators.




 Project Type           CDF Cost per Unit          NGO Cost per Unit         CDFMGO
                              (euro)                     (euro)               cost ("h)
~Schools (NGO 1)                337.0                         415                 81.2
 Schools (NGO 2)                337.0                         430                 78.4
 Water Supply                    58.3                        59.4                 98.4
 Access Roads                     4.2                         6.3                 66.7

 The cost-effectiveness analysis has suggested that the proposed CDF I1Project will be a cost-effective
 means o f meeting the social infrastructure needs o f the poor, provided that the same standards o f technical
 and economic efficiency are maintained, or further improved. In regard to water supply and sewerage
 projects, considerations o f cost-effectiveness and consumer satisfaction (evident from the Beneficiary
 Assessment) call for greater caution indealing with technically complex projects, mainly inthe rural areas.
 In urban areas, projects which involve large integrated and complex water supply and sewerage systems
 need to be avoided.        The same is true for projects which are typically the responsibility o f large
 municipalities. Cost-effectiveness is expected to improve since technical standards will benefit from the
 quality o f works enhancement program, while the implementation o f a simplified cost accounting system



                                                     -48-

will help improve cost-efficiency.

Cost-effectiveness indicators:

The main indicators used for project monitoring will be: (a) the average cost per each type o f microproject;
and(b) impact andefficiency indicators which are listedbelow:




Project Type          Cost-Effectiveness Indicators
Schools               Cost per beneficiary, Cost per unit area.
Water Supply          Cost per beneficiary, Cost per unit length o f water pipe
Sewerage              Cost per beneficiary, Cost per unit length o f sewerage
                      Pipe
Access Roads          Cost per beneficiary, Cost per unit length o f road
Average               Average Cost per Microproject



The average full cost per microproject, including physical and price contingencies, is currently estimated at
approximately USSS5,OOO.        Norms for each type o f microproject as well as for impact and efficiency
indicators will need to be developed by the CDF. These should be developed on the basis o f CDF Icost
indicators, which may be used as benchmarks before factoring in price inflation and likely increased size
and scope o f future microprojects.

The availability o f significant investment resources under the ongoing CDF allowed the undertaking o f
large and often costly microprojects (e.g. rehabilitation o f large water networks; new construction) which
typically do not fit into the selection criteria o f many other development agencies inKosova. Inthe absence
o f such investments, many communities would have been deprived o f some basic necessities to improve
their living standards. Nevertheless, cost-effectiveness considerations underline the importance o f strict
adherence to the agreed typology, and thus avoid costly projects.

The degree o f cost-efficiency and effectiveness o f altematives can significantly vary depending on the
nature, mandate and modus-operandi o f an organization. For instance, project cost comparisons are not
sufficient to reveal the principal differences among the demand-driven (CDF, NGOs) and supply-driven
(government) agencies interms o f their efficacy and impact.

Based on the above analysis, and data already available in the Engineering Unit o f the CDF, unit cost and
cost per beneficiary indicators will be used to monitor the cost efficiency and the cost-effectiveness o f the
CDF I1project. With a view to ensuring the cost-effectiveness o f CDF 11, a cost accounting system will be
introduced and implemented. The necessary software will be integrated with the existing MIS, and CDF
Staff will be trained inthe usage o f the software. The framework for such a system is set out inAnnex 4a.




                                                       - 49 -

                                                                                                  ANNEX 4a

                              KOSOVO: SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUNDI1
                             A FRAMEWORK FOR COST ACCOUNTING

Objective

The main objective o f the simple cost accounting system outlined in this annex is to provide the CDF
Management with a well organized information system for the proposed CDF I1project to ensure greater
cost-effectiveness inthe use o f project funds in meeting the basic social and economic infrastructure needs
o f the poor. Although the present Management Information System (MIS) and the Engineering Unit o f the
CDF have a considerable amount o f cost data, further work needs to be done to analyze and present such
data in a more explicit form for use by CDF Management, preferably on a quarterly basis. In specific
terms the objectives o f such a reporting format would be to:

0    provide information on the full cost o fprojects, including CDF overheads, more explicitly;
0    helpmonitor, on a regular basis, the cost o fproviding basic social infrastructure for the poor;
     review trends in project costs, and unit costs in relation to estimates presented in work programs and
     budgets, analyze variances, and examine underlying causes;
0    develop a framework for implementing cost-efficiency measures; and
0    provide a basis for formulating budgets for future years.

Such a framework should include: (i)    average costs o f microprojects by typology; (ii) full composition o f
                                                                                         a
the direct costs o f microprojects; (iii)overhead expenditures; and (iv) unit costs o f providing social
infrastructure (cost per microproject, cost per beneficiary, cost per unit length o f pipeline rehabilitated
etc.).   These are described below, together with some suggestions on how such a system might be
incorporated into the MIS, and on implementingthe system within CDF.

The discussionbelow is presented inthree modules inthe following sequence, giventhat the analyses inthe
second and third module are dependent on those of the preceding ones:

0    the economic analysis module;
0    the management informationmodule; and
     the social impact module.

Measuringthe EconomicImpact--Analysis of DirectCosts

The principal aim o f the analysis o f direct costs o f microprojects would be to measure their impact on the
Kosovar economy. The CDF's Engineering Unit already has information on the composition of the direct
cost o f each microproject in terms o f labor, materials and services (mainly equipment services). The labor
component, when aggregated over all the microprojects o f CDF 11, will provide a measure o f its short-term
employment impact. Likewise, local material costs (when disaggregated into foreign and local components,
ifpossible) will providean estimate ofthe demand created for localmaterialsbyCDF11. At the sametime
the aggregation o f foreign costs will provide a measure o f the foreign exchange impact. Finally, the
aggregation o f the service component will indicate the demand for local construction services created by
CDF 11.

The direct cost analysis o f microprojects may be presentedin a separate cost accounting section o f the


                                                      - 50 -

quarterly progress reports as follows:

(i)direct cost analysis ofCDFI1microprojectscompleted asoftheendofthequarter, classifiedby
tyPologY;
(ii)thedirectcostanalysisofthetotalofmicroprojectscompletedattheendofthequarter.

For the purpose o f illustration, the direct cost analysis o f (i) using project data will feature, for
                                                                  above,
example, as follows:

                  Figure 1:DirectCost Analysisof CDFI1Microprojectsby Typology
                                       (IllustrativeNumbersineuro)


                                   COMPOSITIONOFCOSTS BY
                                                 TYPOLOGY



                                                                       0EQUIPMENT
                                                                         MATERIALS
                                                                       0LABOR




Managingthe Cost of Operations--Analysisof OverheadExpenditure

At present, CDF operating (overhead) cost statements are prepared on a monthly basis classified by major
expenditure categories (salaries, transport, communications, utilities, office supplies, etc.). Since total
operating costs have averaged about 10 percent o f total disbursements per year on microprojects, during
the 12 months ending September 30, 2002, this percentage, an update, or a quarterly moving average may
be applied, across the board, to each microproject as overhead costs. These estimates could then be used to
calculate the hllcost of microprojects including overheads.

The above analysis, which i s essentially aplanning, management and monitoring tool, could provide some
options to improving cost effectiveness. For example, time trends in costs o f microprojects in relation to
budget estimates, may indicate significant variances - which would warrant a close examination o f
underlying causes. Likewise, historical trends incosts o f microprojects can provide useful norms for hture
project selection. The estimated cost o f a particular microproject, compared against norms, may then point
to the need for the needfor re-design.




                                                     - 51 -

 Assessingthe Cost Effectiveness of Microprojects inMeeting Social Needs

 The main objective o f the analysis is to monitor the cost effectiveness in providing social infrastructure to
 the poor, on a quarterly basis. Followingthe recently completed Cost Effectiveness study, and based on the
 information already available inthe M I S and the Engineering Unito f the CDF, the following indicators can
 be used.

                                   Table 1: Cost-Effectiveness Indicators

[Project Type       I Cost-Effectiveness Indicators
 Schools              Cost per beneficiary, Cost per unit area.
 Water Supply         Cost per beneficiary, Cost per unit length o f water

I                     Dive
 Sewerage           I Cost per beneficiary, Cost per unit area o f sewerage  I
                      Pipe
 Access Roads         Cost per beneficiary, Cost per unit length o f road
 Average              Average Cost per Microproject

 The above indicators if assembled on a budgeted and actual basis, and on a quarterly and cumulative basis,
 will provide the basis for analyzing trends, and for comparing cost-effectiveness with NGO construction.
 The following format may be used in the annual progress report, to present the cost-effectiveness o f the
 main types o f microproject:

 Water Supply Proiects                     Completed inYear                  Cumulative to Date
                                           Planned         Actual            Planned       Actual
 Number o f Projects
 Average Cost per Project
 Number o f Beneficiaries
 Cost per Beneficiary
 Cost per unit length o fpipe (urban)
 Cost per unit length o fpipe (rural)
 (Repeat for each type o f microproject)

 Integratingwith the M I S

 Upgrading o f M I S supported by the proposed CDF I1project will provide an opportunity to integrate a cost
 accounting module in MIS. The detailed design o f this module should include a clear format for
 presentation o f cost accounting information to CDF Management. This presentation need not follow the
 sequential order inparagraph 3 above. Given the nature o f the proposed CDF I1project, it would be more
 appropriate to present the social impact section first, followed by the sections on economic impact and
 management information systems.

 Reporting Requirements

 The annual progress reports sent to the World Bank, through UNMIK,and to the MFE, should contain cost
 statements for the relevant year. Such a report will provide UNMIK, the MFE and the Bank a clearer
 picture on how Grant funds are being used, and progress inimplementing cost-efficiency measures.



                                                     - 52 -

Concluding Comments

Implementing the cost accounting system will require the full cooperation o f all CDF staff.            The
Engineering Unit in particular, will have a major role to play in providing basic cost accounting data. It
would therefore be important for CDF Management to widely disseminate the purpose and the scope of the
simple cost accounting system outlined above. The presentation o f cost-effectiveness considerations at
meetingsheminars with PISG officials, donors, contractors, and other key stakeholders, can contribute
sigmficantly towards more effective use o f project funds. Fullimplementation o f the system will, no doubt,
demonstrate CDF's commitment to meeting the social and economic infrastructure needs of the of the poor
inthe most cost-effective manner.




                                                   - 53 -

                                 Annex 5: Financial Summary
                       KOSOVO: Community Development Fund II Project
                                      Years Ending
                                       December31

                           1                      IMPLEMENTATIONPERIOD
                            Year1  I Year2   I  Year3    1 Year4  IYear5  IYear6  I Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
  Investment Costs             1.1       1.7         1.6       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
 Recurrent Costs               0.0       0.0         0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Total Project Costs            1.1       1.7         1.6       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
            Interest during    0.0       0.0         0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
              construction
Total Financing                1.1       1.7         1.6       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Financing
   IBRDllDA                    1.o       1.5         1.5       0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0
   Government                  0.0       0.0         0.0       0.0     0.0    0.0       0.0
       Central                 0.0       0.0         0.0       0.0     0.0    0.0       0.0
       Provincial              0.0       0.0         0.0       0.0     0.0    0.0       0.0
   Co-financiers               0.0       0.0         0.0       0.0     0.0    0.0       0.0
Communities                    0.1       0.2         0.1       0.0     0.0    0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing        1.1       1.7         1.6       0.0     0.0    0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:




                                            - 54 -

                               Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
                      KOSOVO: Community DevelopmentFund II Project

Procurement

This section describes the procurement arrangements under the Community Development FundIIProject
financed by IDA Grant. The total cost o f the proposed CDF I1Project i s estimated at US$4.42 million, o f
which the IDA grant would finance US$4.0 million equivalent. An estimated US$ 0.42 million would be
contributed by local communities. IDA- financed Goods and Works contracts under the project will be
procured in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits, dated January 1995, revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999
(henceforth referred to as Procurement Guidelines). IDA-financed contracts for Consulting Services
required for the project will be awarded following the World Bank Guidelines Selection and Employment
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, dated January 1997, revised in September 1997, January
1999 and May 2002 (henceforth referred to as Consultant Guidelines). Project activities and procurement
contracts not financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with the local regulations in effect in
Kosovo. The project inputs, estimated costs and procurement methods are summarized in Table A and
described in more detail in the CDF I1 Operational Manual (OM). The Project Procurement Plan i s
presented in Table B1. Other procurement information, including prior review thresholds for IDA financed
contracts, and summary assessment o f the procurement capacity o f the implementation unit and IDA'S
review processes is presented inTable B. The sample procurement documents and forms developed inECA
Region for small value procurement would be adapted to suit the Project needs for procurement, especially
under the Community Investment Projects Component.

Notification of Business Opportunities

A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in October 2003 issue o f the Development
Business. There are no procurement o f goods under I C B and selection o f consultants under QCBS
procedures under this project. The local advertisement procedure (at municipal and community level) in a
local language would be used for all small value procurement o f civil works, goods and services. The local
advertisements for consultant contracts for all project components will be placed inthe Public Procurement
Bulletin o f UNMIK as well as at least inone newspaper of wide circulation inKosovo.

Implementatioflrocurement Management

The Community Development Fund, an autonomous non-governmental organization, was established on
November 1, 1999, and became independent NGO on November 8, 2000, to carry out the activities under
the Community Development Fund (I) It is governed under the Statutes o f the Community
                                          Project.
Development Fund (CDF) registered in Kosovo in accordance with the UNMIK Regulation No. 1999122
dated November 15, 1999. IDA provided gant financing to the CDF, as the Recipient o f the IDA'SGrant,
with the endorsement of UNMIK. This arrangement was considered to be the appropriate approach at that
time within the Kosovo Trust Fund Framework, and in the absence o f the Constitutional Framework and
the formation o f the PISG. Under the proposed CDF I1Project, in accordance with the current initiatives
under way to transfer h c t i o n s from UNMIK to the PISG, the institutional structure o f the project will be
modified to meet new institutional challenges and the evolving role o f the PISG. Under the new structure,
the Recipient o fthe IDA Grant would be UNMIK. This would be inaccordance with the TSS which refers
to the practice followed under the Bank's Trust Fund financed program and which is consistent with
UNMIK's legal status and responsibilities in Kosovo under UN Security Council Resolution 1244. The



                                                    - 55 -

CDF, as a local foundation, would function as the CDF 11 Project Implementation Unit (PIV
administering its operations as an autonomous entity, governed by its Board, and reporting to a Project
Steering Committee, set-up specifically for overseeing the activities o f the CDF I1Project. An independent
set-up o f the CDF I1PIU will be critical to ensure that the Unit will carry out day-to-day operations in an
efficient and effective manner. The CDF I1PIU will have full authority to manage and administer its
program under operating guidelines and procedures set out in the project's Operational Manual. Its legal
status for carrying out the activities o fthe CDF I1Project will be defined both inthe Grant Agreement to be
signed with UNMIK (the Recipient of the Grant), and in the two bilateral agreements constituting the
on-granting arrangements. The CDF I1PIU will also have the authority to sign all contracts for goods,
works and services and to manage the project's accounts. UNMIK,as the Recipient o f the IDA Grant, will
ensure that the CDF will carry out its responsibilities for the implementation, management and
administration o f the Project.

The P I U will benefit from the effective institutional and implementation arrangements already in place
under the current CDF Project. After close to four years in operation, the P I U has gained substantial
experience in all aspects o f procurement management and contracts administration that will be utilized
duringimplementation o fthe CDF I1Project.

The Procurement Management arrangements of the CDF I1P I U would basically remain the same as the
one inthe ongoing CDF operation. The P I U has one full time local procurement specialist with experience
in implementing the first project and who is familiar with the Bank procurement guidelines and standard
documentation and has good experience in community based procurement. The Procurement specialist is
supported by a full time procurement assistant who is responsible for filing, monitoring, logistics,
coordination o f training events at the community level. To further strengthen procurement capacity o f the
PIU, it was agreed that a Procurement Specialist will undertake periodic training to maintain professional
qualifications and skills.   During IDA supervision missions, the IDA procurement specialist will be
providing on-the-job continuous training with a special emphasis on contracts administration and ex-post
checks on compliance with procurement procedures as defined inthe IDA Grant Agreement and inthe OM.


In addition to procurement staff, civil works engineers in the CDF PIU will be responsible for the
supervision o f civil works contracts. To facilitate operational activities in Serbian areas, the CDF has
hired a full-time Serbian engineer to supervise civil works contracts execution. Furthermore, the CDF will
hire a local NGO with experience in dealing with multi-ethnic communities to provide assistance with
operational activities inthose communities.

Community members participating in community investment projects will be trained by CDF staff on
community-based procurement procedures and supervision o f the quality o f civil works under community
projects component.

The CDF P I U has updated the CDF I1Operational Manual based on the lessons leamed and experience
gained during implementation o f the first CDF operation in Kosovo. The CDF I1OM has been approved
by IDA and adopted as a legal document as a condition of Negotiations. Any changes in the procedures
set forth in the CDF I1OM will be subject to IDA and UNMIK approval, prior to such procedures
beingimplemented.

Procurement Arrangements

The procurement methods and arrangements applicable to the various expenditure categories under the


                                                    - 56 -

Project are summarized below inTables A and A 1 and described inmore detail inthe CDF I1OM.

Civil Works

Civil works under the Community Investment Projects Component include rehabilitation and construction
o f social and economic infrastructure in the participating municipalitieskommunities selected on a
competitive basis and in accordance with pre-identified eligibility criteria. Such procurement will be
undertaken by the PIU as follows:

(a)     National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures under the simplified documents acceptable to
        IDA and included in the OM will be used for works estimated to cost less than US$200,000
        equivalent per contract; and
(b)     Minor Works procedures will be used for works estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent
        per contract, in accordance with the sample documents included in the OM and would require at
        least three quotations from qualified local contractors.

Goods

Goods include h i t u r e for the public facilities rehabilitated or constructed under the Community
Investment Projects Component o f the project. Such procurement would be undertaken by the PIU as
follows:

(a)     International Shopping (IS) may be used for procurement o f goods estimated to cost less than
        US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract. The P I U will obtain quotations from at least three suppliers
        from two different countries; and
(b)     National Shopping (NS) will be used for procurement o f goods estimated to cost less than
        US$50,000 equivalent per contract and would require at least three quotations in response to a
        written invitation to quote. For procurement o f small operational expenditure items with an
        estimated value below US$2,000 equivalent per contract, to the extent feasible, at least three
        quotations from the local supplier's price lists will be obtained and compared.

Selection of Consulting Services

Contracts for Consulting Services will be packaged to include a combination o f related skills and services,
inorder to make them attractive andincrease competition as well as to reduce the number o fcontracts to be
managed. No civil servants' salaries will be financed under the Grant. The following selection methods will
be followed:

(a)     Selection Based on Consultant Qualifications (CQ, selection method will be used for contracts
        costing less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract for: (i)       engineering, design and supervision
        services contracts; (ii)provision o f consulting services at the micro-project level; and (iii)
        community profiling and capacity needs assessments, consulting services for training in
        asset/financial management and incommunity outreach contracts.

(b)     Single Source Selection (SS) selection method may be used (subject to the prior agreement of
                -
        IDA) in two cases: (i)for contracting local firms or NGOs for delivery o f services (such as
        engineering, design and supervision o f civil works, outreach training ) in the Serbian areas when
        no other altematives are available for delivering this type o f services and training; (ii)for audit
        services for the first year o f the project (it is expected that those auditors currently unconditionally


                                                       - 57 -

          pre-qualified to undertake the audit o f the IDA-funded projects in Kosovo under the master
          contract for audit services entered into by UNMIWPISG. Should the Recipient decide, at any point
          o f project duration, to re-tender these services, a competitive selection based on the Least Cost
          Selection (LC) method shall be used).


(c)       Individual Consultants (IC) services will be procured in accordance with the provisions o f
          paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 o f the Consultant Guidelines and will include various TA services
          assisting the CDF PIU in project implementation, as well as various small TA services. The
          essential team o f professional CDF PTU consultants contracted under the first CDF Project would
          stay on the implementation team of the CDFII P I U to ensure continuity inproject implementation
          and transfer of knowledge and know-how accumulated under the first operation and whose
          performance has been satisfactory up to date. Such contracting will be done in accordance with
          paragraph 5.4 o f Consultant Guidelines.

Training

Training and study tours under the second and third components (estimated aggregate is US$0.03 million)
o f the projects will cover travel, accommodation and training related expenses o f the participants. The list
o f participants, training agenda, locations and estimatedbudget will be reviewed and agreed with IDA on a
case-by-case basis.

Community Participation in Procurement: Grantsfor Community Social Services

Training and contractual services for a variety o f activities (aggregate amount o fUS$O.13 million) such as,
for example, health education for children, literacy courses for elderly women, civic education for children
inminority communities, sewing classesfor women inmixed communities, andanumber o foperations and
maintenance projects under the Grants for Community Social Services sub-component will be procured
according to the provisions for Community Participation in Procurement (paragraph 3.15 o f the
Procurement Guidelines) and according to the applicable procedures described inthe OM.

Incremental Operating Costs

The Grant will finance incremental operating costs (estimated at US$0.23 million) and include expenditures
on minor additions/replacements o f office furniture and equipment, office rent, local travel, fuel, vehicle
maintenance, utilities, intemet service, bank commission charges, office supplies, communications,
maintenance and operation o f equipment and vehicles procured or used by the PIU, publicationo fnotices in
local newspapers, and other miscellaneous items.

Review by theAssociation of Procurement Decisions

Scheduling of Procurement. Full documentation should be submitted to IDA for prior review on the
following procurement contracts:

(a)      first two goods contracts awarded under Intemational Shopping procedure;
(b)      first two goods contracts awarded underNational Shopping procedure;
(c)      first two consulting firm contracts under CQ procedure;
(d)      first consulting contract under LCS procedure;
(e)      all consulting contracts with individual consultants and firms awarded through Single Source
selection;


                                                      - 58 -

(f)     all consulting contracts over $100,000 equivalent with firms;
(g)     all consulting contracts over $25,000 equivalent with individual consultants;
(h)     first civil works contract under NCB procedures;
(i)     first civil works contract under minor works procedures;
0)      trainingistudy tour agenda and location(s), list o f participants, estimated budget;

All other contracts will be subject to selective post-award reviewscarried out by IDA supervision missions.
Table B summarizes applicable procedures and review requirements.

Annual operating budget o fthe P I Uwill be subject to prior review by IDA as well.

Procurement methods (Table A)




 Total                                     0.00                1.40             3.02         0.00        4.42
                                          (0.00)              (1.30)            (2.70)       (0.00)      (4.00)




                                                    - 59 -

                     Table A I : Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
                                        (US$ million equivalent)




I\
 Includingcontingencies

         Note:QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
               QBS = Quality-based Selection
               SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
               LCS = Least-Cost Selection
               CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
               Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
               Commercial Practices, etc.
               N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
               Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.




                                                 - 60 -

 Prior review thresholds (Table B)

                  Table 6: Thresholdsfor Procurement Methods and Prior Review'




 3. Services                      Firms<100,000                    CQ                  Firsttwo contracts
                                   Firms <50,000                  LCS                    Firstcontract
                                       All                          ss                        All
                                Individuals>25,000                  IC                        All
 4. Grants for                                                    CBP                  Firsttwo contracts
 Community Social
 Services

                 Total value of contracts subject to prior review: 25%
                          Overall ProcurementRisk Assessment: Average
       Frequency o f procurement supervision missions proposed:     Oneevery 6 months
                                                                    (includesspecialprocurement supervisionfor
                                                                    post-reviewlaudits)

Section 1: Capacity of Implementing Agency in Procurement and TechnicalAssistanceRequirements:

Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) o r Country Procurement Strategy Paper Status.
A CPARfor Kosovo has not beendone.

A r e the biddingdocuments for the first year ready by negotiations. Yes [XI No []

Section 2: Training, Information and Development on Procurement

Estimated date o f Project Launch Workshop: April 2004

Estimated date o f publication o f General Procurement Notice: October 2003

Indicate if there is procurement subject to mandatory SPN inDevelopment Business: N o

Domestic Preference for Goods: No

Retroactive financing: Yes

Advance Procurement: No

Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System: The PIUwill maintaincompleteprocurement files
which will be reviewedby IDA supervisionmissions. All procurementrelateddocumentation that requires



                                                 -61 -

IDA prior review will be clearedby Procurement Accredited Staff (PAS) and relevant technical staff. No
packages above mandatory review thresholds by FPA are anticipated. Procurement information will be
recorded by the PIU and submitted to UNMIK, the Project Steering Committee, and IDA as part o f the
quarterly and annual progress reports. A simple management information system with a procurement
module has been established to assist the PIU procurement specialist to monitor all procurement
information, especially under the Community Investment Projects component.

Co-financing: No

Section 3: Procurement Staffing

Indicate the name of Procurement staff or Bank's part of the Task Team responsible for the
procurementin the Project:

Name: Maria Vannari (ECSPS)                                Tel. No. (202) 458-4694

Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement: There is no procurement staff
based in the Field Office. Besides assistance o f the Country Manager whedif any substantial procurement
issues need to be discussed with UNMIK,the Field Ofice does not have any role in procurement.




                                                    - 62 -

                                                             TABLEB1:ProcurementPlan

                                                                   Kovoso: Community DevelopmentFund I1Project (CDF 11)
                                                                                     Procurement Plan




 Notes
 * SocialServices Grants Individual grantsulllinvolveprocurementof smallvalue items,pnmanly trainingandcontractualservices
 Procurementwill be doneinaccordancewith para3 15 of the BankProcurementGuidelines The details of the procurementprocedureswill be spelledout in
 The OperatingManualacceptable to IDA (conditionof Negotiations)
 **
 ***Proposedoptionforof
                      Single Source Contractspnmanly for Serbian areas where no alternativesto particularprovidersi s available
     Study Tours List  study tour participants,trainingsites, trainingprograndagendaandan estimatedbudgetwillbe pnor reviewedby the Bank

 CW  -Ciwl Works, MW - Minor Works, CQ-Consultant Qualification, CS - ConsultantServices,IC -Individual Consultant,IS -IntemationalShopping, LCS - LeastCon Selection,NS-
 NationalShopping,IS IntemationalShopping, SS Sole Source, PTU- ProjectImplementation Unit, SOE - Statementof Expenditures




Notes:
* SocialServices Grants: Individual grants will involve procurementof small value items, primarily training and contractualservices.
Procurement will be done in accordance with para 3.15 o f the Bank Procurement Guidelines. The details of the procurement procedures
will be spelled out in
The Operating Manual acceptable to IDA (condition of Negotiations)
** Proposedoption for Single Source Contracts primarily for Serbian areaswhere no alternativesto particular providersis available.
*** Study Tours: Listof study tour participants, training sites, training progradagendaand an estimated budget will beprior reviewedby
the Bank.

CW -Civil Works, M W -Minor Works, CQ -ConsultantQualification ;CS -Consultant Services ;IC -Individual Consultant ;I S-International
Shopping; LCS -Least Cost Selection; h'S -National Shopping, IS- International Shopping, SS- Sole Source; PIU-Project Implementation Unit;
SOE- StatementofExpenditures.




IThresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult "Assessment of Agency'sCapacity to Implement
 Procurement"and contactthe RegionalProcurement Adviser for guidance.



                                                                                 - 63 -

               Annex 6(B): Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements
                        KOSOVO: Community Development Fund II Project

FinancialManaPement
1. Summaryofthe FinancialManagementAssessment

The CDF is already implementing a Bank-financed Grant andhas a financial management system, which is
capable o f producing satisfactory FMRs. The same system will be utilized for the proposed CDF I1
Project. The internal controls and procedures for the ongoing project were reviewed and found satisfactory
and these procedures will be used for the new project.

Country Financial Management Issues. The Bank has not carried out a Financial Accountability
Assessment Report (FAA) has so far, but a mini-FAAhas been planned to be conducted before the end o f
June 2004. The initial preparations for this report were made during the Appraisal mission. Technical
solutions for budgeting and the computerized treasury system appear to be well developed. Support for
internal and extemal audit has started, but local capacity needs to be enhanced in all aspects o f financial
management. The CDF i s not part o f the public accountability system. It is an NGO which has been
functioning as the PIU for the ongoing CDF Project, and has been reporting to the Bank. The CDF has
developed its own financial management capacity and systems to secure proper financial accountability o f
its activities.

Strengths and Weaknesses. The significant strengths that provide a basis o f reliance on the project
financial management system include: (i)the experience o f CDF and its Finance and Administration
Department in implementing the first CDF project and satisfying Bank financial management requirements;
and (ii)the audit reports and management letters issued by CDF's auditors. There are no significant
weaknesses o f the project financial management system.

Implementing Entity and Stafpng.         The CDF was established as an autonomous non-governmental
organization in November 1999. It has a successful track record in its implementation o f the first
Bank-financed CDF project. The CDF reports to its own Board. CDF staffing includes two financial
officers. The Finance and Administration Officer (FAO) has worked in the current position since the
establishment o f CDF. He has been the focal point in the development o f the comprehensive financial
management system. H e has a long experience with contract management, working as finance director and
accountant in large construction companies. The accountant has considerable experience o f implementing
the current Bank-financed project. Terms o f Reference for the CDF financial staff with detailed
descriptions o f duties and staffing is in place. The CDF has demonstrated that it is fully capable o f
fulfilling the accounting and reporting needs ofthe project it has been implementingearlier.

All financial management activities for the CDF I1Project will be carried out by the CDF PIU.

Flow of Funds    . The framework for the flow o f IDA Grant funds will consist o f the following stages: (i)
IDA Grant funds will flow to a Special Account to be opened by UNMIK at Commerzbank, Frankfurt,
Germany, such Special Account to be used specifically and exclusively for receiving, holding and
disbursingthe Project's IDA Grant funds; (ii) CDF will open a bank account (CDF I1Bank Account) at
                                               the
a commercial bank acceptable to IDA, such bank account to be used specifically and exclusively for
receiving, holding and disbursingthe Project's IDA Grant funds, and such bank account to contain no more
than thirty (30) days projected Project expenditures; (iii)the MFE will, within five (5) business days o f
receipt o f a request from CDF for Project funds, remit the requested amount o f funds from the Kosovo


                                                    - 64 -

Consolidated Fund(KCF) to the CDF I1Bank Account; and (iv) UNMIKwill reimburse the KCF from the
Special Account based upon financial reports produced by the MFE detailing all transfers made from the
K C F to the CDF I1Bank Account.

Project finds will flow from the Bank, either via a single Special Account which will be replenished on the
basis o f SOEs or by direct payment on the basis o f direct payment withdrawal applications. The
beneficiaries contribute up to 15 percent o f the total cost o f the sub-projects. The agreed amount is paid
into a specific bank account fully operated by CDF before signing the contracts with the suppliers. The
contribution i s thus fully managed by CDF. The flow o f funds for this contribution is an integral part o f the
project cycle as described in the CDF 11Operational Manual, and based on the experience o f implementing
microprojects.

Within the flow o f finds framework described above, under the First On-Grant Agreement, UNMIKwill
also delegate to the MFEthe authority to prepare Withdrawal Applications (WAS) for replenishment o f the
Special Account and supporting documentation, together with the power to sub-delegate to the CDF under
the Second On-Grant Agreement to prepare the WASand the supporting documentation. The WASwould
be signed jointly by one duly authorized representative each o f the MFE and the CDF. To ensure
operational efficiency, the MFE will transmit to IDA the WAS,duly signed by the MFE and the CDF,
within five business days o f     their submission by the CDF, with a copy to UNMIK. Withdrawal
applications for the replenishments o f the SA will be sent to the Bank at least every three months, or when
the balance o f the SA is equal to about half o f the initial deposit or the authorized allocation, whichever
comes first.

Accounting Policies and Procedures. The accounting books and records are maintained on a cash basis
and project financial statements presented in euro. The CDF also registers and accounts for all
commitments, such commitments relating mainly to signed contracts for technical assistance and civil
works.    As payments relating to contracts are normally made on a monthly basis, the cash basis o f
accounting i s assessedto be appropriate for activities undertaken by the CDF. The CDF has instituted a set
o f appropriate accounting procedures and intemal controls including authorization and segregation o f
duties. The policies andprocedures are further elaboratedinthe Financial Procedures Manual.

Internal Audit. CDF has no intemal audit and no such finction is deemed necessary inan organization o f
this small size.

Reporting and Monitoring. The CDF will produce all financial reports and SOEs for the Bank, via its
MIS. The CDF has finalized the formats o f the reports enabling satisfactory reporting on project
expenditures. Project management-oriented Financial MonitoringReports (FMRs) will be usedfor project
monitoring and supervision and the formats o f these are included inthe CDF Procedures Manual. The CDF
will produce a full set o f FMRs every three months throughout the life o f the project. The CDF has
satisfactorily submitted PMRs during the ongoing CDF project. The CDF submits an annual report to
UNMIKaccording to regulations for NGOs.

Information Systems. The accounting system for the CDF I1has been fully computerized, adopting a
tailor-made software that will be able to produce the reports requiredby the Bank (FMRs). The system has
a multidimensional chart o f accounts enabling a variety o f reporting.

Impact of Procurement Arrangements. A procurement assessment of CDF I1was performed by a Bank
Procurement Specialist. The impact o f this procurement assessment is that the perceived risk associated
with the project's financial management arrangements will be mitigated by an increased level o f Bank


                                                     - 65 -

supervision and through the thresholds for different procurement types agreed for the project.

2. Audit Arrangements
The audit for 2002 was issuedwith a qualification due to the lack o f written confirmation on funds received
from the different trust funds. During the assessment, receipts for the year 2002 and cumulative for the
two active trust funds were reconciled. The amounts shown inthe accounts for 2002 are correct.

The CDF issues one common ('joint)       audit report and one management letter based on the Terms o f
Reference agreed to with the Association. The report will be submitted within six months after the end o f
each fiscal year. The audits are conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing. This
arrangement is satisfactory to the Association and it has thus been agreed that similar audit arrangements
will be adopted for the CDF 11. The auditor will be appointed by the CDF based on a tender process
according to the World Bank procurement rules. The Bank issued new guidelines effective July 1, 2003
that provide for simplified financial reporting and auditing arrangements. Accordingly, both the CDF, as
implementing agency, and the Project will be audited in accordance with the simplified arrangements. The
annual cost o f the audits will be covered by the CDF I1Project.

3. DisbursementArrangements

IDA funds will be disbursed under the Association's transactional procedures including SOEs and direct
payments.    Supporting documentation for SOEs, including completion reports and certificates will be
retained by the CDF and made available to the Association during project supervision. Disbursements for
expenditures above the SOE thresholds will be made against presentation o f full documentation relating to
those expenditures. There is no plan to move to periodic disbursements.

The necessity for Retroactive Fimzncing for a proposed amount o f SDR140,OOO (US$200,000
equivalent), representing 5 percent o f the Grant, covering all categories o f eligible expenditures under the
Project incurred after Board Approval up to the date o f signing of the Grant Agreement. Such financing
will allow the CDF to maintain the continuity o f its operations in the event o f delays in the signing of the
GrantAgreement.

 Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
The proceeds o f the Grant would be disbursed in accordance with guidelines in the "Disbursement
Handbook". The project has been designed to be carried out over a period o f three years and the project is
expected to be completed by December 31, 2006. Disbursement categories, amounts andpercentages to be
financed under each category are presentedinTable C below.

                                  Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds

          ExpenditureCategory                                                     Financing Percentage             1
Community Sub-Projects: Civil Works                     2.61                         100% (net o f VAT)
Goods                                                   0.08              100% o f foreign expenditures; 100%o f
                                                                         local expenditures (ex-factory cost); and
                                                                           100 % o f local expenditures for other
                                                                           items procured locally (net o f VAT).
Consultant Services, Training and Audit                 0.43             100% o f services of foreign consultants;
costs                                                                      95% o f services o f local consultants;
                                                                                 100% o f training expenses.


                                                    - 66 -

iSub-Grants for Community Social Services                                                   100%                  I
 Operating Costs                                                           100% o f expenditures through December
                                                                           31,2004 ,95% o f expenditures incurred
                                                                            through December 31,2005, and ,90%
                                                                                  o f exnenditures thereafter.

 Total Project Costs with Bank                            4.00
 Financing
 Total                                                    4.00


 Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Bank funds will be disbursed under the Bank's traditional procedures including SOEs anddirect payments.
Supporting documentation for SOEs, including completion reports and certificates, will be retained by the
CDF and made available to the Bank during project supervision. Disbursements for expenditures above the
SOE thresholds will be made against presentation o f full documentation relating to those expenditures.
There is no planto move to periolc disbursements.

Specifically, disbursement arrangements under the project will be carried out using SOE procedures for: (i)
works costing less than US$50,000 equivalent, with the exception o f the first contract under minor works
procedures; (ii) goods costing less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent with the exception o f the first two contracts
under the IS procedure and the first two contracts underthe N S procedure; (iii)   services o f consulting firms
costing less then US$lOO,OOO, with the exception o f the first two CQ contracts, first contract under LCS
procedures and all SS contracts; (iv) for services o f individual consultants costing less than US$25,000; (v)
for services provided under the Community Social Service Grants; and (vi) training and operating costs
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify to the Borrower. The required supporting
documentation and other records would be retained by the P I U for at least one year after the receipt by IDA
o f the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made. This documentation would be
made available for review by the independent auditors and by the visiting Bank staff upon request. The
processing, disbursement and monitoring o f the allocations o f the proceeds o f the IDA grant will be the
responsibility o f UNMIK. The contributions by the local communities would be managed by the CDF I1
PIU.

 Special account:
In accordance with the Development Grant Agreement and the On-Granting arrangements, UNMIK will
open a Special Account at the Commerzbank, Germany. Transfers to the CDF Bank Account will be made
on the basis o f known, actual eligible expenditures for a limited period (less than 30 days). The Authorized
Allocation would be an amount equal to euro350,OOO. An amount equivalent to euro175,OOO could be
drawn until the aggregate amount o f withdrawals from the Grant account, plus the total amount o f all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association shall be equal to SDR560,OOO. Payments
out o f the Special Account would cover eligible expenditures under the Project. The Special Account
would be replenished at least on a quarterly basis or when the undisbursedbalance falls below an amount
equal to 50 percent or less o f the initial deposit, whichever occurs first. However, under no circumstances
will funds be transferred from the Special Account to the KCF unless the cumulative value o f such
transfers, inclusive o f the proposed transfers, is less than or equal to the cumulative value o f remittance
made from the KCF to the CDF I1 Bank Account. Replenishment applications will be submitted on a
monthly basis (or at least quarterly) and will be accompanied by full documentation, including monthly
bank statements o f the Special Account, for all items except those eligible for disbursement on the basis of


                                                      - 67 -

the SOEs. All other applications for direct payment or issuance o f Special Commitments must be for an
amount not less than 20 percent of the Special Account allocation.

Supervision Plan

During project implementation, the Bank will supervise the CDF's financial management arrangements
through two main approaches: (i) review the project's quarterly financial management reports as well as the
project's and CDF's annual audited financial statements and auditor's management letter; and (ii)   during
the Bank's supervision missions, review the project's financial management and disbursement
arrangements to confirm that satisfactory financial management arrangements have been maintained. A
Bank-accredited Financial Management Specialist will assist inthe supervision process, as required.




                                                  - 68 -

                                Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
                     KOSOVO: Community Development Fund II Project




IFirstBank mission (identification)                           10/14/2002                     1011412002
\Appraisal mission departure                        II        06/01/2003         II          0711912003            II
                                                                                                            ~    ~~
 Negotiations                                                 10/0112003                     1010712003
 Planned Date of Effectiveness                                01IO112004

Prepared by:
World Bank team


Preparation assistance:
Project preparation activities benefited from an experienced team from the CDF, as well as fkom the Bank
team.


         Name                                                 SDecialitv
 Caroline Mascarell                         Team Leader
 Hilarian Coddipily                          Social Development Economist
 Maria Gracheva
lAnna  GOOCI"                              I Operations  Officer
                                             ProgramAssistant                                                        I
Maria Vannari                               Procurement Officer
Joseph Formoso                              Finance Officer
Mark Walker                                 Legal Counsel
Olav Christensen                            Financial Management Specialist
Colin Scott                                  Social Development Specialist
Anahit Poghosyan                            Program Assistant




                                                      - 69 -

                            Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
                     KOSOVO: Community Development Fund II Project


A. Project Implementation Plan
See Annex 11of the PAD.

B. Bank Staff Assessments
Mid-term Review (December 2002)
Procurement Assessment (June 2003)
Financial Management Assessment (July 2003)
Assessment o f CDF Operational Approach indealing with Serb Communities and other Mixed and
Minority Communities (July 2003)

C. Other
Cost-Effectiveness Review (March 2003)
Beneficiary Assessment (August 2003)
*Including electronic files




                                               - 70 -

                                      Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                                KOSOVO: Community Development Fund II Project
                                                     24-Seo-2003
                                                                                                           Difference between expected
~




                                                                                                                    and actual
                                                          Original Amount in US$ Millions                         disbursements'
 Project ID   FY   Purpose                            IBRD         IDA        SF            Cancel  Undisb        Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO78380      2003 ECON ASST 4                            000        000        0 00            0 00     5 19        000       000
PO79019      2003 ENERGY SECT TA 2                       0.00       0.00       0.00            0.00     1.54        0.00      0.00
PO79260      2003 EDUCATION                              0.00       0.00       0.00            0.00     4.53        0.24      0.00
PO72405      2002 SOC PROT (KOSOVO TF)                   0.00       0.00      4.20             0.00     3.19        2.26      0.00
PO69629      2001 SME CREDIT (KOSOVOTF)                  0.00       0.00       5.00            0.00     0.55        5.95      0.00
PO70365      2001 PILOT WS (KOSOVOTF)                    0.00       0.00      4.60             0.00     3.01       -1.59      0.00
PO72814      2001 COMM DEV FUND (KOSOVOTF)               0.00       0.00       5.00            0.00     0.58       -4.42      0.00
PO71265      2001 PSDTA (KOSOVOTF)                       0.00       0.00       3.00            0.00     0.40        0.40      0.00
PO69516      2000 EDUC/HEALTH (KOSOVOTF)                 0.00       0.00      4.44             0.00     0.70        0.33      0.00

                                              Total:    0.00        0.00      26.24            0.00    19.70        3.17      0.00




                                                        - 71 -

                                         KOSOVO
                                    STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                 HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                       June 30 2003
                                                -
                                     InMillions US Dollars

                                                      Committed                      Disbursed




                    Total Portfolio:          0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00    0.00  0.00



                                                  Approvals PendingCommitment
FYApproval   Company                            Loan     Equity      Quasi   Partic


             Total PendingCommitment:            0.00       0.00     0.00     0.00




                                            - 72 -

                       Annex 10: Country at a Glance
               KOSOVO: Community Development Fund I1 Project
Not Applicable




                                  - 73 -

                                         Additional Annex 11: Project Implementation Plan
                                         KOSOVO: Community Development Fund II Project




  Fulfillment o f Condltlons of Negotlations
, Government (PiSG) decision establishing the
  CDF iI Project Steering Committee
  Approval of CDF ii Operatlonai Manual by the Association
  Fulfillment o f Project Effectiveness
, The appointment of at least four members
 of the Pro]ect Steering Committee
. Two bilateral on-granting agreements
, Project tmplementatlon Phase
       .         .
  c o m m u n i t y Investment Projects lmpiementalion
  Community profiling, capacity needs assmnt.
  Bid-Process for Firm
  (I) Draft TORS
  (it) Solicitation far expression of interest
  to bid for local training contract
  (iii) Preparation of Shortlist
  (iv) Shortlist of firms for tender
  (VI  Selection of trainers
  (VI) Training sessions
  Communlty Infrastructure Microprojects
  Communlty outreach, promotion 8 info. dissemination
  Selection of microprojects
  Procurement
, Implementation of microprojects
  Recruitment of consuitants for MP design 8 SPN
  Community Servlces Microprojects
  Community outreach, promotion and
  information dissemination
, Selection of Social Services Projects
  Procurement
. Implementation of projects
  Local Level Institutlonal Strengthening
  Micro-Project Training and T.A. t o
  Communities and Contractors

.
, Conduct needs assessment
  Ongoing on-the-job training by CDP PIU
      . .
  Start UD Phase
  Promotion, preparation and design
  Mid-term Phasp
  Procurement, implementation, monitoring, supervision
  Final Phase
  Maintenance and sustainability
  Seecial training. by iocal and foreign trainers
                       .
  (I)   Draft TORs
  (ii)  Socilication for expression of interest to
        bld for local training contract
  (iii) Preparation of shortlist
  (iv) Training sessions
  Local Government Training
  Conduct Municipal Capacity Assessment
  Training by institutes
  (I) Draft TORs
  (ii) Solicitation for expression of interest to bid for local training contract
  (iii) Preparation of Shortlist
  (iv) Shortlist of firms for tender
  (v) Selection of trainers
  (vi) Training sassions
  CDP Staff Training
  Study lours and workshops
  Special training and TA based on need
  Special Studies, assessments 8 reviews
  Monitoring and Evaluation
  Beneficiary assessment
  Special survey 8 assessments
  Quality of works review
  Quarterly progress reports
  Annual progress reports
  Mid-term review




                                                                                   - 74 -

    Additional Annex 12: Poverty Targeting Strategy and Regional Allocation of Funds
                       KOSOVO:Community Development Fund II Project

Introduction

The purpose of this Annex is to outline the poverty targeting strategy and the allocation o f project funds to
the five geographical regions o f Kosovo, for which socioeconomic data are available. These five regions
are: Prishtina (North-East), Prizren (South-West), Peje (West), Mitrovice (North), and Gjilan).

The objective o f the regional allocation is to ensure regional equity inthe use o f CDF I1project funds, and
to provide the basis for planning the disbursement o f project funds by region. In addition, fvting regional
allocations will mitigate political pressures to move funds across regions during the life o f the project.
Given the small size o f the CDF I1 Project, further subdivisions o f these regional allocations into 30
municipal allocations is not considered to be feasible, as some o f the smaller municipalities would receive
allocations that would be insufficient to finance an effective microproject. At the same time, regional
allocations would provide the CDF I1 PIU with greater flexibility in responding to proposals from
communities inmunicipalities within a given region.

Poverty Targeting Strategy

A two-stage poverty targeting strategy was discussed with the CDF PIU during the Mid-term mission
conducted in October 2002. According to this strategy, the first level o f targeting will define broad
allocations for the regions, and will be based on a methodology which includes population size, and
indicators o f poverty. The second level o f targeting to identifl needy communities will be based on a set o f
detailed criteria to be usedby the CDF P I U during project implementation.

The Targeting Methodology

Stage 1: Regional Allocations. The total amount o f CDF I1project funds available for regional allocation
i s estimated at US$2.60 million for community infrastructure (works) projects. It has been agreed that: (i)
10 percent o f the total, equivalent to US$ 0.26 million will be allocated to the Serbian communities; and
that (ii)total o f US$0.26 will be allocated to a special fund for mixed and minority communities and for
         a
resettlement o f retumees. This leaves a balance o f US$2.08 million to be allocated to the regions.

The regional allocations are based on two broad factors: (a) the population size o f each region; and (b) a
composite poverty index computed from three poverty indicators. The three poverty indicators are: (i)       the
poverty incidence (head count index) or the proportion o f the population livingbelow official poverty line -
representing the extent or the "quantity" o fpoverty; (ii) extreme poverty, representing the proportion o f the
population living below the Food Poverty Line; and (iii)the severity index which is the
Foster-Greer-Thorbecke (FGT) measure P2 - representing the intensity o f poverty which captures the
extent to which people are below the poverty line, weighted by their respective distances from the poverty
line. The latest available estimates for these indicators for the 2000-2001 period were obtained from the
Kosovo Poverty Assessment o f December 2001. The formula for the allocation o f h d s by region is as
follows:

         A r =A(Nr xPIr )/(NrxPIr )

         Where A = total allocation available for all five regions;



                                                     - 75 -

                  Ar =allocation for a given regionr;
                  Nr=population ofagivenregionr;
                  PIr =poverty index for a given regionr.

 The poverty index (a weighted index) is definedby:

          PIr = [(POr+PIr+P2r)/3, for a given region r.

          POr =poverty rate; P l r = extreme poverty; andP2r = intensity o fpoverty.
          The sum o f weights = 3.

 Table 1presents the data inputs: (a) population; (b) poverty incidence; (c) extreme poverty; and (d) severity
 o f poverty. The purpose o f Table 2 is to normalize the input data into indicators for the five. Thus, the
 numbers for (b), (c), and (d) are expressed as proportions o f their respective averages. Table 3 shows the
 resulting regional allocations, calculated on the basis o f the above formula.

 Selectivity. It was agreed that the promotion to be carried out by the CDF PIU will initially focus only two
 or three priority regions identified in accordance with the agreed methodology, where an integrated
 development program o f pilot activities would be implemented. Such an approach will be important to
 learn from early experiences o f CDF I1and the experience o f the ongoing CDF, to ensure tangible results
 on the ground, andto produce demonstration effects for subsequent work inother regions.

 Stage 2: Selection of Communities. It was also agreed that within each region, detailed criteria will be
 used by the CDP PIU promotional team, during the life o f the project, to select municipalities and local
 communities for initial discussions on community needs, priorities perceived by the communities, project
 possibilities, and modalities o f operation of the CDP. The key criteria agreed during the Appraisal mission
 are as follows:
ICriteria                                                                                            I
 1. State o fphysical and social infrastructure accessible to the community.
 2. Socio-economic status of the community.
 3. Presence o f vulnerable or marginalized groups inthe community.
 4. Presence of ethnically mixed or minority groups.
 5. Under-representation of women inlocal development activities.
 6. Under-representation ofyouth inlocal development activities.
 7. Under-funded communities (from donor or municipal financing).
 8. Capacity o f communities to plan and implement microprojects.
 9. Capacity o f communities to operate andmaintain facilities created or rehabilatated.
 10.Community commitment andproactiveness indevelopment work.
 11.Ability to make a community contribution to the microproject in financial terms.
 12. Likelihoodo f early success-to produce demonstration effects.
 13. Security considerations and accessibility o f communities.
 14.Level o f interest o fmunicipalities insupporting and facilitating community microprojects and
      services.

 These criteria will be further developed and refined by the CDF PIU prior to and during project



                                                     - 76   -

implementation, based on lessons learned and experience o f other donors active in community
development.. The full list of criteria, and an appropriate assessment and rating system has beeb developed
and incorporated in the CDF Operational Manual.

             SUGGESTED REGIONAL ALLOCATION OF CDF I1FUNDS(US$)


             Table 1:Population and PovertyIndicators
             -
                                                                Poverty
                                                               Incidence   Extreme        Severity of
             Region                             Population     (%)         Poverty (%)    Poverty (%)
             North-East(Prishtina)                   573,388        46.50          12.40             6.7C
             South-West (Prizren)                    417,414        59.50          15.90             9.30
             West (Peje)                             453,357        42.50           6.80             4.60
             North (Mitrovice)                       303,422        58.40          12.20             7.2C
             South-East(Gjilan)                      428,910        47.60          11.20             6.2C
             TQTALIAV                              2,176,491        50.30          11.90             6.8C

             Sources: (I) Population estimates are those used by the CDF Office: and
             (ii) the poverty indicators are from the World Bank's PovertyAssessment, December 2001


             Table 2: Normalized PovertyIndicators



                                                               Poverty     Extreme        Severity of
             Region                             Population     Incidence   Poverty        Poverty
             North-East(Prishtina)                   573,388         0.92            1.04            0.99
             South-West (Prizren)                    417,414         1.18            1.34            1.37
             West (Peje)                             453,357         0.84            0.57            0.68
             North (Mitrovice)                       303,422         1.16            1.03            1.06
             South-East (Gjilan)                     428,910         0.95            0.94            0.91
             TOTALIAV                              2,176,491         1.oo            1.oo            1.oo

             Table 3: PovertyScores and ResultingRegionalAllocationsin US$



                                                              Poverty      (Pov. Index) x Funds for CDF II




             West (Peje)                            453,357         0.698       316,266          306,021
             North (Mitrovice)                      303,422         1.082       328,208          317,576
             South-East (Gjilan)                    428,910         0.933       400,211          387,245
             TOTALIAV                              2,176,491        1.000    2,149,639       2,080,000

             Serbian Communities                                                                 260,000
             Minority Communites                                                                 260,000
             TOTAL:                                                                          2.600.000



                                                           - 77 -

                Additional Annex 13: Community Investment Projects Typology      -
                       KOSOVO: Community Development Fund II Project

I.CommunityInfrastructureTypology
1. Social Infrastructure:

a)   Renovation, rehabilitation and construction o f kindergartens, primary and secondary schools.

b)   Renovation, rehabilitation, and construction o f special schools for disabled children, art, music and
      sports.

c)   Renovation, rehabilitation, and construction o f children's playgrounds.

d)   Renovation and rehabilitation o f homes for the elderly and health centers.

e)   Renovation, rehabilitation, and construction o f community centers (including libraries, community
     halls, clubs, etc.).

2. Economic Infrastructure:

a)   Renovation, rehabilitation and construction o fpotable water systems.

b)   Renovation, rehabilitation and construction o f local level irrigation systems, including reservoirs.

c)   Rehabilitation and construction o f village or neighborhood roads, access roads to isolated villages,
      access roads to agricultural landsand farms (including bridges, drainage, culverts, retaining walls,
     etc.).

d)   Rehabilitation and construction o f energy-generating microprojects for small and isolated communities
      (micro hydropower stations on irrigation channels andwater pipelines, bio-energy plants. etc.).
3. Sanitation andEnvironmentalInfrastructure:

a)    Renovation, rehabilitation and construction o f sewage systems (only uponthe condition ofhaving the
      system connected to the main sewage network or the presence o f a septic tank) and storm water canals
      and drainage.

b)   Improvement and rehabilitation o f degraded environment through tree planting and cleanup.

c)   Erosion control activities (tree planting, terracing, drainage canals, rehabilitation of anti-hail
      facilities).

d)    Construction or rehabilitation o f micro-dams.



11. Community Services Typology
EducationSector:

-- Traffic
   Programs to support city governments inorganizing transportation for school children inrural areas.
           signtraining for school children.

HealthSector:

- Community health awareness/education programs, including workshops on safe motherhood, nutrition,
information odtreatment o f sexually transmitted diseases, water and sanitation.


                                                      - 78 -

Social Services:

- Programs     for the elderly such as home care service, cultural/entertainment programs incommunity
-centers.
     Programs to support community based day care centers for the disabled, elderly andother marginalized
and vulnerable groups o f the population.
- Slull enhancement programs for women, the disabledand vulnerable groups.
--- Programs
     Programs to support inter-ethnic activities such as sports events, and open market places.
     Programs for the rehabilitation o f alcohol and drug abusers.
               related to raising awareness to environmental issues.

---- Fundraising
- Literacy courses for the elderly.
     Programs for non-pensionedelderly such as development o f small employment programs.
     Special programs for women who were victims o f violence duringthe war.
                  campaigns to support programs for the disabled.
     Operations andmaintenance type programs covering different types o f activities &e., solidwaste dump
sites, water and sanitation, garbage collection systems).




                                                       - 79 -

                     Additional Annex 14: The Project Steering Committee
                       KOSOVO: Community Development Fund II Project


Background: Under the proposed CDF I1Project, inaccordance with the current initiatives under way to
transfer functions from UNMIKto the PISG, the institutional structure o f the project would be modified to
meet new institutional challenges and the evolving role o f Government.       Under the new structure, the
recipient o f the IDA Grant would be UNMIK. Thls would be in accordance with the TSS which refers to
the practice followed under the Bank's Trust Fund financed program and which is consistent with
U N M I K s legal status and responsibilities in Kosovo under UN Security Council Resolution 1244. The
CDF, as a local foundation, would function as the CDF I1 P I U administering its operations as an
autonomous entity, govemed by its board, and reporting to a Project Steering Committee, set up
specifically for overseeing the activities o f the CDF I1Project.

Legal Establishment of the Steering Committee: Given the multisectoral activities under the CDF I T
Project which fall within the areas o f responsibility transferred to the PISG under the Constitutional
Framework, the Project Steering Committee has been established by a Government Decision signed by the
Prime Minister on September 5, 2003. This document specifies the composition o f the Committee, its key
roles and responsibilities (including quorum, voting, and        calling o f meetings), and the responsible
authorities for appointing the members.

Composition of Committee: The Committee would be chaired by a representative from the Ministry o f
Finance andEconomy, which has the budgetary responsibility for expenditures across all sectors served by
the CDF I1Project. An official from this Ministry will be selected to function as the Secretary o f the
Committee. The composition o f the Committee will include one representative from key relevant ministries
including: (i)the Ministries o f Education Science and Technology, Health, Labor and Social Welfare,
Environment and Spacial Planning, and Agnculture, Forestry, and Rural Development; and (ii)a
representative from UNMIK (a principal intemational officer), as an observer. The Executive Director o f
the CDF I1 PIU will attend meetings to provide the needed information and to clarify issues. Bank
representatives associated with the CDF I1 Project, may attend Project Steering Committee meetings as
observers.

Appointment of Committee Members: The Steering Committee members shall be appointed by the
Minister o f Finance on the recommendation o f the relevant sector ministers. The appointment shall be a for
a periodnot exceeding three years. Re-appointment shall be made inthe event o f a need for replacement.

 MainFunctions: The Steering Committee will be responsible for the following key activities:

         Supervise the administration and operations o f the CDF I1program in accordance with the broad
         objectives o fthe project.
         Review, discuss and formulate recommendations on semi-annual and annual work programs.
         Discuss and formulate recommendations on the consistency o f the work programs with Kosovo's
         social sector strategies and Government reform programs inrelevant sectors.
        Review and formulate recommendations on quarterly and annual progress reports.
        Carry out periodic field visits to demonstration projects.
        Participate in selective workshops and seminars organized by the CDF.
        Prepare annual reports to UNMIK, the PISG, the World Bank and the CDF I1P I U reflecting the
        PSC's activities and assessments o f the effectiveness o f the operations and administration o f the



                                                     - 80 -

        CDF I1program.
(viii)  Periodically brief UNMIK and PISG officials regarding the progress o f CDF I1activities, and any
        issues that needto be addressed.

Limitations: The Steering Committee shall recognize the full autonomy of the CDF Implementation Unit,
andtherefore shallnot have any authority over: (i) decisions; (ii)
                                                    staffing               financial management; and (iii)
                                                                                                         all
other day-to-day operational activities.

OperationalProcedures: The Steering Committee will be guidedby the following operationalprocedures:

       An official o f the Ministry o f Finance and Economy will function as the Secretary o f the Steering
        Committee.
       The Secretary o f the Committee shall give at least two weeks notice for convening o fmeetings.
       The Steering Committee shall meet at least four times a year.
       The quorum for a meeting shall be at least four members o f the Committee.
       The Committee shall reach its conclusions and recommendations by consensus. In the event there
       i s a substantial issue for discussion and a decision requiring a vote, a simple majority will be
       considered as valid. Inthe case o f a tie, the Chair will cast the deciding vote. Should a member be
       unable to be present at a meeting, he or she may authorize in writing, another member o f the
       Committee to act as a proxy.
       The Secretary o f the Committee shall be responsible for recording the minutes o f the meetings.
       The minutes shall be cleared by the Chair and distributed to all Committee members within two
       weeks o f the meeting.
       All records ofthe proceedings ofthe Steering Committee shall be maintainedbythe Secretary.
       All meetings shall be conducted either at the Ministry o f Finance or at another location to be
       decided by the Chair.
       The Chair will be responsible for submitting the annual reports to the PISG, the World Bank and
       the CDF I1PIU.




                                                    -81 -

      Additional Annex 15: Environmental Mitigation Measures and Review Checklist
                       KOSOVO: Community DevelopmentFundI1 Project


All community based-projects that will be implemented by CDF PIUhave to be incompliance with local
environmental rules andregulations, as well as with environmental policy o f the World Bank. According to
both local and internationally recognized regulations, at certain points o f the microproject preparation and
implementation cycle environmental assessment (EA) and monitoring are required.

Given the relatively small size and rehabilitation nature o f most community infrastructure projects, no
major environmental issues are anticipated under the proposed CDF I1Project. Civil works will mainly
involve the rehabilitation o f existing structures. However, certain microproject types such as water supply
rehabilitation schemes and neighborhood access roads to be funded under the project may require special
environmental mitigation measures to protect quality o f the water source (in-situ and upstream).
Environmental mitigation measures may also be needed in the case o f sewerage, sanitation systems and
irrigation rehabilitation works sub-projects. Environmental concerns will be mitigated inthe selection and
implementation o f sub-projects, as described inthe tables o f checklists attached.

Land Acquisition. Since civil works under the CDF I1Project would largely consist of rehabilitation of
existing structures, and given that new construction, if any, would occur in state owned lands, no land
acquisition i s expected. Furthermore, experience under the CDF Isuggests that encroachments on the
k g h t o f Way will not be an issue. However, to address the possibility that there may be minor (less than
10 percent o f individual land holdings) land acquisition or encroachments on the Right o f Way under the
project, the Policy Framework (see Annex 8) sets out mechanisms to deal with these issues, should they
arise. No microproject involving involuntary resettlement will be eligible for financing under the CDF I1
Project.

Historicaland CulturalProperty. Impacts on historical and cultural sites, or inthe form o f chance finds
o f physical cultural resources are also expected to be minor. The attached tables include procedures to be
followed, should they occur.
Project Implementation. Community Project Committees (i.e. local government officials and citizens of
communities) and municipal governments will be the key stakeholders o f community infrastructure
projects. Stakeholders will be consulted on a case-by-case basis, depending on the nature o f the proposed
project, during the screening process, during the development o f plans to address potential environmental
impacts, and during microproject supervision, to assess environmental aspects o f microprojects. Typically,
CDF promotion staff and appraisal engineers will hold discussions on-site with the community during
screening and both the community and the municipality in preparing and reviewing environmental
assessments and EMPs if and when required.            When possible, experts within the municipality will
participate directly in the preparation o f environmental assessments and plans. Communities must obtain
all necessary permits and clearances from the municipality before final approval by the CDF P I U o f any
project proposal. During project implementation, follow-up engineers will monitor the quality o f works,
including environmental standards, o f a number o f selected projects o f a different typology.         Bank
supervision missions, inparticular, will examine compliance with safeguard policies, in the implementation
o f the CDF I1Project




                                                     - 82 -

        ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTIONAND MITIGATION MEASURES CHECKLIST
                         KOSOVO :PRIMARYHEALTHFACILITYMICROPROJECTS

  Environmental and                          Impacts                                 Mitigation Measures
  Social Components
Physical Environment
Soils                       Contamination from waste materials         Protection o f soil surfaces during construction;
                            (construction and medical)                 control and daily cleaning o f construction sites;
                                                                       provision o f adequate waste disposal services

Water Resources             Clogging o f drainage works                Special attention to drainage; proper disposal o f
                           Decline inwater quality due to              oil and other hazardous materials; adequate
                           contamination                               sanitation and disposal system for waste
                           Introduction o f hazardous wastes

Air Quality                Dustduringconstruction                     Dust controlby water or other means;
                           Degraded interior air quality (caused by    appropriate design and sitingsubproject
                           construction works, evaporation from
                           medicines and chemical substances)
                           Odor problems

Acoustic Environment       Noise disturbance o f natural habitats      Restrict construction to certain hours

Biological Environment
Natural Habitats           Disturbance o f natural habitats            Minimize loss o f natural vegetation during
                                                                       construction; consideration o f altemative sites;
Fauna and Flora            Loss or degradation o f vegetation          various special measures for altemative sites;
                           Disruption or destruction o f wildlife      various special measures for sensitive species

Social Environment
Aesthetics and             Debris                                      Cleaning-up o f construction sites; provision of
Landscape                                                              adequate solid waste disposal systems

Historical/Cultural Sites  Degradation o f sites                       Consideration o f alternative sites; special
                           Disturbance to structures or objects        measures to protect buildings and other cultural
                                                                       resources/areas
                                                                       Halt work immediately in the vicinity o f
                                                                       discoveries or finds, pending instructions from
                                                                      relevant authorities.

Human Health               Constructionaccidents                       Specify designed systems fore disposal o f medical
                           Medical wastes from health posts           waste


Human Communities          Involuntary resettlement                   Compensation per OD 4.20; good siting;
                          Losses o f buildings, property, or economic community participation in environmental
                           livelihood                                 assessment
                          Disruption due to greater traffic loads




                                                              - 83 -

                         KOSOVO:EDUCATIONFACILITY MICROPROJECTS

  Environmental and                          Impacts                                      Mitigation Measures
  Social Components

Physical Environment

Soils                      Contaminationfrom waste materials           Protection o f soil surfaces during construction; control
                                                                       and daily cleaning of construction sites; provision o f
                                                                       adequate waste disposal services
Water Resources            Clogging o f drainage works                 Special attention to drainage; proper disposal o f oil and
                           Decline in water quality due to             other hazardous materials; adequate sanitation and
                           zontamination                               disposal system for waste
                           Introduction o f hazardous wastes
Air Quality                Dust during construction                    Dustcontrolby water or other means; appropriate
                           Degraded interior air quality (caused by    design and siting subproject
                           :onstruction works)
                           Odor problems
Acoustic Environment       Noise disturbance o f natural habitats      Restrict Construction to certain hours                 ~    ~~~




Biological Environment
Natural Habitats           Disturbance o f naturalhabitats             Restrict Construction to certain hours
Fauna and Flora            Loss or degradation o fvegetation           Minimize loss o f natural vegetation during construction;
                           Disruptionor destruction o f wildlife       consideration o f altemative sites; various special
                                                                       measuresfor altemative sites; various special measures
                                                                       for sensitive species
Social Environment
Aesthetics and Landscape   Debris                                      Cleaning-up o f construction sites; provision o f adequate
                                                                       solid waste disoosal svstems
HistoricaliCultural Sites  Degradationo f sites                        Consideration o f altemative sites; special measures to
                           Disturbance to structures or objects        protect buildings and other cultural resourcesiareas; halt
                                                                       work immediately inthe vicinity o f discoveries or finds,
                                                                       pending instructions from relevant authorities.

HumanHealth                Construction accidents                      Soecifi safetv measures
Human Communities          [nvoluntaryresettlement                     Compensation per OD 4.20; good siting; community
                           Losses o f buildings, property, or economic participation in environmental assessment
                           ivelihood
                           Disruption due to greater traffic loads




                                                               - 84 -

                           KOSOVO: WATER RELATED MICROPROJECTS

                                    A. WATERSUPPLYMICROPROJECTS

  Environmentaland                          Impacts                                  MitigationMeasures
  Social Components
Physical Environment
Soils                      Degradation o f soil cover                 Protection during construction; re-vegetation or
                                                                      physical stabilization services

Water Resources            Contaminationo f water resources           Adequate protection form livestock; minimal
                           Over-exploitationo f aquifers               distance from human settlements and agricultural
                           Inadequate wastewater disposal             areas; regional water use planning; proper
                           Introduction to hazardous wastes           drainage near pumpingstations; community
                           Creation o f stagnant water pools          participation; link to sanitation micro-projects


Acoustic Environment       Noise disturbance from pump ifnear a        Siting studies
                           home
Biolonical Environment
Natural Habitats           Disturbance o f natural habitats            Siting studies

Fauna and Flora            Loss or degradation o f vegetation          Siting studies; protection o f vegetation during
                           Disruption or destruction o f wildlife      construction

Social Environment
Aesthetics and Landscape   Marred landscapes                           Cleaning-up of construction sites
                           Debris

Historical/Cultural Sites   Degradation o f sites                    Consideration o f altemative sites; special measures
                            Disturbance to structures or objects     to protect buildings and other cultural
                                                                     resourcedareas; halt work immediately inthe
                                                                     vicinity o f discoveries or finds, pending instructions
                                                                     from relevant authorities.

Human Health               Waterbome diseases                         Correct design and adequate training; testing
                           Chemical imbalances in delivery system     procedures



Human Communities          Involuntary resettlement                   Compensation per OD 4.20
                           Loss o f buildings or property




                                                             - 85 -

                             KOSOVO: WATER RELATED MICROPROJECTS

                             B. SMALL SCALEIRRIGATIONMICROPROJECTS

   Environmentaland                         -Impacts                                     MitigationMeasures
    Social Components
Dhysical Environment        Increase of soil erosion                    Proper siting o f irrigation suprojects; extension and
Soils                       Soil water-logging as a result o f improper training in crop selection and agricultural
                            drainage                                    technology; careful design and appropriate selection
                            Increased salinization                      o f irrigation systems; adequate drainage

Water Resources             Water quality degradation inponds and         Control o f agrochemical use; proper design o f
                            reservoirs                                    canals; monitoring o f water quality; operation and
                            Deoxygenation o f receiving water            maintenance plan; regional water use plans
                            Clogging o f canals from weeds
                            Inefficient water flow because o f heavy
                            sedimentation
                            Degradation o f water systems receiving
                            irrigation waters by nutrients,
                            agrochemicals and salts
                            Depletion o f aquifers from
                            over-exploitation
                            Disturbances to flow regimes

Siological Environment
Vatural Habitats            Disturbance o f natural habitats              Consideration o f alternative sites; select
                            Disturbance o f protected areas               appropriate design and crops

Fauna and Flora             Algae blooms, proliferation o f aquatic       Provision o f corridors o fhabitat for movement of
                            weeds                                         animals
                            Disruption or destruction o f wildlife

Sbcial Environment
Human Health                Riskof waterborne diseases from artificial    Education inproper sanitation and health
                            water flows                                  practices; avoidance o f stagnant waters; adequate
                            Disease transmission from human and           treatment o f irrigation waters; careful
                            animal waste deposits in irrigation waters    management o f pesticides; integrated pest
                            used on agriculture                           management (IPM) programs; protection o f canals
                            Toxicity o f pesticides                       from livestock

lIistorical/Cultural Sites  Degradation o f sites
                            Disturbance to structures or objects          Consideration o f alternative sites; special
                                                                         measures to protect buildings and other cultural
                                                                         resourcesiareas; halt work immediately in the
                                                                         vicinity o f discoveries or finds, pending
                                                                         instructions from relevant authorities.
lIuman Communities          Involuntary resettlement
                            Loss o f property                            Adequate compensation as per O D 4.20; good
                            Conflicts over water use rights              consultation and participation with affected
                            Multiple land use demands on restricted      communities; consideration o f cumulative impacts
                            water sources                                Political and social problems associated with
                                                                         upstream land use and pollutant discharges


                                                               - 86 -

                             KOSOVO: WATER RELATEDMICROPROJECTS

                         C. DOMESTIC WASTEWATERSEWAGE MICROPROJECTS

  Environmental and                          Impacts                                     Mitigation Measures
   Social ComDonents
                                                                         ~~




Physical Environment        Degradation o f soil cover                     Erosion control during construction
Soils
                            Point soil pollution at discharge of pipe      Select appropriate technology for wastewater
Water Resources             Water quality degradation                      treatment; settlingpond, screens, or aeration
                            (Deoxygenation) in receiving surface           systems; siting studies; incorporation into larger
                            waters                                         wastewater systems; adequate training in
                            Contamination o f subsurface water             maintenance o f latrines or disposal systems;
                            resources                                      altemative siting; monitoring programs



Biological Environment
Natural Habitats            Disturbance o f natural habitats               Alternative site

Fauna and Flora             Loss or degradation o fvegetation              Alternative site
                            Disruption or destruction o f wildlife

Social Environment
Aesthetics and Landscape    Unpleasant odors                               Include odor-control technology indesign

Human Health                Disease transmission                           Select appropriate technology; training and
                            Accident risk during construction              monitoring programs, community participation,
                            Sewer gas leaks                                operation and maintenance plans
                            Improper use o f night soil from
                            composting toilets

Historical/Cultural Sites   Degradation o f sites                          Consideration o f alternative sites; special
                            Disturbance to structures or objects           measures to protect buildings and other cultural
                                                                           resources/areas; halt work immediately inthe
                                                                           vicinity of discoveries or finds, pending
                                                                           instructions from relevant authorities.

Human Communities           Impacts may be concentrated downstream         Adequate consultation and participation of all
                            inother communities                            potentially affected communities




                                                              - a7 -

                       KOSOVO:SOLIDWASTE MANAGEMENTMICROPROJECTS

  Environmentaland                           Impacts                                 MitigationMeasures
   Social Components

Physical Environment
Soils                      Point-source pollution from landfill       Adequate siting studies; good design standards;
                           Seepage o f contaminants into aquifers     consideration o f altemative sites; ensure adequate
                           Contamination from clandestine dumping     drainage; community participation; training



Air Quality                Particulate contamination from buming      Spread and cover garbage at landfill site; prohibit
                           garbage                                    or minimize buming design and siting subproject
                           Increase in haze and smog
Biolonical Environment

Natural Habitats           Disturbance or loss o f natural habitats   Adequate siting studies

Fauna and Flora            Loss or degradation o fvegetation          Adequate siting studies
                           Disruption or destruction o f wildlife

Social Environment
Aesthetics and Landscape   Unpleasant odors                           Provide complete collection and disp sal servi   5
                                                                                                                       L.



                           Marred landscapes near landfill site       pilot collection systems; cost recuperation; proper
                           Garbage littered about intowns from        design o f collection or disposal systems; recycling
                           inefficient collection services            programs; community participation

Human Health               Methane and other noxious chemicals        Separate disposal system for medical or hazardous
                           emitted                                    wastes; gas recovery systems; safety procedures
                           Disease transmission from animal and       implemented; training o f workers and
                           insect vectors                             beneficiaries; operation and maintenance plans
                           Hazardous particulates emitted during
                           buming
                           Safety and health hazard from medical
                           and industrial wastes

HistoricaliCultural Sites  Degradation o f sites                      Consideration o f altemative sites; special
                           Disturbance to structures or objects       measures to protect buildingsand other cultural
                                                                      resourcedareas; halt work immediately in the
                                                                      vicinity o f discoveries or finds, pending
                                                                      instructions from relevant authorities.

Human Communities          Involuntary resettlement                   Compensation as per OD 4.20; control o f zoning;
                           Unpleasant living conditions adjacent to   attention to route selection for waste transfer
                           site (e.g., frequent movement o f trucks)  vehicles




                                                             - 88 -

                                    KOSOVO: ROADS MICROPROJECTS

    Environmental and                        Impacts                                        Mitigation Measures
    Social ComDonents

  Physical Environment

  Soils                     Adverse effects from road construction       Protection o f soil surfaces during construction; control
                            materials and equipment                      and daily clearing o f construction sites; provision o f
                                                                         adeauate disDosal services
  Water Resources           Interference with drainage works             Special attention to drainage; proper disposal o f oil and
                            Decline inwater quality due to              other hazardous materials; adequate sanitation and
                            contamination with construction materials   disposal system for waste
                            Introductiono f hazardous wastes
 Air Quality                Dust during construction                    Dust controlbywater or other means; appropriate
                            Degraded air quality (caused by construction design and siting subproject
                            works)
                            Odor problems
 Acoustic Environment       Noise disturbance o f natural habitats       Restrict construction to certain hours
  Biological Environment
 Natural Habitats           Disturbance o f natural habitats             Restrict construction to certain hours
  Fauna and Flora           Loss or degradation o f vegetation          Minimize loss o f natural vegetation during construction;
                           Disruption or destruction o f wildlife       consideration o f altemative sites; various special
                                                                        measures for altemative sites; various special measures
                                                                         for sensitive species
  Social Environment
  Aesthetics and Landscape Debris                                       Cleaning-up o f construction sites; provision o f adequate
                                                                         solid waste disposal systems
~~
 HistoricaliCultural Sites Degradation o f sites                         Consideration o f altemative routes; special measures to
                           Disturbance to structures or objects         protect buildings and other cultural resources/areas; halt
                                                                        work immediately inthe vicinity o f discoveries or finds,
                                                                        pending instructions form relevant authorities.

 Human Health               Construction accidents                       Specify safety measures
 Human Communities         Involuntary resettlement                     Compensation per OD 4.20; good siting; community
                           Losses o f buildings, property, or economic  participation in environmental assessment
                           livelihood
                           Disruption due to greater traffic loads




                                                                - 89 -

                            KOSOVO:ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW CHECKLIST

Microproject                                               Microproject #
Community                                           Municipality




CONCLUSIONS OF THE APPRAISAL ENGINEER with regards to:
1. Scale of impacts on the environment caused by the proposed microproject;
2.  Incorporation o f obligatory mitigation measures, which were not primarily included in the proposed
microproject;
3. Realistic possibility of mitigating the negative impacts;
4. Necessity of applying LimitedEnvironmentalAssessment for the microproject;
5. Transfer of microproject to the second phase of appraisal.
Appraisal engineer



                                                            - 90 -

            Additional Annex 16: The CDF, its Board, Structure and Statutes
                     KOSOVO: Community Development Fund II Project


                    CDF ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE AND STATUTES


                                       Kosovo Community Development Fund
                                                     Organization Chart
                                                         Onober 2000




                                                         Board of Directors




                                      Procurement Specialist              As3lstanlome
                                                                        EI-DilBsDr


                                        Finance and Admin.           Management Information
                                             Manager                    System Manager




                                                      Project Implementation




                    Executive Committee:             Project            Project
                     ExcsUti"cLh~0r
                     Rocument spsiallst
                     Finance& A h n Managa
                     FTqectlmplRnentltlonManagR



                                              CommunityDevelopmentFund
                                                      Boardof Directors

1.      Chairman, Mr.Gani Demolli, Head o f Medical Section, "Mother Teresa Association"
2.      Vice Chairman, M r s . Greta Kaqinari, Principal, "Elena Gjika" Elementary School
3.      Ms.Igballe Rogova, "Motrat Qiriazi"                - Rural women's network
4.      Mr.Arif Bozaci, Turlushwriter
5.      Mr. Becir Soflic, Architect, former Lecturer, University o fPrishtina, Department o fArchitecture
6.      Mr. Muhamet Mustafa, Economist and Vice Chairman, &invest Institute
7.      Mrs. Nekibe Kelmendi, Co-Head, Department for Judicial Affairs, UNMIK,former Supreme
        Court Justice

Inaccordance with UnitedNations InterimAdrmnistration inKosovo (UNMIK)Regulation No. 1999/22 o f
November 15, 1999 (the "Regulation"), and according to the Founding Act o f "Community Development
Fund," the Founder o fthe Foundation, on the 20th day o fOctober, 2000 adoptedthese,




                                                                 - 91 -

                                          S T A T U T E S
                                                       of
                                                the Foundation
                                  COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENTFUND

GENERALPROVISIONS

1.1      "Community Development Fund" (hereinafter the "Foundation")           i s founded and registered in
Kosova in accordance with United Nations Interim Administration in Kosovo (UNMIK) Regulation No.
1999/22 o fNovember 15, 1999 (the "Regulation").

The founder o f the Foundation i s the Kosova Foundation for Open Society, a foundation registered in
Kosova in accordance with UNMIK Regulation No. 1999/22, located at Aktas 11, 38, 38000, Prishtina,
Kosova (hereinafter the "Founder").

1.2     The name ofthe Foundation inAlbanian is:
                           "Fondi per ZhvilliminKomunitar"
        The name o fthe Foundation inEnglishis:
                           "Community Development Fund."

1.3     The seat o f the Foundation i s located at rr.e Dukagjinit 68, 38000 Prishtina, Kosova. The
Foundation may change its seat with the consent of the Board o f Directors.

1.4     The Foundation shall have the status o f a legal person as o f the date it i s registered by UNMIK in
accordance with the Regulation.

1.5     The Foundation is a not-for-profit, non-governmental organization, within the meaning o f the
Regulation.

1.6     The Foundation is established for an unlimited period o ftime.

1.7     The Foundation shall operate within Kosova and abroad.

OBJECTIVESOF THE FOUNDATION

2.1     The objectives of the Foundation are to support community development in Kosova by improving
the living conditions o f poorer communities seeking to upgrade basic social and economic infrastructure
and services, and by supporting institutional capacity-building at the local level so as to improve the quality
and sustainability o f service delivery.

2.2     The Foundation shall fulfill its public benefit goals by providing grants in support o f small-scale
projects identified as priorities by target communities. Such projects shall include but not be limited to
community works, services and the provision o f equipment and h i t u r e when related to a works or
services project.

        2.2.1    The Foundation shall engage in other public benefit activities that the Board of Directors
        may find adequate for fulfillingthe objectives of the Foundation in accordance with these Statutes.




                                                     - 92 -

FOUNDER OF THE FOUNDATION

3.1      The Founder shall have the following authority:

         3.1.1     to adopt the initial Statutes o fthe Foundation; and

3.1.2     to appoint the initial members o f the Board o f Directors, including the Chairperson and Vice
Chairperson o f the Board o f Directors.

ORGANSOF THE FOUNDATION

Board of Directors

3.2      The highest governing body o f the Foundation, having ultimate responsibility for the policies and
financial affairs o f the Foundation, shall be its Board o f Directors (the "Board").

3.3           The Founder shall appoint the initial members o f the Board and its Chairperson and Vice
Chairperson in accordance with Article 3.1.2 o f these Statutes. Thereafter, the Board may elect, re-elect,
remove or accept the resignation o f a member or members o f the Board inaccordance with Article 3.9.8 o f
these Statutes.

3.4      The Board (including the initial Board) shall consist o f no fewer than five members, one o f whom
shall be appointed its Chairperson and another its Vice Chairperson. The initial Board (including the
Chairperson and Vice Chairperson) shall be appointed for a period o f two years, with a majority o f these
being eligible for one additional two-year term and the balance being eligible for an additional one-year
term. The Board shall thereafter stagger the terms o f new and re-elected Board members so as to ensure
periodic changes inBoard composition. The Board may, inaccordance with Article 3.9.8 o f these Statutes,
re-elect a Board member beyond the term limits described above ifit determines that it would be inthe best
interests o f the Foundation.

3.5      The Board shall convene at least once a year. The meetings o f the Board are called by the
Chairperson or the Vice Chairperson inthe latter's absence, inconsultation with the Executive Director, or
upon a request o f no fewer than four members o f the Board, provided that a written announcement has been
provided to all Board members one week prior to the meeting. Every member o f the Board may propose a
new agenda item prior to adoption o f the agenda. The fmal agenda shall be adopted as the first action taken
at the meeting o f the Board. The Chairperson o f the Board presides over the Board's meetings.

3.6      Inthe event o fabsenceor illness ofthe Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson or, inthe absenceofthe
latter, another Board member selected by those in attendance, shall preside over the meeting o f the Board,
in which case the Vice Chairperson or that other member of the Board shall have the same rights and
powers as the Chairperson with respect to that meeting.

3.7      The members o f the Board may participate inand vote at meetings o f the Board by teleconference
or videoconference. Any member o f the Board shall decline to participate in the consideration or decision
of any matter inwhich he or she has a personal or economic interest.

3.8      The Board shall take decisions on all matters within its mandate by simple majority vote at a
meeting at which a quorum is present, unless a supermajority vote o f 213 o f all Board members i s otherwise
required by these Statutes in relation to specified actions. A quorum shall exist when a simple majority of


                                                        - 93 -

all Boardmembers are present at the meeting. The decisions o f the Board shall be memorialized inwriting
and shall be duly signed by the Chairperson or Vice Chairperson of the Board, or another member of the
Board chosen to preside over a meeting o f the Board inaccordance with Article 3.6 o fthese Statutes.

3.9     The Board o f Directors:

        3.9.1     defines the fundamental policies and activities o fthe Foundation;

        3.9.2     reviews and approves annually the assets, liabilities, income, expenditures and programs
        o f the Foundation for the immediately preceding year;

        3.9.3     reviews and approves annually the assets, liabilities, income, expenditures and programs
        o f the Foundation for the next year;

        3.9.4       directs audits o f the Foundation's finances;

        3.9.5       supervises, monitors and controls the work and activities o f the Foundation, especially
        the use o f assets designated for financial assistance to thirdparties;

        3.9.6     approves or disapproves budgets, including administrative and grantmaking budgets and
        budgets for projects conducted by the Foundation;

        3.9.7    approves and disapproves financial and other reports;

        3.9.8    elects, re-elects or removes members o f the Board by a 213 majority vote o f all Board
        members or otherwise accepts the resignation o f Board members;

        3.9.9 appoints or removes the Executive Director by a 2/3 majority vote o f all Board members;

        3.9.10 takes decisions with respect to the dissolution o f the Foundation in accordance with Article
        5.1 o f these Statutes; and

        3.9.11    takes other decisions conceming the policies and activities o f the Foundation, with the
        exception o f decisions inthe exclusive mandate o f the Founder.

3.10    The members o fthe Boardmay receive reimbursement o f expenses incurred inconnection with the
normal performance o f their activities and functions as members o f the Board.

3.1 1   Any transactionbetween the Foundation and members o f the Board, officers or employees must be
concluded at fair market value or on terms more favorable to the Foundation.

3.12    The Board may delegate part o f its rights and powers to the Chairperson or Vice Chairperson o f
the Board andor to the Executive Director.

Executive Director

3.13    The Executive Director shall be appointed or removed by the Board o f Directors in accordance
with Article 3.9.9 o f these Statutes. The Executive Director shall be appointed for a period o f five years,
renewable based on performance and subject to the decision o f the Board.


                                                     - 94 -

3.14     The Executive Director shall take decisions concerning matters arising from the day-to-day
activities o f the Foundation, with the exception o f decisions on issues and matters within the mandate o f the
Founders or the Board.        .
3.15     The Executive Director shall be the authorized representative o f the Foundation and shall be
authorized to represent the Foundation before both physical and legal persons.

3.16     The Executive Director:

         3.16.1     proposes the internal organizational plan and the employment policies o f the Foundation
         to the Board for approval;

         3.16.2 employs and dismisses members o f the staft and

         3.16.3    delegates within his or her discretion, in writing, portions o f his or her powers to other
         employees on a temporary or permanent basis.

3.17     The Executive Director shall inform UNMIK within thirty (30) days o f any material change with
respect to documents submitted for registration inaccordance with the Regulation.

FINANCIAL RESOURCES,UTILIZATIONOF FUNDSAND ASSETS

4.1      For the purpose o f fulfilling the objectives and the tasks o f the Foundation, assets, moneys and
property rights may be acquired from the following sources: donations from donors, including from
individuals, international financial institutions and governmental and non-governmental organizations;
contributions, donations, gifts, inheritances, legacies, charitable campaigns, auctions, sales o f assets, net
earnings or profits from economic activities undertaken by the Foundation for the purpose o f supporting its
not-for-profit activities in accordance with the Regulation; and other sources o f finance consistent with the
Regulation and applicable laws.

4.2      The assets acquired according to Article 4.1 ofthese Statutes are the property o fthe Foundation.

4.3      The Foundation shall utilize its assets and income for the sole purpose o f accomplishing the
objectives and tasks stated inthese Statutes and no part thereof shall be used to provide benefits, directly or
indirectly, to any Founder, Board member, officer, employee or donor o f the Foundation. This Article 4.3
does not preclude payment o f reasonable compensation to such persons for work performed for the
Foundation.

DISSOLUTIONOF THE FOUNDATION

5.1      The Foundation may be dissolved by a 213 majority vote o f all Board members. The decision to
dissolve the Foundation shall be accompanied by a decision to distribute all remaining assets o f the
Foundation, following fulfillment o f any obligations to creditors, to other not-for-profit, non-governmental
organizations inKosova and/or abroad having similar goals or objectives.




                                                      - 95 -

TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

6.1 A decision to amend these Statutes requires a 2/3 majority vote o f all Board members.




                                             F O U N D E R :




                                             Kosova Foundation for Open Society
                                                    By: Luan Shllaku




                                              - 96 -

                        Additional Annex 17: CDF II Institutional Structure
                       KOSOVO: Community Development Fund II Project




                                                    UNMIK
                                            Recipient o f IDA Grant




                                                        !

                                                                                   Ministry o f Finance and
  Project Steering Committee                                                           Economy (PISG)
                                                                                     Counterpart Ministry

                                                        !
                                                        I




                                                CDF and Board
                                          Project Implementation Unit




The Institutional Structure of the CDF II Project: Under the new proposed CDF I1 Project, in
accordance with the current initiatives under way to transfer functions form UNMIK to the PISG, the
institutional structure of the project will be modified to meet new institutional challenges and the evolving
role of Government.      In the new structure, the Recipient of the IDA Grant would be UNMIK, the
counterpart Ministry would be the Ministry o f Finance and Economy (MFE), and the project implementing
agency for the project would be the CDF PIU. The structure would also include a Project Steering
Committee established by a Government Decision. The main roles and responsibilities of each entity
mentioned above are set out below.




                                                     - 97 -

UNMIK

     Function as the main Recipient o f the CDF I1IDA Grant.
     Assume accountability for the usage o f IDA funds inaccordance with the Grant Agreement.
     Ensure that the CDF will carry out its responsibility for the implementation, management and
     administration o fthe Project.
     Open the Special Account for the IDA Grant at Commerzbank, Germany.
     Reimburse the KCF from the Special Account based upon financial reports produced by the MFE
     detailing all transfers made from the K C F to the CDF I1Bank Account.
     Delegate to the MFEthe authority to prepare Withdrawal Applications (WAS)for replenishment o f
     the Special Account and supporting documentation.
     Provide the power to the MFE to sub-delegate to the CDF under the Second-On-Grant Agreement
    to prepare the WASandthe supporting documentation.
    Ensure compliance o f the First On-Grant agreement entered into between UNMIK and the MFE.
    Monitoring o f project activities on the basis o f progress and audit reports received from the CDF.
    Attend as observers selected meetings o f the Project Steering Committee.

MFE

     Function as counterpart Ministryo f the CDF I1Project.
     Function as the Chair o fthe Project Steering Committee.
     Carry out its responsibilities as defined in the First On-Grant Agreement entered into between
    UNMIK and the MFE, as well as in the Second On-Grant Agreement entered into between the
     MFEandthe CDF.
    Remit the requested amount o f funds form the Kosovo Consolidated Fund (KCF) to the CDF I1
    Bank Account, within five (5) working business days o f receipt o f a request from the CDF for
    project funds.
    Produce financial reports to UNMIK detailing all transfers made from the KCF to the CDF I1
    BankAccount.
     Sub-delegate to the CDF to prepare the Withdrawal Application (WAS)for replenishment o f the
     Special Account and supporting documentation.
     Signjointly with the CDF the WAS.
    Transmit to IDA the WAS,duly signed, within five business days o f their submission by the CDF,
    with a copy to UNMIK.
    Monitoring o f project activities and flow o f funds based on quarterly and annual progress reports,
    annual financial audit reports, and financial management assessment reports.

PSC:

    Supervise the administration and operations o f the CDF I1program in accordance with the broad
    objectives o fthe project.
    Review, discuss and formulate recommendations on semi-annual and annual work programs.
    Discuss and formulate recommendations on the consistency o f the work programs with Kosovo's
    social sector strategies and Government reform programs inrelevant sectors.
    Review and formulate recommendations on quarterly and annual progress reports.
    Prepare annual reports to UNMIK, the PISG, the World Bank and the CDF I1PIU reflecting the
    PSC's activities and assessments o f the effectiveness o f the operations and administration o f the
    CDF I1program.


                                                 - 98 -

    Periodically brief UNMIK and PISG officials regarding the progress o f CDF I1activities, and any
    issues that need to be addressed.

CDF11PIU

    Govemed by its Board, the CDF I1 PIU will manage and administer the CDF I1 program in
    accordance with the broad objectives o f the CDF I1Project and with the Operating guidelines and
    procedures set out in the CDF I1Operational Manual, the Development Grant Agreement, and the
    Second on-Grant Agreement.
    Ensure the efficient implementation and service delivery relating to community investment projects
    and capacity buildingactivities.
    Ensure compliance with local environmental laws and regulations, as well as the environmental and
    safeguardpolicies o f the World Bank.
    Participate in meetings o f the Project Steering Committee to provide needed information and to
    clarify issues.
    Open and maintain a local commercial Bank Account to be used specifically and exclusively for
    receiving, holding, and disbursing the Project's IDA Grant funds.
    Submit requests to the MFE for Project funds from the Kosovo Consolidated Fund to the CDF
    BankAccount.
    Prepare Withdrawal Application forms and the supporting documentation, for submission to the
    MFE,to be signedjointly betweenthe MFEandthe CDF.
    Prepare quarterly and annual progress reports and distribute, through UNMIK, to representatives
    inthe MFE, the CDF Board, andthe World Bank.
    Ensure that financial audits are carried out for each fiscal year throughout the life o f the Project.
    Fumish to IDA, through the Recipient, the financial audit reports, no later than six months after
    the end of each fiscal year.




                                               - 99 -


MAP SECTION


