1
PID
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                                    A World Free of Poverty
4TfoShop
Report No AB79
Initial Project Information Document (PID)
Project Name                KOSOVO-Community Development Fund II Project
Region                      Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                      Other social services (100%)
Project ID                  P079259
Supplemental Project
Borrower(s)                 GOVERNMENT OF KOSOVO
Implementing Agency         COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND
Address                     Address. Perandori Justinian 4, Prishtina, Kosovo
Contact Person Ms Flaka Surroi
Tel. 381-38-249-677   Fax 381-38-249-679      Email flaka@kcdf org
Environment Category        F
Date PID Prepared           May 8, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date         June 4, 2003
Bank Approval Date          October 30, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
With a population estimated at 2.1 million, and a GDP per capita estimated at around US$ 1000, Kosovo
remains a territory with widespead poverty - largely reflecting the impact of the suspension of autonomy
within the Republic of Serbia in 1989, and ethnic conflict which intensified in 1998 and 1999. The
conflict ended in June 1999, leaving Kosovo with a collapsed state of industrial and agricultural output.
Poverty is also multidimensional in character, particularly in terms of lack of physical assets and market
opportunities, and the relatively low level of human development, as reflected in education and health
indicators. Another dimension of poverty consists of special problems faced minority communities,
particularly the Serbian communities, with poor access to public services.
The main social sector issues relate to:
(i)    The Extent of Poverty. According to the World Bank's Poverty Assessment Report of
December 2001, half the population of Kosovo lives below the poverty line, and 12 percent of the
population lives in extreme poverty, with consumption levels below the food poverty line. The overall
picture that emerges is one of a small core of extremely poor households, a small proportion of very rich
households, and a large proportion of households on either side of the poverty line. Wages and earnings
from business activities remain the main source of income for the average household, while transfers
from relatives form the second most important source of income for the average Albanian household.
Besides high dependency ratios and the lack of land resources and employment opportunities, one of the
correlates of extreme poverty is the lack of sewerage and piped water. The existence of extremely poor
communities, living in isolated and remote villages, without access to basic public services, is a cause for



2
PID
concern -- signalling a key priority for concentrating poverty reduction efforts. While economic growth
will help reduce the overall level of poverty, specific anti-poverty interventions are required to meet the
needs of the extremely poor.
(ii)   Educational Standards. The lack of access to formal education in the 1990s resulted in an
increase of illiteracy from 15 to 22 percent among the 16 to 25 year olds. Also, according to the Kosovo
Poverty Assessment Report, the lack of education is highly correlated with the extent of poverty. This
situation is expected to improve dramatically with the current high rate of enrollment estimated at 97
percent at the primary level. However, enrollment at the secondary level remains one of the lowest in
Europe - reflecting the key challenges in the education sector. In particular, school infrastructure is in
urgent need of rehabilitation or construction as significant deterioration had taken place prior to the
conflict, and a number of schools were destroyed during the conflict. The high cost of education also is a
major barrier to school enrollment, and affordability of education by the poorer household remains an
issue. The United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) and the Provisional
Institutions of Self-Government (PISG), with the assistance of the World Bank and other donors have
begun to address these issues.
(iii)  Health Status. Kosovo ranks the lowest in Europe on virtually every health indicator, according
to the limited information available. Infant mortality, maternal mortality, and the decline in
immunization coverage indicate serious deficiencies in health amongst the Kosovar population. The
infant mortality rate of 45 deaths per 1,000 live births is the highest in Europe. These indicators reflect
serious deficiencies in the quality, availability and equity of health service delivery. Health care is
hospital- and specialist- based, while primary care is provided by a network of clinics called health
houses and 'ambulanta'. Access to health care (in terms of distance to facilities) is constrained by the
lack of an adequate number of primary health clinics, especially in the rural areas. Those most affected
by distance and safety factors are senior citizens, especially those over 70. Moreover, access by the poor
to health services is constrained by demand for out-of-pocket payments for health services. Apart from
the lack of adequate health facilities, Kosovo's health status remains badly affected by serious
inadequacies in safe drinking water and sewerage disposal.
(iv)   Unemployment. Unemployment remains a major social problem, and some noteworthy insights
have been provided by the Kosovo Poverty Assessment (KPA) based on the Living Standards
Measurement Survey. Among the Serbs, agriculture is the most common source of employment, and
non-agricultural self employment is minimal. In contrast, Albanians are most likely to be in paid
employment, followed by agricultural employment. Households without working members are the
poorest; on average 9 percent of the households have no earners, and this proportion is higher for the
Serbs. On the whole, the poorest households were characterized by a large average proportion of
agricultural workers. Conversely, the richer households had a larger proportion of workers in the formal
sector or those in self employment. Another significant finding was that education was the most
important correlate of employment status.
(v)    Resettlement of Returnees and the Security Situation. The Kosovo Poverty Assessment
found that 70 percent of the population was displaced during the 1999 conflict. At the time of the study,
4 percent of the total population and 8 percent of all Serbs were internally displaced (IDPs) and an
additional 3 percent were 'diaspora returnees' who were outside Kosovo before the conflict. The study
found that both categories were twice as likely to be extremely poor as the rest of the population due to
poor access to land and lack of non-agricultural employment opportunities. Improvement of conditions
for returnees remains and issue that needs to be addressed.



3
PID
(vi)   Institutional Capacity for Service Delivery at the Local Level. The lack of institutional
capacity at the local government and community levels to effectively address social sector issues remains
a major issue. In broad terms, the lack of institutional capacity at the local level arises from: (i)
institutionally weak local governments, with limited financial resources; (ii) inadequate systems of
accounting, financial planning, and budgeting at the local level; (iii) the lack of effective partnerships at
the local level; (iv) the lack of involvement of citizens in the decision-making process in development
activities and service provision; and (v) the lack of access to basic information regarding services and
entitlements on the part of local communities, particularly in rural areas. Although responsibilities are
being gradually transferred from UNMIK to the PISG, including local government institutions, capacity
gaps may impede this process, and consequently, capacity building will be crucial to discharge these
responsibilities effectively.
Government Strategy
The Evolving Role of Government. Since the end of the conflict in June 1999, Kosovo has been
progressively moving towards self-government. Following the adoption of the Constitutional Framework
in May 2001 and the Kosovo-wide elections held in November 2001, responsibility for administering the
territory is now shared between the United Nations Interim Administration Mission (UNMIK) and the
Kosovar Self-Government. While the Provisional Institutions of Self-Government (PISG) have
significant responsibility in governing Kosovo, the Special Representative of the UN Secretary General
(SRSG) retains the power to ensure security, exercise a number of specific reserve powers, and set the
"broad parameters" of fiscal policy, including the overall budget for Kosovo. A major source of
municipal revenues both in 2001 and in 2002 were from transfers from the central budget to municipal
governments.
Government Priorities. The Government's current development strategy aims at, inter alia, addressing
the above-mentioned issues, within the overall framework of economic development. Accordingly, the
four broad priorities outlined by the Kosovar Government are:
(i)    Fostering economic development and growth, and increasing employment, through creating the
conditions for a market economy;
(ii)   Improving the living standards of vulnerable groups, and enhancing the quality of and access to
education and health;
(iii)  Ensuring an efficient and transparent public administration; and providing equal opportunities
for all citizens; and
(iv)   Providing equal opportunities for all citizens.
2. Objectives
The objectives of the proposed Community Development Fund II (CDF 11) Project will be to:
(i)  Improve the quality, access, and availability of community infrastructure and services in poor and
conflict-affected communities, and for vulnerable groups, including returnees.
(ii)  Promote institutional capacity building and social capital formation at the community and
municipal levels so as to improve the quality and sustainability of service delivery and enhance
greater stakeholder participation, and empowerment in local development.
The proposed Community Development Fund Tl Project (CDF II) will build upon the highly satisfactory
program carried out under the ongoing CDF Project designed to improve the quality and availability of
community infrastructure and services in poor and conflict-affected communities, as well as to promote



4
PID
institutional capacity building at the local level. Under the CDF Project, the community infrastructure
and social services projects, sustained by capacity building, have generated a visible and inclusive
development impact in rural and urban areas throughout Kosovo, including mixed and minority
communities. The majority of projects proposed and carried out in communities involved potable water
supply, school infrastructure, sewerage and roads. Within a short period of three years since its
inception in November 1999, the CDF completed 164 community infrastructure projects and 70
community services projects. In particular, the CDF has been able to reach out to extremely poor
communities in isolated and remote rural areas in Kosovo, and implement microprojects and services that
have had a significant impact on their living standards.
The CDF IT Project will further enhance the impact of its program in Kosovo by forging partnerships and
strengthening institutions at the local level which can serve as effective vehicles for individual and
community empowerment. The follow-up operation will be closely integrated as part of Kosovo's
medium-term development program focusing on sustainable development activities, consistent with the
evolving role of government. The medium- and long-term challenge of the CDF II Project will be to
build upon the decentralized process started under the first operation, and move forward to an integrated
development framework responsive to the priorities of the poor, vulnerable groups and returnees. Such a
framework will not only respond to community needs, but will also enhance community participation,
instill ownership, and build the needed capacity for the decentralized management of efficient service
delivery. Thus, the design of the CDF II Project focuses on an improved poverty targeting strategy,
enhancement of community participation and ownership, and strengthening local capacity to carry out
development activities on a sustainable basis.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Kosovo-wide efforts to support community development have focused narrowly on quick impact
interventions to achieve rapid, visible results. The current Community Development Project has proven
to be a cost-effective operation which has generated a visible development impact in terms of social and
economic benefits to poor communities in rural and urban areas throughout Kosovo, including mixed and
minority communities. In particular, the CDF has been able to reach out to extremely poor communities
in isolated and remote rural areas throughout Kosovo, and implemented microprojects which have had a
significant impact on their living standards. The proposed CDF 1I Project will further enhance the impact
of its program by forging partnerships and strengthening institutions at the local level which can serve as
effective vehicles for individual and community empowerment. Drawing from its extensive international
experience, the comparative advantage of the World Bank lies in being able to strengthen the linkage
between emergency and development assistance, and in being able to do so by working in close
coordination with the UNMIK and the PISG. Thus, the proposed community-based project will support
an integrated development program on a sustainable basis, designed to facilitate the transition from
conflict to peace, in keeping with Kosovo's post conflict priorities.
4. Description
The project components listed and described below, are supported under an integrated institutional
framework consisting of institutional arrangements, participatory methods, service delivery, and capacity
building designed to strengthen institutions and enhance social capital at the local level.
1. Community Investment Projects
1.1 Community Infrastructure
1.2 Community Social Services
2. Support for Institutional Capacity Building
2.1 Capacity building and TA at the community investment project level



5
PID
2.2 Capacity building and TA at the local government level
2.3 Community profiling, needs and capacity gaps assessment
3. Institutional Support to the CDF 11 PIU
3.1 Support to the general administration and management of project
3.2 Capacity building and TA to staff in CDF [T PIU
3.3 Financing of annual financial and technical reviews
3.4 Financing of special studies, assessments and reviews
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT         $0.00
IBRD
IDA
LOCAL COMMUNITIES          $0.50
IDA GRANT FOR POST-CONFLICT $4.00
NETHERLANDS: MIN. OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS / MIN. OF DEV. COOP.           $1.00
Total Project Cost         $5 50
6. Implementation
The CDF II will benefit from the effective institutional and implementation arrangements already in
place under the current CDF Project. After close to four years in operation, the Project Implementation
Unit of the CDF has gained valuable experience in all aspects of project management and administration,
laying a solid foundation for the CDF II Project. As a result of the Mid-term mission and the work
carried out under the Beneficiary Assessment, and Quality of Works reviews, the CDF made
considerable progress in addressing issues highlighted in these assessments and reviews. In particular,
the CDF improved coverage of Serb communities, upgraded the Management Information System, and
has made much headway in improving procedures covering all areas of the microproject cycle. The CDF
is currently working on revising procedures in the CDF Operational Manual focusing on enhancing
community outreach and participation, strengthening the coordination with line ministries to ensure
complementarity and sustainability of projects, and an improved poverty targeting methodology.
I.     Institutional Set-up and Administrative Structure of the CDF II: The Community
Development Fund, an autonomous non-governmental organization, was established on November 8,
2000, to carry out the activities under the Community Development Fund Project, and governed under
the Statutes of the Community Development Fund registered in Kosovo in accordance with the UNMIK
Regulation No. 1999/22 dated November 15, 1999. The World Bank provided grant financing to the
Community Development Fund, as the Recipient of the Bank's Grant, with the endorsement of UNMIK.
In accordance with the current initiatives under way to transfer functions from UNMIK to the PISG, the
institutional structure of the project will be modified to meet new institutional reforms and the evolving
role of Government. The CDF, as a local foundation, would function as the CDF II Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) administering its operations as an autonomous entity, governed by its
board, and reporting to a Project Steering Committee, set-up specifically for overseeing the activities of
the CDF II Project. The independent set-up of the CDF II PIU will be critical to ensure that the Unit will
carry out day-to-day operations in an efficient and effective manner. The CDF II PfU will have the full
authority to manage and administer its program under operating guidelines and procedures set out in the
project's Operational Manual. The PIU will recruit office staff and technical consultants on a
competitive basis according to qualifications and selection criteria set out in the Operational Manual.
The CDF II PIU will also have the authority to enter into consultant services and civil works contracts



6
PID
and to manage the project's financial accounts.
The other participating institutions under the project include: (i) the Community Project Committees (i.e.,
local governments and community members) responsible for the implementation of the community
investment projects; and (ii) private contractors who compete for microproject contracts for design and
rehabilitation works.
7. Sustainability
Experience under the ongoing CDF Project has shown that community members and contractors
participating in CDF projects are in general better prepared and willing to participate in projects financed
by the CDF, as well as in projects financed by other donors. Local Governments in particular are also
more conscious of operations and maintenance issues and recognize that they have an important role in
ensuring the sustainability of the facilities rehabilitated or constructed under the CDF Project. Over the
past three years, the CDF has made efforts to actively engage community members in self-generated
development activities combined with training activities aimed at having communities better appreciate
and take part in ensuring the quality, effectiveness and sustainability of service delivery. Building upon
this positive experience, project sustainability of CDF 11 will be enhanced at the local level through
community investment projects which respond to priority needs of the communities, ensuring the
required quality of works and agreed project typology, maintenance of adequate service standards, clear
demonstration of project benefits, accountability at the local level, and strengthened partnerships
amongst key stakeholders at the local level.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Post Conflict Reconstruction: A report prepared by the Post Conflict Unit entitled "Post Conflict
Reconstruction: The Role of The World Bank" lays out some key lessons learned in supporting the
transition of countries involved in conflict into periods of sustainable peace. The report provides a
framework outlining best practices for operations, sketches out guidelines for Bank staff, and spells out
some of the specific actions that should be taken to help the institution respond in this area. Some of the
key lessons learned which are relevant to the proposed CDF 11 Project include: (i) carrying out
small-scale activities which respond to urgent needs under a comprehensive and interrelated package of
interventions designed to facilitate the transition from conflict to peace is an effective means to
post-conflict development; (ii) the active engagement of civil society can contribute to a better
understanding of how conflict can be prevented; and (iii) confidence and trust can be restored through
self-help interventions.
Community Driven Development and Social Cohesion: Positive experience documented under the
current Kosovo Community Development Fund Project has demonstrated the importance having a
community-based project serve as a catalyst for a process in which citizens in the targeted communities,
especially in mixed and minority communities, gradually come together over time and participate in the
design, implementation and monitoring of projects which respond to the common good of the
community. The project has shown that one of the key ingredients for implementing projects in mixed
communities yielding positive results, is to allow the time that is needed for community interaction to
evolve. Thus, an incremental, progressive and flexible approach must be built into the participatory
mechanisms and appropriate procedures developed under the project. Equally important is the creation
of a setting for the participation of community members where there is a common interest and a common
goal and where, over time, community residents come to appreciate that their interaction is mutually
beneficial.
Sectoral Policies and Investment Priorities: Experience under social funds have shown that there is a



7
PID
critical need for ensuring that social fund activities are consistent with social sector strategy priorities,
government reform programs, and activities of municipal, NGO, UN, and donor agencies. It is therefore
important to ensure that projects focus on greater coordination of social fund-type activities with relevant
sectoral policies (i.e., health and education) and investment priorities. This can be achieved through
regular working level contacts among line ministries, NGOs, donor agencies, and Bank project
implementation units. ft can be further strengthened through the implementation of an effective
information, outreach, and communications strategy designed to explain sectoral policies and priorities to
beneficiary populations.
Sustainability: Experience under the implementation of several social fund operations in the Region has
clearly demonstrated the critical need to improve project sustainability. To improve project
sustainability, lessons learned have pointed to the development of a comprehensive framework
encompassing strong institutional support from the Project PfU, effective systems and procedures, and
greater involvement of key stakeholders. These include measures to ensure quality of works, capacity
building at the local level, participation of key stakeholders in the design, implementation, and
maintenance of microprojects, and information dissemination of project activities benefiting communities
members.
Poverty Targeting: Some of the lessons learned under social funds financed by the Bank related to
poverty targeting are: (i) a clearly formulated poverty targeting strategy and an allocation mechanism
based on objective criteria and poverty data ensures the flow of project benefits to the neediest segments
of the population; (ii) the use of a well developed poverty targeting strategy and an allocation mechanism
will mitigate political pressures in the allocation of funds; and (iii) a well developed poverty targeting
strategy should have sufficient flexibility, within the overall allocations, to target specific needs on a
demand-driven basis.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues:
The CDF 11 Project will continue the programs of the ongoing project, and finance small-scale social and
economic infrastructure microprojects, such as water supply and sanitation, rural roads, school
construction, and environmental projects, as well as social services programs and environmental projects.
Some of these projects clearly have beneficial environmental impacts (e.g. sanitation, solid waste
management), but others may have negative impacts if they are not designed and implemented correctly.
These negative impacts are, however, generally remediable or can be mitigated.
The Project Team has reviewed the legal framework and central and local capacity to conduct
environmental assessments and reviews. The legal framework on environmental issues is set out in the
Environmental Protection Law adopted by the Assembly on January 16, 2003. Under this law, the
ministry responsible for implementing environmental policies and protection is the Ministry of
Environment and Spatial Planning (MESP). Other ministries that oversee activities with environmental
impact include the Ministries of Trade, Health, Transportation and Communication, and Agriculture,
Forestry and Rural Development. At the local level, municipalities are responsible for specific
environmental protection activities, which are specified in the Environmental Protection Law. As stated
in this law, individual citizens, citizen organizations, and non-governmental organizations may contribute
to the enforcement of environmental protection objectives and implementation activities for the
protection and improvement of the environment.
Local capacity, while limited, is considered sufficient for case-by-case review and assessment of
environmental impacts and recommended mitigation measures (ER) by CDF staff and limited



8
PID
environmental assessments (LEA) by outside local consultants. Projects requiring a full environmental
impact assessment would not meet cost effectiveness criteria for CDF funding and would not be eligible
for financing. During the pilot phase, and the ongoing CDF Project, staff successfully identified, jointly
with the community, mitigation measures and monitored their implementation (e.g., traffic safety training
and signage accompanied a road rehabilitation project). To further enhance capacity, the CDF 11 Project
will finance training for CDF technical staff in environmental assessment procedures.
At the initiative of CDF staff, project eligibility criteria applied during the pilot phase have now been
modified to provide additional incentives for communities to propose environmental improvement
projects. Communities already benefiting from one project (usually infrastructure) may qualify for a
second project if the project: (i) provides a social service; or (ii) benefits the environment. This is
explained to communities during the promotion phase. The expectation is that this will result in a larger
number of environmental improvement projects.
10. List of factual technical documents:
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Caroline Mascarell
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone. (202)-473-0059
Fax: (202)-477-3387
12 For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D C 20433
Telephone. (202) 458-5454
Fax:   (202) 522-1500
Web http.// www worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.
Tables, Charts, Graphs:
Processed by the InfoShop week ending  04/16/2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here



Old
6



