Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB2528 
 
Project Name 
Third Andhra Pradesh Economic Reform Credit / Loan (APERL 3)  
Region 
South Asia region 
Sector 
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 
Project ID 
P075174 
Borrower(s) 
Government of India 
Implementing Agency 
Government of Andhra Pradesh 
Date PID Prepared 
August 3, 2006 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
October 1, 2006 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
January 7, 2007 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Located on India’s south east coast, Andhra Pradesh (AP), accounts for (i) 8.3 percent of India’s land 
mass; (ii) 7.3 percent of the country’s population (around 80 million people in 2004-05); (iii) 7.1 percent 
of India’s GDP (an economy of US$ 45 billion in 2004-05); and (iv) over 7.5 percent of the country’s 
poor. 
 
The current government, which came to power in May 2004, has built on the economic and social reforms 
initiated by the previous government. Along with continuing the key reform initiatives of the past—fiscal 
discipline, improving state’s investment climate, governance reforms, restructuring of public 
enterprises—the new government has added emphasis on agriculture and irrigation to improve the welfare 
of the rural poor. The reform program has been extended to new areas including liberalization of 
agricultural markets, increasing access of poor to land and credit, shifting public expenditure to build 
rural infrastructure. All in all, the reform momentum in AP continues to gather pace and the state remains 
one of India's leading reforming states. 
 
The World Bank has been a long-term development partner in AP’s reform efforts in general, and in its 
policy and institutional reforms in particular. In support of the state’s ongoing reform program, a 
structural adjustment loan—the Andhra Pradesh Economic Reform Loan 1 (APERL 1)—was approved in 
March, 2002, with a credit/loan amount of $250 million (plus an additional $100 million from DFID, 
UK). In recognition of further reform progress, a second loan/credit (APERL 2) was approved in 
February 2004 for $220 million (plus an additional $100 million from DFID, UK). In addition, there are 
eight Bank-financed investment projects in the state at various stages of completion and four projects in 
the pipeline, for a cumulative financial commitment /disbursement in excess of US$ 1 billion. AP has also 
been a major recipient of the Bank’s technical assistance and analytical and advisory activities. The 
proposed loan/credit is the third operation in the current series of Structural Adjustment Loans (SALs), 
now renamed as Development Policy Loans (DPLs) by the Bank.  
 
The India Country Assistance Strategy approved by the Board in August 2004, highlights support for 
poor and reforming states as one of the major thrusts of the Bank’s assistance in India. Despite its recent 
development success, AP remains a middle income Indian state, with pockets of heavy concentration of 
poverty and deprivation, especially the rural areas in the Telengana region. AP is also a leading reforming 
state in the country. Thus on both these accounts, AP continues to be an appropriate candidate for 
continued Bank assistance.    
 
Page  2
2
Proposed objective 
The main objective of the proposed third Andhra Pradesh Economic Reform Credit / Loan (APERL 3) is 
to support the continued implementation of 
the government’s program of fiscal, administrative and 
service delivery reforms needed to boost economic growth and achieve rapid poverty reduction over the 
medium term. The easing of fiscal constraints, improved budgetary and financial management practices, 
better governance and improvement in the delivery systems will, among other things, enable Andhra 
Pradesh to effectively utilize additional project assistance in key sectors in future years.  
 
2. Preliminary 
description 
The proposed Andhra Pradesh Economic Reform Credit / Loan (APERL 3) will be the third operations in 
the current series of Development Policy Loans (DPLs). In just over a decade, AP has emerged from an 
economically and socially backward state of India to one where the positive impact of its sustainable 
reforms is well documented on both economic and social fronts. The state has made significant progress 
in improving the living standards of its citizens. Its decade long reform program has yielded encouraging 
results and it has begun to bridge the development gap. More specifically, among the Indian states, AP 
now has (a) the best managed power sector, (b) third highest credit rating, (c) third best investment 
climate and (d) fourth lowest corruption level.
1
Specific reform actions of the Government of Andhra 
Pradesh (GoAP) supported by this Operation include: 
ƒ
In consultation with the main line departments, the Consolidated Action Plan for Poverty 
Reduction is finalized and is operational. 
ƒ
The state’s investment climate is improved by introducing legislation that (a) amends the 
“Andhra Pradesh (Agricultural Produce and Livestock) Market Act,” which will bring about 
greater liberalization of agricultural wholesale markets, and (b) implements the “Special Enclave 
Service Condition and Dispute Resolution Act of 2003,” which will expedite the resolution of 
industrial disputes.  
ƒ
Deficit targets and expenditure composition targets are attained annually in accordance with the 
Medium-Term Fiscal Framework (MTFF), and legislation is introduced for the annual 
presentation of the MTFF along with the Budget.  
ƒ
The reforms in public expenditure and financial management as identified in the State Financial 
Accountability Assessment are continued including: (i) all pending audit paragraphs for 2001-02 
and 2002-03 replied to the Accountant General; (ii) maintenance of timely resource releases; and 
(iii) internal audit unit established and functioning.  
ƒ
Phase II of the Public Enterprise Reform program is implemented and program targets for 2003-
04 and 2004-05 are achieved.  
ƒ
An anti-corruption action plan is implemented with good progress (on the basis of agreed 
milestones) in expanding the independence, capacity and effectiveness of the anticorruption 
agencies. Legislation is introduced in the Assembly to strengthen public procurement, and the e-
procurement program is implemented consistent with existing milestones.  
ƒ
As key steps towards commercialization of the power sector and readying distribution companies 
for privatization, the sector’s financial vulnerability and risks are mitigated by (i) reducing the 
revenue subsidy support paid by GoAP as per the sector’s Business Plan (not to exceed Rs.15.13 
billion in 2003-04, and Rs. 14.11 billion in 2004-05); (ii) moving towards full cost recovery 
through tariffs in the distribution business (reaching at least 85 percent by 2003-04 and 88 percent 
1
The respective sources are: (a) State Power Sector Performance Ratings, Report prepared for Ministry of Power, June 2006; (b) 
CRISIL State Ratings, October 2005; (c) World Bank Investment Climate Report, 2004; and (d) India Corruption Study, 
Transparency International India, June 2005. 
Page  3
3
by 2004-05), to be achieved through efficiency improvement, tariff rationalization and reduced 
subsidies; (iii) implementing the universal metering plan as approved by the APERC; and (iv) 
finalizing an alternative mechanism to deliver subsidies to agricultural consumers to be fully 
implemented in at least one district serviced by each of the four distribution companies from 
April 2005.  
ƒ
Class-to-class transition rates are increased at the elementary level, leading to improved 
achievement in mathematics and languages at Grades 3 and 5, and  student and teacher attendance 
is raised over a mutually agreed upon baseline. Assessment of transition rates, achievement levels 
in mathematics and language, student and teacher attendance is done on a sample basis by an 
independent agency. 
4.    Environmental Aspects 
The main environmental challenges facing the state are: (i) groundwater overuse and depletion which is 
constraining rural and urban growth in many areas (and particularly in the drought-prone, poorest areas of 
the state); and (ii) robust industrial and urban growth poses new challenges for effective environmental 
management. GoAP has a strong track record on promoting sustainable development, with its state 
capital, Hyderabad, receiving the most green city award for many consecutive years now.  The 
government is committed to strengthen policy and incentive framework for groundwater management and 
conservation and is exploring new ideas like promoting ground water rights sharing arrangements, such as 
collective use of borewells for irrigation (being currently piloted on a small scale in a few mandals). The 
government is also strengthening the environmental regulatory authorities to ensure compliance and arrest 
deterioration in environmental quality. Recently the government has announced an innovative land 
acquisition scheme which makes the farmers a stakeholder in the commercial projects to be developed on 
their land and thereby giving a better return to the farmers and easing the procedures involved in land 
acquisition.  
5.    Tentative financing 
 
Source: IBRD & IDA mix to be determined in consultation with the GOI. 
($m.) 
 Total 
$ 
200 
million 
 
6.    Contact points 
 
Vinaya Swaroop 
Lead Economist 
World Bank Office in Dhaka 
Tel: (8802) 815-9015 
 
Deepak Mishra 
Senior Economist 
1818 H Street 
Washington DC 20433 
Tel: (202) 473 4331 
 
