Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4254 -IN 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Third Andhra Pradesh Economic Reform Program) 
 
between 
 
INDIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated February 8, 2007  
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4254-IN 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated February 8, 2007, entered into between  INDIA, acting by 
its President (“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement), being carried out by the Recipient’s State of 
Andhra Pradesh (“Andhra Pradesh”).  India has also requested the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (“Bank”), and the Bank has agreed, to provide 
additional assistance in support of the Program under a Loan Agreement (“Loan 
Agreement”) of same date between India and the Bank. The Association has decided to 
provide financing under this Agreement on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
:
(a) the actions which 
Andhra Pradesh has already taken under the Program as described in Part A of Schedule 
2
to the Program Agreement of same date between the Association, the Bank and Andhra 
Pradesh (“Program Agreement”);  (b) the actions which are to be taken by Andhra 
Pradesh under the Program as described in Part B of Schedule 2 to the Program 
Agreement; and (c) Andhra Pradesh’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic 
policy framework. The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
\10
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II
 
-
FINANCING 
 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to fifty 
million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 50,800,000). 
 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
Page  3
-2- 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
ARTICLE III
 
-
PROGRAM 
 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient shall cause Andhra Pradesh to carry out the Program in 
accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions 
and the Program Agreement. 
 
(b) 
the Recipient shall participate with the Association and Andhra Pradesh 
on the exchange of views referred to in Section 2.03 of the Program 
Agreement, on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the 
actions specified in Schedule 2 to the Program Agreement. 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed 
action to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing which would 
have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or 
any action taken under the Program including any action specified in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
\10
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: 
 
A
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: 
 
The event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing 
for a period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the 
Association to the Recipient. 
 
Page  4
-3- 
 
ARTICLE V
 
-
EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: 
 
All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement (other than 
the effectiveness of the Financing Agreement) have been fulfilled. 
 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date sixty (60) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI
 
-
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint 
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of 
Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Recipient. 
 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Secretary to the Government of India 
Department of Economic Affairs 
Ministry of Finance 
New Delhi, India 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
 
ECOFAIRS 953-31-66175 
 
91-11-23092477 
New Delhi 
FINE IN 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
Page  5
-4- 
 
AGREED at New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INDIA 
    
 
By 
/s/ Madhusudan Prasad 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By 
/s/ Rachid Benmessaoud 
 
Acting Regional Vice President 
South Asia Region 
Page  6
-5- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
A. 
General.  
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Schedule and such additional instructions 
as the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in two 
tranches.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in 
the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing 
Allocated 
(Expressed in SDRs) 
First Tranche 
 
33,840,000 
Second Tranche 
 
16,960,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
50,800,000 
C. 
Tranche Release Conditions.
 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Second 
Tranche unless the Association is satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement, and Sections 2.03(a) and (b) of 
the Program Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association that 
the actions described in Part B of Schedule 2 to the Program Agreement have 
been taken.  
 
If, after this exchange of views, the Association is not so satisfied, it may give 
notice to the Recipient and Andhra Pradesh to that effect and, if within ninety 
(90) days after the notice, Andhra Pradesh has not taken steps satisfactory to the 
Association with respect to the actions referred to above, then the Association 
may, by notice to the Recipient and Andhra Pradesh, cancel all or any part of the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance. 
 
D. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts
 
1. 
The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its Central 
Bank a deposit account in dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association.   
Page  7
-6- 
 
2. 
All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association 
into the Deposit Account.  Upon each deposit of an amount of the Credit into the 
Deposit Account, the Recipient shall transfer to Andhra Pradesh an amount in 
Rupees equivalent to the amount deposited in the Deposit Account as of the day 
of such deposit. Such transfer shall be made in accordance with the Recipient’s 
standard arrangements for onlending of external development funds to the States 
of India.  
 
E. 
Audit.
 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
 
1. 
have the Deposit Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association; 
 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
(4) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request; and  
 
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and its audit as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
F. 
Excluded Expenditures
 
1. 
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing shall not be used to 
finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any time that an 
amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded 
Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. 
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be cancelled. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall promptly refund to the Association any amount refunded to 
the Recipient by Andhra Pradesh pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Program 
Agreement. Amounts so refunded to the Association shall be cancelled.
 
G. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2008. 
Page  8
-7- 
 
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit repayable 
(Expressed as a percentage)* 
June 15, 2017 to December 15, 2026 
1.25% 
June 15, 2027  to December 15, 2041
2.50% 
*The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of 
the General Conditions. 
 
Page  9
-8- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
1. 
“Andhra Pradesh” means the state of Andhra Pradesh of the Borrower, or any 
successor thereto which is the Program Implementing Entity for purposes of the 
General Conditions, this Agreement and the Program Agreement. 
 
2. 
“Deposit Account” means the Account referred to in Part D.1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another Financing, 
credit, grant or loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and 
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold 
ores and concentrates) 
Page  10
-9- 
 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Association determines that 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Recipient, Andhra Pradesh or other recipient of the 
Financing during the procurement or execution of such contract, without 
the Recipient, Andhra Pradesh or other such recipient having taken 
timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy 
the situation. 
 
4. 
“First Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “First Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
5. 
“Fiscal Year” means the Fiscal Year of the Recipient and of Andhra Pradesh 
beginning on April 1 of a calendar year and ending on March 31 of the following 
calendar year. 
 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
7.  
“Loan Agreement” means the agreement between the Recipient and the Bank in 
support of the Program, of the same date as the Financing Agreement, as such 
agreement may be amended from time to time.  “Loan Agreement” includes all 
appendices, schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement. 
 
8. 
“Program Implementing Entity” means Andhra Pradesh which is a party to the
 Program 
Agreement. 
 
9. 
“Program” means Andhra Pradesh’s program of actions, objectives and policies 
designed to promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and 
set forth or referred to in the attachment to the letter dated December 7, 2006, 
from the Recipient to the Association declaring the Recipient’s commitment to 
the objectives of the Program and its implementation, and Andhra Pradesh’s 
Page  11
-10- 
 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the 
Association in support of the Program during its execution. 
 
10. 
“Rupees” means the lawful currency of the Borrower. 
 
11. 
“Second Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “Second Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 are as follows:   
 
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient and the Program Implementing Entity 
shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing until two 
years after the Closing Date. The Recipient and the Program 
Implementing Entity shall enable the Association’s representatives to 
examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
Page  12
-11- 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient, the Program Implementing Entity and the Association of 
their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”, provided, however, that all references to “Project 
Agreement” throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be 
references to “Program Agreement”. 
 
8. 
All references to “Program Implementing Entity” throughout these General 
Conditions as modified above are deemed to be references to “Andhra Pradesh” 
as defined in Section I of this Appendix.
 
