Page  1
September 21, 2006 
 
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
 
Report No.:  AB2569 
 
Project Name 
Third Andhra Pradesh Economic Reform Credit /Loan  
Region 
South Asia Region 
Sector 
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 
Project ID 
P075174 
Borrower(s) 
Government of India 
Implementing Agency 
Government of Andhra Pradesh 
Date Updated PID Prepared 
September 21, 2006 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
September 14, 2006 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
January 7, 2007 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Located on India’s south east coast, Andhra Pradesh (AP), accounts for (i) 8.3 percent of India’s land 
mass; (ii) 7.3 percent of the country’s population (around 80 million people in 2004-05); (iii) 7.1 percent 
of India’s GDP (an economy of US$ 45 billion in 2004-05); and (iv) over 7.5 percent of the country’s 
poor. 
 
The current government, which came to power in May 2004, has built on the economic and social reforms 
initiated by the previous government. Along with continuing the key reform initiatives of the past—fiscal 
discipline, improving state’s investment climate, governance reforms, restructuring of public 
enterprises—the new government has added emphasis on agriculture and irrigation to improve the welfare 
of the rural poor. The reform program has been extended to new areas including liberalization of 
agricultural markets, increasing access of poor to land and credit, shifting public expenditure to build 
rural infrastructure. All in all, the reform momentum in AP continues to gather pace and the state remains 
one of India's leading reforming states. 
 
The World Bank has been a long-term development partner in AP’s reform efforts in general, and in its 
policy and institutional reforms in particular. In support of the state’s ongoing reform program, a 
structural adjustment loan—the Andhra Pradesh Economic Reform Loan 1 (APERL 1)—was approved in 
March, 2002, with a credit/loan amount of $250 million (plus an additional $100 million from DFID, 
UK). In recognition of further reform progress, a second loan/credit (APERL 2) was approved in 
February 2004 for $220 million (plus an additional $100 million from DFID, UK). In addition, there are 
three single-state Bank-financed investment projects currently under implementation in the state for a net 
commitment value of about $369 million. AP also has a significant share of various national and multi-
state projects that the Bank is supporting. Looking ahead, there are about six projects in the pipeline for a 
cumulative net financial commitment of about US$ 1 billion. AP has also been a major recipient of the 
Page  2
2
Bank’s technical assistance and analytical and advisory activities. The proposed loan/credit is the third 
budget support operation to AP.
1
The India Country Assistance Strategy approved by the Board in August 2004, highlights support for 
poor and reforming states as one of the major thrusts of the Bank’s assistance in India. Despite its recent 
development success, AP remains a middle income Indian state, with pockets of heavy concentration of 
poverty and deprivation, especially the rural areas in the Telengana region. AP is also a leading reforming 
state in the country. Thus on both these accounts, AP continues to be an appropriate candidate for 
continued Bank assistance.    
 
2. Proposed objective 
The main objective of the proposed third Andhra Pradesh Economic Reform Credit / Loan (APERL 3) is 
to support the continued implementation of the government’s program of fiscal, administrative and 
service delivery reforms needed to boost economic growth and achieve rapid poverty reduction over the 
medium term. The easing of fiscal constraints, improved budgetary and financial management practices, 
better governance and improvement in the delivery systems will, among other things, enable Andhra 
Pradesh to effectively utilize additional project assistance in key sectors in future years. 
 
3. Description 
In just over a decade, AP has emerged from an economically and socially backward state of India to one 
where the positive impact of its sustainable reforms is well documented on both economic and social 
fronts. The state has made significant progress in improving the living standards of its citizens. Its decade 
long reform program has yielded encouraging results and it has begun to bridge the development gap. 
More specifically, among the Indian states, AP now has (a) the best managed power sector, (b) third 
highest credit rating, (c) third best investment climate and (d) fourth lowest corruption level.
2
Specific 
reform actions of the Government of Andhra Pradesh (GoAP) supported by this project include: 
ƒ
In consultation with the main line departments, the Consolidated Action Plan for Poverty 
Reduction is finalized and is operational. 
ƒ
The state’s investment climate is improved by introducing legislation that (a) amends the 
“Andhra Pradesh (Agricultural Produce and Livestock) Market Act,” which will bring about 
greater liberalization of agricultural wholesale markets, and (b) implements the “Special Enclave 
Service Condition and Dispute Resolution Act of 2003,” which will expedite the resolution of 
industrial disputes.  
ƒ
Deficit targets and expenditure composition targets are attained annually in accordance with the 
Medium-Term Fiscal Framework (MTFF), and legislation is introduced for the annual 
presentation of the MTFF along with the Budget.  
ƒ
The reforms in public expenditure and financial management as identified in the State Financial 
Accountability Assessment are continued including: (i) all pending audit paragraphs for 2001-02 
and 2002-03 replied to the Accountant General; (ii) maintenance of timely resource releases; and 
(iii) internal audit unit established and functioning.  
ƒ
Phase II of the Public Enterprise Reform program is implemented and program targets for 2003-
04 and 2004-05 are achieved.  
1
The previous term Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) has been renamed as Development Policy Loan (DPL). 
2
The respective sources are: (a) State Power Sector Performance Ratings, Report prepared for Ministry of Power, June 2006; (b) 
CRISIL State Ratings, October 2005; (c) World Bank Investment Climate Report, 2004; and (d) India Corruption Study, 
Transparency International India, June 2005. 
Page  3
3
ƒ
An anti-corruption action plan is implemented with good progress (on the basis of agreed 
milestones) in expanding the independence, capacity and effectiveness of the anticorruption 
agencies. Legislation is introduced in the Assembly to strengthen public procurement, and the e-
procurement program is implemented consistent with existing milestones.  
ƒ
Class-to-class transition rates are increased at the elementary level, leading to improved 
achievement in mathematics and languages at Grades 3 and 5, and  student and teacher attendance 
is raised over a mutually agreed upon baseline. Assessment of transition rates, achievement levels 
in mathematics and language, student and teacher attendance is done on a sample basis by an 
independent agency. 
4.    Environmental Aspects 
The main environmental challenges facing AP are: (i) nearly 70 percent of the 
state’s population relies on 
agriculture which is very vulnerable to drought and rainfall variability, particularly in rain-fed areas. 
These areas also happen to be the poorest areas in the state, (ii) rapid industrialization and economic 
diversification in the state has been accompanied by opportunities for growth and employment as well as 
environmental pressures. GoAP has a strong track record on promoting sustainable development. The 
state environmental authorities--the Department of Environment, Forests, Science and Technology, and 
the Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (APPCB)--have improved environmental management and 
enforcement, and generally have created greater environmental awareness among stakeholders. While 
having the lowest number of staff per 100 units requiring environmental consent/inspection, the APPCB 
is among the most efficient, competent and well- performing environmental enforcement institutions in 
the country. The Bank has provided extensive support to APPCB via the national Industrial Pollution 
Control Project, Industrial Pollution Prevention Project and the Environmental Management Capacity 
Building Project. 
Overall, the environmental impacts of APERL 3 operation are not likely to be significant. 
 
5.    Tentative financing 
 
Total 
$ 200 million 
Note: IBRD & IDA mix to be determined in consultation with the Government 
of India (at the time of Loan/Credit Negotiations). 
 
6.    Contact points 
 
Mr. Vinaya Swaroop 
Lead Economist 
World Bank Office in Dhaka 
Tel: (8802) 815-9015 
 
Mr. Deepak Mishra 
Senior Economist 
1818 H Street 
Washington DC 20433 
Tel: (202) 473 4331 
 
