                                   Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR00001778



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (IBRD-48450 IDA-42540)



                                     ON A

                                    CREDIT

     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 50.8 (US$ 75 MILLION EQUIVALENT) AND

                                   A LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$150 MILLION

                                      TO

                           THE REPUBLIC OF INDIA

                                      FOR

  THE THIRD ANDHRA PRADESH ECONOMIC REFORM LOAN AND CREDIT




                                 June 27, 2011




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Sector Unit
India Country Management Unit
South Asia Region
                         INDIA – GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR

                                       1 April – 31 March

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                            (Exchange Rate Effective June 27, 2011)

                                 Currency Unit = Indian Rupee (`)
                                        `1.00 = US$ 0.02
                                       US$ 1.00 = ` 44.99

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AP            Andhra Pradesh                            NRHM      National Rural Health Mission
APERC         Andhra Pradesh Electricity                O&M       Operations and Maintenance
              Regulatory Commission
APERL         Andhra Pradesh Economic Reform            PAD       Program Appraisal Document
              Loan
BPL           Below Poverty Line                        PE        Public Enterprise
DfID          Department for International              PFM       Public Financial Management
              Development
DPL           Development Policy Loan                   PPP       Public Private Partnership
FRBM          Fiscal Responsibility Budget              RIF       Reform Incentive Fund
              Management
GDP           Gross Development Product                 RRC       Revenue Reform Committee
GoAP          Government of Andhra Pradesh              SERP      Society for the Elimination of
                                                                  Rural Poverty
GoI           Government of India                       SFAA      State Financial Accountability
                                                                  Assessment
GSDP          Gross State Development Product           SHG       Self Help Group
HRM           Human Resource Management                 SPIU      Strategy and Performance
                                                                  Innovation Unit
JNNURM Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban                  SSA       Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan
       Reform Mission
MNREGA Mahatma Gandhi National Rural                    SSN       Safety Net Program
       Employment Guarantee Act
NREG   National Rural Employment                        T&D       Transmission and Distribution
       Guarantee Scheme

                                      Vice President:   Isabel M. Guerrero, SARVP
                                    Country Director:   Roberto Zagha, SACIN
                                     Sector Manager:    Joel Hellman, SASGP
                                   Task Team Leader:    Rajni Khanna, SASGP

                                    ICR Team Leader: Mohan Nagarajan, SASGP *


* With contributions from Dr. Stephen Howes, Professor, Crawford School of Economics and Government,
Australian National University
                                     INDIA
            The Third Andhra Pradesh Economic Reform Loan and Credit

                                                  CONTENTS

 Data Sheet
 A. Basic Information
 B. Key Dates
 C. Ratings Summary
 D. Sector and Theme Codes
 E. Bank Staff
 F. Results Framework Analysis
 G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
 H. Restructuring

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 7
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 29
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 30
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 32
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 33
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.............. 34
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 36
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 37
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 38
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 41
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 42
MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Third Andhra Pradesh
Country:                India                   Program Name:             Economic Reform
                                                                          Loan/Credit
                                                                          IBRD-48450,IDA-
Program ID:             P075174                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                          42540
ICR Date:               06/28/2011              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     DPL                     Borrower:
                                                                          INDIA
Original Total
                        USD 225.0M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 226.8M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 225.0M
Implementing Agencies:
 Government of Andhra Pradesh
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       08/10/2006     Effectiveness:          02/23/2007           02/23/2007
Appraisal:            10/09/2006     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             01/11/2007     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                06/30/2008           06/30/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                             Moderately         Implementing
Quality of Supervision:                                          Moderately Satisfactory
                           Unsatisfactory       Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                   Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                              None
                                                   (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                            Quality of
                        No                                                 None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General industry and trade sector                                     20                  20
Power                                                                 10                  10
Primary education                                                     10                  10
Sub-national government administration                                60                  60


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for all                                                     17                  17
Other accountability/anti-corruption                                  17                  17
Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring                             16                  16
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                      33                  33
procurement
State-owned enterprise restructuring and privatization                17                  17

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero                   Praful C. Patel
Country Director:          N. Roberto Zagha                     Fayez S. Omar
Sector Manager:            Joel Hellman                         Kapil Kapoor
Program Team Leader:       Rajni Khanna                         Vinaya Swaroop
ICR Team Leader:           Rajni Khanna
ICR Primary Author:        Mohan Nagarajan
                           Stephen Howes




                                                ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The proposed operation is the third in a series of programmatic budget support operations
to Andhra Pradesh. The main objective of the operation is to support the government#s
ongoing reform program, which has expanded in both breadth and depth since the last
operation, to: (a) improve the state#s investment climate; (b) strengthen revenue, public
expenditure, and financial management; (c) usher in improved governance practices and
raise the quality of service delivery in the health, education, and power sectors; and (d)
better target antipoverty programs through more effective monitoring and evaluation.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target          Formally       Actual Value
                                            Values (from           Revised         Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value
                                             approval               Target        Completion or
                                            documents)              Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Better Fiscal Management
                                                                                AP has achieved
                                                                                the targets set-out
                                                                                in the FRBM Act,
                                                                                2005.

                                                                                2006/07
                                                                                FD:1.87%
                                                                                Revenue surplus:
                   Fiscal Deficit (FD): -   Fiscal deficit: less
Value                                                                           1%
                   3.2% of GDP,             than 3.5%,
(quantitative or
                   Revenue Deficit (RD):    Revenue deficit:
Qualitative)                                                                    2009/10
                   1% of GDP                should be positive
                                                                                FD: 2.95%
                                                                                Revenue
                                                                                surplus:0.26%

                                                                                2010/11 (RE)
                                                                                FD: 2.61%
                                                                                Revenue
                                                                                surplus:1%
Date achieved      12/25/2006               03/31/2009                          03/01/2011
Comments
(incl. %           All fiscal and revenue targets were achieved (100 percent)
achievement)
                   Improve the state's investment climate through facilitating investments in the
Indicator 2 :
                   state and remedying problems in land markets.



                                                 iii
                                                                              1.       AP, is
                   Agricultural marketing                                     today one of the top
                   act amended to allow                                       5 states in India in
                                            1.     Increase in
                   private sector entry;                                      terms of doing
Value                                       investments
                   labor markets made                                         business
(quantitative or
                   flexible through                                           2.       Huge
Qualitative)                                2.       Increase in
                   government orders;                                         increase in PPPs.
                                            PPPs
                   Special Economic                                           Detailed figures on
                   Zones Act passed.                                          site
                                                                              www.ppp.ap.gov.in
Date achieved      01/15/2007               01/15/2007                        03/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :      Improved governance practices and better service delivery in sectors.
                                                                              1.       SPIU#s
                                                                              established in 11
                                                                              departments.
                                                                              2.       HRMIS
                                            Draft approach                    being piloted in
                   Establishment of         paper drafted for                 GoAP departments.
                   SPIU's in key            HRM strategy;                     Health sector
                   departments to take      strategy in place                 strategy is being
Value
                   forward departmental for health sector;                    implemented;
(quantitative or
                   reforms. Various         several e-                        Caseload
Qualitative)
                   reforms initiated in the governance                        Management
                   health, education and initiatives for                      System established
                   power sector.            improved service                  in Education
                                            delivery.                         department.
                                                                              3. 1500 Common
                                                                              Service Centers in
                                                                              rural areas and 266
                                                                              urb
Date achieved      01/15/2007               05/14/2010                        06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %           Nearly all targets achieved (100 percent)
achievement)
Indicator 4 :      Better targeting of anti-poverty programs through better monitoring.
                                                                              Comprehensive
                                                                              reporting and
Value
                   No database on social Report on key                        monitoring of key
(quantitative or
                   indicators                social indicators                social indicators by
Qualitative)
                                                                              social welfare
                                                                              department
Date achieved      01/15/2007                03/31/2009                       03/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                iv
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                              Values (from                        Achieved at
    Indicator         Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                 approval                        Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                               documents)                         Target Years
                   Achieved the targets set out in the Andhra Pradesh Fiscal Responsibility and
Indicator 1 :
                   Budget Management Act, 2005.
                                                                              AP has achieved
                                                                              the targets set-out
                                                                              in the FRBM Act,
                                                                              2005.

                                                                              2006/07
                                                                              FD:1.87%
                                            Fiscal Deficit: less
                                                                              Revenue surplus:
                                            than 3.5% (Actual:
Value                                                                         1%
                   Fiscal deficit: -3.2%,   -3.3%), Revenue
(quantitative or
                   Revenue Deficit: 1%      Deficit: should be
Qualitative)                                                                  2009/10
                                            positive. It was
                                                                              FD: 2.95%
                                            0.3%.
                                                                              Revenue
                                                                              surplus:0.26%

                                                                              2010/11 (RE)
                                                                              FD: 2.61%
                                                                              Revenue
                                                                              surplus:1%
Date achieved      12/25/2006               03/31/2009                        03/01/2011
Comments
(incl. %           100 percent achievement of fiscal targets
achievement)
Indicator 2 :      Tabling the 'Procurement Law' in the State Assembly.
Value                                     Procurement Law                     Procurement Law
                   No procurement law in
(quantitative or                          tabled in the state                 tabled in the state
                   the state
Qualitative)                              assembly.                           assembly.
Date achieved      01/15/2007             03/04/2010                          06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                   Social audits in National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (NREGA) in
Indicator 3 :
                   13 districts
                   Social audits in
Value              National Rural           Social audits in                   Social audits in
(quantitative or   Employment Guarantee NREGA for the                          NREGA for the
Qualitative)       Scheme (NREGA) in entire state                              entire state
                   13 districts
Date achieved      06/15/2006               03/15/2010                         06/30/2010
Comments           100% of target is achieved. As of January 2011, at least three (or more) social


                                                 v
(incl. %           audits have been undertaken in every village in the state.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :      Redistribution of land to vulnerable groups
Value                                                                            Total 1.4 million
                   0.12 million acres to be
(quantitative or                                                                 redistributed over
                   redistributed every year
Qualitative)                                                                     2006-10
Date achieved      01/15/2007                                                    06/30/2010
Comments
                   More than 100% of target is achieved. About 1.4 million acres have been
(incl. %
                   redistributed in six phases between 2006 and 2010.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :      Coverage of social pensioners to be enhanced.
                                           4.8 million social
Value                                                                            More than 7.2
                                           pensioners to be
(quantitative or                                                                 million social
                                           covered in the
Qualitative)                                                                     pensioners covered
                                           state
Date achieved                              05/31/2010                            01/01/2011
Comments
                   More than 100% of target is achieved, as the state has reached saturation point,
(incl. %
                   with more than 7.2 million social pensioners as of January 2011.
achievement)



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                      Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                             IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                  (USD millions)
  1     06/27/2007          Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   151.17
  2     01/22/2008          Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory            151.17
  3     08/10/2008          Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory            151.17
  4     02/10/2009      Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            151.17
  5     09/15/2009      Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            151.17
  6     05/14/2010      Moderately Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   226.84


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                  vi
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale for Bank
assistance)

The fifth-largest state in India, with an estimated population of 80 million, Andhra Pradesh (AP)
is one of India's leading reforming states. For over a decade, and across two governments, AP has
implemented a sustained policy and institutional reform program.

The World Bank has been a long-term development partner in AP‘s reform efforts in general, and
in its policy and institutional reforms in particular. This support began in May 1998 with the
Andhra Pradesh Economic Restructuring Project (APERP), supported by a multi-sector
investment loan of US$540 million, and built an agreement on a fiscal framework and reform
program. A development policy (or structural adjustment) loan—the Andhra Pradesh Economic
Reform Loan 1 (APERL 1)—was approved in March 2002, with a loan/credit amount of US$250
million (plus an additional US$100 million from the Department for International Development
(DfID), United Kingdom. A second development policy loan/credit (APERL 2) was approved in
February 2004 for US$220 million (plus an additional US$100 million from DFID). APERL3
approved in December 2006 was the third in a series of programmatic budget support operations
to AP. While the first two comprised only one tranche, APERL3 was designed as a two-tranche
operation in accordance with new Government of India‘s guidelines for policy-based assistance to
states.

Andhra Pradesh has made considerable progress in its development agenda during the last few
years. AP‘s transition from a relatively poor and backward state in the late 90s' when APERL 1
was initiated, to one of the most progressive states in India today is impressive. In 1999/00, AP's
per-capita income was around US$385, nearly 22 percent of its population was below the poverty
line, 40 percent of its primary school age children were out of school, and the state's fiscal deficit
to gross state development product (GSDP) ratio was breaching the 5 percent mark. Since then,
the state has made impressive progress in all dimensions of development: per-capita income is
nearly US$1100 (in 2009/10, compared to US$1200 at all India level); the poverty head count
ratio has fallen, 95 percent of its primary school age children are in school; and the fiscal deficit
is at a manageable level of 3.5 to 4 percent of GSDP and is falling.

The Bank‘s engagement has spanned across various sectors including primary health, primary
education, irrigation, roads and nutrition. While these were individual sector investments, it gave
the World Bank and Government of Andhra Pradesh (GoAP) exposure of how investments in
different sectors are complimentary to each other and the associated benefits of holistic planning.
Although the seeds of a broad-based framework of development were sown with APERP, the real
thrust at the working level took place during the two subsequent development policy loans
(APERL 1 and 2).

In 1999, GoAP articulated a far-reaching vision for economic and social development through its
Vision 2020 document. AP was the first Indian state to put together a strategy for comprehensive
development and a complementary reform agenda. The document is a statement of intent to
pursue economic growth, develop human capital, and reduce poverty. This vision was laid out in
a series of 16 sector strategy papers that were prepared between 1999 and 2001. AP‘s overall
medium-term development strategy had two main objectives: (i) eradicating poverty and focusing
on human development; and (ii) accelerating economic growth. The goals of eradicating poverty


`                                                 1
and accelerating human development were to be achieved through direct interventions (for
example, the pro-poor Velugu program), building the capabilities of the poor and disadvantaged
groups (by improving literacy and health), empowering women (addressing gender inequalities in
education and increasing gender-sensitivity in health programs), and by accelerating pro-poor
growth. The State Government wanted to transform its role in the economy from being primarily
a controller of the economy to becoming a facilitator and catalyst of growth. To this end, GoAP
wanted to reform public enterprises and focus its attention on those sectors of the economy for
which there was a clear role for the state, leaving others to private provisioning. Progress towards
these twin objectives required that the state be in a sound fiscal position. According to AP‘s fiscal
reform strategy, restoration of the state‘s fiscal health was to be achieved by: (i) restructuring the
power sector to reduce the drain on public resources, (ii) containing the growth of the public
wage bill and improving the targeting of subsidies and transfers, and (iii) reforming the revenue
system by introducing a Value Added Tax. Finally, AP wanted to strengthen governance by
making government SMART (Simple, Moral, Accountable, Responsive, Transparent).

A striking feature of GoAP‘s reform has been the tradition of preparing publicly consulted
strategy documents and consultation papers. The Bank has over the years contributed to the
GoAP‘'s effort with its own reports and policy notes in the areas of economic growth, fiscal
policy, public enterprise reform, financial management, and power sector reform -- many of
which have been published and widely disseminated within the state.

With an appreciation for AP‘s Vision 2020, the Bank over a span of ten years, along with DfID,
has tried to help the state further its reform agenda by supporting a part of the larger program
through three development policy operations. The first two operations focused on fiscal,
governance and power sector reforms. The fiscal reform program aimed at fiscal stabilization to
reduce the debt burden and restore sustainability to public finances, improve public resource
mobilization, and restructure public spending toward priority development areas. This was
accompanied by public expenditure management reform to strengthen financial management
capacity and institutions, improve the realism and credibility of the budget, enhance fiscal
transparency and accountability, and introduce greater efficiency to operational management.
The program of governance reform included strengthening anti-corruption efforts, civil service
reform, electronic governance, public enterprise reform, and poverty monitoring and analysis.
The power sector reforms were aimed at curtailing theft, regularizing connections, regulating and
monitoring supply to agriculture consumers, improving customer service, and implementing tariff
rulings of the independent state regulatory agency. All these were important for long term
sustainability of the sector and for the fiscal health of the state.

By the end of the APERL2, GoAP had acquired the distinction of being one of the most
progressive states in India. While the APERP and the first two Development Policy Lending
Operations were pursued with the Telugu Desam Government in office, state elections in 2005
resulted in a Congress government voted to office.

Having embarked on a comprehensive broad-based program in two operations over four years,
the GoAP in dialogue with the Bank decided to focus on deepening the reform program by
focusing on sectors where the state was trying to achieve Millennium Development Goals
(MDGs), particularly in primary health and education. Moreover, it was agreed to continue
supporting the positive momentum in areas of engagement pursued over the previous operations.
APERL3 was thus designed against the backdrop of sound fiscal and public finance management
policies accompanied by good governance pursued over the first two Development Policy Loans
(DPLs), and hence progressed to take on bold reforms particularly in sectors like health,
education and power. The program elected to continue to push the engagement in areas where


`                                                 2
there was strong past momentum while selectively taking up additional areas that were in line
with the new government‘s priorities and some areas seen as core areas for reform (such as the
power sector and procurement). Although the irrigation sector was one of the most important
sectors in the state and was the top priority of the government, reforms in this sector were to be
supported by a World Bank supported irrigation project which was under preparation at the same
time. To safeguard some of the huge investments in this highly capital intensive sector, a major
policy reform, namely, the need to support a procurement law was included in this operation. Post
facto it becomes apparent that the new Government‘s thinking had not been fully developed when
the program was negotiated. It was before some time that the new government came fully on
board both the program supported by the Bank operation and their own priorities. This perhaps
led to certain areas of the Bank‘s operation not being implemented as envisaged during the design
stage even if the broad development outcomes where achieved.

Over the longer term, the DPL offered the World Bank a development partnership with a state
that has transformed from a poor, backward state to one of India‘s most progressive states. The
multi-sectoral nature of a DPL series also offered the possibility of a long-term partnership with
other development partners such as the UK Department of International Development (DfID),
who not only co-financed the first two operations, but provided technical assistance in a number
of areas like public enterprise reform, implementation of value added tax and health sector
reforms. The broad-based nature of reform gave DfID the option to support areas that were a
priority for them (such as Health).

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The proposed operation is the third in a series of programmatic budget support operations to
Andhra Pradesh. The main objective of the operation is to support the government‘s ongoing
reform program to: (a) improve the state‘s investment climate; (b) strengthen revenue, public
expenditure, and financial management; (c) usher in improved governance practices and raise the
quality of service delivery in the health, education, and power sectors; and (d) better target
antipoverty programs through more effective monitoring and evaluation.

Note that this assessment is of APERL3 only as a standalone operation, though of course it is
examined from a broader context.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification

Not Applicable.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)
The program supported policy reforms in eight areas, as described below:

i)    Poverty Reduction: through better targeting of antipoverty programs by improving
      monitoring and evaluation and enhanced access to social safety nets for vulnerable groups.

ii)   Improvement in Investment Climate: through opening up agricultural markets for the
      private sector, correcting problems in land and labor markets, creating a framework to
      promote rapid clearance procedures for establishing private enterprises and supporting a
      more conducive environment for enabling Public Private Partnerships (PPPs).




`                                               3
iii)   Fiscal Consolidation and Public Financial Management: through better fiscal discipline, re-
       directing expenditures towards priority areas, and improving public expenditure
       management and financial accountability.

iv)    Public Enterprise Reform: through reorienting government away from direct provision of
       goods and services in the economy, enhancing efficiency of public enterprises and reducing
       fiscal cost of support to these enterprises.

v)     Improving Governance: through civil service reform, improving procurement and enhanced
       transparency and accountability in government operations; and use of e-governance for
       service delivery.

vi)    Power Sector Reform: through improved financial performance, reduction in subsidy to the
       agricultural sector and improvement in distribution through better corporate governance.

vii)   Education Sector Reform: through departmental restructuring, reducing the number of
       drop-outs and out-of –school children and support for research to aid policy making.

viii) Health Sector Reform: a comprehensive reform strategy to: (i) expand emergency care
      access; (ii) strengthen oversight of the sector; and (iii) increase institutional deliveries for
      poor women.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)
Not Applicable.

1.6 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations)

There were no significant changes in design, implementation arrangements or funding allocations.
However, there was considerable delay in the release of the second tranche. One of the second
tranche release conditions, namely, tabling of a procurement law before AP‘s state legislature,
took much longer than anticipated. In the Program Appraisal Document (PAD) (dated December,
2007), this was anticipated to occur by June 2008 (see page. 26). However, in fact this tabling did
not happen for three years (until March 2010), and has not led to passage of the legislation in the
12 months since.

The procurement law was initially mentioned in the APERL2 PAD in January 2004, with tabling
the legislation as an indicative trigger for APERL3 then envisaged for late 2004 or early 2005.
Given its politically sensitive nature the possible delay in its passage by the legislature was not
mentioned as a risk to the achievement of the program‘s objectives. It is also unclear whether,
when the law was finally tabled in March 2010, the Government had an intention to pass it. It
may be that the tabling of the legislation complied with the letter of the tranche conditions, but
hardly with the spirit of expectation that the law would be enacted expeditiously. The program
document does not describe in adequate terms whether mere tabling will result in enactment or
what could be the alternative reform paths to ensure institutional reform of procurement practices
if the legislative route were unsuccessful or delayed indefinitely.




`                                                 4
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance (supported by a table derived from a policy matrix)

     Tranche #           Amount             Expected         Actual Release        Release
                                           Release Date          Date
     Tranche 1     US$100 million         February,         February, 2007         Regular
                   and SDR 33.84          2007
                   million
     Tranche 2     US$50 million and      June, 2008        March, 2010            Regular
                   SDR 16.96 million

                                                 Tranche 1
 Andhra Pradesh has: (a) prepared a report to assess the State‘s prospect of achieving the
Millennium Development Goals; and (b) based on said report, has designed and implemented              Met
several anti-poverty programs in the State, including distribution of surplus government land to
the rural poor and increasing the provision of social pension for vulnerable groups.
Andhra Pradesh has taken measures satisfactory to the Association and the Bank to improve the
State‘s investment climate including:                                                                 Met
a) amending the Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Produce and Livestock Market Act, 1966 to lift
     state monopoly and bring about greater liberalization of agricultural wholesale markets; and
b) facilitating speedier resolution of industrial disputes and removing rigidities in the
     functioning of the labor market in selected industrial enclaves by including appropriate
     provisions in the Special Economic Zones Act, 2005.
Andhra Pradesh has enacted a Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act, 2005                    Met
providing for, inter alia, responsibility of the State government to ensure prudence in fiscal
management and fiscal stability, and greater transparency in fiscal operations, and has, consistent
with the said Act:
a) achieved the projections made for Fiscal Year 2005/06; and

b)  made fiscal projections and disclosed financial information in the budget for Fiscal Year
    2006/07.
Andhra Pradesh has continued to implement in a manner satisfactory to the Association and the         Met
Bank the action plan prepared following the completion of the State Financial Accountability
Assessment (referred to in paragraph 5 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement for the Second
Andhra Pradesh Economic Reform Program (Credit No. 3853/Loan No. 4725 dated February 13,
2004)) and has:
a) achieved significant improvement in responding to observations made by the Auditor
    General in the annual audit reports of the State;
b) maintained timely release of funds to finance budgeted expenditures; and
c) established and made functional an internal audit unit within the Finance Department of the
    State in order to monitor and enforce financial accountability.
Andhra Pradesh has continued to make progress satisfactory to the Association and the Bank in         Met
implementing the second phase of the program of closure/privatization/restructuring covering 71
public enterprises, including meeting the targets set out for Fiscal Years, 2003/04, 2004/05 and
2005/06.
Andhra Pradesh has continued to make progress satisfactory to the Association and the Bank in         Met
improving governance including:

a)   finalizing the anti-corruption action plan (referred to in paragraph 9 of the Schedule to the
     Project Agreement for the Second Andhra Pradesh Economic Reform Program (Credit No.
     3853/Loan No. 4725 dated February 13, 2004)) and progressively implementing said plan,
     including expanding the independence, capacity and effectiveness of the anticorruption
     agencies through the provision of adequate financial and human resources; and



`                                                      5
b) progressively implementing its Strategy on Governance and Public Management ( referred to
    in paragraph f of the Schedule to the Project Agreement for the Second Andhra Pradesh
    Economic Reform Program (Credit No. 3853/Loan No. 4725 dated February 13, 2004)),
    including improving procurement procedures through implementing a state-wide electronic
    government procurement system.
As part of the State‘s program to improve learning quality and schooling experience for students,   Met
Andhra Pradesh has taken measures to: (a) increase class-to-class transition at the elementary
school level; and (b) raise the attendance level of students and teachers.

                                                  Tranche 2
Andhra Pradesh has made progress, satisfactory to the Association and the Bank, in carrying out     Met
the Program.
The macroeconomic policy framework of Andhra Pradesh is appropriate, including achieving the        Met
targets for realized revenue and fiscal deficit for Fiscal Year 2006/07 consistent with the
provisions of the State‘s Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act, 2005.
Andhra Pradesh has introduced in its State Assembly legislation for strengthening the regulation    Met
of public procurement.
Andhra Pradesh has completed an independent third party verification of agricultural electricity    Met
consumption (at the feeder level) based on the methodology approved by the State‘s Electricity
Regulation Commission.

2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

At the time of preparation, the state had a very stable political environment under the leadership
of the then Chief Minister Mr. Y. S. Rajasekhara Reddy. The tragic and untimely death of Mr.
Y.S.Rajasekhara Reddy, in September 2009, was followed by violent agitation for a separate state
in the Telengana region and an unsettled government. The change in the environment and the
highly increased uncertainty had a significant impact on the Government‘s ability to implement
of politically difficult reforms which delayed key benchmarks in the second tranche.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

Although no de novo M&E system was established to monitor the DPL, strong monitoring
systems were already in place established by the GoAP to track progress on the DPL. All results
and evidence on indicators used in monitoring the progress of the DPL drew on data published
routinely by GoAP. Progress in meeting fiscal indicators according to the Fiscal Responsibility
Budget Management (FRBM) targets was regularly reported and monitored. The DPL monitoring
also relied upon departmental data, data published in the Economic Survey and other government
documents and data used to monitor national programs such as the SSA and NRHM to assess
progress. For example, the Economic Survey of Andhra Pradesh reports on poverty in a chapter
on Poverty, Employment and Unemployment in the state. The Society for the Elimination of
Rural Poverty (SERP) has a comprehensive website with more disaggregated data - going down
to the village level for several indicators of poverty (including severe poverty) and well-being in
rural AP.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):

At the time of processing the first tranche of the loan (January, 2007), a follow-up operation was
considered. Indicative triggers were outlined in the program document for APERL 3. However,
the momentum for a follow-up operation waned over time. The delay in the release of the second
tranche took the steam out of further discussions on policy based operations in AP. More broadly,



`                                                   6
both the Bank and the Government of India agreed in the CAS Update that DPLs at the state level
should be focused more on lagging states, rather than more advanced states like AP.

The follow-up to many of the reforms included in APERL 3 were subsumed through sectoral
interventions under national programs such as the SSA, NRHM, JNNURM etc. On the fiscal side
Central Finance Commissions‘ starting with the eleventh began championing fiscal targeting. AP
itself was at the forefront of innovation in addressing rural poverty and improving service
delivery while progress in some other areas of reform has proved difficult (procurement,
subsidies and power). The reform program supported by the DPL fed into the GoAP‘s own, long
term reform priorities. With the fiscal pressures alleviated and a strong reform momentum of its
own and through national programs, the Bank does not anticipate a continued need for DPLs in
AP.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objectives of the operation were high relevant. The India CAS 2004 called for support to
poor, reform-minded states. Andhra was a reform leader at the time achieving a string of
development successes. But also, Andhra was still a poor state, with a per capita income below
the national average and pockets of poverty in the Telengana region and in the tribal pockets of
the coastal region. The Program document points out that out of the 200 poorest districts in India
16 were in Andhra Pradesh.

Given this background the program‘s four objectives were relevant: (a) improve the state‘s
investment climate; (b) strengthen revenue, public expenditure and financial management; (c)
usher in improved governance practices, and raise the quality of service delivery in health,
education and power sectors; and (d) better target antipoverty program through more effective
monitoring and evaluation.

The design was strong in most areas, supporting the objectives and building on government‘s
priorities at the time. But three issues need to be discussed for design adequacy to meet the stated
objectives. First is the treatment of the power sector. The first objective for the power sector as
stated by the outcome indicator is a commercially efficient, demand responsive and financially
self sufficient power sector. The policy measures supported appear relevant except that they
completely leave out metering of electricity sales to farmers. AP provides free power to farmers
and electricity sales to the agriculture sector are estimated at 40 percent of total sales. Early Bank
lending to and dialogue with GoAP had stressed two things: (i) privatization of electricity
distribution and (ii) the need to increase agricultural tariffs. But both agendas stalled after some
early movement due to adverse political fallout. The government‘s approach became one of
improving efficiency rather than privatization and increasing power supply to farmers but without
an increase in tariffs and claims that the policy has resulted in increased food grain production.
The Bank bought into the first strategy, and, while never comfortable with the second, felt it had
no alternative. One option would have been to drop the power sector from the reform program.
Instead, it was kept in but with very weak conditions: a study of electricity supply to farmers was
the APERL3 power sector tranche. The condition was harmless enough in itself, but also left the
Bank vulnerable to criticism that it was not taking power sector risks seriously. And indeed the
financial condition of the sector deteriorated significantly, despite the condition being met.




`                                                 7
Second, the treatment of procurement has already been discussed. The reform is important but
politically sensitive in the Indian context. GoAP had already taken other measures such as e-
procurement to strengthen procurement efficiency. Although, introduction of a draft procurement
Act in the legislature is a first step in providing statutory backing and enshrining transparent
procurement procedures the absence of a follow on operation may leave the step of enactment of
procurement legislation unfinished reform. Mere introduction of a bill provides no assurance that
the law will be enacted quickly or operationalised to meet the objective of ‗improved
procurement practice and performance‘. A follow on DPL operation would have built further
incentives to get the law enacted, procurement rules issued and a procurement authority gazetted.
The latter two actions are shown as potential indicative actions for the next operation in the
Program Document.

The third issue is treatment of Public Enterprise (PE) reform. PE reform, like the procurement
legislation and the power sector, also went off-track. The APERL2 ICR of March 2005 noted that
―There has been a marked slowdown in the pace of the public enterprise reform program, as the
new government reviews this initiative.‖ But by December 2006, the Government was promising
to initiate a phase III of the PE reform program. Yet, it subsequently dropped this program.

Implementation is discussed below.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between policy actions supported by operations and
outcomes)

The loan was largely disbursed in relation to actions taken prior to the release of the first tranche,
which was the larger of the two. There are some four years of progress to assess since loan
approval. This is done with reference to the medium-term performance indicators set out in the
APERL3 policy matrix. Given that more than four years have passed since loan approval, use of
these medium-term performance indicators is warranted.

                 Theme 1: Pro - poor policy formulation and implementation

GoAP’s achievements in implementing the reform program for improved targeting of
antipoverty programs have consistently exceeded APERL3 targets. The two pillars of the
reform program were: (i) Strengthening the effectiveness of antipoverty programs; and (ii)
Increasing access of poor to land and employment, and expanding social safety nets for
vulnerable groups. On both fronts, the state government‘s achievements are impressive.

Increased availability of land for the poor, enhanced coverage of social pensioners, and
employment to rural youth has helped vulnerable groups in AP.

           In order to enhance access to land of the poor, the GoAP has proactively
            redistributed land to vulnerable groups. In total, about 1.4 million acres have been
            redistributed so far to almost a million beneficiaries, in six phases since 2006/07. Of
            these, almost 90 percent has gone to SC/ST groups and backward castes. Going
            beyond the APERL3 actions, the GoAP has employed 60,000 rural youths to survey
            about 2.5 million acres of land belonging to SC/ST groups, and has found that about
            a million acres is lying fallow due to: (i) the land being involved in litigation; and (ii)
            lack of funds to make the land productively suited to cultivation. GoAP has linked
            land in category (ii) to the NREGA, in an effort to improve the productivity of the
            land.


`                                                 8
                Social pension rates have been fixed at Rs. 200 per month, and there were more than
                 6.6 million social pensioners across the state in 2008/09 (against an APERL3 target
                 of 4.8 million)1. Additions to the total pool of social pensioners exceeded 1.5 million
                 in 2007/08, and 2.2 million in 2008/09, as against APERL3 targets of 1.2 million and
                 1.8 million respectively. Currently, the number of social pensions has reached 7.2
                 million, which is almost saturation coverage. Vacancies are now filled at the basic
                 replacement rate, so as to cover all eligible pensioners.
                The GoAP had made impressive progress on providing rural youth with remunerative
                 private sector employment. The Employment Guarantee and Marketing Mission
                 seeks to provide employment to and enhance employability of rural youth from
                 economically and socially underprivileged families in remote areas. Over 2006/07 to
                 2008/09, about 2.15 rural youth have been provided short-course training, of whom
                 about 0.175 million have found placements in over 100 private sector companies —
                 as against an APERL3 target of 0.1 million over the same period. The original target
                 for 2010/11was to train and place another 0.13 million rural youth. However,
                 progress in 2010/11 has been somewhat slower than originally envisaged as the
                 GoAP has reviewed the program, and raised the requirements for training.2 About
                 0.048 million have been trained so far in 2010/11, with the total expect to reach about
                 0.065 million by the end of the fiscal year. Till date, starting from 2005, 0.316
                 million rural and tribal youth have been trained free of cost, with placement rates
                 exceeding 70 percent.

The GoAP is taking important steps to enhance food security, even though the Rice Credit
Scheme supported by APERL3 has been discontinued. The Rice Credit Scheme began on a
pilot basis when APERL3 was under preparation. Under the scheme, Women Self Help Groups
(SHG)procured rice to be provided on credit to the poorest. However, low recovery rates affected
the viability of the scheme, and it was discontinued in 2008/09. A different food security scheme
that aims to provide Rs. 0.1 million annually to every SHG household is being rolled out. Almost
a fifth of the SHG households are already earning Rs. 0.1 million a year, while an additional 45
percent can reach this figure with some support and sustained credit flows. The GoAP is
focusing its attention on the poorest third of SHG households which are particularly
disadvantaged, and is undertaking a survey of these households to form a database of their status
and requirements to break out of the poverty cycle. About a quarter of the state has been
surveyed, and the plans are expected to be under implementation in a phased manner by 2014. It
is envisaged that, by 2016, all SHG households will meet the food security target of Rs. 0.1
million a year.

Regular and concurrent social audits and use of information technology have improved the
effectiveness of antipoverty programs in AP. These measures have empowered the people to
question implementing authorities in a public forum. Social audit rules under the National Rural
Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA) have been approved and issued, and social audits are now
done across all 22 districts starting with the first 13 NREGA districts in June 2006. Techniques
and rules have continuously evolved over the last few years, based on analysis and feedback,




1
    As per data received from the State‘s Rural Department.
2
  A review of the program showed that, while youth found employment after the training, the retention
rates fell off about six months from the completion of the training. Accordingly, the GoAP has adopted
more stringent requirements and standards for the training to be imparted.


`                                                             9
incorporating lessons learned.3 Social audits are required to be carried out per village once every
six months, based on schedules drawn up by the district administration and social audit teams. At
present, the GoAP has achieved an average frequency of once every eight months, but expects the
frequency to improve this year. The GoAP acts as a facilitator, and guides the concurrent social
audits with training and inputs. Activists have trained citizens to read, comprehend and verify
official documents. Corrective actions are taken post the audits, if required, and these actions are
publicized. IT back-offices have been set up to analyze data from all NREGA districts. Social
audit reports are available publicly in downloadable format on the GoAP‘s social audit website.
This has enhanced public accountability in AP, and generated lessons for other states.

                       Theme 2- Structural Measures to Facilitate Growth

In keeping with the reform program under the APERL, the Agriculture Produce Marketing
Committee Act was amended in AP to allow for direct marketing, contract farming and private
sector terminal markets. AP was also the first Indian state to amend the contract labor regulation
to allow flexibility in hiring contract workers in non core activities of an organization and in
unexpected situations, and has implemented alternative dispute resolution mechanisms for
industrial disputes. A Special Economic Zone (SEZ) Act was enacted and a large number of SEZs
are in various stages of implementation by the private sector. The labor market provisions
conceived by the state in an earlier Special Enclave and Disputes Resolution Act, that was not
ratified, were included in this Act. In view of this a separate mention of this piece of legislation
was not necessary in the reform matrix when its provisions were already incorporated in a
subsequent larger legislation. GoAP also made progress with other reform measures.

GoAP piloted an integrated land information systems project – Bhu-Bharti in one district –
Nizamabad which is expected to be extended to five more districts. The pilot was an experiment
in providing assurance in land titling. This is to be backed up by the creation of a sole agency to
provide ‗conclusive‘ land title across the state. The government is also in the process of setting up
a Geographic Information System based Land Information System which will provide
prospective investors with information and indicative prices of available land for future industrial
investments.

An independent assessment of past investment climate (IC) reforms - single window, SEZ Act,
labor reforms, annual inspection, self certification, environment clearances etc. - agreed to during
APERL3 was not undertaken. However, separately, Andhra Pradesh is amongst the top five states
in India according to the World Bank‘s Investment Climate Assessment Report, (2008) and
Hyderabad is the second best city in terms of ‗ease of doing business‘ according to the Sub-
National Doing Business Report for India (2009). AP continues to be a preferred investment
destination in assessments carried out by industry associations and the media. A recent study
carried out by a leading industry association 4 on corporate investment places AP amongst the top
three states in India in terms of share of investment.

The Industries and Infrastructure departments have been separated and AP is amongst the few
states that have created a separate department for infrastructure with a focus on PPPs. Major
infrastructure such as state port and airport projects are being implemented on a PPP mode by the
Infrastructure department. About 179 PPP projects in various sectors (roads, ports, railways,


3
  Social audits were earlier guided by Government Order 317 dated August 22, 2008, but this has been
updated and replaced by Government Order 98 dated March 30, 2010.
4
  Assocham Investment Meter.


`                                                  10
tourism, and urban) with an estimated investment of about US$14 billion are in various stages of
development. Out of the 571 SEZ proposals approved by Government of India, AP‘s share is 102
of which 72 have been notified.5 In addition, a large number of Industrial Parks developed and
operated by APIIDC have been effective in garnering SME investments and over 40,000 SME
units have been facilitated through the single window system since 2002.

                               Theme 3: Public Enterprise Reforms

The Public Enterprise (PE) reform program of GoAP started off very well in the year 1999/00,
making big strides for the next 7 to 8 years, but stopped after the completion of the first two
phases. Phase 3 of the program was not undertaken for various reasons. First, the government
developed the view that many enterprises identified for phase 3 had social obligations (e.g. State
Co-operative Bank, Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes Cooperative Finance Corporation,
State Civil Supplies Corporation) or those with a developmental function and decided these
needed strengthening and restructuring rather than being divested. Second, some of these
enterprises included large labor-intensive enterprises (such as AP State Roads Transport
Corporation, Singareni Collieries) that were considered to have high political and social costs in
terms of redundancies. Third, one of the largest enterprises in this phase, namely, Singareni
Collieries turned around from a loss making to a profit making company through some home-
grown innovative restructuring and strengthening. The Public Enterprises department which had
played a very proactive role in the entire privatization process was directed to assist any
department that approached them for assistance with PE restructuring.6

Despite the backtracking in phase 3, GoAP‘s overall PE reform program has been impressive and
is considered amongst best practice in India. A strong safety net program (SSN) was designed to
mitigate the social impact of reforms and minimize adverse impact. The SSN had two distinct
components: (i) the Voluntary Retirement Scheme, which was essentially aimed at easing the
impact of job loss by providing a severance package; and (ii) counseling and retraining for
redeployment of the displaced workers so that over a period of time they could be reintegrated
into the labor market or become self-employed. This was supported by a strong communications
strategy conveying the benefits of restructuring/privatization to people at large.

From the change in GoAP‘s approach towards PE divestment, it appears that certain parts of the
DPL program that were earlier strong reform components were persisted with due to past
momentum. A better understanding of the new Government‘s appetite for certain kinds of reform
should have been important in view of the changed political economy context. While
responsibility rests with both GoAP and the Bank, GoAP had the larger responsibility in
evaluating its ability to continue with a reform program. Demonstrating continuing reformist
commitment may have been a factor but that could have been amply demonstrated in other parts
of the reform agenda with stronger political buy-in rather than persist with an agenda where
GoAP own position was evolving.




5
  www.sezindia.nic.in
6
  DfID supported AP‘s PE reform program through a TA that provided funds for consultants who did
feasibility studies, related logistical support to the department and the Social Safety Nets Program and the
Voluntary Retirement Scheme during phase 1 and 2, in which a total of about 85 enterprises were
addressed.


`                                                    11
    Theme 4: Improving (i) Aggregate Fiscal Situation (ii) Public Expenditure Management;
                              and (iii) Financial Accountability

Key fiscal indicators showed improvement. The reform path, enshrined in the Andhra Pradesh
Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (APFRBM) Act of 2005, called for an elimination
of the revenue deficit in 2008/09 and bringing down the fiscal deficit to 3 percent of Gross State
Domestic Product (GSDP) by the same year. Following a series of fiscal stimulus measures
undertaken by Government of India (GoI) in response to the global financial crisis, state
governments were allowed to expand their fiscal deficits to 3.5 percent of GSDP in 2008/09 and 4
percent in 2009/10. The GoAP has adhered to the fiscal consolidation path in its Medium Term
Fiscal Policy. These achievements came despite the civil service pay increase following the Sixth
Pay Commission award, successive droughts and floods, and a sharply reduced growth rate.
GoAP registered revenue surplus of 1 percent of GSDP in 2006/07 and maintained this thereafter,
attaining 0.3 percent in 2009/10 and 0.1 percent in 2010/11 (RE) respectively. The fiscal deficit
for 2009/10 was 2.9 percent and is expected to be 2.6 percent of GSDP in 2010/11 according to
revised estimates. The debt to GSDP ratio declined from 31.3 percent in 2004/05 to 23 percent in
2009/10 which is well below the APFRBM target of 35 percent. The stock of guarantees provided
by the government declined from 8.3 percent of GSDP in 2004/05 to 3.7 percent of GSDP in
2008/09. A debt sustainability analysis was not carried out separately probably in view of the
decline in the debt to GSDP ratio. The ratio of interest expenditure to revenue receipt has also
                                                                     gradually decreased from 21
    80.0%                                                            percent in 2005/06 to 14.8
                                                                     percent in 2009/10.
     60.0%       2008/09

                 2009/10                                             Improved                     tax
     40.0%                                                           administration         ensured
                                                                     better compliance. The tax
                                                                     to GSDP ratio decreased
     20.0%
                                                                     marginally from 7.7 percent
                                                                     in 2005/06 to 7.4 percent in
      0.0%                                                           2009/10 after some initial
               Total     Own tax Own non- Shared        Central      improvement. The state‘s
    -20.0% Revenue revenue           tax      taxes     grants       own revenue increased at an
                                   revenue                           average rate of 15 percent
    -40.0%                                                           during the period 2005/06-
                                                                     2009/10. AP has been one of
    -60.0%
                                                                     the first states to shift to the
                                                                     value added tax (VAT)
                                                                     regime in 2005 resulting in
rationalization of tax rates and improved interface with tax payers. The reforms included on-line
registration with certificates issued within 24 hours, compulsory e-filing with 90 percent
compliance, on-line provision of statutory forms, e-payment and filing of returns etc to improve
compliance. In view of the introduction of VAT, implementation of the recommendations of the
Revenue Reforms Committee (RRC) was not pursued further. Some recommendations relating to
the reform of the sales tax regime may have even become redundant. A national consensus also
evolved on reducing stamp duty to 5 percent which GoAP says will be implemented by 2012. The
DPL reform policy matrix did not take into account these national developments and elected to
continue with the RRC implementation which GoAP subsequently did not pursue further after the
introduction of VAT. A more viable option may have been identifying specific reform measures
from the RRC‘s report in areas that were not part of the national consensus rather than focusing
on the report per se given the wider development nationally.


`                                                12
Total expenditure has been managed but composition has not improved. Total expenditure
has consistently stayed around 20 percent of GSDP during the last five years of which plan
expenditure was about 6.5 percent of GSDP for 2009/10. For 2010/11 it is expected to be about 7
percent    of      GSDP
(Rs.363          billion).     % GSDP          Expenditure on power sector
Capital Outlay and non-       1.2%
wage operations and           1.0%
maintenance                   0.8%
expenditure increased         0.6%
steadily        between       0.4%
2005/06 and 2007/08           0.2%
reaching 3.5 percent of       0.0%
GSDP and 1.5 percent
of GSDP respectively,
but declined in later
years due to the effect                               Exp.on power serctor
of the global economic
slowdown, higher subsidies 7 and implementation of the Sixth Pay Commission award. For
2009/10, the ratio of capital outlay to GSDP was about 2.9 percent which is forecast to decrease
to 2.6 percent in 2010/11 (RE). GoAP spent about 1 percent of GSDP on non-wage operations
and maintenance during 2009/10. The state has increased spending on the primary social services8
both as part of the state plan and as counterpart-funding associated with centrally sponsored
schemes. But this has not reached the level of 3 percent of GSDP envisaged under APERL3. In
2008/09 the spending on primary social services stood at 1.7 percent of GSDP.

While overall fiscal consolidation was on track, expenditure composition did not reflect the
degree of improvement that was attempted particularly in respect to capital outlay and non-wage
O&M expenditure, constrained as they were by the other expenditure decisions as mentioned
above. On the positive side, this period saw the share of committed expenditures, i.e. interest
payments, salaries and pensions, in total expenditures declining from 49.7 percent in 2005/06 to
40 percent in 2009/10, increasing fiscal space. However, the share of capital outlay in total
expenditures remained stagnant at around 20 percent. Non wage O&M expenditure has also
remained around 9 percent. The GoAP was also been unable to contain expenditure on subsidies.
Subsidies, mostly on power and food subsidies, and other transfers increased from 19.8 percent of
total expenditures in 2005/06 to 29.2 percent in 2009/10. Rice subsidy doubled as share of GSDP
from 0.3 percent in 2007/08 to 0.6 percent in 2009/10.

Public Financial Management (PFM): Guided by the findings of an State Financial
Accountability Assessment (SFAA) undertaken in 1993, several steps have been taken in the
areas of budget execution, monitoring, and cash management. These have produced
demonstrable results like transparency in budget execution and improved cash flows, and


7
  Power subsidies are a major element of expenditure under the state exchequer. An amount of about Rs.16
billion as subsidies was granted to the power sector in 2001/02. By 2009/10, the amount has gone up to
Rs.64 billion which converts to about 1.3 percent of GSDP at current prices. The total amount of subsidies
and transfers estimated for 2009/10 and 2010/11 (RE) stands at Rs.201 billion and Rs.263.86 billion which
is equivalent to 4.2 percent and 5 percent of GSDP respectively.
8
  Measured as expenditure on General Education, Technical Education, Medical and Public Health, Water
supply and Sanitation, National Rural Health Mission and Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan.


`                                                   13
provided a strong trajectory for public financial management improvement. GoAP has made fair
progress in the strengthening of the PFM systems in line with the reform measures in the DPL
Policy matrix. However, in the absence of a PFM M&E framework, that was to be developed
under the DPL, the actual extent of progress cannot be gauged although considerable effort has
been made to strengthen the framework. Key reforms envisaged in this area related to improving
the quality of planning and budgeting in the line departments, improved funds, cash, debt and
fixed asset management, revenue forecasting and strengthening of internal controls. The reform
was supported through an Institutional Development Fund (IDF) Grant to strengthen PFM.

Improvement in the budgetary process and financial management: The GoAP has simplified
its budget classification; issued more comprehensive budget instructions and budget timetables,
put in place a detailed scrutiny processes, and introduced greater transparency. Transparency has
improved with user-friendly budgets, and accounting information is now available on-line and in
printed versions, in the form of the Annual Fiscal Framework, the Budget in Brief and Accounts
at a Glance. However, the annual Budget continues to over-project expenditure. A comparison
between budgeted expenditure and accounts show that actual expenditure was 80 percent of
budgeted expenditure in 2008/09 and 82 percent in 2009/10. This means that the targeted
consistency of actual expenditure at over 90 percent of budgeted expenditure was not achieved.

Cash management and predictability of fund flows: Automation of the treasury system has
been completed at the district level. This has reduced the need for cash transactions, which are
vulnerable to fraud, and has provided a tool for improving cash management. Wages and salaries
of state government employees are now made through the commercial banking system.
Predictable fund flows to implementing agencies has also helped to ensure a generally high level
of consistency between the budget and actual expenditure. The government has strived to
maintain a consistent pattern of releases, authorizing expenditure at the beginning of the financial
year, and making quarterly releases as per the requirement of various departments. However,
there have been some delays and irregularities in these releases of late, due to fiscal difficulties.

Internal audit: An internal audit (IA) unit has been established in the Finance Department and
an audit committee has been established to provide overall direction. The existing Internal Audit
Manual has been revised and updated and pilot testing of the revised internal audit manual has
been done in some line departments. The IA unit will be responsible for the conduct of internal
audit in some new Bank projects.

Financial accountability of Public Sector Units: A study to improve PSU‘s financial
accountability was required to be undertaken under the reform program but has not been done. It
is also difficult to gauge whether PSU accounting and response to audit had improved since this
was not tracked by the program.

Procurement Reform: Andhra Pradesh has led in the introduction of e – procurement for better
accountability and transparency. While it is mandatory for all tenders of over 1 million rupees to
go through e – procurement, the obvious efficiencies in the system has meant that more and more
departments are putting tenders as low as Rs. 100,000 on the system. At the end of 2010, 210
departments were using this system. About 75 percent to 80 percent of all government
procurement now goes through e- procurement. According to the Government this measure has
increased competition, reduced processing time and restored credibility to the public procurement
system. An indicator of success is an overall reduction of about 25 percent in prices. Innovative
practices used in involving the private sector have enabled GoAP to get an independent service
provider to host and manage e – procurement.



`                                                14
In the rationale for including a procurement tranche release condition, the program document had
argued that even though the use of e-procurement was widespread, progress in procurement rules
and skills had not kept pace with technical advancement. Delay in securing the passage of a
procurement law had limited the underlying ability of GoAP to improve the quality of
procurement rules and skills. To ensure improved bid responsiveness and competitive
environment there was need for improving transparency and accountability through enactment of
Legislation. APERL3 therefore targeted an improvement in the procurement framework but did
not push for improved procurement outcomes. The GoAP introduced the draft Public
Procurement Act in the State legislature on March 4, 2010 after a long delay. A long consultative
process to obtain a broad political consensus on the legislation was followed by further delay due
to political uncertainty resulting from the untimely demise of the Chief Minister and protests
advocating bifurcation of the state. The law has not yet been voted or enacted with no time-
frames for enactment set either. As a consequence, in terms of expected impact on procurement
nothing much has changed on the ground. The challenge before the government is to focus on
enactment and its implementation to help in bringing consistency and expected transparency in all
procurement activities.

                                Theme 5: Governance Reform

Substantial progress has been made in implementing Governance reforms. The first phase of
the Andhra Pradesh Governance Reform Program (2001 – 2005) supported by previous
adjustment lending, aimed at building the institutional champions for taking forward governance
reform including the Centre for Good Governance (CGG) and Strategy and Performance
Innovation Units (SPIU) in line departments. The second phase of the program ( 2005 – 2009)
partly implemented through the ―Delivery of Improved Services in Administration‖ ( DISA)
Program funded by UK DFID has focused on the more difficult themes of human resource
management and institutional change in departments and at the cutting edge of service delivery.
This has gone hand in hand with a continuing focus on innovative e – governance and
transparency initiatives taken forward by both the state government and by the CGG which
remains a hub for analytical and consultancy support for governance reform and is rapidly
evolving into a national resource. The sustainability of governance reforms and the commitment
of the Government to this agenda can be seen in the establishment of a Government of Andhra
Pradesh funded ―Reform Incentive Fund‖ (RIF) substituting for the funding previously provided
by the UK DfID. Allocations provided through the budget for governance reforms are rare in
Indian states and this initiative is unique and testimony to the importance given to this agenda.
About Rs. 40 million is provided under the RIF. Departments can bid to this fund to take forward
governance and institutional reform pilots.

 Embedding institutional capacity for reform in key departments and developing
department level change and development plans was a key strategy. The establishment and
staffing of SPIUs in key departments and expanding this concept to Districts were seen as key to
institutionalizing the reform agenda within government. This has been in the major part,
extremely successful and departments testify that SPIU‘s have provided useful technical and
reform leadership and support. Full time Directors and technical support units were established
through Government Orders in seven departments including the departments of Health, Education,
Rural Development, Finance, General Administration, Welfare and Urban Development with
DfID support. In addition to these, in 2007, the state government agreed to fund SPIU‘s from
the state‗s own budget in the departments of Agriculture, Irrigation, Revenue and Home. These
technical support units have supported the implementation of a wide range of departmental
reform activities including the rolling out of an innovative caseload management system which


`                                              15
for example has allowed the Education Department to bring down its pendency rate of cases by
50 percent, drafting the Procurement Act and supporting the development of an innovative Health
Sector reform program. SPIU‘s in the Rural Development Department has been responsible for
supporting the roll out of the Social Audit process and this SPIU has now been converted by
government into an autonomous society for Social Audit. District level SPIU‘s have been piloted
in one district.

Progress on Human Resource Management, a central pillar of the civil service reform
agenda has been good. GoAP has established a centralized Human Resource Management
(HRM) Unit in the General Administration (GA) Department. and has re-designated the Secretary
(Services) as the Secretary (Services and HRM). Human Resource Management in most states in
India suffers from a fractured mandate and responsibility for this function is divided amongst
general administration, finance and line departments. This unit will focus on streamlining the
human resource function across government including recruitment, training and accountability
and motivation related issues. A draft approach paper for an HRM strategy was prepared in April
2009 and a format for establishing a Human Resource Management Information System
(HRMIS)/Employees database has been prepared and is being piloted in the GA Department. The
unit has also prepared a Performance Management framework for staff that flows out of the
Departmental performance indicators, and includes both qualitative and quantitative indicators.
More importantly, a study has been completed which recommends fundamental revisions in
service rules. These rules were formulated in 1922 and have not seen significant revisions since
and loopholes and discrepancies in these rules are a major cause of litigation and inefficiency.
The revisions are being studied and will need to be formally adopted by government.

A strategy has been implemented for improving financial management in the Health Sector.
A full time financial advisor has been recruited for the Health Department and a fully operational
financial management unit established and an information technology enabled financial system
plan is being rolled out. The Government Order establishing the institution specifically notes the
integrity and effectiveness of the financial management system at all operational levels is critical
to the successful outcome of health investments. A cadre of accountants and auditors are being
recruited to staff the unit and the District Medical and Health Officer has been made directly
responsible for management of funds at the district level assisted by a district financial
management unit. These state and district level units will also support the planning and budgeting
process and will closely monitor and review all expenditures.

Improving transparency accountability and service delivery including through e –
governance solutions has been a core aspect of the GoAP’s Governance Reform Strategy.
This focus has resulted in a number of accountability and transparency related initiatives. Social
audit is now an integral part of the government‘s citizen focused monitoring system and
community score cards have been trialed in rural development and health related service delivery.
A system for school score cards has also been introduced. Although formal expenditure tracking
has not been utilized, the welfare departments launched a number of studies to identify leakages
and vulnerabilities and to improve targeting and efficiency. A Social Benefits Tracking System
has been established and a complete overhaul of the existing scholarship program and
government hostel program has led to substantial savings and improved service delivery.
Quality Assurance systems are being established and a pilot is being taken forward by Health
department where independent Quality Assurance Agencies have been hired to monitor quality in
two teaching hospitals and one district hospital. The state government hopes to expand this
independent quality assurance mechanism in the future. GoAP, however, has been less than
enthusiastic in publicizing the anti-corruption activities of its vigilance department by not tabling
annual reports of the Vigilance Commissioner in the state legislature. It also did not implement


`                                                16
the recommendations of studies on corruption prone processes in departments of transport, town
planning and weaker sections housing program that featured in the policy matrix.

The use of E- Governance for improving accountability remains central to the Andhra
Pradesh reform agenda. AP has in the past led in providing urban services, both Government to
Citizen and Business to Citizen, through its innovative e- sewa program which remains important.
The government‘s e – governance strategy then expanded to include rural service delivery
through a network of Rajiv kiosks. This strategy however, has now been collapsed into the larger
national e – governance program. One thousand five hundred Common Service Centres have
already been established out of a total of 4,687 that are planned. When the program is completed
every six villages in Andhra Pradesh will have access to one service centre. The E – Sewa
program continues to move from strength to strength. Major urban centers are fully covered and
there are 52 functioning centers in the state capital and the surrounding district, managing an
average of 60,000 transactions a day and 214 centers in other municipal towns taking forward
about 70,000 transactions every day.

 The governance of the Health sector was seen as a critical area for reform and Andhra
Pradesh has gone far beyond what was planned in taking forward Health Sector Reforms.
The SPIU in the Health department has been converted into a State Health Resource Centre
providing continuing policy support and is an instrument for strategic and operational monitoring,
coordination and capacity development. An ambitious process of organizational restructuring to
the last point in service delivery has brought together six departments under one umbrella for
functional coordination thereby leveraging a number of benefits. Five to six Primary Health
centers have been brought together for effective supervision and linked to a referral hospital.
Three hundred and sixty such referral hospitals, each with a full-fledged management unit bring
together district level staff. District level plans aligned to state priorities have been established
and monitoring of these plans are supervised by the Management unit in the referral hospitals.
This is an innovative model that puts the lowest and most inaccessible rung of the Health
Management system at the centre stage of policy making and planning. Major reforms have also
been taken forward in Health procurement with an ‗Essential Medicines List‘ being formulated
for the first time in the state in consultations with the World Health Organization. An Emergency
medical management system has also been established to create common protocols to deal with
emergency admissions including a system of emergency transportation. 9 Innovative ways to
tackle the human resource management crises in the health sector are also witnessed. Rules have
been established that demand those entering medical college have to do a two year rotating
internship – including one year in the Primary Health Centre in order to graduate. Incentives are
being provided to doctors to spend more time in rural areas. Thus to gain a higher specialization
an MBBS graduate has to work 2 years in tribal areas, or 4 years in a rural area or five years in an
urban area.
                                    Theme 6: Power Sector Reform

The power sector continues to remain one of the most challenging areas of reform in AP and
India. While the operational performance of the transmission and distribution sector continues to
show upward trend through efficiency improvements, however the financial health of the sector
has been under stress that is in turn having adverse fiscal implications through increased subsidy




9
    This covers 108 locations with an aim to bring ambulatory services within 20 minutes of all citizens.



`                                                      17
requirements for the power sector. The difficulties with reform in the sector had led to the
dropping of the original indicative trigger from the operation targeting improved financial
viability of the sector.10 The overall objective of the reform program has not been met although
there has been technical progress in many areas. The power sector, particularly transmission and
distribution has become more financially vulnerable than at the start of the operation.

To improve access and efficiency in the sector, key reforms supported under the program
included reduction in subsidy and transmission and distribution (T&D) losses, increase in
metered sales, management of agricultural consumption and improvements on the regulatory
front. While reduction in cross subsidy remains a huge socio-economic challenge and the
national tariff policy11 has not been met, GoAP has made good progress in other areas. It has
increased investments in the transmission and distribution (T&D) system and improved share of
metered sales but did not attain the target of 98 percent metering. The T&D utilities in the state
have together invested about Rs. 96 billion from 2006/07 to 2009/10 (i.e. on an average Rs. 24
billion per year) compared to investments of Rs 18.5 billion per year during 2004/05 and 2005/06.
Metered sales continue to show a gradual upward trend, increasing from 39 percent of input
energy in 2000/01 to about 58 percent in 2009/10. T&D losses have been significantly brought
down, the losses being almost halved from 35 percent in 2000/01 to about 18 percent in 2009/10
meeting the indicator for the operation. This has happened even while demand has been growing
at more than 9.5 percent annually during the last four years and rural electrification has
increased.12 Further, there has been noticeable reduction in the interruptions and breakdowns, as
reflected in the drop in transformer failure rate from 29 percent in 2000/01 to 8.1 percent in
2010/1, though the improvement over the last four years has been bit uneven with the failure rate
actually going up last year.

T&D companies are focusing on strengthening their human resource base. Consultants were
engaged to carry out an assessment of human resources and skill requirements keeping in mind
the challenges by the sector. The study has been completed. Going forward, the key challenge
for the utilities would be to act on these findings.

AP continues to demonstrate strong performance on the regulatory front. Consistent with
the Electricity Act 2003, Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC) has
issued terms and conditions of open access to intra state transmission and distribution networks in
July 2005 and currently open access above 1 MW is effective. The commission has also moved
forward on the implementation of multi-year tariff (MYT) regime providing a stable and
increasingly predictable regulatory framework. APERC has issued MYT orders for T&D
network business for the period 2009/10 to 2013/14 in March 2009. The latest retail tariff order
was issued by APERC in July 2010 wherein a moderate hike has been effected for certain
consumer categories.




10
   Page 19 of Program Document.
11
   The national policy targets cross subsidies for each consumer category to be within +/- 20% of average
cost of supply by 2010-11.
12
   As of December 2010, the state has achieved close to 92 percent household electrification level in rural
areas while 100 percent village electrification was achieved in 2006/07.


`                                                    18
                                 T&D Losses and Metered Sales
                                      (% of Input Energy)                        57%   58%
                                                                         56%
            60%                                              53%   52%
                                        49%       50%
                                 45%
                   39%    41%
            40%

                   35%
            20%           30%
                                 26%
                                        22%       21%        21%   21%   20%     19%   18%
             0%


           -20%



                                     T&D Losses                      Metered Sales




      Source: Department of Energy, GoAP

APERC, in February 2010, has also approved an ‗Alternate Measurement Mechanism‘ for
verification of electricity consumption (at the feeder level) for agriculture consumers. APERC has
asked all the four distribution companies to start a study on pilot basis for a period of two years
starting from May 2010 to make the sales estimate more reliable. This is an important and
positive step in estimating annual consumption of power by agricultural consumers.

Overall support from the government to the power sector has gone up, putting a strain on
the fiscal resources. The increase has been mainly on account of the financial support being
provided towards additional costs of power purchase on account of - increase in generation costs;
significant drop in available low-cost hydropower; and generation capacity (including gas based
plant availability) not keeping pace with the increasing demand leading to expensive market
purchases.13 The government is taking steps to contain shortages by going in for capacity addition
through state generating company and Private Power Producers besides procuring 2000 MW
power through competitive bidding to meet the growing demand.

The AP Transmission Company (APTRANSCO) and the four distribution companies operate
without any financial losses after taking GoAP‘s subsidies into account. The state has been
providing free supply to agriculture (since May 2004) and there has been no revision in tariff for
8 years until FY2010 when a moderate tariff revision was effected. Two important components of
the reform program relating to demand side management- installation of capacitors and energy
efficient pumps launching awareness campaigns and incentives to enable farmers to derive better
outcomes from power were not met. The operating revenue gap is met through government
subsidy and short term borrowings. Cost recovery from tariffs have gone down from 85 percent in
2003/04 to 66 percent in 2009/10 (which is almost as 2000/01 levels) while subsidy support to the
sector has increased from Rs. 15 billion in 2003/04 to Rs. 67 billion in 2009/10. The indebtedness
of the sector has also significantly increased with the total outstanding debt to the T&D segment
more than doubling to Rs. 152 billion (with short term debt having a share of more than 72



13
  Costs per unit sold have risen by more than 33 percent and the average per unit power purchase costs
have gone up by around 43 percent between 2006/07 and 2009/10.


`                                                       19
percent) in 2009/10 compared to Rs. 63 billion (with short term debt having a share of around 10
percent only) in 2006/07.

                                   Theme 7: Health Sector Reform

Health sector performance: Since 2006, AP has been implementing the National Rural Health
Mission (NRHM) which has contributed to strengthened health infrastructure - both physical and
human resources, expanded network of obstetric and neonatal care facilities, and ensured the
presence of a village level health functionary in every village of the state. The state has also been
innovating and investing in health systems on its own, besides the reform initiatives which have
been funded under NRHM. Altogether, this has served the state in improving its health
performance indicators steadily. For example, total fertility rate in the state came down from 3
(1991) to 1.8 (2009) and infant mortality declined to 49 per 1000 live births, from a level of 73
per 1000 live births over the same period. 14 The decline in maternal mortality is even more
impressive- from 417 per 100,000 in 1992/93 to a level of 154 per 100,000 in the 2004-06
period. 15 Few states in the country can boast of attaining these levels, or have been able to
demonstrate similar trends of improvement in their health indices.

Health sector reforms and innovation in AP: AP was the first to introduce and implement an
ambitious plan to connect all its rural and urban habitations with an ambulance network that can
respond quickly and also provide initial life support. The network can be accessed by dialing 108
from any phone for the patient‘s pickup. The service is free of charge to the patient. The system
has 752 ambulances as on date, covers 97 percent of the geographical area of the state, and
enables access to an ambulance within 21 minutes across rural AP and within 14 minutes in urban
AP, going beyond the indicators mentioned in the policy matrix. To illustrate its utilization, about
450,000 pregnant women were carried for institutional deliveries by this ambulance network
during 2010. The system is being strengthened further with common protocols to deal with
emergency admissions in 17 district and 12 teaching hospitals. Trauma Care centers is being
established in these hospitals and training programs in emergency care provided for paramedics,
nurses and doctors.

GoAP also introduced the ‗Rajiv Arogya Sree‘ Community Health Insurance scheme in 2007.
The scheme provides BPL families cover for the cashless treatment of 942 medical conditions
involving hospitalization and surgery/therapy through an identified network of health care
providers. Presently, the scheme covers 20.4 million poor and lower middle class families across
the state. As of March 2011, this health insurance program has already authorized over 900,000
hospitalizations at a combined cost of over Rs.27 billion.

There are now 800 PHCs which function round the clock, and there are 117 First Referral Units
which provide comprehensive emergency obstetric and newborn care services. A total of
1,413,202 institutional deliveries were conducted in the state in 2009/10 and institutional
deliveries now cover 97 percent of the state.

While these innovations were being undertaken by the state, there was also considerable
departmental reorganization to support the health system reform agenda. These have already
been referred to in the Governance section. District level health plans are being prepared in the
state to meet NRHM requirements. Initially, orientation meetings and workshops were organized


14
     Source: Sample Registration Survey, Registrar General of India, GOI, 1991 and 2009.
15
     IIHFW (1992/93) and SRS (2009)


`                                                    20
at the State Head Quarters. Thereafter, district planning meetings are organized by the districts
which lead to development of the district action plans. With the creation of the PHC Clusters,
these plans are now being aligned to local priorities and the roll out and monitoring of these plans
is being supervised by the referral hospitals.

The state passed a Clinical Establishment Act in 2007, even before the GOI. Thus all healthcare
establishments now require a license, although it is difficult to confirm if all health care
establishments have been licensed. AP is following the accreditation system for reimbursement of
publicly provided services as prescribed by the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and
Healthcare Providers (NABH). Several public and private hospitals in AP are currently applicants
to NABH for accreditation. GoAP has met all indicators of the reform program except the rollout
of the Clinical Establishment Act that is under implementation.

                              Theme 8: Education Sector Reform

Developments in the school education subsector have been mixed. While expenditures on
education have increased during the period, overall spending on education remains low and
nowhere near the benchmarked level of 6 percent of GSDP. Furthermore, increased budgetary
allocations have not necessarily translated into demonstrated improvements in schooling quality
and learning outcomes. Internal efficiency indicators are weak, system drop-outs remain high
with only about half the students who enter Grade 1 completing Grade 10 resulting in significant
losses to the system. However, in some other areas GoAP has progressed beyond the reform
program under the DPL, particularly restructuring of the Department of School Education.

Improving education service delivery through departmental and institutional restructuring
and strengthening. The APERL3 envisioned three critical changes in the school education
department‘s structure and functioning: (i) Strengthening the implementation of the Sarva
Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) as the primary vehicle for elementary education, (ii) Devolving and
increased set of rights and responsibilities to Village Education Committees and PTAs, and (iii)
Ensuring teacher distribution as per norms. The GoAP restructured the school education
department. Given the importance of SSA to the overall implementation of the ‗Education for All‘
program, the GoAP decided to increase the profile of the SSA program and created a parallel
structure for the implementation of SSA. However, other anticipated management reforms
envisioned under the DPL have not take place. For instance, instead of decentralization to Parent
Teacher Associations, the education sector has probably become more centralized. Finally, on
teacher management issues, the GoAP was unable to neither move towards a system of
decentralized school level recruitment of teachers nor address salary differential between regular
and contract teachers.

Improving school completion rate. The completion rate has increased continuously. GoAP has
fixed a target of reducing dropout rate by 5 percent every year. Across the entire state, drop-out
rates were halved from 37 percent to 15.8 percent across Grades 1-5. This trend can also be seen
for all Grades from 1-8. There could be several reasons for this. The GoAP introduced
innovative new programs to strengthen student reading and arithmetic abilities. Some of these
programs, such as, Children Language Improvement Program and Children Learning
Acceleration Program in a Sustainable Way have had impacts on school level accountability and
on student performance and monitoring. Furthermore, the GoAP also introduced a new policy on
continuous assessment and this too has an implication for student assessments and promotions.

Evidence Based Decision Making.              APERL3 tried to get the GoAP to recognize the
importance of the use of high quality research for decision making. While the GoAP did initially


`                                               21
support research in the state this has not been actively pursued. There is very little evidence that
the GoAP actually makes use of the information available to improve program design. The
GoAP has supported the Andhra Pradesh Randomized Evaluation in 2008 with a grant of Rs.20
million. However, the preliminary lessons from this study have not yet assisted policy.




`                                               22
                                                                Performance against Progress Indicators under APERL3
                                             (Reform areas and Progress Indicators as per APERL3 PAD; results are the assessment of this ICR)
              Reform Area                                                                             Progress Indicators                                                                        Results
                                                                          Theme 1: Pro-poor policy formulation and implementation
1.1: Strengthening the effectiveness of        Social Audit Rules under NREG are notified in the Gazette.                                                                              Done.
anti-poverty programs (APPs).                  Social Audit reports posted on Department of Rural Development website.                                                                 Done.
                                               Data and reports available on Department of Rural Development website.                                                                  Done.
1.2: Increasing access of poor to land and     Titles of reassigned land in the name of poor women, as per data maintained by CCLA (Chief Commissioner Land                            Done.
employment, and expanding social                Administration).
safety-nets for vulnerable groups.             Number of rural youth placed in private sector employment under Employment Generation and Marketing Mission                           Done.
                                               Higher pension rates as per data maintained by Department of Rural Development; At least 4.8 million social pensioners covered
                                                in the state as per Department of Rural Development database by 2008/09; 3 million families in the state covered by rice credit       Done (overachieved).
                                                scheme by 2008/09 as per Department of Rural Development database.
                                                                 Theme 2: Structural measures to facilitate economic growth
2.1 Improving state‘s investment climate.      Pilot for ILIS project in Nizamabad completed and expanded to other districts.                                                        Pilot completed.
                                               Report on effectiveness of past IC reforms completed and disseminated.                                                                Note done.
                                               PPPs become operational.                                                                                                              Done.
                                                                                     Theme 3: Public Enterprise Reforms
3.1 Enhance public sector efficiency and      Remaining enterprises from phase II and at least 5 enterprises from phase III to be addressed by 2007/08.                               All phase II enterprises
reduce fiscal cost of support to PEs.                                                                                                                                                addressed. Phase III
                                                                                                                                                                                     program was dropped.
                                           Theme 4: Improving (i) aggregate fiscal situation; (ii) public expenditure management; and (iii) financial accountability
                                                              4.1 Fiscal stabilization through an institutionalized medium term fiscal framework
4.1.1 Improvement in key fiscal                Revenue and fiscal deficit will not exceed 0.6 and 3.6 percent of GSDP in 2006/07.                                                   All fiscal indicators are in
indicators.                                    The total outstanding debt liabilities do not exceed 35 percent of GSDP by 2008/09.                                                  compliance.
                                               Limiting the amount of annual incremental of risk weighted guarantees to 90percent of total revenue receipts in the year preceding
                                                 the current year
                                               Interest payment to revenue receipt to decline as per the fiscal correction path.
4.1.2 Budget preparation.                      Quarterly review of trends in expenditure and receipts in relation to budget estimates.                                               Done as internal exercise.


4.1.3 Implementation of fiscal strategy.       A higher tax to GSDP ratio.                                                                                                          Done.
                                               Reduction in number of BPL cards.                                                                                                    Done.
                                               Reduction in amount of rice subsidy.                                                                                                 Not achieved, rice subsidy
                                                                                                                                                                                     double as share of GSDP.
                                                                 4.2 Improvement in expenditure composition for equity and effectiveness
4.2.1 Shifting of resources towards            Spending on primary social services increased to at least 3 percent of GSDP and increase in capital outlays and non wage operations   State share of spending on
priority areas as identified in GoAP‘s         and maintenance by 2008/09.                                                                                                           primary social services
fiscal strategy paper—primary social                                                                                                                                                 increased marginally.




             `                                                                                        23
              Reform Area                                                                           Progress Indicators                                                     Results
services, non-wage O&M, and capital                                                                                                                                between 1.2%-1.7% of
outlays.                                                                                                                                                           GSDP but well short of
                                                                                                                                                                   3% target.
                                                                                                                                                                   Spending on capital
                                                                                                                                                                   outlays and non-wage
                                                                                                                                                                   O&M fell from 4.4
                                                                                                                                                                   percent of GSDP in
                                                                                                                                                                   2005/06 to 4 percent in
                                                                                                                                                                   2009/10.
4.2.3 management of the civil service       Newly recruited employees receive annual statements on personal information and account balances.                     Not yet done.
pension system.
                                                                                                                                                                   Not done.
                                            Periodic assessment of pension liabilities and the required contribution rate to maintain the desired funded ratio.
                                                             4.3 Improving public expenditure management and financial accountability
4.3.1 Quality of planning and budgeting     Overall consistency between budgeted and actual expenditures improves from more than 90 to 100 percent.               Not achieved with ratio at
in line departments.                                                                                                                                               82% in 2009/10.
                                            Consistency between budgeted and actual expenditures shows improvement in four pilot departments.                     Not done.
                                            Ensuring proper classification of budgetary expenditure.                                                              Done.
4.3.2 Improved funds flow, cash             Fixed asset register operational in four line departments.                                                             Done.
management and fixed asset controls.
4.3.3 Improved financial accountability     Action plan agreed to take forward key PSU report recommendations.                                                    Not monitored.
and strengthening monitoring of internal    Reduction in overdue PSU accounts, audit reports and responses to audit.                                              Done.
controls.                                   Improved levels of compliance with key internal controls.                                                             Done.
                                            Audit paragraphs for the past years are replied.                                                                      Not monitored.
                                            Timely release of funds has been maintained.                                                                          Partially done.
                                            PFM indicators show progress.                                                                                         Done.
                                                                                     Theme 5: Governance Reforms
5.1 Civil Service Reform.                   Change and Delivery Plans developed and implemented in major service delivery departments.                            Done. Strategy and
                                                                                                                                                                   Performance Innovation
                                                                                                                                                                   Units established in 12
                                                                                                                                                                   departments.
                                            Increase in length of staff tenure in posts and improved staffing in underserved sectors.                             Improved staffing in
                                                                                                                                                                   health sector, but no data
                                                                                                                                                                   is available on staff
                                                                                                                                                                   tenure.
                                            Yearly increase in utilization rates of health outlays.                                                               Achieved.
5.2 Improving procurement.                  Issuing annual reports of performance in the Public procurement system.                                               Not done.
                                            Improvement in at least one indicator in at least one executing agency by a minimum of 10 percent.                    Indicator unclear and not
                                                                                                                                                                   monitored.




             `                                                                                      24
             Reform Area                                                                              Progress Indicators                                                                    Results
5.3 Improving Transparency,                   Improved expenditure and outcome monitoring systems in place in key service delivery sectors.                                         Achieved in health.
Accountability & Service Delivery .           More public awareness about corruption and citizens report decreased levels of corruption in service delivery.                        Not monitored.
                                              Service delivery outreach improves through citizen access to on-line provisioning of rural services.                                  Done.
                                                                                       Theme 6: Power Sector Reform
6.1 Financial Performance.                    Profitability of Discoms.                                                                                                             Good.
                                              Independent third party audit of estimates for agricultural consumption of electricity.                                               Done.
                                              T&D losses will be 19.3 percent in 2006/07, 18.5 percent in 2007/08, and 17.8 percent in 2008/09.                                     Done.
6.2 Subsidy delivery to agriculture            Greater coverage of farm supply verified through DTR metering and end user metering.                                                 Pilot done.
consumers.                                     Electricity consumption per installed HP reduced.                                                                                    Done.
                                               The subsidy to revenue ratio reduced from 15 percent in 2006/07 to 10 percent in 2008/09.                                            Not done (54 percent
                                                                                                                                                                                     08/09 and 38 percent
                                                                                                                                                                                     09/10.)
6.3 Performance improvement in                 APERC monitoring of service quality data included through consumer surveys [Monitoring & Evaluation framework for key                Done.
distribution and implementation of              performance indicators include baseline information established by December 31, 2007].
Electricity Act                                Profitability of Discoms.                                                                                                            Good.
                                               Identification of key skill gaps and progress in filling gaps.                                                                       Study completed.
                                                                                         Theme 7: Health Sector Reform
7.1 Department reorganization                 All districts in AP are able to develop and implement health plans that are responsive to local needs.                                Done.
                                              Number of smaller public hospitals (Area, Community, Health Centers) offering 24 hours comprehensive emergency obstetric and          Done.
                                                newborn care increased to 108 from less than 10. All districts have well functioning ambulance services that ensure access to such
                                                facility to all needy women and children within 4 hrs.
7.2 Oversight strategy                        All health care establishments run/managed by professionally trained providers are licensed.                                          In progress.
                                              All licensed hospitals disclose their tariff and maintain patient records.                                                            Pending licensing.
                                              GoAP develops and implements an accreditation program in the identified area from 2007/08.                                            Not done (national
                                                                                                                                                                                     accreditation underway).
7.3 Increased institutional deliveries for    At least 75 percent of women belonging to scheduled castes and tribes will have access to institutional deliveries.                   Done.
poor
                                                                                       Theme 8: Education Sector Reform
8.1 Departmental Restructuring                Paper on restructuring to be commissioned to an independent agency or management consulting firm.                                     Department restructured
                                              Recommendations from this restructuring to be tabled before legislature, if necessary, within 1 month of final report when the        for better implementation
                                               legislature is in session; key steps to implementation to be worked out within 6 months of report including consultations; and        of SSA but other other
                                               implementation to be initiated within 9 months and completed within 18 months of report.                                              reforms not carried out.
                                              State composition of expenditures on salaries to decline by 2 percentage points and expenditures on quality inputs to be increased
                                               by 2 percentage points.
                                              GO issued devolving key rights to local governments.
                                              A policy paper on teacher management reforms prepared within 6 months of project effectiveness of APERL 3.
                                              Paper shared and discussed with teacher unions.
8.2 Improving the completion rates in the     Develop policy paper on various pilot schemes for the most difficult to address districts.                                            Completion rate and drop
primary and upper-primary cycle.                                                                                                                                                     out rates improved. There




             `                                                                                       25
              Reform Area                                                                               Progress Indicators                                                                Results
                                                 Announce the launch of such scheme publicly.                                                                                   was much more progress
                                                 Develop monitoring tools and conduct baseline surveys in all areas eligible for such schemes on a sample basis using an        in reducing drop-out rates
                                                  independent firm prior to launch.                                                                                              than targeted.
                                                 Number of out of school children to be reduced by 2 percentage points.
                                                 Drop-out rates to be reduced by 5 percent points in difficult districts.
                                                 Evaluation to be conducted by an independent agency.
8.3 Institutionalize policy research in the      Issue GO institutionalizing APRESt and giving it a mandate till 2010/11 (end of next plan period).                             Not done post 2008.
state as a means for policy formulation.         Form a research committee in the newly established SIEMAT with participation from the GoAP, Aziz Premji Foundation and the
                                                  Bank.
                                                 Create budget head for research in the department‘s budget specifically to fund APRESt related activities and allocate Rs.20
                                                  million per annum.
                                                 Research findings to be presented to Government as policy options within 9 months of completion of specific studies.

              Notes: Reform areas and progress indicators as per APERL3 except for some slight shortening to save space.




              `                                                                                      26
3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs)

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

The assessment indicates some shortcomings in the operation‘s achievements of all its objectives.
Objectives were achieved or largely achieved in relation to pro-poor policies, investment climate,
aggregate fiscal targets, public financial management, governance except for procurement, and
health. But objectives were not achieved in relation to the power sector, public enterprise reform,
and improvement in the composition of public expenditure. Education and procurement were
mixed areas, with progress in some areas and not in other. In particular the reform program in
education did not follow the process laid out in the program document although there was
improvement in the outcome indicators - enrollment and drop-outs rates.

Combining this satisfactory performance in meeting conditions for the release of the loan, and the
moderately unsatisfactory performance in achieving the targeted loan outcomes the overall
outcome is rated moderately satisfactory.


3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The most direct impact on poverty gender and social development was through progress made in
relation to social programs, education and health, summarized in the matrix above. Less directly,
but at least as importantly was the progress made in relation to investment climate, and, prior to
2006, in improving the composition of expenditure.

Poverty monitoring has also improved. A chapter on Poverty, Employment and Unemployment is
now included in the Economic Survey of Andhra Pradesh published annually. The Society for
the Elimination of Rural Poverty (SERP) has a comprehensive website with more disaggregated
data - going down to the village level for several indicators of poverty (including severe poverty)
and well-being in rural AP. Recent comparable data on poverty head count ratio is not available
and the methodology for measuring poverty has undergone a nationwide change and new
estimates will be computed using the new methodology. While it is difficult to compare past and
present poverty head count ratio, evidence from centrally sponsored anti- poverty programs show
AP to be one of India‘s leading performers.

GoAP has proactively redistributed land to vulnerable groups. In total, about 1.4 million acres
have been redistributed so far to almost a million beneficiaries, in six phases since 2006/07. Of
these, almost 90 percent has gone to SC/ST groups and backward castes and linked NREGA to
these lands to improve productivity. Social pension rates have been fixed at Rs. 200 per month,
and there were more than 6.6 million social pensioners across the state in 2008/09 (against an
APDPL3 target of 4.8 million). The Employment Guarantee and Marketing Mission seeks to
provide employment to and enhance employability of rural youth from economically and socially
underprivileged families in remote areas. Between 2006/07 and 2008/09, about 2.15 rural youth
have been provided short-course training, of whom about 0.175 million have found placements in
over 100 private sector companies. Almost a fifth of Self Help Group households are already
earning Rs. 0.1 million a year, while an additional 45 percent can reach this figure with some



`                                               27
support and sustained credit flows. The GoAP is focusing its attention on the poorest third of
SHG households which are particularly disadvantaged, and is undertaking a survey of these
households to form a database of their status and requirements to break out of the poverty cycle.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The most enduring legacy of the APERL series will be its contribution to institutional change and
strengthening. Some examples include the following:

    1. The Centre for Good Governance, that was set up as a part of the broader support to the
       reform program of GoAP, through DfID grant funds, today remains a hub for analytical
       and consultancy support for governance reform and has evolved into a national resource
       with a number of central and state government departments approaching this institute for
       analytical work, consultancy support to enable them to take informed policy and
       institutional reforms.

    2. Establishment of the ―Reform Incentive Fund‖ by GoAP. This fund substitutes for the
       funding previously provided by the DfID. Allocations provided through the budget for
       governance reforms are rare in Indian states and this initiative is unique and testimony to
       the importance given to this agenda.

    3. Establishment of a centralized Human Resource Management Unit in the General
       Administration Department for better management of human resource function across
       government including recruitment, training, accountability and motivation related issues.

    4. Setting up of SPIUs in line departments and expanding this concept to ‗districts‘ has gone
       a long way in institutionalizing the government reform agenda within government. This
       has been in the major part, extremely successful and departments testify that SPIU‘s have
       provided useful technical and reform leadership and support.

    5. Andhra Pradesh has gone far beyond what was planned in taking forward Health Sector
       Reforms. The SPIU in the Health department has been converted into a State Health
       Resource Centre providing continuing policy support and is an instrument for strategic
       and operational monitoring, coordination and capacity development.

    6. Support to strengthening financial management systems through an Institutional
       Development Fund grant has strengthened fixed asset management systems and
       strengthened internal audit systems.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

The main unintended outcome was the falling away of the Bank-AP broad-based policy reform
dialogue, even though the relationship is strong in the sectors that have investment loans. The
falling away of this dialogue was unfortunate for two reasons.

First, an important benefit, perhaps the most important benefit of these loans and reform
programs was their demonstration effect. AP had undertaken several important reforms, and the
Bank could use these reforms in other states. But the lack of engagement led to a lack of
knowledge. A concrete example of this is the study that was planned to examine the impact of



`                                              28
AP‘s investment climate reforms. AP liberalized agricultural wholesale markets. But did it
actually result in greater competition? We don‘t know, because this study wasn‘t carried out,
because the dialogue was terminated.

Second, the end of the relationship with AP meant that the Bank is now absent as a reform
supporter from the southern states of AP, Karnataka and TN. Although these states have
developed faster there is much to be done to widen and deepen cross-cutting reform such as in
expenditure management or public financial management and in many sectors. Remarkably,
around 2001 and 2002, these were the only three states in which the Bank was pursuing policy
lending. That was not a sustainable concentration, but complete exit from these progressive states
was also unfortunate, not least because these are the states where reform had the greatest chance
of working. It is one thing to say that the Bank needed to concentrate in the poorer states; quite
another to say that it should not work with other more capable states.

It may have been that given the problems in the power sector, the political conditions and shifting
of AP‘s reform priorities to certain sectors, a fourth broad based DPL may not have been possible.
But sustaining the reform dialogue would have been valuable, and it would have been worth
trying.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

No beneficiary surveys or stakeholder workshops were required to be held for this ICR. The ICR
did benefit from information provided during meetings with policy makers in each of the areas
covered by the DPL.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcomes

Rating: Moderate

AP has achieved an enormous amount over the last ten years, and retains a reputation as a reform
leader, progressive state, and attractive destination for private sector investment.

There are two main risks. First, AP‘s fiscal position has enormously improved in the last few
years due to revenue increases. Revenue/GSDP has risen from 12.9 percent in 2005/06 to a
projected 15.5 percent in 2010/11. Unfortunately, subsidies have also risen, especially in the
power sector. The subsidy burden is not unmanageable, but there is a risk that it will further
increase unless some measures are taken for targeting and more efficient delivery of subsidy.
Subsidy reform, particularly food subsidy, has been an issue as old as the reform engagement
with AP. However, revenue gains, food inflation and political difficulties have always pushed
this difficult reform issue to the background. The risk is that the fiscal space for capital
investment and O&M will compete with enlarging subsidies unless bold reforms are undertaken.

Second, with recent political turmoil, it is possible that reforms will slow in AP; indeed, this may
already be the case. The capable bureaucracy and positive experience of the last decade are likely
to put a floor under any reform reversals, but AP may slowly lose its place as reform leader.




`                                               29
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

On most issues, the Bank did well to ensure quality at entry. In hindsight one may argue that the
operation did not judge the changing priorities of the new government sufficiently well. The
result was that some areas of reform such as Public Enterprise reform and Education fell away
during the operation due to a shift in government‘s focus. It also needs to be stated that with
devolution of central funds through centrally sponsored schemes increasing during this period,
the leverage of the Bank to push reform dropped and most states began paying more attention to
implementation and compliance with the centrally sponsored schemes (eg. NRHM, SSA and
MNREGA).

The handling of procurement in the PAD (and therefore presumably during project preparation)
does seem insufficient. It appears from the lack of action on this front after loan approval that
preparation on the client side to introduce procurement policy reform was insufficient. This raises
the question whether the client‘s readiness for this reform was assessed adequately. If this reform
was fundamentally important for GoAP the action also fell short as it merely required tabling. A
menu of procurement reform measures (administrative) along with the legislation would have at
least ensured that there was some forward movement in raising procurement performance. Other
questions that arise are why did the government not mention procurement legislation explicitly in
its policy letter? Is this related to the uncertainty in introducing the legislation? In such a situation
the risks attached to this condition should have been elaborated in the PAD. This area needed
more care and consideration before its inclusion as a second tranche release condition.

However, there are two mitigating factors. First, it has to be assessed alongside the work done by
the Bank team in ensuring upfront actions were met, in encouraging reform, and in portraying
that reform to the wider world in a way that would sustain support. Second, as discussed below, if
AP had been more active in this reform area, or if there had been more proactive supervision, a
restructuring of this condition to include a more effective and plausible procurement action was a
possibility after gauging GoAP‘s ability or willingness to pilot this reform. For these reasons the
Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated as moderately satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including M&E arrangements)

Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory.

The supervision strategy preferred to wait for GoAP‘s compliance with the second tranche release
conditions particularly the tabling of procurement legislation which delayed the completion of
operation. Alternative paths of action were not considered: other Bank supported projects were
not used to gain additional leverage (since the costs were understandably seen as too high) and a
restructuring/waiver/closure was not sought (presumably because of transactional costs or
because it might have damaged AP‘s reputation as a reformer). The costs of delaying the second
tranche were viewed to be low, especially as a follow-up loan to AP became less and less likely.


`                                                  30
During this period, the Bank processed two large investment loans (The AP Water Sector
Improvement Project backed by a loan of $451 million approved in April 2010, and the AP
Municipal Development Project backed by a loan of $300 million approved in October 2009)
without reference to the procurement reform promoted by APERL3. This particularly when the
APERL3 PAD raises the issue of GoAP‘s proposed large public investment program in irrigation
as a potential risk resulting from cost overrun and delay. Since this is procurement intensive
sector wider procurement reform attempted through the APERL3 would have influenced the
procurement efficiency of the sector. Either the procurement legislation was important for
promoting transparency and tackling corruption, in which case it should have been supported by
other Bank investment projects, or a restructuring/waiver should have been sought if the reform
was not likely to be achieved. For example, AP has continued to make good progress on e-
procurement, and it can be argued that this reduces the scope for corruption in procurement, and
could have been possibly used as a substitute condition along with other elements of procurement.
In either case, a more consistent approach across the Bank portfolio would have been desirable.

Second, while the legal conditions for releasing the second tranche were met, it is unclear that AP
had made satisfactory progress in the overall program. Rather, there were a few areas where little
progress had been made. As discussed earlier, progress appears less than satisfactory in relation to
power, and PE reform, and improving the composition of expenditure. And progress in the areas
of education and procurement was mixed. This is a matter of judgment, given that AP overall did
show progress in many areas of the program, but it is notable that after a major mission in March
2007 supervision of APERL3 was either specifically on the pending second tranche conditions, or
through other visits and portfolio reviews.

That said, if there is blame to be allocated, it cannot be allocated only to the Bank. If AP had
made it clear to the Bank before loan signing that it was not in a position to commit to parts of the
reform agenda particularly, procurement legislation, then this problem would have been avoided.
Likewise, AP could have offered up alternative reforms if it was unable to pursue the agenda any
further. This relatively passive attitude taken by AP and the Bank may have contributed to the
lack of movement in many areas of the reform agenda presented by the reform policy matrix.

For these reasons, supervision is rated moderately unsatisfactory. It should be noted that this
judgment is not a comment on the task team, but on the overall approach taken with regard to,
and the low priority accorded to, the Bank-AP reform dialogue post-APERL3 approval.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
    Rating: Moderately satisfactory.

The rating for preparation is moderately satisfactory, and for supervision moderately
unsatisfactory. The ICR guidelines state that in such a case the overall rating should take into
account the overall performance rating which is moderately satisfactory.

This is also sensible from a number of other perspectives. The Bank alone cannot be blamed for
the loss of reform momentum. It was an achievement to get to APERL3 in a long reform
relationship with GoAP. It has proved very difficult across India‘s states to sustain long
development policy lending relationships. Karnataka only had 2 such loans, and Uttar Pradesh
(UP) only one. While AP must take some of the credit for being able to sustain the relationship,
so must the Bank.




`                                                31
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
    Rating: Moderately satisfactory

This rating is based on the moderately satisfactory rating of the implementation of the overall
reform program for which GoAP was responsible (see Section 3.2). It also takes into account that
some areas of shortcomings in the Bank-supported reform program seem less serious when
viewed in the larger context of AP‘s reforms. For example, the GoAP did not pursue some of the
reforms in education it had agreed with the Bank, but clearly obtained some good outcomes.

Some comments in relation to Government performance are also in order. It is not easy to
understand why GoAP has found it so difficult to pass procurement framework legislation. Its
neighbor, Karnataka, passed the Karnataka Transparency in Public Procurement Act in 1999.
More than a decade on, AP has been unable to follow suit. However, it is far from clear that the
Karnataka legislation has had a transforming effect on procurement efficiency in that state
although procurement procedures now have statutory backing. Indeed, this has been one of the
difficult reform areas of engagement for the Bank in India. It is also not clear why GoAP abruptly
gave up a long running and successful PE reform agenda soon after including this in the APERL3.
GoAP claims that its policy shifted to supporting reform that emanates from within PEs. And
with its history of empowerment in other areas it is also not clear why GoAP did not move more
strongly in decentralizing school education.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
       Rating: NA

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
    Rating: Moderately satisfactory. See 5.2(a).

6. Lessons Learned
(both operation-specific and of wide general application)

Policy-based lending at the state level has been a huge winner for the Bank. This is a
conclusion drawn from a more general analysis of policy-based lending at the state level.16 There
is no doubt that lending to support state reforms has made a large positive impact, and perhaps its
biggest contribution to reforms, both in India at large and in AP in particular. While this loan
does not contradict this general conclusion, and there are concrete reform gains one can point to,
it does also give rise to a few lessons of a more cautionary nature.

Maintain flexibility at least on non-core issues. Over the years, the Bank took a flexible
approach on AP in relation to difficult issues, such as the power sector reform. Although there
can be trade-offs between flexibility and credibility, overall a large degree of flexibility is needed,
not least so that past mistakes can be corrected. The price for inflexibility can be very high both
in terms of a reform relationship and the ability to reach Project Development Objectives.



16
     Stephen Howes, D Mishra and VJ Ravishankar (2008) ‗Ten Years of World Bank Sub-national Policy-based
    Lending to India: a Retrospective,‘ Chapter 4, pp. 41-68 in The Indian Economy Sixty Years after
    Independence, Jha, R, (ed.), Palgrave-Macmillan.




`                                                   32
Maintain momentum. Long delays between loans and loan tranches lead to a loss of reform
momentum, and can lead to an unraveling of relationship.

One-tranche operations are better than two. The decision to move to a two-tranche approach
was a decision of the Government of India, apparently because it thought this would introduce
greater discipline. However, as evidenced here, two-tranche operations result in less flexibility.

Power sector and expenditure composition reforms are very difficult to influence These were
central reform priorities for the Bank, but also very difficult ones. A realistic attitude is needed –
governments will not and cannot easily walk away from subsidies, politically important as they
are and in some cases necessary for poverty reduction and development. Indeed, as in AP, an
improved fiscal position (through better revenues) and indeed development will not result in
reduction in subsidies. On the contrary they may well increase subsidies. Governments are more
amenable to undertaking difficult subsidy reforms when in fiscal stress or crisis. This makes this
reform agenda extremely difficult to negotiate. It is too important to walk away from, but too
difficult not to be flexible in relation to.

The Bank’s greatest gains were in areas where it could have an institutional impact and
encourage innovation. Looking back, the enduring legacy of the APERL series will include (a)
creation of the Centre for Good Governance, (b) successful PE reform (prior to Phase 3), and (c)
public financial management reforms. (This is not an exhaustive list; it is rather intended to be an
uncontroversial one.) These were all areas where the Bank (and often DfID) provided new ideas
and technical assistance to help implement those ideas.

Gauging the political economy of reforms is vital for a DPL. Gauging the domestic policies
within which our clients must function and assessing how their reform ownership might evolve is
vitally important to the design of the DPL. Assessing ownership is a difficult tissue. Independent
assessments can help inform the debate on development and provide a reading on the political
climate. Development policy operations can help a client achieve sustainable progress in difficult
areas using non-earmarked funding because the support then backs a program the government has
chosen, knows is feasible politically, and must remain answerable to its own voters for. Outsiders
would have a difficult time making these judgments.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




`                                                33
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                         Responsibility/
          Names                            Title                 Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
Vinaya Swaroop              Lead Economist                      SASPR
Deepak Mishra               Senior Economist                    SASPR
Salman Zaheer               Lead Energy Specialist               SASEI
Ashish Khanna               Senior Energy Specialist             SASEI
Mikul Bhatia                Research Analyst                     SASEI
P.K. Subramanian            Lead Financial Management Spec      SARFM
Atul Deshpande              Sr Financial Management Specia      SARFM
Joel Turkewitz              Sr. Procurement Specialist          SARPS
G N V Ramana                Sr. Public Health Specialist        SASHD
Philip B. O‘Keefe           Lead Social Protection Specialist   SASHD
Sangeeta Goyal              Education Economist                 SASHD
Venkatesh Sundararaman      Economist                           SASHD
Inderbir Dhingra            Private Sector Development Spec     SASFP
Kseniya Lvovsky             Lead Environmental Economist        SASES
Priti Kumar                 Environmental Spec                  SASES
 Radhey .S. Pathak          Sr Irrigation Engineer              SASAR
Syed I Ahmed                Sr. Counsel                         LEGMS
Shellka Arora               Assistant Counsel                   SARIM
Thao Le Nguyen              Sr. Finance Officer                 LOAG2
Ananya Basu                 Sr. Economist                       SASPR
Neha Kaul                   Research Analyst                    SASPR
Rajni Khanna                Economist                           SASPR
Rita Soni                   Program Assistant                   SASPR
Shatanjaya Dasgupta         Research Analyst                    SASPR
Vidya Kamath                Program Assistant                   SASPR
                            Public Sector Management            SASPR
Vikram Menon
                            Specialist
Shahnaz Sultana Ahmed       Program Assistant                   SASPR

Supervision
Ananya Basu                Senior Economist                     SASEP
Ashish Bhateja             Senior Procurement Specialist        OPCPR
Atul Bhalchandra Deshpande Sr Financial Management Specialist   SARFM
Inderbir Singh Dhingra     Head                                  CF1S5
Vinod Ghosh                Program Assistant                    SASDO
Priti Jain                 Senior Procurement Specialist        SARPS



`                                           34
Vidya Kamath               Program Assistant                 SASGP
Neha Kaul                  Associate Operations Officer,     CSAAP
Ashish Khanna              Senior Energy Specialist          SASDE
Rajni Khanna               Senior Economist                  SASGP
Priti Kumar                Sr Environmental Spec.            SASDI
Vikram Menon               Senior Public Sector Specialist   SASGP
Rohit Mittal               Financial Analyst                 SASDE
Ashish Narain              Senior Economist                  AFTP1
Philip B. O'Keefe          Lead Economist                    EASHS
Radhey .S. Pathak          Sr Irrigation Engineer            SASDA
Rita Soni                  Program Assistant                 SASEP
Pazhayannur K. Subramanian Lead Financial Management Spec    AFTFM
Venkatesh Sundararaman     Senior Economist                  SASED
Joel A. Turkewitz          Program Coordinator               EAPVP


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
              Stage                                          USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY06                                         20                       103.99
  FY07                                         43                       181.84
  FY08                                                                    0.00
                          Total:               63                       285.83
Supervision/ICR
  FY06                                                                    0.00
  FY07                                         21                        73.56
  FY08                                          4                        14.48
  FY09                                          3                         0.00
                          Total:               28                        88.04




`                                         35
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results
         (if any)

        NONE




`                                     36
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
        (if any)

        NONE




`                                  37
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




`



`                                 38
`   39
`   40
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders



        NONE




`                                   41
    Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

    NONE




`                               42
                                                  GOVERNMENT OF ANDHRA PRADESH
                                                    Information of Fiscal Indicators

Rs. Billion                                         2005/06       2006/07       2007/08       2008/09         2009-10 2010-11 (RE) 2011-12 (BE)

A. Revenue (1+2)                                     329.13        422.31        508.49        595.58           600.29          812.10     940.79
1. State‘s own revenue (a+b)                         223.65        284.00        325.64        397.41           383.30          523.09     618.61
    a) Tax                                           196.11        239.26        287.94        333.58           351.75          474.21     564.38
    b) Non-Tax                                        27.53         44.74         37.70          63.83           31.55           48.88      54.23
2. Central Resources (a+b)                           105.48        138.31        182.85        198.17           216.99          289.01     322.18
   a) Shared Taxes                                    69.51         88.66        111.84        118.02           121.42          151.62     168.26
   b) Grants                                          35.97         49.65         71.01         80.15            95.57          137.39     153.92
3. Capital Reciepts (sale of land/ disinvest)                       18.89         65.58
B. Non-interest Expenditure (1+2+3)                  342.05        424.83        586.05        639.07           651.24          846.83    1002.44
1. Revenue Expenditure. (a to e)                     259.69        321.44        431.01        504.97           498.84          704.74     788.16
   a) Salary                                         102.66        119.21        130.02        142.77           174.07          248.14     296.38
    b) Pensions                                       31.97         41.50         50.92         55.18            63.39           84.28      96.93
    c) Subsidies and Transfers                        81.40        106.73        180.75        234.19           201.17          263.86     277.82
    d) Non-Wage 0&M                                   37.01         47.09         54.94          58.52           54.29           86.46      99.22
    e) Other Revenue Expenditures                      6.65          6.91         14.38         14.30             5.92           22.00      17.81
2. Capital outlay                                     76.62         99.04        127.74        103.66           137.93          123.70     178.55
3. Net lending                                         5.74           4.35        27.30          30.44           14.47           18.39      35.73

C. Primary Balance                                   -12.92         16.37        -11.98         -43.49          -50.95          -34.73     -61.65
D. Interest Payments                                  70.08         72.80         75.89          80.57           89.14          101.96     114.37

E. Revenue Balance                                    -0.64         28.07          1.59         10.04           12.31            5.40       38.26
F. Fiscal Balance                                    -83.00        -56.43        -87.87       -124.06         -140.09         -136.69     -176.02
G. Debt stock                                        704.08        754.21        824.79        935.68         1093.43         1232.27     1411.51
H. GS DP                                            2559.41       3010.35       3648.13       4158.32         4752.67         5242.86     5974.76


Percent GS DP                                       2005/06       2006/07       2007/08       2008/09         2009-10 2010-11 (RE) 2011-12 (BE)

Revenue                                              12.9%          14.0%        13.9%          14.3%           12.6%           15.5%      15.7%
State‘s own revenue                                   8.7%           9.4%         8.9%           9.6%            8.1%           10.0%      10.4%
   Tax                                                7.7%           7.9%         7.9%           8.0%            7.4%            9.0%       9.4%
   Non-Tax                                            1.1%           1.5%         1.0%           1.5%            0.7%            0.9%       0.9%
Central Resources                                     4.1%           4.6%         5.0%           4.8%            4.6%            5.5%       5.4%
   Shared Taxes                                       2.7%           2.9%         3.1%           2.8%            2.6%            2.9%       2.8%
   Grants                                             1.4%           1.6%         1.9%           1.9%            2.0%            2.6%       2.6%

Non-interest Expenditure
  Salary                                               4.0%          4.0%          3.6%          3.4%            3.7%            4.7%       5.0%
  Pensions                                             1.2%          1.4%          1.4%          1.3%            1.3%            1.6%       1.6%
  Subsidies and Transfers                              3.2%          3.5%          5.0%          5.6%            4.2%            5.0%       4.6%
  Non-Wage 0&M                                         1.4%          1.6%          1.5%          1.4%            1.1%            1.6%       1.7%
  Other Revenue Expenditures                           0.3%          0.2%          0.4%          0.3%            0.1%            0.4%       0.3%
  Capital outlay                                       3.0%          3.3%          3.5%          2.5%            2.9%            2.4%       3.0%
  Net lending                                          0.2%          0.1%          0.7%          0.7%            0.3%            0.4%       0.6%

Primary Balance                                      -0.50%         0.54%       -0.33%         -1.05%          -1.07%          -0.66%     -1.03%
   Interest Payments                                   2.7%          2.4%         2.1%           1.9%            1.9%            1.9%       1.9%

Revenue Balance                                     -0.03%           0.93%        0.04%          0.24%            0.26%           0.10%    0.64%
Fiscal Balance                                      -3.24%         -1.87%        -2.41%         -2.98%           -2.95%          -2.61%   -2.95%
Debt stock                                            27.5%          25.1%        22.6%          22.5%            23.0%           23.5%    23.6%
* Fiscal /Primary/Revenue Balance in the above table implies Fiscal /Primary /Revenue deficit (-) or surplus (+)
** Fiscal Balance for 2006/07 and 2007/08 includes receipts from sale of land of Rs 18.89 billion and Rs. 65.58 billion respectively
S ource: Finance Department, Government of Andhra Pradesh




`                                                                       43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 31778
                                                                             To Wardha
                                                                                                   To Wardha

                                                                          Adilabad
             To Jalna


                                                                         ADILABAD                                                                                                                                                                     To Bhubaneshwar


                                                                              vari R.
                                                                         Goda



                                                    Nizamabad               KARIMNAGAR                                                                                                                         To Raipur

                                                                                                                                                                                                   To Koraput             VIZIANAGARAM
                                                   NIZAMABAD                                 Karimnagar                                       To Jagdalpur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SRIKAKULAM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Srikakulam

                             To Parbhani                                                                   Warangal
                                                     MEDAK                                                      WARANGAL                                                                                                            Vizianagaram


                                                       Sangareddi                                                                                                                   VISHAKHAPATNAM
       To Solapur
                                                                                                                                                     Go                                                                             Vishakhapatnam
                                                                         HYDERABAD                                                                     dav
                                                                                                                                                             ari
                                                                                                                                  KHAMMAM                          R.
                                           RANGAREDDY                                                                                                                        EAST
                                                                                                                                Khammam
                                                                                                                                                                           GODAVARI
                                                                                              Nalgonda                                                 WEST                                                                                 Bay of
                                                                                                                                                     GODAVARI                                Kakinada
                                         Mahbubnagar                                    NALGONDA                                                                                                                                            Bengal
                                                                                                                                        KRISHNA           Eluru
                                                  MAHBUBNAGAR
                                                                                                                GUNTUR
                                                                                                                               Guntur




                                                                                                                                            Krish
                                                                     .
                                                                  aR
                                                               shn
                                                           Kri




                                                                                                                                              na R
                                                                                                                                                           Machilipatnam




                                                                                                                                               .
                                                     Kurnool                                   PRAKASAM
              To Goa                                                                                            Ongole
                                                   KURNOOL

                                                                                                                                                                                                INDIA
                                     Penneru R.
                                                                                                                                                                           ANDHRA PRADESH
                            Anantapur
                                                                                                     NELLORE
                            ANANTAPUR                                         Cuddapah
                                                                                                                                                                                                  NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
To Dharwad




                                                                                                      Kandleru R.

                                                                                                                     Nellore                                                                      SELECTED STATE ROADS
                                           i R.




                                                                         CUDDAPAH                                                                                                                 RAILROADS
                                         agn




                                                                                                                                                                                                  DISTRICT CAPITALS
                                        Pap




                                                                                                                                                                                                  STATE CAPITALS

                                                                                                                                                                                                  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
                                                                            CHITTOOR                                                                                                              STATE BOUNDARY


      To Hassan
                                                                                        Chittoor
                                                                                                                                  CHENNAI
                                                                                                                                  (MADRAS)                                           0                  50                 100

                        BANGALORE                                                                                                                                                                  KILOMETERS

                                                                                                                                                                             This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                             The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                             shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                   To Dindgul                                                                Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                             endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

                                                    To Coimbatore


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              JANUARY 2002
