                                                                                                        94920
Results Profile: Debt Management in Brazil                                                            April 28, 2010




 BEST PRACTICE

 Brazil’s Public Services Get Boost from Better Debt Management




Overview
Confronted by a large debt burden at the end of the 1990s, Brazil teamed with the IBRD and
other financial specialists to craft a new approach to debt management that has not only
yielded billions of dollars in savings in debt service payments, it also set a new foundation for
economic strength that helped insulate Brazil from the severity of the global financial crisis. The
savings that resulted from the IBRD-supported reforms are being used to broaden and
increase the quality of public services across Brazil.  



  Full Brief—6 Pages Brazil’s Public Services Get Welcome Boost from Better Debt
Management—PDF, April 2010


Challenge
In the latter half of the 1990s Brazil’s debt had grown to
                                                                       More Results
about $600 billion or 48 percent of GDP, from $450 billion
(40 percent of GDP) in the early ’90s. A large part of this
increase resulted from a cumbersome debt composition that
                                                                       MORE INFORMATION
translated exchange rate devaluations and interest rate
shocks into higher indebtedness, amounting to 6.4 percent of            World Bank in Brazil
GDP in the 1990s.                                                       Fiscal and Financial
                                                                        Management Technical
The challenge was to improve the quality of the                         Assistance Loan - Brazil
government’s debt management as a way to reduce
                                                                        Book Divida Pública: a
macroeconomic vulnerabilities, especially those stemming                Experiencia Brasileira
from the administration of government assets and liabilities.           (Portugese)
Enhanced debt management also needed to complement the
fiscal reforms adopted by the Brazilian government at the
beginning of the 2000s. To reduce the risks stemming from
Brazil’s high and unwieldy debt mix, the government sought          
to introduce technical, technological and institutional
improvements in its debt management approach.

Much of the problem was institutional. At the end of the ’90s, Brazil operated an ad hoc debt
management framework, with the Central Bank and the National Treasury Secretariat (STN)
performing different -- and in some cases overlapping -- responsibilities.  There was a lack of
integration and they sometimes pursued incompatible objectives. Lack of reliable information
systems and weak technical, institutional and governance capacity also contributed to
exacerbate the already difficult debt management policies.


Approach
Given the absence of available debt management models in Latin America, and many other
countries, the Brazilian government with the support of the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) set out to create a world class debt management
framework.   IBRD and Brazilian treasury officials worked with a consortium of private sector
consultants to achieve this goal.

On the debt management component, the Bank provided technical assistance in the
development of terms of reference for a battery of consultants charged with reviewing
organization and processes.   A decision was also taken to develop a debt management
system “in-house” rather than adapt an existing off-the-shelf system, recognizing Brazil’s
complex and singularly unique debt management demands.

The subsequent success of this initiative has translated into literally billions of dollars in
savings, which the government is using to improve the lives of all Brazilians.


Results
Brazil’s economic picture has since brightened markedly, and improvements in debt
management played a significant part. A fall in financing costs for Brazil, as much as 3 percent
of GDP, produced savings that are being applied to improving Brazilian public services.
Naturally it is difficult to measure the degree to which improved debt management – and the
IBRD’s part in its overhaul in recent years – has contributed to Brazil’s stronger economic
performance, but there has been a clear and significant fall in the country’s financing costs:

       Domestic interest rates paid on government bonds fell to an average of 12 percent over
       the past three years from 24 percent in the early 2000s.

       External interest rates on government bonds dropped to 5 percent from 9 percent over
       the same period.

       Debt composition improved dramatically. In 2002, 35 percent of Brazil’s debt was linked
       to foreign exchange rates, whereas by 2008 the country was a net creditor in this debt
       class. Variable interest rate debt dropped to 31 percent in 2008 from 42 percent at the
       end of 2002, while the proportion of fixed interest rate borrowings rose to 27 percent in
       2008 from just 2 percent in 2002. Average debt maturity increased to 27 months from
       11 months between 2002 and 2008.

       Overall, interest payments fell to less than 6 percent of GDP in 2008/09 from 9 percent
       in 2002.

As a result, the reduction of financing costs has allowed the Brazilian government to reallocate
resources amounting 3 percent of GDP that previously were consumed in debt service
obligations to the expansion and increased quality of public service delivery. In particular, the
inception of modern conditional cash transfers and improvements in education and health
services has contributed to a dramatic fall in poverty to 24 percent in 2008 from 34 percent in
2002.

The improvement in public debt management also has helped protect Brazil from the severity
of the global financial crisis. The change in debt composition, especially its shift to being a net
creditor in dollar-denominated debt, meant that the recent decline in the value of the Brazilian
currency actually served to reduce government debt to 38 percent of GDP in December 2008
from 42 percent in August the same year. The positive impact on indebtedness is the payoff
for the debt management strategy adopted since 2003 aimed at reducing exposure to
exchange rate shocks and increasing international reserves.

Given the strong macroeconomic fundamentals built over a decade to 2008, Brazil achieved an
investment grade rating granted by Standard & Poor’s, Fitch, and -- in 2009 -- by Moody’s
Investors Service. The three rating agencies cited Brazil’s prudent debt management policies
as one of the decisive reasons for the upgrade from speculative-grade ratings to investment
grade. Naturally, the most important effect of this achievement is the reduction of borrowing
costs for the country.
Toward the Future
Today, debt management governance in Brazil is considered best practice. The Bank is
financing the completion of Brazil’s Integrated Debt System through supplementary finance
added to the recently restructured and extended its operations. The Bank also continues to
work with individual state governments to improve their debt management capacity.


Partners
Brazil’s National Treasury Secretariat (STN), the United Nations Development Program, and
the Brazilian Cooperation Agency.

 


                                                  Last updated: 2010-04-28
