Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
°AJr  o?yiS Ž_ j ;
Report No. 4856-YU
STAFF APPRAISAI. REPORT
r,- OSLAVIA
MONTENEGRO RjiION.  DEVELOP14'7T PROJECC
June ?7, 19I
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Agriculture III
This document lias a restricted distributioni and may be used by recipients only in the performance e'
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed withouit World Bank authorlzatitn.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
June 1983 /1            April 1984 /2
us$1                            Dinars (Din) 80.0           Dinars (Din) 125.0
Din I                           US$0.012                    US$ 0.008
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                                                 1.09 yards
1 square meter (m2)                                         10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)                                            0.62 miles
l square kilometer (km2)                                    0.384 square miles
1 hectare (ha)                                              2.47 anres
1 liter (1)                                                 0.264 US gallons
1 hectoliter (hl)                                           100 liters
I cubic meter Cm3)                                          1.31 cubic yards
1 kilogram (kg)                                             2.20 pounds
I metric ton (m ton) = 1,000 kg           =                 0.98 long tons
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AC            =     Agro-Community
AAC                 Annual Allowable Cut
ACO           =     Agricultural Credit Officer
AIK           =     Agro-industrial Kombinat
AK                  Agrokombinat
ATK           =     Agro-trading Kombinat
B            =      Billion
BB           =      Basic Banks
BOAL         =      Basic Organization of Associated Labor
COAL         =      Composite Organization of Associated Labor
EB                  Executive Board
FAO/WB              Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations/
World Bank Cooperative Program
FC            =     Farmers Cooperative (Zadruga)
FNP          =      Federal Fund for Accelerating the Development of Less
Developed Republics and Provinces
FTI          =      Forestry Technical Institute
IBT-Ub       =      Investiciona Banka Titograd-Associated Bank
ICB          =      International Competitive Bidding
LCB                 Local Competitive Bidding
LIB          =      Limited International Bidding
M            =      Million
NBJ          =      National Bank of Yugoslavia
NCI                 Non-contracting Individual Farmers
OLO                 On-Lending Organizations
PCC                 Project Coordination Council
PU           -      Project Unit
SDK          =      Social Accounting Service
SFRY         =      Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
SIZ                 Self Managed Community of Interest
SMA          =      Self Management Agreement
SRM          =      Socialist Republic of Montenegro
UFC          =      Unit for the Forestry Component
Wo           =      Work Organization
YUGOSLAV FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -December 31
/1 Month of appraisal.
J2 Month of negotiations and basis for project base cost estimates.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA
MONTENEGRO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:             Investiciona Banka Titograd-Udruzena Banka (IBT-UB)
Guarantor:            Socia'ist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SPRY)
Beneficiaries:        About 45 social sector organizations and about 7,000
individual farmers.
Amount;               US$40.0 million, including capitalized front-end fee of
US$99,800.00.
Terms:                Amortization in 15 years, including a three-year grace
period, with interest at the standard variable interest
rate. A portion of the Bank loan would be repaid on the
basis of an adjustable repayment schedule, reflecting
repayments of subloans by the sub-borrowers; the balance
of the loan would be repaid on the basis of a fixed
amortization schedule.
Re-Lending Terms:    The proceeds of the Bank loan would be on-lent by IBT-UB
to the social sector investors at the prevailing Bank
variable rates plus a fee of 1.25% to cover IBT-UB's
administrative costs. For subloans to the individual
sector, in accordance with the terms agreed to in the
SAL I Letter of Development P'olicy (Loan 2326-YU) a rate
of 25.4% will be applied. The on-lending rate, on
IBT-UB's own funds to the individual and social sectors
would also be in accordance with the policy on
agricultural on-lending rates set forth in the Letter of
Development Policy: 25.4% for individual and social
sector investors in primary production, and 30.3% for
social sector investors in agroindustry, infrastructure
and support services.   The repayment of subloans would
not exceed 15 years, including 3-5 years of grace
depending on the investment. The foreign exchange and
variable interest rate risk on the Bank loan would be
borne by the Republic of Montenegro in the case of
individual farmers and by the sub-borrowers in the case
of the social sector borrowers.
Projecc Objectives   The proposed project is to assist in the development of
and  Description:  the Socialist Republic of Montenegro, one of
Yugosl,via's least developed Republics. The project,
the first integrated approach to rural development in
This doumnent has a restricted distribution and may be usied by recipients only in the performance or
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
the Republic, would seek to: increase agricultural
production; increase individual farm sector incomes,
thereby improving rural living standards; reduce income
disparities between the less and more-developed communes
and between the individual and social sectors; improve
the operating efficiency and capacity utilization of
social sector primary production and agro-processing
facilities; improve the Republic's institutional and
policy base in agriculture through more rational
investment allocation; improve organization and
financial management of the sub-borrowers; and expand
credit and support services for the individual sector,
including those farmers not wishing to enter into
marketing obligations for the credit. The proposed
project would represent virtually all of Montenegro's
investuent program for agriculture and forestry for the
next five years. It includes: (i) Primary Production
for the Individual Sector with subloans to individual
farmers for livestock development, fruit and berry
production, olive tree revitalization, winter and early
spring vegetable production, and trout production;
(ii) Primary Production for the Social Sector including
subloans to finance forestry development, fruit
production, and trout production; (iii) Support Services
and Infrastructure through subloans for agricultural
extension services, agricultural research, vocational
training, veterinary services, the establishment of milk
collection stations and cooperative centers, and a
program of local road improvement and maintenance;
(iv) Rehabilitation and Modernization of Agroindustries
including investments in a feed mill, a dairy plant, two
slaughterhouses, a fruit processing plant, a medicinal
herbs plant, and a small rural cheese plant; and
(v) Institutional Development including support for
IBT-UB, the Project Unit and the Forestry Technical
Institute, and for selected social sector enterprises
for improving their organizational and managerial
efficiency.



- lLl -
Estimated Costs;                             Local       Foreign   Total
…----(US$M-illion)----
Component
A.  Primary Production-Individual Sector   12.49         12.11       24.60
of which: Livestock                      10.78       10.28       21.07
Horticulture                    0.58       0.58        1.17
Farm Mechanization              0.89       1.02        1.91
Handicraft                      0.21       0,22        0.43
B.  Primary Production-Social Sector           7.69       6.72       14.41
of whichz Forestry                        6.46        5.67       12.13
Fruit                          0.61        0.43        1.04
Fish                            0.61       0.62        1.23
C.  Support Services and Infrastructure       4.90        3.92        8.82
D.  Agroindustries                             3.76       6.77       10.53
E.  Institutional Development                 0.29        0.16        0.46
Total Base Cost                          29.13       29.70      58.84
Physical Contingencies                    2.92        3.14        6.06
Price Contingencies                       5.01        4.71        9.72
Total Project Costs 1/                   37.07       37.56      74.63
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan                 -          0.10        0.10
Interest during Construction              0.83        2.34       3.17
Total Project Financing Reouirements          37.90      40.00       77.90
1/  Includes taxes and duties estimated at US$1.6 million.



- iv -
Financinm  Plan:                                                        % of
Local      Foreign    Total        Financin
(US$ million)… -----
Sources;
World Bank                    -         40.0 1/      40.0          51%
IBT-UB and                   3.7          -           3.7           5%
Basic Banks
Federal Funds               19.3          -          19.3          25%
Investors' Contributions  14.9            -          14.9          19%
Total Project Financing   37.9          40.0         77.9          100%
Estimated Disbursements;
---(US$ Million)---
Bank FY                         FY85   FY36   FY87   PY88   FY89    FY90
Annual                          2.4    10.0   11.5    7.0    6.2        2.9
Cumulative                      2.4    12.4   23.9   30.9   37.1    40.0
Benefits and Risks:  About 7,000 individual farmers would benefit directly
from subloans under the project. In addition, about
10,000 families would benefit from the upgrading of
local roads which would improve access to markets and
input supplies. After full development, the average
participating farmer's income is expected to increase by
an estimated 120%. It is also estimated that at full
development the investments under the proposed project
would result in the eauivalent of 1,240 incremental
man-years of employment. The portion of the incremental
processed output to be exported is expected to result in
foreign exchange earnings of about US$2.38 million
annually. In addition, increased self-sufficiency in
livestock products, livestock feed and pulp wood would
enable Yugoslavia to reduce imports. The project would
also further support: improvement of IBT-UB and its basic
banks by providing for a training coordinator and
training in project appraisal and st,pervision for its
staff, as well as training for financial and marketing
managers of the participating work organizations, and an
organization and management review of several social
sector enterprises. In addition, the Forestry Technical
1/ Includes interest during construction of US$2.3 million ont Bank loan and
capitalized front-end fee of US$0.10 million.



Institute would be strengthened through the project in
order to expand its activities into forestry research
and development. The main risk is the possible
shortfall of local counterpart investment funds.  Such a
risk has, however, buen minimized by: (i) establishing
a firm financing plan which accords this project
priority status in Montenegro; (ii) preparing updated
financing plans in Dinars annually; (iii) establishing a
local Dinar account as part of the Revolving Fund; and
(iv) by recently approved legislation at the Federal
level which exempts World Bank financed projects from
import and credit restrictions.
Economic Rate of Return: 22%
Appraisal Report; Report No. 4856-YU, dated June 27, 1984.



APPRAISAL OF
MONTENEGRO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Table of Contents
Pa&e No.
I.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR                                .........                                I
A.   Agriculture in Yugoslavia ......   ...........*...........*.............                  1
B.  Bank Investment in Yugoslavia's Agricultural Sector ..................                     2
C.   The Agricultural Sector in Montenegro ................................                    3
D.   Performance Under Previous Agricultural Projects in Montenegro .......                    4
E.   Project Background * *.......5. .....*.*.*..*...*......                                   5
II.  THE PROJECT AREA =.*.6 .................... a ..........                                        6
A.   Physical Characteristics . .......... ..... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
B.  Land Use and Tenure . ........ . ..... . . - ............................                  7
C.  Support Services                           ....... *..................   10
III.  BANk'ING INSTITUTIONS AND SOCIAL SECTOR ORGANIZATIONS ................12
A.  Investiciona Banka Titograd-Udruzena Banka (IBT-UB) ..................    12
B.  Social Sector Organizations                 ........ *.*.... *.....16
C.  The Agro-Community ......... ... ........             ...................                 17
IV.  THE PROJECT            .     .       .......... ............. &...... . ..* ......             17
A.   Objectives        .    .     ...................                                         17
B.  Project Description                                                                       18
C.  Status of Design and Project Implementation ....................28
D.  CFat Ectimate .....,.                ..........   ....................    28
E.  Financing ..30
F.  Retroactive Financing                                         ........  . .......    30
G.  Procurement o.... ........#... .........., , .... ,...                                    30
H.  Diabursements                     ,.... ..........,,,, ...... ..,.... ,..       .         . 33
I.  Environment and Health               .      ............................                  34
J.  Role of Women ........................... .. ................ *    34
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission to Yugoslavia during
May/June 1983, consisting of Messrs. Buller, Ochs, Minhas, Holloway, Knighton, Me. Likar
and Gavrilovic (Bank); and Messrs. Cronberg and Harrison (Consultants).   In addition,
Mr. Ingram (Programs) and Ms. Lichtenstein (Legal) participated part-time.



- ii -
Page No.
V.  PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT    ......................................   35
A. Institutional Arrangements .......................... *9 * *                35
B.  Technical Management of the Project ..................................   35
C.  The Project Coordination Council (PCC) ...............................   37
D.  The Borrower:  Investiciona Banka Titograd-Udruzena Banka (IBT-UB) ..   37
E. Other Participsting Organizations                  ..........               43
F.  Technical Assistance and Training....................................   44
G. Accounts and Audits .. ... ....     ......       . * *.                    45
H.  Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation .................................   46
VI.  PRODUCTION, PRICES, MARKETS AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS  ......................   46
A.  Production *.......... **..                     ,                       ..  46
B. Marketing Prospects and Channels t....................................   47
O. Prices   .,.,. ......................................                      50
D. Financial Analysis . ......  *.. ...........  ..         ..... 6 .... *.   50
VII.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..........- .,................ ....         51
.X.     Benefits  ........    .......      .........  ......... ,    ,.6*q.    51
B. Economic Evaluation ..........     .................. ****.**.**.    53
C . Risks and Uncertainties .      ........... *......... *.*....*.. ,        ,* 55
VIII.  RECOMMENDATIONS  .......................             ,          , ,            56
ANNEXES
Annex  1:  Project Cost and Phasing
Table 1; Detailed Project Cost (international inflation) ............   59
Table 2~  Detailed Project Cost (domestic inflation) ...      ...............   60.
Table 3:  Project Cost by Time (domestic inflation)  ..................   61
Annex  2:  Estimated Disbursement Schedule ..............................    62
Annex  3:  Financial and Economic Data
Table 1 ; Prices for Major Inputs and Outputs ...... a..* ...........   63
Table 2s:  Summary Financial Characteristics of Primary Production
Investments   .......   *   ... . *  ........ . ....   .**  ...............   .  67
Table 2b:  Summary Financial Characteristics of Agroindustry and
Forestry   Investments   ....... .  .  .  .  .  .     * .......................... a a o .s*. * * ...  68
Table 3 :  Economic Conversion Factors  ,.. ..........,................   69
Table 4a:  Economic Analysis of Primary Production Investments .......  70
Table 4b:  Economic Analysis of Agroindustry, Forestry and Rural
Road Investments  .4 ......................................    71



- iii -
Page No.
Annex  4:  The Borrower - Investiciona Banka Titograd-Udrux -ts Banka (IBT-UB)
Table 1:  Statements of Income and Expenses, 19d0-1982 .......,.......    72
Table 2:  Balance Sheets, 1980-1982 .......................,.....    73
Table 3:  Statements of Income and Expenditures, 1983-1986 ...........*  74
Table 4:  Sources and Applications of Funds, 1984-1986 ...............     75
Table 5; Balance Sheets, 1983-1986        ..... ....................        76
Table 6:  Project Financing Plan in Yugoslav Dinars .................      77
Annex  5:  On-farm Investments
Table L:  List of On-farm Investments ... ................,...........   78
Table 2:  Phasing of On-farm Investments .............................     79
Annex  6;  Key Techniccal Assumptions
Table l:  Individual Sector Livestock Development Models .............     80
Table 2;  Individual Sector Horticultural Development Models .........     82
Annex  7:  Forestry Subproject
Table l:  Forest Road Program by BOALs ...............................   83
Table 2:  Reforestation/Afforestation Program by BOALs ...............   84
Table 3:  Forestry Physical Targets ..................................   85
Annex  8;  Agricultural Support Services;  Number and Qualifications of
Existing and Additional Extension Agents .........      ................  86
Annex  9;  Local Road Improvement Program .................   87
Annex 10; Raw Material Supply for Agroindustries and Milk Collection Stations ..  88
Annex 11;  Procurement Method
Table 1:  Primary Production and Institutional Development   ...........  91
Table 2:  Support Services and Infrastructure           ........................  92
Table 3:  Agroindustry Rehabilitation             ................................   93
Annex 12:  Project Management Staffing Pattern . ............                          ......................  94
Annex 13:  Credit Arrangements for Non-contracting Individual Farmera ...........  95
Annex 14:  Guidelines Eor Appraisal_of Subprojects .......     ................t...  100
Annex 15:  Criteria for Mid-term Project Review .....     .......................     102
Annex 16:  Net Incremental Production
Table 1:  Primary Production .............................     .........*.  103
Table 2: Agroindustry .......     ........................... . . ................  104
Annex 17: Project Employment                  .. ..                              .... 105
Annex 18:  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File ............     106
Chart  l:  Project Implementation Schedule
Chart  2:  Institutional and Organizational Arrangements
Map        IBRD No. 17350
Map     : IBRD No. 17315



APPRAISAL OF
MONTENEGRO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Agriculture in Yuxoslavia
1.01     In Yugoslavia, the share of agriculture in social product and
employment has declined steadily in the post-war period due generally to a
rapidly declining rural population and policy and structural deficiencies in
the agricultural production process. It now contributes about 12% of the
country's social product, and engages about 30X of the country's active
population. In addition, increasing demand for food and agricultural products
has outstripped local production thereby renuiring increased imports and
creating additional demands on the country's balamce of payments. Agriculture
exports have declined, with their share in total export earnings dropping from
13% in 1976 to L1% in 1981. Yet the country has a large agricultural resource
base, and its favorable climatic conditions have fostered the growth of a
well-diversified agricultural sector with significant potential for future
development. About 83% of agricultural land is owned and operated by nearly
2.6 million individual farmers, making agriculture the only predominantly
privately-owned sector of the economy. With an average family holding of
around 3.2 ha and possessing about 95% of the total agricultural labor force,
the individual sector accounts for about 85% of maize production, 60% of
wheat, 75% of vegetables, and owns about 90% of all livestock. The balance is
produced by Yugoslavia's social sector.
1.02     With the major emphasis of Yugoalavia's efforts to date on the social
sector agrokombinats as the principal means tc achieve large-scale production
and self-sufficiency in food, social sector agricultural production grew at
5.4% annually over the past decade, compared to 1.2% for the individual
sector. Although social eactor growth has been impressive in absolute terms,
production efficiency ie generally low, because of over-investment,
over-employment and high overhead costs, weak financial discipline, and
outdated technologies in some areas. On the other hand, individual
agricultural holdings received scant attention during the seventies. Linkage
between the two sectors is provided through agricultural cooperatives
(Zadrugas) which associate with individual farmers through short or long-term
production and marketing contracts. Cooperatives sell inputs to the
agrokombinats and buy agricultural outputs from faraers cooperating in their
area of operation while providing farm machinery services, technical advice,
and credit to member farmers. The repayment of the credit is largely ensured
through the sale of the produce. Only about half of Yugoslavia's farmers are
in some form of cooperation with the social sector.



-2-
1.03     For the Plan period 1981-1985, the Government intends to improve
primary production to oatisfy domestic demand; generate surplus production to
promote agricultural exports; modernize, reconstruct and improve efficiency in
existing agroindustry facilities; and utilize currently unused and abandoned
lands through land reclamation and social sector purchase.  The growth of
agricultural output had been targeted at 4.5% per year, with social sector
growth planned for 6% and the individual sector 4% per year.  Agriculture is
also expected to play an important role in reducing the deficit in the balance
of payments, with exports expected to grow at an annual rate of 10% by the end
of the Plan, and agricultural imports to be reduced by 5% per year. Despite
some respite in 1981 with production increasing 7% over the preceding year,
exports have shown no improvement and for 1983, agricultural imports were high
at about 1.4 million tons. As a result, agricultural growth rates have been
revised downwards and henceforth will be prepared on an annual basis. At the
same time, the Government's Stabilization Commission on "A Long-Term Program
of Agroindustrial Production", highlights the following as major contributors
to poor performance: (a) low efficiency of the social sector; (b)
insufficient investment in the individual sector and an imbalance towards
capital intensive social sector agro-processing; (c) inadequately developed
institutional arrangements, services and inputs for the individual sector,
including restricted credit access for individual farmers; (d) the small size
and fragmentation of individual sector holdings; and (e) poorly developed
extension services for the individual sector.
B. Bank Investment in Yugoslavia's Agricultural Sector
1.05     In recent years, the Bank's lending strategy in Yugoslavia has given
increasing importance to the agricultural sector. To accelerate agricultural
growth, the Bank assisted in formulating the 1973 'Green Plan', a
comprehensive framework for agricultural development which. for the first
time, emphasized the need to support the individual farm sector and the rural
poor in the country's least developed Republics. Bank lending is also
pursuing ways to increase the accessability to services and inputs for all
individual farmers, including those unwilling to sign delivery contracts with
the social sector. Investments in selected agro-industries in the social
sector which serve as the marketing channels for farm production are also
being financed under Bank loans. This strategy has recognized the need to use
investment to promote a more equitable income distribution, both nationally
and at the Republic level, by raising the incomes of the rural poor and
alleviating rural-urban migration. In support of the economic restructuring
effort in Yugoslavia, Bank lending is also increasingly emphasizing
institutional and policy initiatives with a sectoral significance, such as
pricing, investment selection, financial management and strengthening the
development orientation and institutional capacity of the banking system. Ihe
Bank is supporting a series of in-depth studies of agricultural development
issues. Recently, a study of agroindustry development was completed, and this
study will in part form the basis for revisions of Yugoslavia's agricultural
program through 1985 and beyond. The Bank is also engaged with the Yugoslavs
in a joint study of primary agricultural production, from which future Bank
lending is expected to draw.



-3-
C. The Agricultural Sector in Montenegro
1.06     The Socialist Republic of Montenegro is among Yugoslavia's least
developed areas with a per capita income in 1982 of US$2,270, about 80% of the
national average. Located in the southwest of Yugoslavia, it is distinguished
by highly mountainous terrain representing about 85Z of its land area. Out of
the total estimated population in 1983 of 503,651, 27% are farm families.
While from 1971 to 1981 population in Montenegro increased by 1% per year
(compared to a national growth of about 0.8%) the agricultural population
decreased from 185,000 to 158,000. Rapid rural migration has caused serious
bottlenecks and labor shortages in certain rural areas of the Republic despite
high overall unemployment in Montenegro.
1.07     During 1971-1981, Montenegro's agricultural sector grew annually at
abouc 1.7%. Montenegro accounts for less than 5% of Yugoslavia's total
agricultural land, and it contributed only about 1.4% of its agricultural
social product during this period. Indeed, the depressed incomes in
agriculture are one of the main reasons for income differentials between
Montenegro and Yugoslavia as a whole. Of the total area of 1.4 M hectares,
only 13% is agricultural land, while forests account for 41% and natural
grassland for 24%. Individual farmers own about 94% of the agricultural
land, 46% of the grassland and 34% of the forests. The total 320,000 ha of
agricultural and pasture land owned by the individual sector is divided among
about 58,000 households, and many of the holdings are fragmented. Despite the
obvious constraints imposed by the mountainous terrain, there is considerable
potential for agricultural development in Montenegro, particularly with regard
to livestock, forestry, and the provision of basic inputs for crop
development. Mechanization is also relatively scarce with only about one
tractor per 141 hectares of agricultural land.
1.08     Montenegro' s 1981-1985 Social Plan projected an agricultural growth
rate of about 4.0% annually, and despite on-going revisions to the Republic's
investment allocations arising from liquidity constraints, authorities have
indicated chat the proportional share of agriculture and forestry will be
increased over the original plan allocation of 10%. The fact that the
proposed project will constitute the bulk of the Republic's investment in the
agricultural and forestry sectors supports this premise.
1.09     The major factors constraining production are (a) low productivity in
the individual sector due largely to lack of critical inputs such as services,
modern farming technology and credit; and (b) inefficiencies in the social
sector due to poor financial management, outdated technology, and uneconomic
investments. To deal with these problems the Government's Plan proposes to
encourage increased cooperation between the individual and social sectors by
better serving the needs of small farmers, strengthening the links between
them and the social sector, and improving the efficiency and responsiveness of
social sector organisations to respond to the needs of small farmers.



-4-
D. Performance Under Previous World Bank Agricultural Projects in Montenegro
1.10     The Montenegro Regional Development Project would represent the
nineteenth Bank Loan for agriculture in Yugoslavia, totalling about
US1,158.25 M or about 27% of all bank Aoans to Yugoslavia. Since 1973
Mor,tenegro has received one Bank Loan for agriculture of USt26 M for the
Montenegro Agriculture and Agricultural Industries Project (Loan 1370-YU) and
a total of US$10.4 M under three nationwide agricultural credit projects.
Both the former (Loan 1370-YU) and the first of the credit projects were
successfully completed on schedule, although the investor under Loan 1370-YU,
Work Organization (WO) Vinoproduct within Agrokombinat (AK) "13 July", has
been experiencing difficulties in servicing its outstanding debt during these
initial years between project completion and achievement of full development.
The situation has been improving with the investor making serious efforts to
reduce production costs and obtain lucrative export contracts. The Government
of Montenegro allocated about Dinars 600 M as a medium-term loan to enable the
investor to meet its obligation at end-1983, conditional to the enterprise
accepting and implementing a long-term rehabilitation program (para 3.06).
Under the Second (Loan 1477-YU) and Third (Loan 1801-YU) Credit Projects,
imnplementation delays have been experienced. Under the Second Credit
Project, about US$1.5 M had to be reallocated from Montenegro to Slovenia
because the participating bank, Investiciona Banka Titograd-Udruzena Banka
(IBT-UB), was unable to commit the remaining funds for both the social and
individual sectors prior to the Loan Closing Date. Under the Third Credit
Project, which became effective in August 1983, funds for the individual and
social sectors are 100% committed, and a total of 50% of the amount allocated
to Montenegro (US$5.2 M) had either been disbursed by the Bank or contracts
had been signed with suppliers, by the time of negotiations. To some extent
slow disbursement is due to the effect of the stabilization measures taken by
the Federal authorities and the reduced funds available for investment
purposes generally. As a result, under the Third Credit Project commitment
and disbursement levels are low for all participating Republics.
1.11     To deal with this situation, the Federal and Republic authoritieb in
1983 exempted Bank financed imports from restrictive measures imposed by the
stabilization program, and beginning in 1984 Bank financed projects also are
exempt from credit ceilings.   At the same time, the financial difficulties,
which have also hindered project implementation, will be dealt with through a
comprehensive program to improve the appraisal standards and financial
management of IBT-UB and several major investors, included under the ongoing
Seventh Industrial. Credit Project (Loan 2340 YU) and the proposed Regional
Development Project. As a result, implementation and disbursement on Bank
financed projects in Montenegro are expected to show improvement. Prior to
negotiations, the Republic Government and IBT-UB confirmed in writing that all
past obligations, under on-going agricultural credit loans, to bear the
foreign exchange risk on subloans to the individual sector had been met.
1.12     The principal lessons learned from Bank agricultural lending in
Montenegro to date, and particularly the completed First Agricultural Credit
Project (Loan 1129-YU), include the need for: (a) improving the capabilities



-5-
of the banking system in subproject appraisa.l and supervision; (b)
facilitating individual farmer access to inputs and credit; (c) strengthening
support services for the individual sector; and (d) improving social sector
investor management and stressing the development role of the associated and
basic banks. The proposed project seeks to address these issues.
E. Project Background
1.13     The original project proposal, which was first identified by the Bank
in January 1980, originated from AKl "13 July" as a follow-up to the
Agriculture and Agricultural Industries Montenegro Project (Loan 1370-YU), for
which AK was the sole investor. On that occasIon, the Bank recommended
broadening the project's scope to include individual farm development and
other enterprises throughout the Republic and not limiting the project to AK's
own resuirements. In early 1981, the Montenegrins established a seve:n member
Project Preparation Coordination Committee, headed by the Deputy President for
the Committee of Agriculture and Forestry, to supervise and coordinate project
preparation, primary responsibility for which rested with the Agroeconomic
Institute (AEI), Titograd. The FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
collaborated in project preparation through three missions in June 1981,
October 1981 and March 1982.  In addition, the consultative aervices of the
Agricultural Economics Institute and the Economic Bureau, both of Belgrade,
were contracted to assist in project preparation. The Bank participated in
the two latter missions of the FAO/WB, plus two additional follow-up missions
in September and November 1982. The preparation report was received by the
Bank in July 1982. This report, with updated unit prices, was the basis for
appraisal in June 1983. The appraisal mission consisted of Messrs. Buller,
Ochs, Minhas, and Ms. Likar and Gavrilovic (Bank), and Messrs. Cronberg and
Harrison (consultants). The forestry and local road components were appraised
separately by Mr. Holloway in April 1983 and Mr. Knighton in May 19 j,
respectively. A follow-up mission, comprising Messrs. Buller, Krasowski and
Ingram and Ms. Lichtenstein took place in November 1983.



II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Physical Characteristics
Location
2.01     The Socialist Republic of Montenegro (SRM) is located in the
southwestern portion of Yugoslavia and covers an area of about 13,800 kmi2,
which is 5.4% of the total Yugoslavia territory (IBRD Map No. 17,350). Within
Montenegro, 18 of the 20 conmiunes, 10 of which are classified as
underdeveloped, are included in the project.
Topography
2.02     Mountains and highlands are the distinguishing features of
Montenegro, representing 85% of its total land area. They are located mainly
in the northern and eastern regions with altitudes reaching 2,500 m.
Vegetation and snow cover help minimize erosion. The lower coastal mountains
to the west are karstic, practically barren of vegetation and without surface
water flows. The remaining 15% of the land area consists of fertile river
valleys, and low altitude flatlands concentrated in the central region around
Skadar Lake, Yugoslavia's largest lake.
soils
2.03     The soils of Montenegro are extremely heterogeneous and frag7aented.
The alluvial valley soils, which support intensive agriculture (fruit, grapes,
vegetables), are deep, light to medium textured and fertile. Many require
drainage and protection from flooding.  Others, because of high permeability,
can only be successfully cultivated if irrigation is provided. Soils in the
low hilly coastal region are brown and red (terra rosa) deposits, which are
cultivated mainly in terraces (olives, fruit, grapes). In the mountainous
areas, soils are generally brown shallow deposits cr deeper rocky deposits
(rendzina) sustaining grassland and woodlands. Wit;h adequate erosion control,
this land has potential for development of orcharda, artificial meadows and
improved forests.
Climate
2.04     The climate of Montenegro is very diversified.  From the sea coast to
the high mountains the following climates can be identified: (a)
Mediterranean climate up to 200 m of altitude with mild frosts of very short
duration, and average annual rainfall of about 1,500 mm, which is poorly
distributed, as only about 15% of the total annual rainfall occurs in summer;
(b) modified Mediterranean climate of the central region with hot and dry
summers, which receives only about 10% of the total annual rainfall of 1,700
mm; (c) temperate mountain climate prevailing in the highlands and mountain
valleys up to 1,300 m altitude with more favorably distributed rainfall,
varying from about 1,000 nm to 2,500 mer depending upon elevation and natural
barriers; (d) a combination of mountain and continental climate above 1,300 m
altitude with rainfall varying from 1,000 mm to 2,500 mm; and (e) alpine
climate above 2,000 m altitude with full expression of high year-round
precipitation, including heavy winter snowfalls.



-7-
2.05     The project grea can be divided into four major agroeconomic zones
based on physical characteristics and agricultural suitability and potential
as follows:
(a) Coastal zone (6 conmunes): Mediterranean crops; such as, olives,
figs, citrus, pomegranate, vegetables and tobacco;
(b) Central tone (4 comnmunes); maize, vegetables, grapes, fruits,
mi lk and meat;
(c) Polituje zone (3 communes):  milk, meat, deciduous fruits and
berries, and some forest production; and
(d) Mountain zone (7 communes): livestock and forest production.
B. Land Use and Tenure
2.06     Out of a total area of 1.4 M ha in SRM, only 13% is agricultural land
(arable, orchards, vineyards and meadows), while forests account for 41%;
natural grassland for 24%; and "other" for 22%. ]Forest comprises high forest,
degraded forest, coppice, scrub and maquis. An approximate breakdown of land
used foT agricultural, livestock and forestry production is shown in the table
below:
Land Use
(ha '000)
Agricultural land
Arable                                  57             5.3
Orchards                                10             0.9
Vineyards                                3             0.3
Meadows                                114            10.5
Sub-total                            184            17.0
Forest                                 569            52.4
Natural grassland                      332            30.6
Total                              1,085           100.0
2.07     Individual farmers own about 94% of the agricultural land, 46% of the
grassland and 34% of the forests. 'Total agricultural and pasture land owned
by the individual sector is about 320,000 ha, which is divided among 58,000
households with an average farm size of 5.5 ha.  About half of these
households have sone form of association with cooperatives and social sector
organizations.  The average number of plots per farm is about 3.5, which are
often widely scattered, particularly in the mountainoua areas. The social
sacto oawns 6% of the agricultural land, 54Z of the grassland and 66% of the
forests. AX "13 July" is the largest social sector land holder with about
2,500 ha.
2.08     The arable land is concentrated in the Central, Polimlje and
Mountainous zones (85%). Fifty percent of the orchards are located in the
Coastal zone (sub-tropical fruita), while the Polimlje zone is significant for



-8-
continental fruits. Vineyards are almost exclusively found in the Central
zone, while meadows and natural grassland are concentrated in the Central and
Mountainous zones. Thirty-five percent of arable land is cultivated with
cereals, 21X with forage crops, 202 with vegetables, almost 1% with industrial
crops and 25% is fallowlend, being used to some extent for livestock grazing
and haymaking. The main cereals are maize (7,400 he), wheat (3,500 ha) and
barley (5,600 ha). Alfalfa is the principal forage crop (6,000 ha). During
the past decade, the use of arable land in Montenegro changed significantly:
while cereal cultivation decreased frov 37,000 ha in 1970 to barely 20,000 in
1980, or by 46.5X, the areas for vegetcale, forage and orchard production
increased by 2.8X, 46.4% and 79%, respectively, and fallowland increased from
8,200 ha to 13,100 ha, or by as much as 60.5%. The drastic increase of
fallowland is due mainly to the aging rural population, and lack of
mechanization and farm inputs; aspects wbich the proposed Regional
Development Project aims to improve, including better living conditions to
encourage younger workers to remain in agriculture.
2.09     A typical farm in Montenegro's lower lyiag areas (below about 800 m)
combines cropping with livestock raising, and produces maize, wheat,
vegetables, fruit and some lucerne. Between 40% and 70% of the farm is
improved and unimproved meadows and most farme have access to communal
grazing. Mechanization is relatively scarce as there are only about 1,300
tractors (one per 141 ha of agricultural land) and 1,200 motorcultivatore in
the Republic. The farm keeps two to three dairy cows and some sheep, sells
milk and/or cheese, owns one or two pigs, and sells piglets or alternatively
buys a few piglets for fattening. Backyard poultry raising is widespread.
Feeding of pre-fabricated concentrates is not very common, and most of the
animals are fed entirely on home grown feed. Farms at the higher altitudes
are usually larger, sheep raising becomes more dominant, and less area is
devoted to crops.
2.10     Livestock:  In 1982, there were about 182,000 cattle, 493,000 sheep,
23,000 pigs, 25,000 horses, and 660,000 poultry in Montenegro. Montenegro has
considerable potential for increasing cattle and sheep production on its vast
grassland areas, mainly in its Central and Polimlje zones. Although their
yields are low, they offer excellent potential for low cost production of
milk, beef, mutton, and lamb through grassland development. There is also a
considerable underutilired reproductive potential in cattle, which through
improved management and nutrition could serve to significantly expand
livestock production within a short period of time. In addition, ongoing and
planned crossbreeding programs offer the opportunity to increase the number of
higher productive breeds.
2.11     Individual farmers own 98% of all cattle and virtually all sheep, and
graze the bulk of their animals on abundant, remote mountain pastures during
the aix-month grazing season. Availability of good auality winterfeed is
crucial and represents the single most important constraint to increased
livestock production in Montenegro. Livestock productivity is low with annual
milk yields of only 1,200 1 per cow and 20 to 25 1 per ewe, and 400, 100 and
400 grams daily weight gains for cattle, sheep and pigs, respectively. Wool
production is equally low, but fertility rates are acceptable. The animal
health situation is reportedly good. However, the actual frequency of
infectious disease is probably far from being identified and parasitic



-9-
diseases, which inflict significant direct and indirect losses, are only
little treated. Social sector livestock production is concentrated on several
dairy and sheep farms and a large pig farm near Spuz, which produces about
12,000 pigs per year. With the exception of this latter farm, management
standards are low on these farms. Trout production is concentrated at two
locations near Titograd with total annual production capacity of about 200
tons of market fish and four million fingerlings. Currently, the individual
sector is not involved in fresh water fish production. Conditions for trout
production in Montenegro are rated as good, and the level of technical
expertise in the production enterprise and the Agroeconomic Institute in
Titograd is among the highest in Yugoslavia.
2.12     Horticulture:  Two distinct fruit growing regions exist in the SRM;
namely, the continental region, which encompasses most of the Central zone and
all of the Mountain and Polimlje zones and the subtropical region, which is
confined principally to the Coastal zone. In 1980, there was a total of about
10,000 ha of fruit trees in the Republic, of which 90% belonged to individual
farmers. Fruit growing in the individual sector is mostly of the traditional,
low-density type, with trees scattered along field borders and throughout
meadowland. Several high-density social sector orchards of apples, sour
cherries and peaches are now approaching full yield development. Within the
continental region, plums, apples and pears are most abundant in the Polimlje
zone (about 60% of the Republic's total).
2.13     In the subtropical region, the predominant fruits are olives, citrus,
figs and wild pomegranate: the trees being widely dispersed along the
litoral.  The ancient olive trees (se¶eral centuries old) show signs of
neglect. Consenuently, yields are low, although their productivity can be
restored through fertilization, cultivation and judicious pruning. Wild
pomegranate flourishes and is typically seen around most households and in
field borders. Vegetable gardens are a prominent characteristic of every farm
throughout the Republic. The climatic conditions along the coast are
especially favorable for intensive production of winter and early vegetables
under glass or plastic cover. The market for these fresh vegetables is very
favorable because of the tourist business along the coast.
2.14     Forestry:  Some 214,000 ha are productive high forest, comprising
about 60% broadleaf species and 40% conifers. A further 109,000 ha of forest
have been degraded by past over-cutting, grazing and burning. The most
productive areas are within the social sector forests of the highlands.
Forested areas of both sectors in the Coastal zone are generally of low
quality and used primarily for fuelwood production. The quantity of timber
that can be removed each year from the total forested area as a sustainable
yield (annual allowable cut - AAC) is estimated at 882,000 m3, but actual
production in 1982 was only 707,000 m3 (80% of AAC) primarily because of
inaccessibility. The major constraints to forest development are: (i) an
inadequaLe forest road network; (ii) insufficient mechanization for road
construction and logging; (iii) overuse of the easily accessible forest, which
now recuirea large scale rehabilitation and afforestation; and (iv) little
experience in the establishment of fast-growing coniferous plantations.
2.15     Local Roads:  Although SRM is adequately served by a well developed
primary and regional road network, the same is not true for local roads, which
are generally in poor condition. Within the 20 communes in the Republic,



-10-
there are about 1,300 km of local roads. Existing traffic volumes are in the
range of 50 to 150 vehicles per day. Most local roads are not properly
constructed, and the network is limited mainly to a rudimentary system of
unimproved tracks, usually lacking prcper drainage. They are often impassable
because of severe deterioration of the road formation. Moreover, under these
conditions, the existing local roada cannot be maintained in reasonable
condition. The resulting low level of accessibility is a constraint on rural
development and social well-being, particularly in the main agricultural areas
in the northeastern part of the Republic. A road improvement and maintenance
program is a necessary and integral part of a i.roject to increase ezonomic
activity in the area.
C. Support Services
2.16     Farmers in Montenegro receive support services from a variety of
organizations, which are described below.
Republic Agricultural Extension Service
2.17     This Service has a central staff L,f five persons in Titograd and 26
extension agents distributed in 18 communes.  The ratio between agricultural
households and extension agents is extremely low at about 1,900 to 1, although
as described in para 2,21, the social sector enterprises contribute
significantly to the extension effort through their own specialists. Besides
technical assistance to farmers, one of the tasks of the Service is to
accelerate association of individual farmers with social sector enterprises.
The Service has poor transport facilities and, as a consenuence, efficiency is
low. Besides, many agents are concerned with the collection of statistics and
communal activities rather than with day-to-day extension work at the farm
level.
Agricultural Institute in Titograd
2.18     Besides research in crop production, the Institute carries out some
veterinary research, soil and feed analyses, and diagnostic work on plant and
livestock diseases. It also keeps livestock breeding records and produces
fruit and vine planting stock. The Institute has a staff of 120, including 31
university graduates, and three experimental farms: one in Titograd for
multipurpose experimentation, one in Bar for Mediterranean crops, and one in
Bijelo Polje for orchards. The Institute's working facilities are outdated,
and its work program is seriously constrained by lack of funds.
Agro-Economic Institute in Titograd
2.19     This Inatitute operates as a WO within the AK "13 July".  Its main
activities comprise preparation of investment proposals, socio-economic
surveys and planning studies, consultancy work, including design and
supervision of agricultural and agro-industrial investment pro-rams, and staff
training. The Institute is staffed with 23 university graduates and 15 medium
level personnel. Its efficiency is handicapped by lack of equipment and
transport facilities; but despite these constraints, the Institute makes
valuable contributions to agricultural development in Montenegro.



-1 1-
Bio-Technical Center in Bar
2.20     This Center is an agricultural secondary school and the only
institution in Montenegro which trains agricultural workers. It employs 32
full-time and 18 part-time teachers, and in 1983 had 560 students.  7he staff
is well qualified with broad practical experience. The Center trains skilled
and specialized agricultural laborers and agricultural technicians, many of
whom do not find adequate employmnent after graduation.  The main shortcoming
of the Center is its location in the Coastal zone, which is representative of
a limited agroeconomic area of the Republic.
Support Services from Social Sector Enterprises
2.21     Virtually all agricultural/agro-industrial social sector enterprises
in Montenegro have s,ecial sections to assist associated individual farmers
(about 48% of all farmers in MonCenegro), who receive credit and farm inputs,
machinery services and technical assistance from these enterprises, through
which they market part of their production. The enterprises, which employ 68
agricultural university graduates, 2 veterinarian graduates, 115 agricultural
technicians and 7 veterinary technicians, contribute significantly to
Montenegro's agricultural development.
Veterinary Services
2.22     These include (i) the veterinary inspection service with 2
veterinarians in Titograd and 7 veterinarians at the communal level; (ii) the
Veterinary Institute in Titograd, which has a central diagnostic laboratory
and employs a staff of 6; and (iii) 14 veterinary stations throughout
Montenegro. Altogether, the Service employs 21 veterinarians, 17 veterinary
technicians, 9 veterinary nurses, and 8 inseminators, or a total professional
staff of 55 persons. Both the number of staff and stations, as well as the
Service's working facilities (in particular, transport facilities, and
diagnostic eouipment) are judged insufficient to adequately fulfill its
tasks. Moreover, six communes with large livestock populations have no
veterinary stations, and Montenegro's artificial insemination services are
only rudimentary. Farmers consider the services provided as efficient but
expensive and ask for veterinary assistance only if absolutely necessary.
Farmers in remote areas are particularly affected by high transport charges
and thus are reluctant to seek veterinary res8istance. Despite these
constraints, the animal health situation in Montenegro is relatively good.
Forestry Service
2.23     Forestry comes under the jurisdiction of the Republic's Committee for
Agriculture, Forestry and Water Resources1 which is responsible for forest
policy and for ensuring that operations conform to approved forest management
plans, through the employment of forestry inspectors. Each commune (or, in
the Coastal zone, association of communes) has a WO for forestry and forest
industries. In the highlands, each WO has a BOAL for forestry. The 13
highland W0s are associated together with a Forestry Technical Institute and a
domestic and foreign trade organization in a COAL, called SIK Crna Gora, with
headquarters in Titograd. The forestry BOALs are responsible for all
operations concerned with primary production of wood, including forest road
construction and maintenance.



-12-
Road Organization
2.24     The Montenegrin Roads Organization with headquarters in Titograd is
responsible for the construction and maintenance of the primary and regional
road network.  The communes are responsible for construction and maintenance
of local roads, which are supervised by individual communal road
organizations. There are at least seven contractors who are qualified for
road construction works. In most communes, maintenance works are carried out
by a WO which is also responsible for maintaining buildings in the commune.
However, because of the poor standards of construction of local roads combined
with a shortage of adequate maintenance ecuipment, particularly graders and
related operating means, it has not been possible to maintain the local roads
in reasonable condition. Existing sources of finance for road construction
and maintenance within communes are; (i) funds from vehicle registration
fees; (ii) allocations from commune funds; and (iii) various taxes on salaries
of social sector workers and on the income of farmers. These funds are
maintained in separate accounts for construction and maintenance in a Commune
Road Fund. In addition, cooperatives, social sector enterprises, and
individual villages often make funds available for individual roads.
III, BANKING INSTITUTIONS AND SOCIAL SECTOR ORGANIZATIONS
A. Investiciona Banka Titograd-Udruzena Banka (IBT-UB)
(The Borrower)
Organization and Credit Procedures
3.01     IBT-UB is an Associated Bank with 14 basic banks (BB), which hold its
share capital. It is the dominant banking institution in SRM and has a staff
of about 210, including 80 professionals. It provides a wide and diverse
range of services, including disbursing the proceeds of the Federal Fund for
the Development of the Less Developed Regions through its BBs. In addition,
IBT-UB is solely responsible for mobilizing financial resources from foreign
sources and handling of foreign exchange portions of investment projects,
IBT-UB's head office in Titograd is organized into six departments; namely,
Planning Operations; Labor Associations and Resources; Credit; Investment and
Construction; Foreign Exchange; and Common Services. IBT-UB's highest
governing body, the Assembly, is made up of representatives elected by its
BBs. The Assembly is responsible for approving IBT-UB's five-year work plan,
the annual plan and business policy. The Assembly also elects a Managing
Board, Credit Board and a Chief Executive (President) from among its members.
The Chief Executive ia responsible for all bank operations under the approved
policy of the Assembly. The Managing Board comprising five members oversees
the day-to-day operations of the institution and carries out the decisions of
the Assembly. The Credit Board approves the long-term domestic lending and
borrowing policies of up to Din 50 M.
3.02     IBT-UB was the Borrower under the Agriculture and Agricultural
Industries Project in Montenegro (Loan 1370-YU), is a participating bank in
the First, Second and Third Agricultural Credit Projects (Loans 1129, 1477,
and 1801-YU) and is the channel for funds disbursed under numerous Industrial



-13-
Credit lines. A World Bank Unit within IBT-UB is responsible for coordinating
the accounting functions related to World Bank Loans. All projects financed
by World Bank funds are first appraised and approved by the respective BBs.
The quality of subproject appraisals is generally poor. The BBs, as well as
the Associated Bank, lack adequately trained staff to perform satisfactory
financial/economic and market analysis. Loan application processing,
particularly from individual sector sub-borrowers takes excessively long, and
applications are often delayed in order to process them in batches.
Improvements in project appraisal and subloan approval are important
objectives of institutional development actions to be provided under the
proposed project (paras 4.34, 5.09 and 5.25). In addition, under the Seventh
Industrial Credit Project (Loan 2340-YU), there are provisions to rectify
several serious institutional weaknesses within IBT-UB (para 5.19).
Operations
3.03     The main areas of IBT-UB's operations are its loans and guarantees as
summarized below:
Summary of IBT-UB's Operations
(Current Terms)
1980       1981        1982
--     (Din Billion)-----
Long-term loans                      13.0        12.9        14.3
Guarantees                             9.9        6.5         6.6
Short-term loans                      6.5         6.0         8.9
Total                              29.3        25.4        29.8
The long-term loans and guarantees are provided mainly to the enterprises for
capital investments and other long-term needs. Maturities for these loans
range between ten to fifteen years. Commitments for such loans are in line
with the investments in the Republic's five-year plan. Commitments for
long-term loans in 1982 are up by approximately 11% as compared to 1981, with
the major investment share going for capital investments to the social sector
enterprises. The short-term loans are revolving credits used by enterprises
and other banks as working capital. They are repaid within a year and
borrowed back as need arises. Short-term loans in current terms have
increased 48% from 1981 to 1982. However, IBT-UB'S operations in real terms
at the end of 1982, show a decline of approximately 23% over 1981. 1/ Within
the overall operations, short-term loans in real terms remained at a constant
level (using 1981 Dinars) while both the long-term loans and guarantees
declined because of a conscious effort in IBT-UB's lending policy to
consolidate its existing portfolio and restrict new capital investments in
accordance with the debt ceilings imposed under stabilization guidelines.
1/ Using 1980 as base year with GSP deflator of 40 and 31 percent,
respectively, in years 1981 and 1982.



-14-
Financial Status
3.04     Financial Structure:  IBT-UB's total assets reached Din 112.7
billion (B) (US$1.41 B at US$1 to Din 80) by the end of 1982, an increase of
28% in Dinar equivalent over the previous year. Most of this increase is
reflected in the growth of its long-term loan and investment portfolio which
reached Din 60.4 B (from Din 51.9 B in 1981). Short-term loans and current
maturities of long-term loans also show an increase of more than 50% over the
previous year. Both long and short-term borrowings have also gone up
proportionally (Annex 4, Tables 1 and 2). The total debt/equity ratio has
increased from 27:1 in 1980 to 30.1 in 1982 mainly due to an increase of loans
from the Federal and Republic funds. Excluding these borrowings, the total
debt/equity ratio in 1982 was 24:1. This indicator signifies IBT-UB's
dependence on Federal and Republic sources for financing. On the assets side,
its deposits with the National Bank have decreased from Din 2.2 B in 1981 to
Din 1.5 B at the end of 1982. IBT-UB's net income in 1980 constant Dinars has
also gone down from Din 485 M in 1980 to Din 260 M in 1982, which represents a
decline of 46.4% in real terms. Given the institution's high volume of
long-term loans, it is not unusual to experience this level of decline caused
by the high level of inflation that the country has experienced over the past
several years.
3.05     IBT-UB's Resources:  The long-term resource position of the bank ss
of December 31, 1982 is presented below:
Long-term Resource Position
(as of December 31. 1982)'
Din Million           sMl1lion E)iv.
00IlmDin.80)
Resources
Equity                           2,409                  30.11
Federal & Republic funds        16,685                 208.56
Domestic borrowings             18,865                 235.81
IBRD & other foreign banks    26,102                  326.28
Long-term deposits               7,940                  99.25
Total Resources               72,001                900.01
Applications
Long-term loans portfolio.    71,272                   890.90
Available for disbursements        729                   9.11
Federal and Republic Funds accounted for in the total resource situation
inclxde overall amounts contracted but not fully utilized. IBT-UB is
responsible for investing these funds in the priority projects in accordance
with the regional plans. These funds are treated as debt and are available
for investment at 4-7% annual interest rate for a period of 17 years.
IBT-UB's total long-term resources in Dinar terms have increased by
approximately 30% over the previous year level, which is roughly equal to the
annual inflation rate during the same period.



-15-
3.06     Arrears;  The financial arrears situation in IBT-UB has become
significant over the past few years as seen in the table below.
Long-term Loans in Arrears (Principal)
(as ot year's end)
(Million Din)
1980     1.981     1982
A.  Long-term loan portfolio                41,766   56,969   60,316
B.  Long-term loans affected by arrears   21,538   25,274   26,004
C. B as a percentage of A                    51.6      44.4     43.1
D. Principal in arrears of
- up to 3 months                           292       642       586
- 3-6 months                               919       729       915
- 6-12 months                              365       565       845
- over 12 months                         1,413    1,745    3,681
Total                          2,989    3,681    6,027
E. D as a percentage of A                      7.2      6.5      10.0
F. Percentage of arrears over
3 months to A                             6.4       5.3      9.0
In July 1983, the Government of SRH allocated funds as emergency medium-term
loans for the liquidation of financial arrears owed to IBT-UB by borrowing
enterprises in the Republic. Consequently, by December 31, 1983, IBT-UB's
arrears had decreased to Din 4.6 B, 65% of which was linked to 18 major social
sector enterprises. Approval of these loans by IBT-UB was conditional upon
the enterprises agreeing to undertake long-term rehabilitation programs, which
were formulated by IBT-UB, the BBs and Economic Bureau of Belgrade, and are
being monitored by the Republican authorities.  IBT-UB's management is making
serious attempts to improve the arrears situation. In February 1984, IBT-UB
prepared and furnished to the Bank information on the scheduling of the debt
repayment of the 18 enterprises to IBT-UB. The data covered the period from
1983 through 1985, and IBT-UB provided similar information for 1986 and 1987
during negotiations. The repayment schedules are designed to liquidate the
arrears fully, within four years by end-1987. During negotiations, the
repayment schedules were reviewed and referenced. IBT-UB confirmed that:
(i) it had entered into agreements with the 18 enterprises whereby these
enterprises will repay to IBT-UB all amounts (including principal and
interest) due and outstanding as of April 20, 1984, under loans extiided by
IBT-UB to the enterprises in accordance with the repayment schedules provided
to the Bank; and (ii) that it would enforce its rights under such agreements.
The list containing the repayment schedules of the 18 enterprises will permit
future monitoring of this aspect through auditing and supervision.
3.07     Liquidity;  IBT-UB's liquidity position is regulated by the National
Bank and supervised by the SDR. As of December 31, 1982, according to the
audited balance sheet, the current ratio comes to 1.02, which is acceptable.
The liquidity problems arising out of foreign exchange shortages are being
alleviated by the National Bank of Yugoslavia through provision of foreign
exchange amounts needed to repay its foreign obligations.



-16-
Forecast of IBT-UB's Operations and Financial Performance
3.08     Operational and financial projections of IBT-UB are based on its
medium-terr plans for 1984-86 ane takes as its point of departure a financial
restructuring program put in place in 1983 by the National Bank of Yugoslavia
(NBJ), and the Republic Government.  Under this financial restructuring
program, IBT-UB has received DirA 16.4 B as a long-term loan from NBJ at no
interest charge repayable over six years.  These funds are currently used for
short-tern lending at interest rates up to 28%, and significantly improve
IBI-UB's profitability. In addition, Din 7.0 B was received from the Federal
Fund and the Republic at low interest (2% - 4.5%) repayable over 15 years.
3.09     Projected income statemernts, sources and applications of funds and
balance sheets for the period 1984-86 are given in Annex 4, Tables 3-5.
IBT-UJB's profitability in 1984 (Din 1,559 M) and in 1985 (Din 1,600 M) is
satisfactory, although a decline is projected for 1986 to Din 987 M due mainly
to narrowing of the interest spread. This is due to a decline in on-lending
rates in 1986 compared with 1985 because of lower domestic inflation
assumptions and the effect on cost of funds due to progressive repayment of
the NBJ loan referred to above.  IBT-UB's cash flow over 1984-86 remains
satisfactory with 80X of financial requirements arising from long-term
borrowing (mainly Federal Pund and World Bank), repayment of long-term loans
and internal generation. IBT-UB's total assets will reach Din 227 B in 1986,
and its asset structure and liquidity would be maintained comparative to 1983
during this period.
D. Social Sector Organizations
3.10     Tlhere are about 45 Work Organizations (WO) in SRM concerned with the
production, processing and trade of food commodities. Since many of these are
potential participants in the proposed project, a sampling of them was
evaluated for their managerial and financial capabilities. The findings are
summarized below, and additional information is contained in the Project
Implementation Pile.
3.11     Organizational Aspects:  Generally, the WOs are organized and managed
in a similar manner. All are involved in complex business processes, which
often span the entire product cycle from production planning to retail
marketing, covering diverse product lines; such as, dairy and meat products,
fruits and vegetables, and textiles. Their operations are divided along
product lines within separate Basic Organizations of Associated Labor (BOAL).
The common functions; such as, administration, accounting and legal assistance
are provided by an overhead group within the WO. With few exceptions, mQost of
the overhead departments are overstaffed and inefficient in terms of providing
useful information and controls for the operating BOALs. The BOALs do not
have adequate administrative staff to coordinate effectively with the central
administration, and cou.niunication between various B&ALs, as well as with the
central staff, is inadequate. Generally, a large proportion of staff time is
spent on planning; however, the procedures to carry out the plans are
cumbersome and difficult for managers to follow. In several cases, the number



-17-
of BOALs is unnecessarily large, and their functions are separated
arbitrarily. As a result, similar functions, such as, transporting,
marketing, and advertising are fragmented in two or more BOALs. This results
in excessive operating costs and unclear accountability for overall efficiency
and profitability of the WO.
3.12     Financial Aspects and Marketing:  Financially, several individual
BOALs within WOs, that were studied. are showing operating losses: the
majority of losers being in the primary agricultural production business.
Some WOs are also shovring negative balances after contributions to various
social sector funds. Under the economic stabilization plan, steps are being
taken to rehabilitate the losing concerns through cost cutting measures.
Results are slow but some improvement is being made. Accounting practices of
some of the investors reviewed ars inconsistent with the generally accepted
standards. Adequately trained staff to perform accounting and budget control
functions is lacking at all levels. In most cases, such staff is located at
the WO level in the common service department; however, they provide little or
no service to the BOAL managers. Similarly, in most enterprises, export
marketing skills are badly lacking.
C. The Agro-Community
3.13     In December 1982, Montenegro formed a Business Community for the
Production and Processing of, and Trade in Food Products in Montenegro
tAgrozajendnica), referred to as the Agro-Community (AC). By November 1983,
43 of the 45 agriculturally oriented enterprises concerned with primary
production, processing, trade and tourism had become members of the AC. All
of the proposed investors in primary agricultural production and
agroindustries under the project are members of the AC, including three which
are farmers cooperatives (FCs). The objective of the new organization is to
serve the common interests of its members in a unified and coordinated manner;
and thereby, besides improving the well-being of its members, enhancing policy
planning, investment resource allocation, support services to individual
farmers, and implementation of programs in all aspects of agricultural
development in SRM. The AC affects activities in primary food production;
food processing; procurement of raw materials; trade of finished products,
both on the domestic and foreign markets; research, education and training;
and the application of modern technology. In addition, the AC proposes to
assist its member organizations in financial management and improvement of
inter-communication through a system of information dissemination. This new
organization, as it develops, can be expected to provide valuable support
towards achieving the objectives of the project.
IV.  THE PROJECT
A. ObJectives
4.01     The proposed project is designed to assist in the development of SRM,
one of Yugoslavia's least developed Republics. The project is the first
integrated approach to rural regional development in the Republic, and
essentially it represents the investment program for agriculture and forestry
in Montenegro for the next five years. In addition to increasing food output



-18-
and rural incomes and better using Montenegro's agricultural and forestry
potential, it will also improve the Republic's institutional and policy base
in agriculture through more rational investment allocation, improved
organization and financial management of the sub-borrowers, and expansion of
credit and support services for the individual sector. Credit for on-farm
development would be made more readily available to individual farmers, since
a portion of the Loan wouLd be allocated for the purpose of on-lending to
individual farmers without any contractual obligation (marketing contract) for
a subloan, other than for repayment of the loan in cash. Specifically, the
project will:
(;)   increase individual sector on-farm investments for livestock,
fish, fruit and vegetable production;
(ii)   finance purchase of small-scale farm mechanization and equipment
for farmers;
(iii)   improve wood supplies to processing industries and reduce wood
imports;
(iv)   strengthen and improve technical services and access to markets
for small farmers;
(v)   improve local roads and provide for better road maintenance;
(vi)   rehabilitate and modernize a small number of meat, milk and fruit
processing facilities; and
(vii)   contribute to institutional development of the Borrower, selected
investors, and service agencies, including agricultural research,
extension and training, and veterinary medicine.
The project would form an integral part of Yugoslavia's economic stabilization
program, whose objectives are to rationalize investment decision-making;
improve financial discipline; stimulate output in the priority sectors, such
as agriculture and forestry; and promote exports.
B. Project Description
4.02     The project would consist of an investment and agricultural credit
program extending over five years comprising four main components;
(a) primary production in agriculture and forestry; (b) support services and
infrastructure; (c) rehabilitation and modernization of selected
agroindustries; and (d) institutional development. A summary description of
each component is given below.
Primary Production
Individual Sector On-farm Production
4.03     Approximately 7,000 farmers would participate under the on-farm
investment program through credit from IBT-UB. Many of these farmers have
been contacted during the project preparation stage. The investments are



-19-
listed along with their phasing by years in Artnex 5, Tables I and 2. Key
technical assumptions underlying relevant models are shown in Annex 6,
Tables 1 and 2. Purther details of the individual farm models are contained
in the Project Implementation File.
4.04     Livestock Development:  The livestock development component is
designed to increase productivity of cattle and sheep production by fuller
utilization of Montenegro's vast natural grassland areas. Special attention
would be given to foragrS cultivation, in particular maize silage production,
and forage and hay preservation to increase quantity and quality of
winterfeed. Under the project, about 5,800 individual farmers are thus
expected to increase productivity, income and employment through subloans for
600 dairy and 600 sheep farms, improvement of 2,700 ha of meadows, production
of 600 ha of maize silage, procurement of 1,200 dairy in-calf heifers, and 120
bee operations with 20 hives each. Under the project, a typical dairy farm
would increase the number of dairy cows from 2.8 to 6 over a four-year period,
and improved feeding would stem from 0.5 ha lucerne, 2 ha of improved meadows,
production of I ha maize silage, and an increase in concentrate feeding
levels by 25%. A typical sheep farm would expand its ewe herd from 30 to 80
head over a four-year period.
4.05     Farm Mechanization:  Both 35 hp tractors and motorcultivators, or the
equivalent of up to 500 35 hp tractors, would be provided to project farmers
under about 500 subloans. Tractor subloans would be concentrated in those
areas where there is a shortage of labor and mechanization. In order to
guarantee full use of machinery, investors would need to demonstrate that
three or four neighboring farms would be prepared to make use of tractor
services on a hiring basis; currently a common practice in Montenegro.
4.06     Handicrafts;  Handicrafts' development would be carried out by about
540 people, predominantly women, from the Bijelo Polje, Ivangrad, and Rozaje
areas. A typical investment per person (140 total) in the Rozaje area would
include a loom, 1/10 of a warper, training with related costs involved, and
installation of looms in the home. Looms provided would allow production of a
wide variety of woolen fabrics, tweeds, drapes, covers, carpets, linen,
upholstery fabrics, and the like. Besides looms; sewing and knitting machines
and other equipment for handicraft manufacturing would also qualify for
financing under the project. In the Bijelo Polje and Ivangrad areas, the
project would include subloans to finance a 156 m2 building for a
cooperative center, and a mini-van, in support of about 400 people who
currently are making knitwear and folk costumes in their homes.
4.07     Deciduous Fruit and Berr  Production: This subproject proposes to
establish 60 ha of deciduous fruit trees and 60 ha of berries through subloans
to about 200 farmers (0.6 ha average size planting per fara), exclusively in
the traditional fruit growing Polimlje zone (Communes of Bijelo Polje and
Ivangrad). The species include apple (40 ha), pear (20 ha), raspberry (20
ha), blackberry (20 ha), and currant (20 ha). Relatively high planting
population densities would be used, and two farms would share one small
irrigation unit.



-20-
4.08     Olive Tree Revitalization:  The purpose of this subproject is the
revitalization of 60 ha of old olive trees (average age estimated at 300
years) through subloans to about 100 farmers (0.6 ha average size olive grove
per farm) in the Comnune of Bar in the Coastal zone. The old olive trees have
been neglected over the past decade, and many small terraced groves suffered
damage during the earthquake of 1979. Revitalization of olive tree
plantations would include special pruning, cultivating, fertilizing,
controlling insects, and rehabilitating of stone terraces. The use of nets
for the collection of olives would be used from PY 4 onwards to reduce the
labor required for harvesting.
4.09     Winter and Early Spring Vegetable Production:  This subproject would
involve about 33 households, each with a small plastic house of about 450 m2
in the Coastal zone, comprising the Communes of Bar, Budva, Tivat and Kotor.
The plastic houses would be provided with a small portable fuel oil heater,
which would be operated during periodic winter cold spells. During the year,
there would be three harvests of vegetables: two of lettuce and one of tomato.
4.10     Trout Production:  This subproject would be in the nature of a pilot
scheme. With the exception of some individual trout farming in Slovenia,
there is no intensive individual sector trout production in Yugoslavia.
However, on the basis that suitable cool, highly oxygenated water is available
in the hills of eastern Montenegro year round, and that there is
well-developed social sector fish production expertise in the Republic, a
small subproject of about 20 individuals would be selected from a group of 30
to 40 farmers and other land owners that have expressed interest in the
scheme. Each farm would develop 0.1 ha of water course in a raceway fashion
with six separate sections or pens along the run of the stream. Fingerlings
would be supplied by social sector farms, initially Mareza and subsequently
Bistrica.
Social Sector Production
4.11     Forestry:  The project will be restricted to the social sector
forests in the highlands of M4ontenegro. It will finance construction of 216
km of new all-weather roads (Annex 7, Table '), which will open approximately
46,600 ha of presently inaccessibie forest, and ruhabilitation of 80 km of
existing access roads. It will provide forest exploitation equipment to
enable the extraction, at full production, of some 225,000 n3 of wood/year
from these areas or a total of 765,000 m3 during the four-year project
period. It will also finance vehicles for supervisory staff, and transport
and mobile field accommodation for labor. Some 2,930 ha of forest, scrub and
grassland will be planted with trees (Annex 7, Table 2) and a further 3,220 ha
of forest will be regenerated naturally. Equipment will be provided for one
forestry nursery to raise its production to 6.1 M plants/year. About 100 ha
of experimental conifer plantations would be established during the project
period by the Pluzine BOAL in which mechanized land preparation and
maintenance of plantations and a variety of indigenous and exotic species
(e.g. Larix, Pseudotsuga and Pinus spp.) would be tested. The project would
only include subloans to finance equipment for the experimental plantations
(para 5.14, i).



-21-
4.12     The project would also support forest research and training in a unit
within the Forestry Technical Institute, for which four additional
professionals and some technicians would be recruited (para 5.21). The
project would include provision for eouipment and vehicles to expand or
replace existing eauipment. Training proposals that are to be financed under
the project comprise; (a) post-graduate, extramural university studies in
Yugoslavia and short professional overseas courses, primarily for Technical
Institute staff but which may also include senior forestry BOAL staff; (b) a
study tour in Yugoslavia for a Technical Institute staff member; (c) an
overseas study tour for project coordination unit staff and BOAL Pluzine staff
members in charge of experimental plantation establishment; and (d) eauipment
operator courses in Bosnia/Herzegovina for BOAL staff.  Phasing of all
investments in forestry is shown in Annex 7, Table 3.
4.13     Fruit Production;  The WO Agropolimlje, which has been a leader in
establishing high density deciduous fruit in the Polimlje zone, would replace
an old 20 ha apple orchard with a modern high density one, as well as
establish a new aad modern 20 ha pear plantation. High densities of around
2,000 trees/ha of semi-dwarfing rootstocks and trellising would be used for
both fruit species. Sprinkler irrigation facilities would also be provided
and the palette system is planned for harvesting and collecting the fruit.
The WO Primorka, located in the coastal town of Bar, would be the investor for
the proposed establishment of a 54 ha plantation of wild pomegranate for the
purpose of assuring raw mater'al for its new juice plant, which currently is
only operating at 65% of capacity.  Planting stock would be grown from
extracted roots of wild pomegranate trees. There was doubt as to the exact
location of the site for this new plantation during appraisal (para 5.14, ii)
4.14     Trout Production:  Tho size of this subproject has been reduced
substantially from the original feasibility study (para 5.14, ii). The
existing social sector Mareza fish farm, near Titograd, would be expanded by
0.36 ha through the existing investor, BOAL Ribrijaci, while in the Commune of
Bijelo Polje a new 0.5 ha trout farm would be established at Bistrica, and a
new organization would be founded within the WO Bjelasica, to run the farm.
Support Services and Infrastructure
4.15      This component is designed to efficiently support implementation of
the on-farm production activities and to ensure improved availability of
inputs, access to markets, and technical services as described below.
4.16     Agricultural Extension;  rhe staff of this Service would be increased
by 32 extension agents, bringing the total to 58. They would be placed in 18
communes throughout Montenegro, including 4 agronomists, 9 livestock
specialists, 2 hortictilturalists, 12 plant protection specialists, and 5
agro-economists. Additional details are given in Annex 8. The project would
include subloans to finance 17 vehicles and eouipment in support of the
proposed increase in the current number of agents. Extension methodology
training for agents would be provided by the new Training Center to be
established in Bijelo Polje (para 4.18).



-22-
4.17     Agricultural Research;  Under the project, the Animal Husbandry and
Veterinary Sections of the AgriculturaL Institute in Titograd would receive a
subloan to finance laboratory and other miscellaneous equipment, and
2 vehicles.  In addition, the Rasovo Fruit Research Station near Bijelo Polje
would receive a subloan to finance establishment of 3 ha of orchards, 1 ha of
rootstock nursery, a small irrigation system, and miscellaneous equipment.
Finally, forage production and conservation trial work would be undertaken by
the Irstitute throughout Montenegro, and for this purpose, the project would
include subloans to finance 2 vehicles, 2 silage choppers and 8 trench silos
(pars 5.14, iii).
4.18     Vocational Training and Demonstration Center:  A subloan for
construction of a 267 mn training center, including a training,
demonstration, and experimental farm of about 50 ha, outside the town of
Bijelo Polje in the heart of the project area, would be included in the
project. Project participants, including staff from relevant social sector
enterprises, and individual farmers, would undergo training in this center,
particularly in the winter period; but short-term practical training and
demonstrations would also be available during the vegetation period.
Specialized training and refresher courses for both public and social sector
extension agents would also be provided by the center (pars 5.14, iii). The
Bio-technical Center "Dusan Vlahovic" of Bar, which has many years of
experience in secondary level agricultural training, would implement this
subproject and second most of the required teachers from its present staff to
offer the training courses. Also, specialists from the agricultural support
services and social sector enterprises would be brought in on a part-time
basis to provide practical training and demonstrations.
4.19     Veterinary Service:  This Service would be strengthened by a small
office and laboratory in Titograd, 4 communal stations in Plav, Rozaje,
Savnik, and Zabljak, 9 artificial insemination stations, 8 vehicles, office
and laboratory equipment, and flats for 9 veterinarians.
4.20     Milk Collection Stations:  Investment under this subproject would
comprise 40 milk collection points, mainly in the hilly and mountainous
regions of the project area to be built and operated by 18 different WOs, in
16 of the 20 communes. Their establishment would make it easier for the
farmers to supply milk to the five dairy plants in the Republic, thereby,
increasing significantly the total amount of milk collected in the Republic.
Normally, dairy farmers would be within three kilometers of the nearest
collection point. Each collection station would have a capacity of between
1,000 and 1,500 liters. They would be built either as separate small
buildings or, whenever possible, by adapting existing buildings.
4.21     Cooperative Centers:  These centers would serve as a link between the
social and individual sectors, which would result in increased output through
enhanced supply of inputs and better organized purchase of available commodity
surpluses from individual farmers. Ten centers are either constructed or
under construction in the Communes of Bijelo Polje and Ivangrad through
financing from the Bank's Agricultural Credit Projects. The subproject
involves the establishment of 20 cooperative centers by 17 investors in 16
different communes. It is expected that one center would serve an area with
about 2,500 farmers. The design of the center would be simple, consisting of
three rooms: one for milk, cream and cheese collection and storage; one for



-23-
purchase of other farm outputs, forest fruits and medicinal herbs; and one for
sales of farm inputs and tools to farmers. 1he milk collection room would
have P refrigerated tank of 2,000 liters capacity. Each center would handle
abn_.c 500 tons of cow milk, 20 tons of sheep milk, 600 kg of cheese, 100 tons
of vegetables, and 40 tons of forest products and medicinal herbs on average
per year.
4.22     Local Roads Construction end Maintenance:  This subproject includes a
program of improvements for existing Local roads to support the economic and
social development of the project area. It is a vital and integral part of
the overall development program of the proposed project. A total of 190.5 km
of existing roads have been selected in four communes from a longer list
totalling 320 km (1BRD Map No. 17315).  Depeniding on the condition of the
existing roads, construction works have been scheduled in three categories;
namely, major repairs (70 km); reconstruction (99 km); and upgrading
(21.5 km).  The costs per kilometer range from US415,800 for Major repairs of
an existing gravel road on flat terrain to US$46,800 for upgrading of an earth
track in hilly terrain. Typical average costs for the reconstruction of a
gravel road would be about US$30,800. The selection of local roads was wade
on the basis of existing traffic volumes, estimates of the population served
by each road, as well as the useful agricultural area within a zone of
influence of about two to three km on each side of the road. Additional
consideration was given to the location of the roads in relation to
cooperative centers, milk collection points, market centers and the capacity
of each commune to provide adequate local funds for the road improvement
program. In this way the program for improving 190.5 km of roads has been
phased over four years (Annex 9).  The programs for the first and most of the
second year of the project are firn, but the third and fourth years are
tentative.  Assurances were obtained during negotiations that IBT-UB would
furnish the Bank, for its approval, the population statistics and traffic and
basic agricultural production data for each road proposed to be included in
the program for 1987 and 1988 by January 1, 1985 and January 1, 1986,
respectively.
4.23     Existing road maintenance is ineffective because existing local roads
are poorly constructed and commune work organization lack adequate maintenance
equipment. A program of maintenance would be implemented under the project
for all local roads (about 450 kn) in che s8Me four communes which propose to
improve their local roads. For this purpose, the project would include
subloans to finance 4 motor graders, 2 bulldozers (175 hp), 3 rollers,
l loader, 1 compressor and 4 trucks to complete the road maintenance brigades
in the four existing commune work organizations. Maintenance would be done by
applying one or two motor grader passages a year to the roadway, shaping
ditches and spot regravelling.
4.24     Project Manageaent:  Assistance to sub-borrowers in implementation of
the technical aspects of the investment subprojects and overall coordination
of the interrelated components of the project would be provided by the
following two units:
(i)   The Project Unit (PU) -  A PU unit established within the WO
Agroaeconomiec Institute (AEI), which is more fully described in
paras 5.02 through 5.04, would assist sub-borrowers in
implementing the project components of primary agricultural
production, support service and infrastructure, and



-24-
agroindustry. it would consist of a director, a core of
specialists, and an administrative staffs all in the central
office in Titograd. At the regional level, the investors would
delegate staff to be responsible for the subprojects undertaken
by that particular investor. This group, although physically
located on site, would form part of the PU. The project would
provide office equipment and 13 vehicles for staff. Recurrent
coasts of the PU, during project implementation, would be borne by
the sub-borrowers participating in the project's components of
primary production, support service and infrastructure, and
agroindustry.
(ii)   Unit for the Forestry Component (UPC) - A small unit established
within the Forestry TechnLcal Institute (FTI), which is described
in para 5.05, would assist sub-borrowers in implementing the
forestry component. The project would provide one vehicle and
modest office equipment for this purpose. Recurrent costs of
this unit, during project implementation, would be part borne by
the sub-borrowers participating in the forestry component.
Rehabilitation and Modernization of Agroindustries
4.25     During the progressive stages of project preparation on through to
appraisal, the agroindustry component has been scrutinized very closely in
view of the generally poor performance and overcapacity of many agroindustrial
facilities in Yugoslavia. In particular, the proposals for meat slaughter and
processing facilities were cut back during project preparation. Of the 12
subprojects that were appraised within the agroindustry component, five were
eliminated.  Of the remaining seven, two include only investment in machinery
and equipment in a feed mill and a dairy plant; one involves relocation of a
slaughterhouse without meat processing; one concerns rehabilitation and
modernization of an existing slaughterhouse with meat processing; two deal
with expansion of a fruit processing plant and a medicinal herbs plant; and
one establishes a small rural cheese plant. In all cases the scope of the
subprojects has been reduced from that of the feasibility studies to bring
them in line with readily available raw material supply (Annex 10) and market
opportunities (Chapter VI. B.).
4.26     Relocation of the Slaughterhouse in Titograd;  The existing
slau;hterhouse (1,730 tons livewei ht slaughtered in 1982), located in a
heavily populated section of the City of Titograd, is obsolete, unhygenic, and
unfit for further operation. The proposed investment would be for
reconstruction of a new slaughterhouse in a more appropriate site close to
other processing plants of the AK "13 July", on the outskirts of Titograd.
The existing slaughterhouse would be closed down, upon completion of the new
one that it replaces (para 5.14, iv). The investor, BOAL Slaughterhouse, is
within the AK "13 July". Annual material input would total 3,000 tons
liveweight, consisting of; pigs (60X), cattle (30X), and lamb and sheep (10%)
to produce about 1,600 tons of fresh meat. The slaughterhouse would not
process meat, since meat processing is included in the rehabilitation proposal
for the plant in Bijelo Polje (para 4.30).  Investments would include:
construction of about 1,200 i2 with sufficient capacity to cool meat and to
handle by-products; supply and installation of slaughter equipment, cooling
and freezing facilities and eauipment to handle by-products; supply and
installation of material handling and a proper waste water treatment system.



-25-
4.27     A least cost analysis was wade in order to ascertain whether the use
of an existing slaughterhouse in the region was a better solution then
rebuilding the Titograd plant. Six slaughterhouses in Serbia ranging in
distance from 175 to 300 kilometers from Titograd were considered. Bijelo
Polje was not included, since it would export meat to che Middle East and
therefore, would not be equipped to slaughter pigs.  A slaughterhouse in
SR Serbia in the town of Prije Polje, which is 175 kilometers from Titograd,
fell within the range; however, its capacity of 1,000 tons liveweight per year
is too small to consider it as an alternative to Titograd.
4.28     Expansion of Fruit Processing in Titograd:  The proposed project
would provide for the expansion of an existing packing and freezing plant,
which currently handles peaches and soar cherries for the fresh market, as
well as the export of destoned frowen cherries. The present plant was
financed under the Agriculture and AgricuLtural Industries in RotLtenegra
Project (Loan 1370-YU).  The proposed expansion by 1,400 m2 would be for
processing, as frozen puree, surplus and second quality peaches and sour
cherries, which are grown under irrigation in the nearby CemoVako Polje area
by the same investor. The new processing line would be designed to process
about 1,700 tons of fresh peaches and 800 tons of fresh cherries into 1,275
tons and 680 tons of frozen puree per year, and respectively.
4.29     Dairy Plant Improvement in Ivangrad:  The existing dairy plant, which
is operated by BOAL Polimlje Product (part of WO Agropolimlje), was
constructed in 1964 through the adaptation of existing buildings close to the
center of Ivangrad. Although the site is somewhat congested, and the plant is
not in the best of condition, major investment in rehabilitation, as
originally proposed, cannot be considered at this time because the process
margin for the dairy industry in Montenegro is extremely small. The
operational and hygienic standards of the existing dairy are good, and the
plant should be able to operate another lO years without difficulty. Under
the project, equipment would thus be provided only to eliminate the most
serious bottlenecks in the plant. rhis would include installation of a milk
packaging machine for pasteurized milk; a cup filling machine for yoghurt,
sour milk and cream; storage tanks for milk and milk products; refrigeration
equipment; and installation of the equipment.  The current plant capacity
would be increased from 7,000 liters per day to 15,000 liters per day with the
project (4.8 M 1/year).
4.30     Rehabilitation of the S4au&hterhouse in Bijelo Polie;  This
investment u.,uld be for the rehabilitation of a 25-year old slaughterhouse,
which handled 3,200 tons liveweight in 1982. It is connected to a relatively
new dual-purpose cold storage facility with 4,000 tons capacity and a freezing
tunnel of 25 tons capacity in 24 hours. Slaughter output of the rehabilitated
facility would increase to 5,700 tons liveweight of beef and lamb. The
rehabilitated plant would be up to Europearn export standard permitting export
to Common Market Countries. No pigs would be slaughtered, thereby, permitting
the marketing of oCher meats to Moslem countries and the two million Moslems
living in Yugoslavia.  Besides civil construction works, investments under the
project would include supply and installation of equipment for meat
processing, improvement of utilities, and mIAteTial handling, a waste wster
treatment plant and a separate building for emergency slaughter. The
implementation of the investment program would be carried out by the BOAL Meat
and Milk Processing within the WO Bjelasica.



-26-
4.31     Expanaion of Medicinal Herb Plant in Risan:  This investment would be
for the expansion and diversification of an existing medicinal herb plant
operated by WO Ljekobilje in Risan. The expanded plant would handle about
850 tons of dry herbs annually, which would be collected in the Republic,
mainly by children and elderly people as an additional source of family
income. At full production, the plant would produce about 16 tons of
echerical oils. The main herbs to be processed would be sage and laurel
leaves, and juniper berries, which are in abundant supply in Montenegro. The
investor has more than 30 years experience in collecting and processing
medicinal herbs and forest fruits. Currently, ies speciality is preparing,
packaging and exporting sage and the production of aromatic teas. The project
would include a subloan to finance the construction of a processing building
(550 x2) and the supply and installation of two caldrons for the production
of etherical oils, one distillation unit for refining the oils, an additional
boiler, and lines for the preparation of plants, seeds and forest fruito.
4.32     Small Rural Cheese Plant in Plav:  In the Commune of Plav, where
there is a long tradition in the cottage manufacturing of cheese, the local
Farmers Cooperative (FC), WO Zemljoradnicka Zadruga, would construct a small
rural cheese processing plant (100 i2) to expand and improve local
production of cheese, resulting in a more uniform quality product with better
packaging and presentation. The plant would have a daily capacity to process
about 1,500 liters of cows and sheep milk (480,000 liters annually) into white
cheese. Average daily output would be about 200-220 kg of cheese. Besides
the building, investments would include a small pasteurizer, three processing
tanks, a cold storage room, and packaging equipment.
4.33     Replacement of Milling Unit of the Feed Mill in Spuz:  Through this
subproject, the efficiency and output of the existing livestock feed mill in
Spuz, near Titograd, would be improved, by replacement of the existing,
malfunctioning milling section. The annual capacity of the mill would
increase from 11,000 tons .:o 15,000 tons. The existing total storage capacity
of 4,600 tons would remain unchanged and no civil works are contemplated to be
carried out under the project. A subloan would be provided for a new milling
line, with weighing enuipment and an automatically controlled mixing unit.
Dust extraction units to reduce pollution both inside and outside the mill
would also be installed. The investor of the plant, BOAL Livestock Feed Mill,
is one of the six BOALs which form WO Agroproduct, operating under AK
"13 July".
Institutional Development
The Borrower:  Investiciona Banka Titograd-Udruzena Banka (IBT-UB)
4.34     It is essential to improve the project appraisal and supervision
capabilities of IBT-UB and the BBs The proposed project would include the
provision for the services of a Training Coordinator in IBT-UB (para 5.25),
and of an Agricultural Credit Officer (ACO) at each of the BBs participating
in the project (para 5.09). The Training Coordinator would work with
professional staff in the World Bank Division of IBT-UB and identify training
needs for the staff of IBT-UB and its BBs, arrange for appropriate in-country
training courses for the ACOs in project appra:isal, subloan approval and
supervision, and devise systematic procedures to evaluate the effectiveness of



-27-
training. In addition, under the Seventh Industrial Credit Project (Loan
2340-YU), a comprehensive in-country training program has been prepared for
bank staff, and the proposed Regional Development Project would provide
financing for implementing relevant portions of this program, Also, under
Loan 2340-YU, the Economic Bureau, on contract to IBT-UB, has prepared a
manual on project appraisal and supervision. Under the proposed project,
IBT-UB and its BBs would review this manual in conjunction with the training
program mentioned above. In addition, under the Seventh Industrial Credit
Project, IBT-UB has undertaken a number of actions related to institutional
development in the areas of: organizational improvements, recruitment and
training of personnel, information systems, and auditing function (para
5.19). The implementation of these actions should greatly enhance the
effectiveness of IBT-UB.
4.35     Loan application processing for individual sector sub-borrowers needs
to be streamlined. Under the present system, individual applications are
accumulated into batches before processing. Similarly, there are delays in
processing disbursement applications, which causes the sub-borrowers to incur
additional interest payments in securing "bridge" loans to compensate for
pending World Bank reimbursements. Under the proposed project, the
disbursement process would be expedited through the establishment of a
revolving fund consisting of two special accounts; one for Loan funds and one
for local funds (para 4.51).
4.36     IBT-UB is scheduled to introduce a Management Information System
(MIS) in April 1984 to improve its financial planning in order to ensure a
balanced portfolio of lending and borrowing (para 5.19). The recent study of
its arrears has identified the problem areas and positive steps are being
taken to remedy the situation (para 3.06). Regular financial reporting on
subloans and their repayment status, through the new MIS, will permit a
monitoring of the problem cases and facilitate taking corrective measures at
an early stage.
The Investors
4.37     The appraisal mission identified three major weaknesses within most
of the enterprises investigated which need improvement; namely, (i)
organizational inefficiencies; (ii) lack of financial controls; and (iii)
inadequate marketing skills, particularly in export marketing. The functional
changes required to improve the organizational efficiency can be accommodated
within the current system of self-management. Although the Bank is familiar
with the general planning and working procedures of these enterprises through
previous economic and sector studies, these have been related to the iasues at
the macro-economic level. Thus far, no management and organizational
assessment has been carried out at the individual enterprise level. This will
require a detailed in-depth review of the organization, work flow, and
management of individual enterprises. The results of this review could then
be duplicated in other similar situations, as it is likely to have a
demonstration effect on other investors. The proposed project would include
carrying out of a study, with the assistance of four internationally recruited
consultants, of the organization and management of at least two principal WOs
participating in the project. The consultants would recommend appropriate
efficiency improvements (para 5.24).



-28-
4.38     Given the level of autonomy in the area of financial management at
the level of the BOALs, they require adequately trained staff to perform
accounting and budget control functions, Similarly, in most enterpriees,
export marketing skills are badly lacking. The proposed project would provide
for training courses to be arranged by the PU in areas of cost accounting,
budget control, and export marketing for senior financial managers and one or
two of his assistants and the marketing managers in the participating
enterprises (para 5.25).
C.  Status of Design and Project Implementation
4.39     Individual sector farms to participate under the project have already
been identified for most of the investments in livestock, fish and
horticulture production and the technological packages have been developed.
Sub-borrowers for the bee-keeping operations, farm mechanization, meadow
improvement, maize silage production and handicrafts are only partially
identified at this stage. rt is expected that IBT-UB would have appraised and
approved the first year's investments in on-farm development by October 1984.
4.40     Since appraisal drastically modified and/or reduced the scope of the
original feasibility studies for agroindustriea, the final designs of some of
the proposed facilities have not been completed. Two consultant firms from
Belgrade have been engaged for the agroindustry, milk collection station and
cooperative center subprojects and because of the reduced scope and scale of
the revised subprojects, the tender documentation for 75% of the proposed
investments was ready for review either prior to or during negotiations. The
remainder is in an advanced stage of preparation. Bid evaluation is expected
to be substantially completed by October 1984. T,he local road improvement
program for the first and most of the second yenr of the project is considered
firm, as well as the first year's forest road program. The designs and
bidding documents are under preparation. The implementation schedule of
project components is shown on Chart No.l.
D. Cost Estimate
4.41     The total project cost including physical and price contingencies,
but excluding interest during construction and the front-end fee, is estimated
to be US$74.6 M eouivalent.  It also includes an estimated US$l.6 X in taxes
and duties. The foreign exchange component, which includes both direct and
indirect foreign exchange costs, is estimated at US$37.6 M or 50% of the total
cost. The base cost represents the estimated cost of investment items during
the five year (1985-1989) project implementation period in April 1984 terms
(exchange rate UStl - Din 125). The cost estimates presented in the table
below include physical contingency of 10% of base cost (except for the Bijelo
Polje Slaughterhouse, which used 20%) and price contingency of 17% of base
cost calculated using international inflation rates. Assuming that the
Yugoslav '.overnment is likely to follow a policy of frequent adjustments in
the Dinar exchange rate so as to maintain competitiveness with its major
trading partners, the base costs in Dinars are recalculated using domestic
inflation rates and are given in Annex 1, i-ables 2 and 3.  On this latter
assumption, a price contingency of 83% base costs are provided for the purpose
of ascertaining the local currency recuirement.



-29-
Project Cost Estimates
Local      Foreign      Total   % of For. % of Total
Cbmponent                                       S$'00e  Base Cost
A. Primary Production
Individual Sector
Livestock                            10,79; 3    10,280.9    21,077.2    48.8        35.8
Hbrticulture                            582,0       588.1      1,170.1    50.3       2.0
Fam mechanization                       896.2      1,023.4     1,919.7    53.3        3.3
lbnrdicraft                             212.4       223.9        436.3    51.3       0.7
Subtotal Individual Sector           12,487.0    12,116.3    24,603.3    49.2       41.8
'oc ia' Sector
ForEstry                              6,462.7      5,670.6    12,133.3    46.7      20.$
Fb;it                                   616.5       432.4      1,048.9    41.2        1.8
Fish                                    615.5       620.5      1.236.0    50.2       2.1
9ubtotal Social Sectcr                7,694.7     6,723.6    14,418.2    46.6       24.5
Subtotal Ptisary Productii                       18839        39,021.5        3     66.3
B.  Support Services and Infrastructure     4,898.8     3,923.2      8,822.0    44.5      15.0
C. Agroindustries                           3,761.7     6,777.0    10,538.8    64.3       17.9
D. Institutiornal. Ipge1ont                   295.3       168.9        464.3    36.4       0.8
Total Base Cost                        29,137.5    29,709.1    58,846.6    50.5    100.0
Physical Contirnencies /A             2,920.6     3,139.5      6,060.1    51.8      10.3
Price Contirgenies /2                 5,014.6     4,710.4      9,725.0    48.4       16.5
Total Project obst /3                  37,072.7    37,559.0    74,631.7    50.3    226.8
Front-end Fee                                        99.8         99.8   100.0
Interest durirg Constructin /4          827.9     2            3,169.1
Total Project Financial Requirerets   37,900.6    40,000.0    77,900.6    51.3
/1  Physical contingencies of 1C% have been included for all itens, except the Bijelo Polje
slaugterIouse ici used 20%.
/2  Price contingencies are based on international inflation rate estimates of 0% for 1983; 3.5Z for
1984; 8.0%. for 1985; 9.0% for 1986, 1987 arnl 1988; aid 7.5% for 1989.
/3 Taxes and duties of US$1.6 M are included.
7T  Inclres the orhard, olive, local roads and cooperative center components.



-30-
E. Financing
4.42     The financing plan is presented below.
Project Financing
".'otal    Interest     Front-end  Total Project  X Share
Project During          Pee on     Financial       in Fund*
Cost     Construction  Bank Loan  Requirements   Required
--------US$ Millionas-------------------
Funds Reauired                74.6         3.2           0.1          77.9         100
Funding Sources
a. World Bank                 37.6         2.3           0.1         40.0           51
b. IBT-UB & other banks        3.7          -             -           3.7            5
c. Federal Funds              18.4         0.9            -          19.3           25
d. Investors' contributions  14.9           -             -          14.9           19
Prior to negotiations, IBT-UB submitted a financing plan in Dinars detailing
the source of local funds for the execution of the project. The project
financing plan in Dinars is shown in Annex 4, Table 6. The proposed Bank Loan
of US$40 M would finance 51% of the total financial reouirements and 1O00 of
foreign exchange costs. It would include the capitalized front-end fee of
US0.1 M.  The Borrower reauested that the front-end fee be financed out of
the Bank Loan. The Borrower agreed to prepare and submit to the Bank by
January 31 of each year, commencing 1985, an updated schedule of estimated
expenditures in Dinars taking into account the effects of inflation on costs
along with a related financing plan. The proposed Bank Loan would be for 15
years, including three years of grace. A portion of the Loant would be repaid
within this period on the basis of an adjustable repayment schedule,
reflecting repayments of subloans by the sub-borrowers. The balance of the
Loan, part of which would be on-lent to AEI and PTI for project managewent,
technical assistance and training and part of which would not be on-lent
(training in IST-UB) would be repaid on the basis of a fixed atmortization
schedule.
F. Retroactive Financing
4.43     During appraisal, the scope and size of the seven agroindustrial
proposals were significantly modified and reduced; conseQuently, expenditures
were undertaken immediately subsequent to appraisal to finalize the
preparation of designs, specifications and documentation related to these
facilities. Financing of these expenditures, as well as the same expenses for
the cooperative centers, milk collecting stations and forest and local roads
from May 26, 1983 (appraisaA mission departure) up to an amount of US$0.8 M
would be eligible for retroactive financing.
G. Procurement
4.44     Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:



-31-
Procu,cement Method A1
Not
ICB      LCB      Other    Applicable    Total
…__________------…US$ Million…---          ---
Civil works                        19.79                              19.79
(8.2)                             (8.2)
Equipment                 13.81    13.46      3.73                    31.00
(7.8)    (6.5)    (3.7)                    (18.0)
Technical assistance
and training                                0.57                     0.57
(0.6)                   (0.6)
Other inputs                                 22.13        1.14        23.27
(10.6)       (0.2)      (10.8)
Total                  13.81    33.25    26.43          1.14        74.63
(7.8)   (14.8)   (14.9)        (0.2)       (37.6)
71  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank Loan
(US$40 M less interest during construction and front-end fee).
Further details on procurement for each project component are given in
Annex 11, Tables 1, 2 and 3.
Equipment
4.45     Procurement for:  (i) equipment for the Bijelo Polje slaughterhouse,
the fruit processing plant and the medicinal herb plant for about US$4.1 M;
(ii) a turnkey contract for the Titograd slaughterhouse for about US$2.1 M;
(iii) forestry and local road maintenance equipment and machinery for
US$7.3 M; and (iv) vehicles for the support services and infrastructure,
amounting to about US$0.3 M, would be done through International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bunk Guidelines. Qualified domestic
manufacturers would be allowed a preference of 15% or the applicable customs
duty, whichever is lower. Contracts for much of the agroindustry equipment
would include provisions to train local staff in operation and maintenance.
Pure-bred breeding stock, nets for collecting olives, and equipment for the
feed mill, dairy and cheese plants, totalling about US$3.7 M would be procured
through Limited International Bidding (LIB). Equipment for the milk
collection stations and cooperative centers, totalling about US$0.8 M, would
be through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Supply and installation of equipment related to utilities (water, heat, waste
disposal, etc.) for the two slaughterhouses and the fruit processing and
cheese plants subprojects amounting to US$0.3 M would be done through LCB.
Local livestock, small tractors, motorcultivators, related farm machinery,
handicraft equipment, and routine laboratory and office equipment estimated to
Cost about US$12.4 M would be procured gradually over four years in small
quantities using LCB procedures, acceptable to the Bank, in which foreign
bidders would have the opportunity to participate. The market for tractors
and farm machinery in Yugoslavia is competitive, with both Yugoslav and
principal foreign manufacturers maintaining market positions. Service
facilities for tractors and equipment are established. Adequate competition
is available among local suppliers (including foreign suppliers' local
agencies) to ensure competitive prices.



-32-
Civil Works
4.46     Civil.works for agroindustry, and support services and
infrastructure, amounting to about US$19.8 M, of which US$5.2 M is for local
road improvement and US$1.1 M is for design, engineering, tender preparation,
and supervision, would be carried out under LCB procedures acceptable to the
Bank. Works involved are not suitable for ICB as they are unlikely to attract
foreign bidders due to the dispersion of investors, wide differences in the
types of construction and equipment required and the relatively small size of
each contract. For example, the average length of local roads is only 11 km
(US$ 340,000), and the locations are widely scattered. The local road program
has been organized to facilitate some grouping of works among communes to
facilitate bidding interest by firms from other communes or from other areas
in Yugoslavia. Construction of forest roads totalling US$7.0 M would be done
under LCB. Sufficient commercial channels and civil work contractors are
available ,.n Yugoslavia to provide adequate competition for the supply of
goods and civil works needed under the project.
Technical Assistance and Training
4.47     The project would provide technical assistance at an estimated base
cost of US$120,000 for fees, travel, and overhead involving; (i) some
8 man/months (US$10,000 per man month) of two internationally recruited
consultants, who are specialists in financial-martagement systems; and
(ii) some 10 man months of two locally recruited consultants, who would
collaborate with the internationally recruited consultants during their
assignment. These consultants would be selected in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants, and qualified domestic consultants
would be eligible for recruitment. In additiorn, the project would provide
about 400 man/months of training, both within and outside Yugoslavia, under
the forestry and institutional development components, at a total estimated
base cost of US$280,000.
Other Inputs
4.48     Under the primary production component, materials and supplies for
livestock housing on mini-farms, fish pond construction, infrastructure
development for horticultural subprojects, and inputs, such as planting
materials and fertilizer, totalling US$22.1 M, would be procured by direct
purchase gradually over a period of years. These materials and inputs are
available on the local market at fair prices. Incremental working capital
estimated at US$0.37 M and incremental operating expenses of USS0.77 M for
project management constitute the "not applicable" category. Contract
review: Procurement documentation for all items procured under ICB and LIB
and technical assistance estimated to cost US$18.1 H would be subject to the
Bank's prior review. The contracts for the balance of goods and civil works
to be procured would be subject to selective post review by the Bank during
supervlsion.



-33-
H. Disbursements
4.49     The proceeds of the proposed Bank Loan of US$40 M would be disbursed
over 6 years and be made as follows:
(a) goods and services for individual sector livestock, fish,
horticulture, farm mechanization and handicrafts subprojects
(US$17.2 M, of which US$2.0 M is specifically allocated to
non-contracting individual farmers); (100% of foreign
expenditures and 50% of local expenditures);
(b) goods and works for agroindustry and sociA1 sector investment
subprojects in fruit and fish production (US$14.0 M), forestry
(US$0.6 H) and support services and infrastructure (cooperative
centers, milk collection stations, agricultural research,
extension and training, veterinary service, local road
improvement and maintenance, and project management) (US$4.8):
(100% of foreign expenditures and 40% of local expenditures);
(c) consultancy services and training (US$0.6 M); (100%);
(d) front-end fee (US&  . M);
(e) interest di..__.g co..struction (US$2.3 M):  Amounts due /1; and
(f) unallocated (USt0.4 M).
4.50     Disbursements would be supported by full documentation in the case of
foreign expenditures. For local expenditures, the Bank would disburse against
Statements of Expenditure (SOE), since they would involve on-lending for smalL
borrowers, and would finance small and numerous local expenditures. IBT-UB
has been using SOE procedures under previous Bank-financed projects. The
documentation supporting SOEs would be subject to SDK audit and would be
retained by IBT-UB for inspection by supervision missions during project
implementation. Annex 2 gives an estimated disbursement schedule, which is
suwmmarized as follows:
85        86         87        88         89         90
Bank Fiscal Year      ----                    US$  …-
Annual                    2.4       10.0      11.5        7.0       6.2         2.9
Cumulative                2.4       12.4      23.9       30.9      37.1        40.0
In preparing the disbursement schedule, account has been taken of the proposed
project phasing (Chart No. 1), and past Yugoslav agricultural credit project
disbursement profiles (Annex 2).  Compared to these profiles, disbursements
under the proposed project are expected to progress somewhat faster in the
early years of project implementation based on the following reasons: (i)
since early 1983, the demand for individual sector credit has markedly
increased throughout Yugoslavia, particularly for livestock credit, which is a
/ Includes the orchard, olive, local roads and cooperative center components.



-34-
major component under the proposed project; (ii) strong comnitment from
investors in the agroindustrial facilities, that basically consist of
modernization and rehabilitation of rather simple structures, which experience
has shown to take less time than more sophisticated new complexes; and (iii)
institutional arrangements for project implementation will strengthen the
capabilities of the Borrower and establish a strong Project Unit, with a core
of staff experienced in Bank financed projects.
4.51     Revolving Fund;  A revolving fund for both foreign exchange and local
funds would be utilized through the establishment of a Special Account (to be
maintained in Dollars) and a local currency account by IBT-UB. The initial
deposit in the Special Account would be US$ 2.0 M, which would be drawn from
the Bank Loan. The Special Account would be maintained in a commercial bank
acceptable to the Bank and disbursements from all categories of the Loan
amount would be eligible for reimbursement from this account. This would
expedite the processing of withdrawal requests and would also avoid tying up
foreign exchange resources for eligible disbursements while being processed by
the Bank. In order to ensure the timely availability of local funds for the
project, IBT-UB would deposit an initial amount of Din 83 M in the local
currency account and thereafter would replenish it every month with funds
adequate to cover estimated disbursements for the following one month period.
Information on operation of the local currency account would be furnished to
the Bank at quarterly intervals. Assurances to these effects were obtained
during negotiations. Establishment of both accounts and deposit of Din 83 H
into the local currency account are conditions of Loan effectiveness.
1. Environment and Health
4.52     The project would not have any adverse environmental impact.  The
sub-borrowers for agroindustries investments would be required to have
adequate effluent treatment facilities, which are particularly important in
Lne case of the two slaughterhouses. No detrimental effects on the physical,
chemical or biological regime of the rivers in the project area are expected.
In fact, the proposed relocation of the slaughterhouse in Titograd will
substantially reduce pollution in the main river which passes through the
city, since the present facility dumps all its untreated effluent into this
river. The forestry component is expected to have a favorable effect on the
environment. Forest road construction would follow proven practices to
minimize soil erosion. Disturbance to wildlife should be negligible. Only 6%
of the total forest area will be opened up by project roads and only 7% of
this area (0.4% of the total forest) will be felled, all of which will be
regenerated naturally. A further 6% of this area, comprising grassland, scrub
and degraded forest, will be planted, mainly with indigenous tree species and
will enhance regulation of natural run-off in catchments and complement
artificial flood control measures to protect hydro-electric dam impoundments
and agricultural land.  The forestry training program includes national park
management, on which the Forestry Technical Institute is required to provide
advice.
J. Role of Women
4.53     In Yugoslavia, equality of women is neither a political issue nor a
problem of legal status in society. Yugoslavia has made progress with respect
to ensuring equal opportunities for women; however, in agricultural related
activities, the majority of women are still relegated to jobs which are
classified as unskilled and few have attained supervisory or managerial



-35-
ranks. In the project area, women account for approximately half the total
egricultural population but for only 37% of the total active agricultural
population.  This is lower than for the country as a whole where women aecount
for 53% of the total agricultural population and 42X of the active
agricultural population. Nevertheless, the vital role of women in
agricultural production activities in Montenegro cannot be underestimated. A
large proportion of the men are either employed or are seeking employment in
nearby villages in social sector jobs. For those men who remain on the farm
their main tasks seem to be constructing new homes or barns, transporting
supplies/outputs into or from towns and where necessary driving tractors or
operating farm machinery. This leaves the bulk of the less skilLed tasks in
primary production to be carried out by the women, particularly for livestock,
which is the most important farm activity among the agricultural population of
Montenegro.  The work often entails the «ore routine tasks of tending the
livestock, milking, che'-se processing as well as planting, weeding and other
crop related work. In certain agroindustries women account for as much as
80-85% of total staff, for example in fruit and vegetable processing, cheese
and dairy plants, and the medicinal herbs factory. Rural activities involving
handicrafts are carried out only by women and as much as 70-75% of the workers
in the slaughterhouses are women. Given the predominent position of women in
a wide variety of agricultural activities in Montenegro, they are expected to
gain more than half the employment opportunities created under the
agroindustries component of the project (about 45 incremental man/years), and
would continue to provide the main workforce in livestock, crop and fruit
production.
V. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Institutional Arrangements
5.01     Investiciona Banka Titograd-Udruzena Banka (IBT-UB) would be the
Borrower under the project. The project investments would be carried out by
about 45 different sub-borrowers, including social sector agricultural
production, service, and food processing enterprises; FCs; WOs in forestry
production; and communal W0 concerned with local road improvement and
maintenance. IBET-UB, all sub-borrowers, the Project Unit (PU) and the
Forestry Technical Institute (FTI) (paras 5.02-5.06) and other organizations
participating in the project (para 5.07) would sign a Self Management
Agreement, which defines their mutual rights, obligations and responsibilities
for the implementation of the project (Project SMA). A draft Project SMA,
satisfactory to the Bank, was received prior to negotiations. A condition of
Loan effectiveness is that the Project SMA has been executed by all parties
and has become effective. The institutional and organizational arrangements
are shown in Chart No.2.
B. Technical Management of the Project
5.02     The Project Unit (PU) for Agricultural Production, Support Service
and Infrastructure, and Agroindustry: A PU for supervising the implementation
of the agricultural production, support service and infrastructure, and
agroindustry components of the project would be established within the WO
Agroeconomic Institute (AEI) (para 2.19).  The draft SMA and statues for the
PU were completed by end-January 1984.



-36-
5.03     The PU would consist of a director and specialists in the fields of
crop and livestock production, agroindustry, support services, engineering,
legal affairs, economics, and finance; plus an administrative support staff:
all of whom would be located in a central office in Titograd. The staff of
the PU would be phased in and out according to the needs imposed t  the
project implementation schedule:  reaching a maximum of 39 in the second
project year. Individuals, who have had previous experience in implementing
the Agriculture and Agricultural Industries Project in Montenegro (Loan
1370-YU), would be largely recruited for the new PU. Upon completion of their
assignments, PU staff would be absorbed primarily by the AEI to carry on with
research and socio-economic development activities. The principal
sub-borrowers for investment subprojects throughout the Republic would
temporarily delegate a member of their organization to be responsible for
overseeing the implementation of the investment subprojects undertaken by his
respective organization. This group of individuals, which would attain a
maximum level of 11 in the second project year, would be considered members of
the PU, although they would remain at the local site of their organization
(Annex 12).
5.04     The PU would have responsibility for assisting the sub-borrowers in
the technical supervision of project implementation, and coordination of all
technically related activities in liaison with all implementing organizations,
the Republic authorities and IBT-UB regarding, inter alia, such matters as:
(a) preparing annual work programs for each component of the project, which
would aid preparation of the annual financing plan; (b) preparing procurement
documents, and terms of reference for consultants and training programs for
sub-borrowers: (c) assisting sub-borrowers in organizing and conducting
bidding and contractual procedures; (d) supervising and monitoring physical
project implementation and assisting the Borrower in preparation of the
reports for the Bank; (e) reviewing physical and institutional performance of
the project in relation to the annual work program and targets; (f) assuring
effective integration of the support services with on-farm development in the
individual sector; and (g) alerting the PCC (para 5.07) to project matters
requiring urgent decision and action.
5.05     The Forestry Technical Institute (FTI):  The FTI is one of 13 WOs
which comprise the COAL SIK Crna Gora (para 2.23). FTI staff currently
includes 11 graduate foresters, 12 technicians and 5 support personnel. A
small unit within the FTI called the Unit for the Forestry Component (UFC),
consisting of three professionals and one administrative clerk with the
support of other staff from the FTI, would be responsible for assisting the
existing 13 Forestry BOALs in implementing the forestry component of the
project. The draft statutes and SMA of the UFC were completed by end-January
1984. It would prepare the forestry related procurement documents, and
supervise and monitor physical implementation of all aspects of the forestry
component undertaken by the Forestry BOALs and the FTI itself. After the
forestry component of the project is completed, the staff of the unit would
remain in the FTI to carry on forestry research and development activities.
5.06     The Bank would conclude a project agreement with the AEI and the FTI,
which would detail their responsibilities and obligations under the project.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the AEI would establish and
maintain the PU and FTI would establish and maintain the UFC; that the PU and



-37-
the UFC would be staffed in accordance with a phased staffing pattern agreed
with the Bank; and that the director. and terms of reference of the PU and the
UFC would be acceptable to the Bank.  Establishment of the PU, within the AEI;
and of the UFC, within the FTI, are well advanced, and are conditions of Loan
effectiveness. For the purpose of enabling AEI and FTI to carry out their
part of the project, IBT-UB would, under Subsidiary Loan Agreements, relend a
portion of the Bank Loan proceeds to the AEI and FTI on terms and conditions
approved by the Bank, and execution of these Subsidiary Loan Agreevnents is a
condition of Loan effectiveness.
C. Project Coordination Council (PCC)
5.07     All the organizations involved in project implementation wouLd be
linked through the PCC. The PCC, in effect, would be an out-growth of the
Project Preparation Coordination Cornmittee, which was responsible for
overseeing and coordinating work related to project composition and
preparation. It is expected that the Deputy President of the Committee for
Agriculture and Forestry, who chaired the Project Preparation Committee, would
chair the new PCC. The PCC would provide general guidance, planning and
regional coordination; approve annual financing plans prior to submission to
the Bank by IBT-UB (para 4.42); assist in mobilizing channels of financial
resources; and resolve major issues.  The PCC will therefore provide an
important instrument for sub-sectoral integration and for airing
inter-communal issues relating to rural development. Besides the Borrower and
representatives of all investors in the social and individual sectors, the PCC
would include representatives of the comaunes, the AC, the Republican
Secretariat for Finance, the Committee for AgricultuTe and Forestry, the
Institute for Development Planning, the Economic Chamber, the Cooperative
Federation, SIK Crna Gora and the SrZ for Roads. Acting between the ?CC and
the project units (PU and UFC) described in the preceding paragraphs, there
would be two small specialized Executive Boards (EBs): one for agriculture
and one for forestry, which would serve as the executive arms of the PCC. The
EBs would consist of five to 10 members elected from the PCC, and they would
oversee and approve decisions of the PU and UFC, respectively. Establishment
and maintenance of the PCC and EBs would be provided for in the SMA referred
to in para 5.01. Establishment of the PCC and the EBs are a condition of Loan
effectiveness.
D.  The Borrower:  Investiciona Banka Titograd - Udruzena Banka (IBT-UB)
5.08     All proceeds from the Bank Loan would be channeled through IBT-UB to
its member BBs. Confirmation was received prior to negotiations of the
participation of the BBs amounting to 5% of the total investment cost of the
project (para 4.42).
5.09     Agricultural Credit Officers (ACOs):  IBT-UB would establish a cadre
of trained ACOs to be located at the BBs participating in the project, who
would collaborate with specialists in the social sector enterprises and the
PU, in order to improve farmer access to credit, shorten subproject
preparation and appraisal, and promote supervision of loans to the individual
sector. The ACO would be responsible for individual farm sector loan
applications. IBT-UB would appoint an ACO at each BB participating in the
project as a condition of Loan effectiveness.



-38-
5.10     Access to Credit:  Credit would be available to the participating
social sector enterprises and individual sector farmers. A portion of the
Loan amount (US$2.0 M) would be allocated, under a separate Loan category, to
a credit component for non-contracting individual (NCI) farmers; that is,
individuals who are not required to have a marketing contract for the
investment project to be carried out using these proceeds. For this purpose,
credit would be made available by IBT-UB to individual farmers through
organizations of associated labor (social sector enterprises and
cooperatives). The criteria for on-lending to NCI farmers were agreed during
negotiations (para 5.12) A detailed outline of this credit scheme, which was
also discussed, is presented in Annex 13, and takes into account the
importance of having the same basic mechanism utilized for extending loans to
both associated and NCI farmers, as well as the same basic terms and
conditions, in order to avoid placing the NCI farmers at a disadvantage.
5.11     The appraisal analysis has indicated the projected returns on the
proposed agroindustry investments could be affected by investments in the sane
sub-sector, which might be made by Montenegrin investors outside the proposed
project. Since initially all investment credit for agroindustry investments
in SRM is provided by IBT-UB, assurances were obtained at negotiations that
IBT-UB would consult with the Bank prior to financing any investments in
Montenegro in slaughterhouses; and meat, fruit, milk, animal feed, and
medicinal herb processing.
5.12     General Eligibility Criteria for Credit:  Under the project, both the
proposed investment subprojects and the sub-borrowers would be expected to
meet specified criteria as a condition of eligibility for a subloan from
IBT-UB. Conseauently, in approving subloans to social sector sub-borrowers,
assurances were obtained at negotiations that IBT-UB would prepare a
comprehensive appraisal report fox each subproject and ensure that the
following conditions have been met: (a) technical feasibility, financial
viability (minimum 12% FRR for investments in forestry, fruit farms,
slaughterhouses, fruit processing and medicinal herbs; and minimum 15% FRP for
investments in trout farms, cheese and dairy plants, and the feed mill),
economic viability (minimum 12% ERR for all investments except for support
services and infrastructure); (b) generation of sufficient cash flow to cover
the debt service; (c) continuing technical assistance and market outlets,
where applicable, are ensured; (d) adequate organizational and staff
arrangements are in place within the sub-borrower's organization for
implementing subprojects; and (e) creditworthiness of the sub-borrower. For
the agroindustry subprojects, the appraisal reports would be based on current
prices, as reflected in the suppliers' offers. In approving subloans to the
individual sector sub-borrowers (other than NCI farmers), assurances were
obtained at negotiations that IBT-UB would prepare a brief appraisal report
for each subproject and ensure that the following conditions have been met;
(a) technical feasibility and financial viability (minimum 12% FRR for
investments in meadow improvement and olive rehabilitation; minimum 15% FIR
for investments in farms for dairy, aheep, berries, deciduous fruits, trout
and silage; and minimum 20% FRR for heifer farms, plastic houses,
mechanization, bee operations, and handicrafts) of the subproject;
(b) availability of adequate and continuing technical assistance and recurrent
inputs and suitable market outlets at fair and reasonable prices; (c) the



-39-
generation of sufficient cash flow to cover debt service; (d) the
creditworthiness of the sub-borrower; and (e) adequacy of the mutual
agreements between associated individual farmers and cooperatives or social
sector organizations (Annex 14). Assurances were also obtained that in
approving aubloans to NCI farmers, rBT-UB would cause a farm development plan
to be prepared for each sub-borrower, and a brief appraisal report to ensure
that the following conditions have been met: (a) creditworthiness of the
sub-borrower; (b) ability to carry out the farm plan; (c) reasonableness of
cost estimates; financial viability (same mininum FRR as for investments of
other individual sub-borrowers); and (d) sub-borrower is the owner-operator of
the land on which the subproject will be carried out (Annex 13).
5.13     Free Limit;  In view of the institutional weakness of the Borrower
and the BBs, which would be strengthened through this project (paras 5.09 and
5.25) and under the Seventh Industrial Credit Project (Loan 2340-YU)
(para 5.19), and the need for the Bank's review of a larger number of
subprojects, an assurance was obtained at negotiations that the Borrower would
not approve a subloan for a subproject estimated to cost more than US$1 M
equivalent, unless the Bank has reviewed and approved the subproject and
appraisal report. It is expected that the above arrangements would ensure the
Bank's review of at least 70% of the agroindustry subprojects, which would
cover the principal investment subprojects in this sub-sector.
5.14     Additional Criteria for Specific Subloams:  In addition, assurances
were obtained during negotiations that IBT-UB, prior to approving subloans for
certain investment subprojects as specified below, would carry out the
following;
Xi)    Submit to the Bank for approval, the forestry research and
investment plan for the proposed 100 ha of experimental
silvicultural plantations to be carried out by B('L Pluiine,
indicating research objectives, organization of tt.e research
work and study methods to achieve the objectives, and a list of
the species to be used (para 4.11);
[ii)    Submit to the Bank for approval, a comprehensive appraisal of
the pomegranate plantation subproject based on the final site
selection, and the social sector trout farm subproject based on
its reduced scale (parse 4.13 and 4.14);
(iii)    Submit to the Bank for approval, a detailed program and
investment plan covering four years for the livestock and
veterinary research subproject, including forage production and
conservation; and for the training and demonstration center
subproject, including teaching curricula and syllabi (paras 4.17
and 4.18);
(iv)    Submit to the Bank confirmation that the Government of
Montenegro would close down the existing slaughterhouse in
Titograd, upon completion of the new one that it replaces (para
4.26);



-40-
(v)    Ensure that the maximum investment per cow space in the
individual sector dairy subprojects does not exceed the Dinar
equivalent of US$1,250 (para 6.16);
(vi)    Ensure that investments for Livestock development in the
individual sector yield a minimum ERR of 12Z by updating
annually the farm models for livestock production taking into
account changing prices and economics of production (para 7.10);
and
(vii)    In the case of a subloan to a NCI farmer, ensure that the total
amount outstanding of all loans to such farmer does not exceed
US$10,000 equivalent (Annex 13).
5.15     Assurances were also obtained during negotiations that IBT-UB would:
(i) update annually all the investment models, on the basis of which the
minimum FRR are determined, taking into account price changes in agricultural
commodities and furnish these updated models to the Bank for review (para
6.14); and (ii) notify the Bank of each subloan approval and furnish to the
Bank, on reouest, each appraisal report which has not otherwise been furnished.
5.16     On-lending Terms and Conditions:  All individual sector borrowers
will contribute at least 20% of total investment costs.  Farmers' own labor
and material holdings can be considered to be the share provided by the
individual sector producers. Social sector investors' equity will be at least
20Z of the total investment cost. Assurances to this effect were received
from IBT-UB. Only Federal Funds for Accelerating the Development of Less
Developed Republics and Provinces (PNP), local and Bank funds would be used by
IBT-UB for subproject investments. On-lending interest rates for the various
sources of funds would be as follows:
(i)    FNP funds;  On-lending interest rates for FNP funds, fixed by
Yugoslav law, are currently at 6.5%, which were confirmed at
negotiations.
(ii)    Bank funds:  Por Bank funds to be on-lent to the social sector
investors, the prevailing Bank variable rate would be charged
plus a 1.25% spread for IBT-UB to cover administrative costs.
Based on the current Bank rate of 10.08%, the interest rate to
the social sector on Baak funds would be 11.33%. The on-lending
interest rate to the individual sector for Bank funds would be
governed by the same agreement reached under SAL I for locally
intermediated funds for primary production investments, which is
25.4%, as explained below.
(iii)    Locally intermediated funds; On-lending interest rates for
locally intermediated funds would be in accordance with the
agreement on agricultural on-lending rates concluded under
SAL I, which are to be adjusted gradually in order to attain
positive real interest rates within three to five years
depending upon the type of investment. Effective May 1, 1984,
the interest rate for investments in primary production in both



-41-
the individual and social sectors was adjusted to 25.4% for
1984, based on the agreed formula of 18% + 1/5th of the
difference between 18% and the annual rate of inflation during
the preceding year (55% in 1983 based on the producer price
index). Also, effective May 1, 1984, the on-lending interest
rate for local bank funds for investments in agroindustries and
support services and infrastructure was adjusted to 30.3% for
1984 based on the agreed formula of 18% + 1/3rd of the
difference between 18% and the annual rate of inflation during
the preceding year.
(iv)    On-lending interest rate summary; On-lending interest rates for
various sources of funds and examples of the average blended
interest rate to the final beneficiary in 1984 for both the
individual and social sector are given in the following table.
Sources of Funds and Interest Rates
Contribution            On-lending
Source                             by Source          Interest Rate in 1984
Individual Sector Investment in Primary Production
Borrowed funds
World Bank                                50                     25.4
Local banks                                5                     25.4
Federal Fund                              25                      6.5
Sub-borrowers' equity                       20
100                    19.5 /1
Social Sector Investment in Primary Production
Borrowed funds
World Bank                                50                     26.3 /2
Local banks                                5                     25.4
Federal Fund                              25                      6.5
Sub-borrowers' equity                       20
TOO                    20.1 /1
Social Sector Investment in Agroindustry, Infrastructure and Support Services
Borrowed funds
World Bank                                50                     26.3 /2
Local banks                                5                     30.3
Federal Fund                              25                      6.5
Sub-borrowers' equity                       20
100                    20.4 /
/1  Blended  interest rate to the final beneficiary.
75  An annual estimated foreign exchange risk factor of 15.0%, based on
estimated local inflation rates and compensating rates of Dinar
devaluations, was added to the on-lending interest rate of 11.3%.



-42-
5.17     Foreign Exchange Risk:  For investments in the social sector, the
foreign exchange and variable interest rate risk of the World Bank Loan would
be borne by the social sector sub-borrowers. Interest on the outstanding
dollar equivalent of the subloan will be computed at the variable Bank
interest rate plus a spread of 1.25%. For that portion of each subloan, which
is financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the repayments of principal and
interest will be the equivalent in Dinars or other currency (determined as of
the respective dates of repayment) of the Dollar equivalent (determined as of
the respective dates of withdrawal) of the currency or currencies withdrawn
from the Loan account in respect of the subloan, and then outstanding. The
foreign exchange risk *n Bank funds on-lent to AEI and FTI will be borne in
the same manner. Because the individual sector investors are among those with
the lowest pex capita incomes in Yugoslavia, the foreign exchange and variable
interest rate risk for individual sector sub-borrowers would be carried by the
Government of Montenegro.
5.18     Amortization of subloans is based on cash flow projections for each
investment. The maximum period for repayment of the principal of the portion
of the subloan financed out of the proceeds of the Loan would be 15 years
including a five year grace period for subloans for investments in deciduous
fruit, berries, pomegranate and olive tree rehabilitation and three years for
subloans for all other types of investments.
5.19     Institution Building Actions under the Seventh Industrial Credit
Project (Loan 2340-YU); IBT-UB has undertaken a number of specific actions
under the Seventh Industrial Credit Project aimed at strengthening this
banking institution, which are enumerated below. Although implementation of
these measures has progressed slower than the originally established targets,
IBT-UB is firmly committed to achieving them, and satisfactory progress in
implementing these actions was made prior to negotiations.
a.  organizational  Upgrading the World Bank Unit from its present
sub-division level to full divisional status reporting directly to the
Managing Board, and establishing a separate Supervision Department in the
Crediting Division. These actions have been approved by the Managing Board,
the Executive Board and the Workers' Council.
b. Recruitment: Appointing the Head of the World Bank Division aotd
the Supervision Department, increasing the staff of the World Bank Division
from the current three professional and two clerical to seven professional and
three clericaL, employing six professionals with finance-economics skills for
the n.ew Supervision Department, and one remaining internal auditor. The
original target date of end-July 1983 for making these new appointments has
been revised. In late January 1984, the Heads of the World Bank Division and
Supervision Department were appointed, and six professionals were reassigned
to the Supervision Department (including the Head) and the World Bank Division
now totals eight professionals (including the Head) and three administrative
staff.



-43-
c. Training; Providing IBT-UB's staff with adequate training in
project appraisal, financial analysis and supervision skills in line with the
Bank's appraisal procedures. One candidate has been approved by IBT-UB's
Managing Board for training abroad, and the Bank has arranged for his
program. Other candidates are undier review by IBT-UB, and names will be
submitted to the Bank by mid-1984. The Economic Bureau from Belgrade on
contract to IBT-UB has prepared a three volume training manual on project
appraisal, monitoring and supervision and 15 IBT-UB staff currently are
undergoing on-the-job training in the bank under the supervision of two
apecialists from the Economic Bureau. The final phase of training was
completed by end-April 1984.
d. Systems;  Developing a Management Information System (MIS) for
improving the monitoring of projects was approved by the Managing Board.
IBT-UB senior advisors and directors have formed a team and with the
collaboration of staff fror Kosovska Banka Pristina are developing the system,
which was in operation on a trial basis by end-April 1984.
E. Other Participating Organivations
Primary Agricultural Production and Agroindustries
5.20     Implementation of the project for the components of primary
production and agroindustries would be carried out by about 21 different
organizations (Annex 5, Table 1 and Annex 11, Table 3). Four of the seven
agroindustrial subprojects, involving a slaughterhouse, fruit processing, milk
processing and animal feed concentrate, would be implemented by three WOs
(Agroprodukt, Vinoprodukt, and Agropolimlje) within AK "13 July", Titograd,
which is the largest agricultural enterprise in SRM. Another prominent
investor under the project i8 WO P1K Bjelasica, with headquarters in Bijelo
Polje, which besides a subproject concerning the rehabilitation of a
slaughterhouse, is the largest single investor for livestock mini-farms and
individual sector orchards.
Forestry
5.21     The forestry component would be implemented by the 13 Forestry BOAT.s
and the Forestry Technical Institute, which together with a domestic and
foreign trade organization in wood and wood products, are associated in the
COAL SlK Crna Gora, with headquarters in Titograd. Each BOAL has adequate
professional and teci-nical staff for project implementation and, although some
equipment operator training is essential, project proposals involve primarily
an expansion of familiar operations. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that a new unit in the Forestry Technical Institute would be
established for forest research, with at least four professionals, by
January 1, 1985 (para 4.12).



-44-
Local Roads
5.22     In SRM, the co=munes are responsible for improvement and maintenance
of local roads, which are supervised by individual comniunal road work
organizations.  The road improvement program to be carried o,t under the
project in each of the four communes would be agreed between the commune
assemblies and the PCC. Design and technical supervision of road improvements
would be undertaken by engineering consultants engaged by the commune. The
designs and bidding documents would be reviewed by the Republic SIZ for Roads,
prior to being submnitted to the Bank. The existing work organizations in the
communes, under directior. of the commune secretariat, would continue to be
responsible for day-to-day supervision of the road improvements, as well as
for the carrying out of road maintenance works. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that IBT-UB will only entet into subloans under this
component after an agreement is obtained with the participating commune
(i) designating a suitable organization in the commune to be the sub-borrower
for the road improvement subloan; (ii) designating a suitable organization to
be the sub-borrower for the road maintenance equipment subloan and to carry
out the road maintenance program; and (iii) providing evidence of adequate
sources of funds for road maintenance; and that the first such agreement
between the Borrower and a comnune would be made available to the Bank for
review and comment before it is finali4ed and used as a model for such
agreements in the future.
Support ServLces
5.23     The sub-borrowers for the investments in support services concerning
agricultural extension and veterinary services would be the WOs in those
communes where the services are to be performed. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that IBT-UB will not make a subloan for agricultural extension
and veterinary services until the participating commune has entered into an
agreement with IBT-UB designating a duly empowered organization to be the
sub-borrower. The investor for agricultural research in animal husbandry,
veterinary medicine, and forage production and conservation would be the WO
Agricultural Institute of Titograd; whereas, the investor for research at the
Rasovo Fruit Research Station near Bijelo Polje would be the WO Bjelasica of
Bijelo Polje. This same WO also would be the investor for the Vocational
Training and Demonstration Center, which is to be located close to the town of
Bijelo Polje. Investors in the 40 milk collection stations and the 20
cooperative centers would be 18 different social sector enterprises throughout
the Republic.
F. Technical A,isistance and Training
5.24     Under the Institutional Development component of the project the
organization and management of at least two principal Woe participating in the
project would undergo an in-depth analysis by experienced internationally
recruited consultants working in conjunction with local consultants. The
study would be carried out under the supervision of the PU, with the
cooperation of the AC. The terms of reference for the consultants, discussed
during negotiations, are satisfactory to the Bank. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the AEI would: (i) engage the consultants by January
1, 1985; and (ii) submit the final draft of the study to the Bank no later
than June 30, 1985.



-45-
5.25     Three types of training would be financed by the project, involving
the staff of IBT-UB, BBs, and participating enterprises. Firstly, ILT-UB and
BB personnel, including the newly appointed ACOs, would receive about 150
man/months of in-country training in project appraisal, subloan approval
procedures, and supervision under arrangements organized by a newly appointed
Training Coordinator, which IBT-UB agreed to appoint within its organization.
Assurances were also obtained during negotiations that IBT-UB would submit
course outlines and an implementation schedule for the training program to the
Bank for approval by January 1, 1985 and thereafter promptly implement the
program. Secondly, training courses (about 250 man/months) would be arranged
in the fields of cost accounting, financial management and export marketing
for the financial and marketing managers and assistants of the participating
social sector enterprises. As'urances were obtained duri.sg negotiations that
the AEI would prepare course Lutlines and an implementation schedule for the
training program for enterprises' staff and submit them to the Bank for
approval by April 1, 1985.
5.26     The third training program, consisting of 134 man/months, is part of
the forestry subproject, and it includes post-graduate studies in Yugoslavia
and short professional overseas courses; study tours in Yugoslavia and abroad;
and equipment operator courses in Yugoslavia. The estimated cost of the
training program is US$80,000. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the FTI would submit a detailed implementation plan for the fellowship
and training program, agreed upon with COAL SIK Crna Gora and the
participating BOALS, to the Bank for approval by January 1, 1985.
G. Accounts and Audit
5.27     IBT-UB, the Borrower under the proposed project, is also the Borrower
under other Bank projects, and its audited reports by SDK have been considered
satisfactory. IBT-UB would maintain and cause the participating BBs to
maintain separate accounts for the project, covering disbursements under all
subloans. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that IBT-UB, the AEI
and the FTI would have their accounts and financial statements audited in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by SDK or
another competent and experienced independent auditing organization acceptable
to the Bank and submit certified copies of its audited statements and the
auditor's report to the Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal
year. Assurances were also be obtained that the auditors would give a
separate opinion on IBT-UB, the AEI and the FTI as to the adequacy of the
accounting system and internal controls, and whether satisfactory procedures
are in operation within IBT-UB to ensure that Statement of Expenditures (SOE)
supported withdrawals have been used for project purposes. In addition,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that IBT-UB would require that
social sector sub-borrowers would have their accounts and financial statements
audited for each fiscal year in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied by the SDK or another competent and
experienced independent auditing organization acceptable to the Bank, and that
these audited accounts would be submitted annually to IBT-UB.



-46-
H. Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
5.28     The PU and UFC, which would be responsible for supervising physical
project implementation at the investor level, would monitor the project
through review of key indicators (number of participating livestock farmers,
number of hectares planted, yields obtained, etc.). The PU and UFC would
identify major bottlenecks affecting project implementation and report them to
the PCC and IBT-UB, who would take appropriate action as required. IBT-UB,
which would supervise the financial aspects of the project, wouLd also monitor
project implementation through field supervision of subprojects and through
review of key indicators; such as, the number of subprojects under
preparation, subloan approvals and farmers financed, and the status of
commitments, disbursements, loan recoveries, and repayment rescheduling, in
addition to the information provided by the PU and the UFC on the tecnnical
aspects of project implementation. The training of IBT-UB's professional
staff in project appraisal and supervision provided for under the Seventh
Industrial Credit Project (Loan 2340-YU) and the proposed Regional Development
Project should enhance the expertise of the Borrower in this activity.
5.29     IBT-UB would prepare, with the assistance of the AEI and FTI,
semi-annual progress reports on a calendar year basis, similar to those made
in other Bank-financed Yugoslav projects. The progress report format would be
adapted to accommodate any special features of the proposed project, and
reflect the information provided through the above mentioned monitoring
system. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that IBT-UB would
provide these reports to the Bank at six month intervals within 45 days after
the end of each six-month period. IBT-UB, with the assistance of the AEI aad
PTI, would also continuously evaluate the impact of investments under the
project and would collect and analyze data on costs, benefits, and financial
viability of investments on the basis of suitable sampling. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that IBT-UB would submit evaluation reports to
the Bank no later than three months after the end of each calendar year.
Provision would be made for a mid-term review (June 30, 1987) of project
progress by the Bank, Borrower, AEI and the FTI, including a current analysis
of the projected Dinar cost of the project (Annex 15). An assurance to this
effect was obtained during negotiations.
5.30     Promptly after completion of the project, but not later than six
months after the Loan Closing Date, IBT-UB, with the assistance of the AZI and
FTI, would prepare and furnish to the Bank a project completion report.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
VI. PRODUCTION, PRICES, MARKETS AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Production
6.01     As a result of investments in livestock, horticulture and forestry
production, and support services under the project, substantial increases in
primary agricultural production with a gross value of Dinars 7,740 M ($96.8 M)
annually in constant June 1983 prices, would result, as shown below:



-47-
Summary of Net Incremental Production
Unit       Quantity /1          Values
('000 Dinars)
Primary Production
Livestock products                 tons          16,418          5,650,310
Live. animals                      head          11,970            128,250
Horticulture                       tons           6,035          1,318,547
Handicrafts cloth                  '000m2           250             94,50(
Timber                             i3           224,993            549 116
Subtotal
Agroindustries
Concentrate feed                   tons           4,500             92,900
Processed meat                     tons           3,686            853,269
Processed fruit                    tons           1,955             69,360
Milk products                      kg            94,473            124,523
Medicinal herbs                    kg            14,700             74 363
Subtotal                                                      1,214,415
Total                                                            8,955,138
/1   At full development.
The farmers would benefit through increased efficiency due to greater use of
mechanization, and other essential inputs ranging from improved tectnical
assistance, extension, veterinary services and breeding stock to fertilizers,
and plant protection materials.
6.02     From the investments in seven agroindustries, a substantial increase
in the production of processed products would be obtained as shown in the
preceding table. The total gross value of annual incremental output from
processed raw materials is estimated to be about Din 1,214 H (US$ 15.8 14) at
June 1983 prices. Additional information is given in Annex 16, Tables 1 and 2.
B. Marketing Prospects and Channels
6.03     As Montenegro is a deficit area for most agricultural products,
market prospects for the majority of primary products to be produced under the
project are excellent. This is exemplified by meat and basic fruits for which
only 55% of current requirements are produced within the Republic and by milk
and timber for which 75X of the needs are produced. Even with the project,
there is projected to be a continued shortfall of these goods. Although the
majority of output of these items would be for consumption within the
Republic, there is opportunity to expand exports of fresh and canned meat,
frozen fruits and medicinal herbs and oils, as described in the following
paragraphs.



-48-
6.04     Project production of fruit, early season vegetables, trout
fingerlings and market trout would be consumed both within the Republic and
Yugoslavia. High prices and shortages of early season vegetables indicate
that the national market would easily absorb the 240 tons of early tomatoes
and lettuce to be produced under the project. Fromn time to time, minor
exports of these products may also take place. Prospects for marketing of
trout fingerlings appear good, as Montenegro already is a regular supplier to
other republics. While the five fold increase in trout production proposed
under the current Five Year Plan of SRM is probably too ambitious, it is
indicative of Government's intention to increase trout production, hence
demand for fingerlings. National consumption of trout at 3,000-4,000 tons per
annum is extremely low and is presently largely constrained by availability of
supplies in the market place. The market could readily absorb several hundred
tons additional production from Montenegro. With good promotion and market
development it may grow considerably in the long run.
6.05     The incremental processing capacities of the seven agroindustrial
subprojects have been carefully analyzed in relation to projected demand for
the concerned output, raw material supplies, and the existing processing
capacities in the Republic, as well as nationally. In most cases, the
investors already have experience with the products which will be marketed,
and they have established marketing systems which would be suitably expanded
in the future.
6.06     The demand for fresh meat is high, since Montenegro is a net importer
of meat, mostly from Serbia. The consumption of fresh meat in Montenegro in
1980 was 25,400 tons; whereas, the production within the Republic was only
14,300 tons. The projected demand for fresh meat in 1990 is estimated at
32,900 tons; whereas, production is estimated at 21,200 tons only. The two
slaughterhouses under this project are expected to have an output of about
3)600 tons/year of fresh meat. In addition, about 1,000 tons/year of
processed meat would be produced, consisting of 500 tons each of canned meat
and sausage. There is a strong demand for processed meat. On average, the
Yugoslavs consume about one third of their meat (excluding poultry) as
processed. In 1981, retail sales in the Republic reached 4,300 tons. The
projected demand in 1990 in Montenegro for processed meat iB estimated at
5,800 tons. Since the rehabilitated slaughterhouse in Bijelo Polje would be
of export standards, at least some of the lamb, baby beef, and veal production
would find markets In the Middle East and some European countries.
6.07     Montenegro is and will continue to be in deficit of milk in the near
future. Based on the 1980 per capita consumption, the total Republic demand
for milk products (in milk equivalent) would be 138 M liters in 1990; whereas,
the estimated supply processed within the Republic would be 130 M liters.
6.08     Fruit puree is mainly used for nectar drinks, marmelade, as
components in ice cream and yoghurts, and in the bakery industry. The main
users in Yugoslavia of peach and sour cherry puree, the two products which the
project would produce, are the large fruit juice plants; such as, BIP in
Belgrade; Fructal in Slovenia; Delises in Serbia; and Harijan Badel in
Zagreb. The fruit puree processing plant is expected to produce 1,275 t/year
of peach puree and 680 t/year of sour cherry puree. The market for fruit
puree is rapidly expanding due to the increasing demand for fruit juices and



-49-
nectars.  In 1980, the demand in Yugoslavia for peach puree was 4,3D0 tons and
for sour cherry puree, it was 6,500 tons. By 1990, it is expected to be 5,700
tons and 8,700 tons, respectively. It is reasonable to assume that the
investor will be able to capture a share of this expanding market, as vell as
export to Europe. Although Yugoslav products generally do not command a
premium because of unreliable ouality, it ia expected that the export of
frozen peach and cherry puree from the project would have premium cquality
because of the exceptionally good raw material base and a modern processing
system to be procured under the project.
6.09     Oils of sage, laurel and juniper to be produced by the expanded
medicinal herb plant under the project, are used mainly in tood and beverage
manufacturing by food processors, particularly institut:ional kitchens, which
are expanding. They are also used as semi-manufactured products in the
cosmetic and pharmaceutical industries. A spice ini the form of an oil can
easily be handled and standardized to obtain a uniform and mass produced food
product. The demand for natural oils is increasing, partly because synthetic
spice oils are becoming less popular. In 1980, Yugoslavia imported 673 tons
of etheric and plant oils, although it should be noted that many were products
not grown or manufactured in Yugoslavia; such as, vanilla and papaya. In the
same year, Yugoslavia exported about 3,820 tons of dried and cleaned medicinal
herbs to the EEC. The market for plant oils is competitive arnd fairly
sophisticated. Prices vary considerably in relation to quality. rhe proposed
project has a good quality raw material base and should be able to gear its
production of 16 tons of n&tural oils to the most profitable products,
particularly for export.
6.10     By replacing the old milling section of the existing feed mill in
Spuz, near Titograd, the mill's capacity would increase from 11,000 tons/year
to 15,500 tons/year. Based on actual sales the total market for feed in
Montenegro currently is 33,000 tons/year and is steadily growing.  The Spuz
mill, the only concentrate feed mill in the Republic, would have no difficulty
in marketing its product, since the investor is one of the organizations under
Agrokombinat "13 July", which has a well established network of shops and
stores to supply inputs to associated and cooperant farmers, as well as to its
own pig and cattle farms.
6.11     In spite of the current economic difficulties, both within YugosLavia
and the world at large, there is every indication that all the wood produced
under the project would be sold without difficulty. At present, Montenegro
can only meet its industrial demands for wood by supplementing local supplies
with imports. In the future, demand for wood and wood products, both in
Yugoslavia and other European countries with which Montenegro already has an
export trade, is expected to increase.
6.12     Market channels in Montenegro are reasonably well developed, with a
strong private market, particularly for fruits and vegetables, cheese, lamb,
and meat products existing alongside the social sector market system. The
marketing system works adeouately, and contracts between BOALs and their
farmer members and contractors are realistic. In general, there has not been
sufficient investment either in physical facilities or stock with regard to
farm input supplies. In part, this issue is being addressed under the project
through the provision of cooperative centers and milk collection points.



-50-
C. Prices
6.13     Prices used for project appraisal are based on farm gate prices for
primary products and ex-factory wholesale prices of processed products in June
1983.  In the case of meat and milk, two important comnodities under the
proposed project, price distortions exist. The price of fresh cut beef to the
consumer is controlled at the slaughterhouse level, while at the farm gate
level, the price is more flexible. Consequently, slaughterhouses would
operate at substantial losses if they were to sell products at the official
wholesale price levels after paying an often higher "market" price to the
farmers.  Such a state of affairs is avoided by the circumventioa of official
prices through reclassification of items sold by the slaughterhouses. For
example, mutton is sold as lamb or special agreements are concluded whereby
the conmunes subsidize slaughterhouses on the basis of fresh meat sales within
their boundaries.  Despite these measures, the distortions in the meat pricing
system cause disincentives to the sale of fresh cut meat as it becomes
necessary to process the meat further in order to cover costs. With milk
products, there is a more explicit price problem.  The legal maximum retail
price for milk and yogurt, coupled with the requirement that milk processing
plants must produce 70Z of their output as pasteurized milk, means that
without reimbursements to the processing plant of a five Dinars per liter
subsidy paid to the farmer, the dairy plants would operate at a loss of some
two to three Dinars per liter.
6.14     In the fall of 1983, the Federal Governuent, through its Community of
Prices, assumed responsibility for coordinating prices throughout Yugoslavia
in consultation with the relevant republic and provincial Communities of
Prices. Floor prices are established for farm gate purchases of most key
commodities on a cost plus formula. The farm gate prices move above but not
below Government administered floor prices. The issue of prices is being
addressed now within the context of the Structural Adjustment Program (Loan
2336-YU), whereby, the number of commodities subject to price ceilings is
being reduced, and the producer prices for 1984 announced by the Federal
Government in October 1983 are moving substantially closer to the world price
and, in line with understandings reached under SAL I, will be adjusted
annually to keep in line with inflation and exchange rate movement. This is
in keeping with Government's policy to substantially increase the role of
world prices and market forces aimed at reducing price distortions. For the
purpose of monitoring price movements and their effects on proposed project
investments, IBT-UB would update annually the typical investment models, on
the basis of which the minimum FkRs for project investments are determined,
following annual price changes, as decreed by Government (para 5.15).
D.  Financial Analysis
6.15     Primary Production:  The financial analysis has been carried out
through representative models for each main investment type to be financed.
Actual investments may differ from the model since they may be of different
sizes, and local conditions aad subborrowers' demands may vary. The financial
rates of return (FRR) for the different individual sector models reviewed vary
between 15% and 46%. A sumuary of the financial analysis of different
individual sector sub-models is shown in Annex 3, Table 2a. The FRIRs have



-51-
been calculated on the basis of family labor during the opeTating period not
having a financial cost. If the cost of family labor were included at the
wage rate, the range of FRR would be 10 to 33%. Given the low real interest
rates which have existed in Yugoslavia and which are expected to continue
under this project (real interest rates to farmers are unlikely to be more
than marginally positive even after implementation of the provisions of the
SAL), a strong farmer demand for the different types of credit is anticipated,
particularly in some situations for exanple, beekeeping, where participants'
perception of the opportunity cost of their own labor would probably be
substantially below the present wage rate.
6.16     The financial analysis carried out on the proposed beef/dairy farm
models indicate that the present proposed level of investment for mini-farms
with new sets of buildings is too great for such farms to be economically
viable.  In the mission's judgement there are many farias in Montenegro which
could successfully expand their cattle herds without having to induLge in
complete new building programs.  Accordingly, a maximua investment per cow
space criterion would be established in approving beef/dairy farm sublosns in
the individual sector (para 5.14, v).
6.17     The FRRs on the three proposed social sector agricultural production
models are 15% for the deciduous fruits, 25Z for trout production and 11% for
the pomegranate unit.  In view of an unexpected change in the location for the
pomegranate plantation, which will affect investment costs, and the scaling
down in size of the proposed trout investment, both of these potential
subprojects need further preparation work and their financial viability would
be reviewed by IBT-LB and submitted to the Bank for approval, prior to subloan
approval (para 5.14, ii).
6.18     Agroindustries:  Detailed feasibility studies for agroindustrial
investments included in the project have been carried out and provide the
basis for financial analysis. During the course of project preparation and
appraisal, numerous investment proposals were rejected as technicaLly unsound
or economically non-viable and the remaining seven investments were reduced
considerably in scope. Details on projections of investment, operating costs
and revenues are presented in the Project ImpLementation File. Axnmex 3,
Table 2b presents the FRR for the seven agroindustry investments. These range
from 13% to 25% and the switching values show the investments are all
sensitive to changes in operating costS and revenues. The investments are not
highly sensitive to slow build up of capacity utilization, which has been a
problem throughout YugosLavia. The training and technical assistance
component will be particularly helpful in establishing cost accouncirag systens
for the investors in the agroindustrial 2ubprojects, which should improve
operating efficiency of these investments (paras 5.24 and 5.25).
VII.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATICN
A. Benefits
7.01         Project benefits would derive from: (i) improved productivity and
incomes of individual farmers through investments in livestock, horticulture
and handicrafts where individual farmers have a comparative advantage due to
the labor intensity of the operations; (ii) increased farmer awareness of new



-52-
technology through the improvement of extension, veterinary and other
technical and support services; (iii) the strengthening of an infrastructure
through investments in milk collection stations and cooperative centers, which
provide essential services to the fanner raaging from inputs of seeds,
fertilizer, seedlings, and mechanization to purchasing of farm products; (iv)
incremental output together with the value added through processing and
storage of concentrate feed, meat, dairy products, fruit and vegetables; (v)
increased employment opportunities created through the expansion of support
services and agroindustries, and the reduction of underemployment at the
individual farm level; (vi) greater accessibility to credit for individual
farmers; (vii) improvement of the local road network; (viii) development of
forestry resources and a reforestation/afforestation program; and (ix)
strengthening of development institutions in the Republic.
Beneficiaries
7.02     About 7,000 individual farm families would benefit directly from
subloans for livestock, horticulture, handicrafts, machinery, farm inputs, and
technological changes due to the impact of the improved and expanded
agricultural extension and veterinary services. In addition, about 10,000
families would benefit from the upgrading of local roads (190.5 km), which
would improve access to markets and input supplies. The project area covers
18 of the 20 communes in the Republic, and 10 of the communes have per capita
incomes that are 60X of the Republic's average, or about US$1,400. After full
development, the average participating farner's income is expected to increase
by an estimated 120Z.
Employment
7.03     The project's contribution to employment in the Republic would be
substantial. Based on the technical parameters of the models, it is estimated
that, at full development, the project investments would result in some 1,240
incremental man/year equivalents of employment as a result of more intensified
agricultural production and processing operations (Annex 17). The
agroindustires component would account for 85 full-time jobs and some 25-30
seasonal jobs, while the milk collection and cooperative centers would need 23
permanent staff. The medicinal herbs factory would have important secondary
employment benefits in the mountain areas for the collection of herbs by
village families who are often among the poorest agricultural groups in
Montenegro. In addition, the project would create considerable employment
under the forestry component as well as the local road program.
Production and Foreign Exchange
7.04     Most of the incremental production due to the project would be used
to satisfy domestic consumption needs. However, part of the incremental
processed output would be exported resulting in foreign exchange earnings
estimated at US$2.4 M annually at full project development. In addition,
increased self-sufficiency in livestock products, especially pork meat,
livestock feed, and pulp wood would enable the country to reduce imports.
These savings in scarce foreign exchange are important in view of Yugoslavia's
1982 trade deficit of US$463 M.



-53-
Institution Building
7.05     The non-quantifiable benefits of this project are substantial.  One
important objective is the institutional strengthening of the Borrower,
IBT-UB, and selected investors. The project would further support improvement
of IBT-UB and its BBs, which began under the Bank's Seventh Industrial Credit
Project in the areas of organization, recruitment of personnel, information
systems, and auditing function, by the appointment of a Training Coordinator
within IBT-UB, and by providing training in project appraisal and supervision
to bank staff, and particularly to the newly appointed ACOs.  Also, through
the project, an organizational and management review would be conducted by
qualified consultants on several social sector organizations participating in
the project. Since the results of this review could be duplicated in other
similar situations, it is likely to have an effect on other investors. The
project would also provide training for financial managers and their
assistants and the marketing managers of the participating enterprises. A PU
would be set up within the WO Agroeconomic Institute, which is also a member
of the new AC. This arrangement should enhance the responsibility and
importance of the AC and help to ensure better implementation of the project
which affects a wide variety of groups, organizations, and areas throughout
the Republic. Also, the FTI would be strengthened through the project in
order to expand its activities into forestry research and development.
B. Economic Evaluation
Benufit and Cost Stream
7.06     Economic evaluation of the project has been done using internal
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and Net Present Value (NPV) estimations.
Quantifiable benefits include (i) total project incremental production;
(ii) net value added from processing facilities; and (iii) savings from
reduced costs due to mechanization. Benefits from the extension service were
not quantified directly but accrue to all other components of the project.
Separate ERRs were estimated for the individual road sections to be improved
under the first year of the project. Coats quantified include aLl capital and
operating costs, excluding price contingencies and transfer payments such as
taxes and subsidies, but including physical contingencies. 1/ The economic
cost of administering the project and the costs associated with support
services are included in the calculations of the net cost streams.
Economic Prices
7.07     All benefits and costs were calculated using constant 1983 prices,
adjusted to represent benefits or costs at the farm or factory level.
Economic prices for tradeable outputs of meat, vegetables, fruit, timber,
fertilizer and concentrate feed inputs are basei in World Bank commodities and
export projections and, where necessary, on the recXnt average unit value of
Yugoslav foreign trade. The prices for all non-tradeable items are those
1/   All agroindustry investment costs are calculated with physical
contingencies of 10% except for the rehabilitation of the Bijelo Polje
slaughterhouse which used 20%.



-54-
presently prevailing in Yugoslavia and are converted to economic values by
applying appropriate conversion factors. Key economic prices and conversion
factors used in the economic analysis are presented in Annex 3, Tables I
and 3. The ERR and NPV for the project components and the switching values on
capital investment costs, operating costs and benefits are presented below.
Sensitivity Analysis
Aggregated Models
Switchin2 Values t2
x of                NPV /1              Opera-
Total.              Dinar      Invest-  ting       Bene-
Costs     ERR      Millions    ment      Costs    fits
Primary production         46.0     21.0      926.8      +65.0    +21.2      -13.4
Agroindustries             17.0     17.0      294.5      +30.0     +5.0       -4.0
Forestry                   21.0     38.0      748.0      +67.0    +43.0      -20.0
Local roads                 6.0     27.0      536.0      +68.0      -        -41.0
Total Project             100 13    22.0    2505.3 14  +46.0    +17.0        -11.0
/.   Based on an opportunity coat for capital (OCC) of 12%.
/2   Switching value - percentage change which reduces the NPV to zero.
/3   The support services component accounta for 10% of project costs.
7!4 The Present Value of investment costs for support services component,
including project management costs have been included in the cost stream.
7.08     Agroindustry is most sensitive to changes in revenues and operating
costs. Annex 3, Table 4b shows that the slaughterhouse investments are
economically the most tenuous. This results in part from the domestic
pricing system at the time of appraisal, in which factory gate prices
(consumer prices) were rigidly controlled while raw material prices (farmgate
prices) were permitted much more flexibility, consequently squeezing the
processing margins of the agroindustry while encouraging primary production.
As explained in para 6.14, the issue of prices is being addressed under the
Structural Adjustment Program, whereby, the number of commodities subject to
price ceilings is being reduced, and Government policy is to substantially
increase the role of world prices and market forces aimed at reducing price
distortions.
7.09     The present analysis of slaughterhouses assumes no change in the
price structure of processed meat. The ERRs were run on the slaughterhouses
increasing the benefits by 10X in order to reflect eKpected changes in gross
revenues resulting from the government's on-going price structure review and
adjustments. The resulting ERRs are 33% and 25% for the Titograd and Bijelo
Polje slaughterhouses, respectiveLy. There are also economic benefits which
are difficult to auantify and are therefore eKcluded from the analysis. Some
of these include environmental benefits from improved waste disposal, and in
the case of the Titograd slaughterhouse, there are certain "sunk costs". For
example, the pig fattening farm and ham processing factory depend on the
slaughterhouse for their operations. A location analysis test was also done
an these investments which showed that it was not economically feasible to
transport the raw materials to another slaughterhouse or feed mill for
processing (See Annex 3, Table 4b). The Bijelo Polje plant can not process
pigs for religious reasons, and the other sites were too far or too small to
be economically viable alternatives.



-55-
7.10     The ERR for the primary production component is estimated at 21% and
is based on the aggregation of 13 individual sector models and three social
sector investments which are presented in Annex 3, Table 4a. In each model
the "with project" situation is compared to the most likely "without project"
situation. The ERR is more sensitive to changes in benefits than to
variations in operating or investment costs. The livestock ERRs are lower
than the financial returns, which is similar to the situation for the
slaughterhouses and is indicative of the pricing problems discussed in paras
6.13, 6.14 and 7.08. To ensure that proposed investments for livestock
production to be financed under the project have a minimum ERR of 12%, IBT-UB
would annually update the typical farm models in the individual sector as
part of evaluation arrangements for the project. The updated models would
take into account changing prices and the economics of livestock production
in Montenegro and would be used for approval of new subloans (para 5.14, vi).
7.11     A separate economic evaluation was undertaken for individual road
sections included in the first year of the road improvement program. The
evaluation was based on an assessment of the likely developmental impact of
road improvement on agricultural protuction in the immediate zone of
influence of each road, as well as rdtimated benefits arising from a
reduction in transport costs. The ERRs for six roads included in the first
and part of the second year range from 13% to over 50% with an overall ERR of
27%.
C. Risks and Uncertainties
7.12     A strong commitment to ensure successful project implementation
exists within SRM and communal governments, IBT-UB, and among the social
sector organizations which were selected to participate in the project.
Project scope and composition have been scrutinized by the FAO/WB and the
appraisal mission, and the resulting subprojects represent the medium-term
investment program planned for agriculture over the next five year period.
Project procurement preparation is well advanced for the selected
agroindustries, and most of the individual farmers have been identified for
farm development loans.
7.13     The institutional arrangements for implementing the project are
sound and offer a unique opportunity to enhance the role of the newly formed
AC in Montenegro's economic development.  Because this is a new institution,
there are some uncertainities associated with its ability to carry out such a
task. Its organizational structure was reviewed at the time of appraisal and
was found to be satisfactory. Furthermore, the governmental authorities and
the potential investors included in the project are convinced of the
important role the AC has in Montenegro and therefore, they chose to locate
the PU within a WO of this agency.
7.14     The principal issue which poses some risk to the project is the
availability of adequate local counterpart investment funds. Current
economic problems, as well as the stabilization measures being carried out to
correct them by Yugoslav and Montenegrin authorities can adversely affect Lne
timely availability of local £unds. Establishment of a revolving fund by
IBT-UB, through a local currency account, will facilitate the timely
availability of local funds, while the Special Account for Loan funds will



-56-
expedite disbursements against the Bank Loan. A financing plan was furnished
to the Bank during negotiations (para 4.42). To reduce future risks during
implementation, annual financing plans in Dinars will be prepared by the
Montenegrin authorities and reviewed by the Bank. Import restrictions due to
the government's counter-inflationary measures have also hampered all Bank
financed projects in Yugoslavia. However, in 1983 the Federal Government
exempted Bank project related imports from such restrictions, and beginning
in 1984 Bank financed projects also are exempt from credit ceilings imposed
on Yugoslav banks (para 1.11).
7.15     With the above measures and considering the potentially large
benefits, both direct and indirect to the economy and farmers, these are
acceptable risks which will, be further minimized through continuing dialogue
with Montenegrin authorities on project related issues.
VIII.  RECOKMENDATIONS
Assurances
8.01     During negotiations, assurances were obtained from rnvesticiona
Banka Titograd-Udruzena Banka (13T-UB) that it would:
(i)   Furnish the Bank socio-econoinic data for each road proposed to
be included in the program for 1987 and 1988 by January 1, 1985
and January 1, 1986 respectively (para 4.22).
(ii)   Submit to the Bank by January 31 of each year, an updated
schedule of estimated expenditures in Dinars and related
financing plan (para 4.42).
(iii)   Consult with the Bank prior to financing any investments in
Hontenegro in slaughterhouses; and meat, fruit, milk, animal
feed, and medicinal herb processing (para 5.11).
(iv)   Appraise each subproject prior to approving sarloans, based on
criteria specified in para 5.12, and Annexes 13 and 14.
(v)   Submit to the Bank for review and approval, all subprojects
which exceed a total investment cost of US$1.0 million
equivalent prior to approving subloans therefor (para 5.13).
(vi)   Prior to approving subloans for certain investment subprojects,
IBT-UB would ensure that the conditions set forth in para 5.14
are met.
(vii)   Update annually all investment models, on the basis of which the
minimum FRRs are determined, taking into account price changes
in agricultural commodities and furnish these updated models to
the Bank for review (para 5.15).
(viii)   Notify the Bank of each subloan approval and furnish to the
Bank, on request, each appraisal report which has not otherwise
been furnished (para 5.15).



-57-
(ix)   Enter into subloans for local road improvement and maintenance
and for agricultural extension and veterinary services only
after an agreement is obtained with the participating communes
designating appropriate sub-borrowers, and in the case of road
maintenance, providing evidence of adequate funds therefor
(paras 5.22 and 5.23).
(x)   Submit course outlines and an implementation schedule for the
training program for IBT-UB's and IBs' staff to the Bank for
approval by January 1, i985 (para '.25).
(xi)   Furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the end of
each fiscal year certified copies of IBr-UB's financial
statements and audit reports by SDK, and require social sector
sub-borrowers to furnish their statements and audit reports to
IBT-UB (para 5.27).
(xii)   Submit semi-annual progress reports within 45 days after the due
date and annual evaluation reports not later than three months
after the end of each calendar year (para 5.29).
(xiii)   Conduct a mid-term review by June 30, 1987 of project progress,
including a re-estimate of project costs in Dinars and exchange
views with the Bank thereon (para 5.29 and Annex 15).
(xiv)   Submit a project completion report not later than six months
after the Closing Date (para 5.30).
8.02     During negotiations assurances were obtained that the WO
Agroeconomic Institute would;
(i)   Establish and maintain a Project Unit with a director and terms
of reference of the Project Unit both acceptable to the Bank and
staffed in accordance with a phased staffing pattern acceptable
to the Bank (para 5.06).
(ii)   Engage consultants no later than January 1, 1985 to assist in
carrying out a study of the organization and management of two
Work Organizations; and submit the final draft of the study by
the consultants to the Bank no later than June 30, 1985 (para
5.24).
(iii)   Submit course outlines and an implementation schedule for the
training program for enterprises' staff to the Bank for approval
by April 1, 1985 (para 5.25).
(iv)   Furnish to the Bank no later than six months after the end of
each fiscal year certified copies of AEI's financial statements
and audit reports by SDK (pare 5.27).



-58-
8.03     During negotiations assurances were obtained that the Forestry
Technical Institute would;
(i)   L.tablish and maintain a Unit for the Forestry Component with a
director and terms of reference both acceptable to the Bank and
staffed in accordance with a phased staffing pattern acceptable
to the Bank (para 5.06).
(ii)   Establish a new unit for forest research, with four
professionals, by January 1, 1985 (para 5.21).
(iii)   Submit a detailed implementation plar. for the forestry
fellowship and training program, agreed upon with COAL SIK Crna
Gora and the participating Forestry BOALs, to the Bank for
approval by January 1, 1985 (para 5.26).
tiv)   Furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the end of
each fiscal year certified copies of FTI's financial statements
and audit reports by SDK (para 5.27).
8.04     Special Conditions of Loan Effectiveness
(i)   Establishment by IBT-UB of a Special Account and a local
currency account, including depositing of the initial deposit
into the latter account (para 4.51).
(ii)   Signing of the Project Self Management Agreement among all
project participants and its coming into effect (para 5.01).
(iii)   Establishment by AEI of the Project Unit and establishment by
FTI of the Unit for the Forestry Component (para 5.06).
5iv)   Execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements between IBT-UB and
the Agroeconomic Institute, and between IBT-UB and the Forestry
Technical Institute (para 5.06).
(v)   Eatablishment of the Project Coordination Council and the
Executive Boards (para 5.07).
(vi)   Appointment of an Agricultural Credit Officer aB  each basic bank
participating in the project (para 5.09).
8.05     Subject to these Agreements, the Montenegro Regional Development
Project is suitable for a Bank Loan of US040.0 million eauivilent with a term
of 15 years, including a three-year grace period.
Doc. 2151Z



- 59 -
ANNEX I
Table I
APPRAISAL OF
MONTENEGRO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PRtOJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Detalled Project Coat /1
(US$ '000)
-  I Foraigi  Z 7.0t8l
Local  Forei6n   lotal    Exchange   Base Costs
:= ..=:=  ::::=:2 :::=:,:.  22=212flt :::=::
A. Primary Production Investasnts
_._... ___._.... .. _........
t. Individual Sector On-Farm Production
Dairy Faris                                       5,523.0  5,304.2 10,827.3       49.0         10.4
Shtf  Fares                                       3#M.4  2,897.4  6,789.8         42.7         11.5
laproved Pasture                                    34.7    30a.3   740.0         52.1          1.3
Maize Silage                                        443.8   363.7   807.5          45.0         1.4
In-calt hliters                                     268.7  1,149.8  1F418.6       81.1          2.4
got KeaPinl                                         230.1   10i.4   331.5         30.6          0.6
Fish                                                 53.6     79.0    162.5        48.6         0-3
Dtiduous Fruits                                     181.8    154.4   336.2        45.9          0.6
Berries                                             151.3   122.0   273-3         44.6         0.5
Olives                                              160.1   196.4   356.6         55.1          0.6
Vatetables under Plastic                             98.8    115.2   204.0         56.5         0.3
Faras Mclhnizat.on                                  896.2  1,023.4  1,919-7        53.3         3.3
Handicraft                                          212.4    223.9   436.3         51.3         0.7
Sub-Total Individual Sector On-Farm Production      12.487.0 12,116.3 24,603.3        49.2        41.8
2. Social Sector Production
Forestr                                           69462.7  59670.6 12,133.3       46.7         20.6
Daciduous Fruits                                      46.7   208.5   555-2         37.6         0.9
Pocesranate                                         269.8   223.9   493.7         45.4          0.8
Fish                                                6155.   620.5  1,236.0        50.2          2.1
Sub-total Social Sectot Production                   7,694.7  6723.6 14,418.2        46.6         24.5
Sub-Total Prisars Production Investaeents              20il19.7 t8#389.0 39,021.5       48.3   6b.3
D. Support Services and Intrastructure
1. Egtonsion Service                                    54.9    57.4   112.3         51.1          0.2
2. Research                                             146.6   104.5   251.1         41.6         0.4
3. Vocational training Center                          144.1    130.1   274.2        47.4          0-5
4. Vetetinars Service                                  410.1    230.8   640.9        36.0          III
5. Milk Collection Center                               425,5    594.4  1,019.9       50.3         1.7
6. Cooperstit  Centers                                 624.7   700.4  1325.1         52.9          2.3
7. Village Roads                                     2,403.4  2,058.6  4,462,1        46.1         7.6
B. Project Manaewnt                                    689.4    47.1   736.5          6.4          1.3
Sub-Total Support Strvices anA Infrastructure           4,899.8  39923.2  9t822.0        44.5        15,0
C. Agroindustries
1. Fruit Processing Plant   Titograd                   895.3  lt470.6  2,366.0       62.2         4.0
2. Slarhterhouse - lIelo Polie                      14198.2  2,070.9  3,269.1       63.3         5.6
3, Slaughterhou6z - litograd                           983.1  1.050.8  1tm-9         54.3          3.3
4. Dairy Plant - Ivangrad                              106-5   430.9   537.4         80.2         0.9
5- Medicinhl Raef Plant - Rizan                         435.4   983.3  1,418.7       69.3          2.4
6. utal Clim    Plant - Plav                            90.7   1949    285.5         69.2         0.5
7. Feed Milling Unit - SPuz                            152.6   575.7   72B.2         79.1          1.2
Sub-Total Agroindustries                                3,761.7  6777.0 10,538.8         64.3        17.9
D. Institutional Develorsent
1. Iorrwar                                              99.9     17.3    117.2       14.8         0.2
2. Investors                                            195.5   151.6   347.1         43.7         0.6
Sub-Total Institutional Davelopunt                        295.3   168,9   464i3         36.4          0.8
Total BASELlNE COSTS                                     29ol37.5 29;709.1 58a846.6       50.5        100.0
Physical Continwnctis                                  2,920.6  39139.5  69060.1       51.8         10.3
Price Contingencies                                    5,014.6  4,710.4  9,725,0        48.4        16.5
Total PROJECT coSTS                                      37.072.7 373559.0 74,631-7       50.3        126.8
.....    .     ..   - -   -- ---- -    -- ---- ---- ---… -     ---- --…
11 Lased on -rice co,tino,oncioas usingi eatir,Ltos oS intornational inflation rates:
02 for 1983; 3.52 for 1984; 8.02 for 1985; 9.0% for 1986, 87 and 88; and 7.52
for 1989.



-60 -                                                   I
APPRAISAL O                                        Table 2
MONTLNEG1w  REGIONAL DEVELOPlMET PROJECT
YUGOSLAVLA
Detalled Prolect Cost
(W11 'U)
I h ign * rt"
Local     FOeM        TOtI                                   Ink"     U   cT ts
A. Priunr Prodution Irnvestnnts
1. Individual Sector On-fzne Production
Dairn  Frm                                      964P,61.3  926,635.8 1.891i497.1                                   49.0        18.4
Shen c Fars                                    *679,916*8  506,174.1  I.66,161.                                    42.7        11.5
laroved Pasture                                  619960.4   67,317.2   129,277.6                                   52.1        1-.
Imai  Silas                                      77,532.6   63.537.7   141,0t70.                                   45.0        1.4
In-cut haiter                                    46v949.9  200,968.0   2478917.9                                   81.1        2.4
See Kl inr                                       40.201.7   17,717.1    57.91.6.                                   30.6        0.6
Fish                                             14,600.4   13,m.5    28P,39.`                                     41.6        0.3
Deciduo  Fruits                                  3i1 ,761   24,975.6    58,737.3                                   45.9        0.6
3rries                                           26&431.0   21,315.8    47,746.1                                   44.6        0.5
Olives                                           27,s95.4   34t31,.0    62,293.4                                   55.1        0-6
Vbttables c  doer Plastic                        15.#*6.0   20,2U-5    35,434                                      56.5        0.3
Fare llechaization                              154,571.3  178,717.9   335.359.3                                   53.3        3.3
Handicraft                                       37.107.1   39,121.2    769228.3                                   513        0.7
Sub-Total Individual Secttrr -Fare Production    2S181,445.4 2.116,667.6  4.299131-1                                  49,2       4118
2. Social Sector Production
Formstry                                      1.129.025.8  990637.8 2.119,663.6                                    46.7       20.6
Deiduous Fruits                                  60.5704    34649.3    9699-99                                     37.6        0.9
PoeirmnA                                         47.l27.1   39,112.9    96240.                                     45*4        0.8
Fish                                            107.520.1  106,408.2   215,928.3                                   50.2        2-1
Sub-Total Social Srctor Prodution                1,344v243.6 1,174,560.2 2.518,831.1                                  46.6       24.5
Sub-Total Pri"ry Production Investunts              3525.689.0 3,291,275.8 6816.9U64-1                                   48.3       66.3
D. SUert Servics  nd Intrastructure
1. Extnsion Sevice                                    592.4   10,021.4    19,613.8                                    51.1        0.2
2. Researh                                          25.615.6   18,249.9    43965.5                                    41.6        0.4
3. vocatinal Training Center                        25,172.3   22,7M2.3    470894-4                                   47-4        0-0
4. VIterinaro Service                               71,642.1   40,316.8   111,956.1                                   36.0        1.1
5. Iilr Collection Cbnter                           749335.5  103,836.4   178,172.0                                   58.3        1.7
6. Coerative Centers                               10 7141 .1  122,355.5   231,496.6                                  52.9        2.3
7. Villae Roeds                                  419,873.6  359,440.2   779,513.                                     46.1        7.6
8. Projrt MInaent                                  117.848.9    8,235.1   126,064.1                                    6.5        1.2
Sub-Total Smtort Services and Intrastructure         653.221.6  685,377.6  1.538599.2                                    44.5       15.0
C. 6groindustrias
1. Fruit Procesinr Plant - Titograd               154,411.8  256,917.7   413,329.4                                    U2-2        4.0
2. SlauOterhxtso - BiJblo P01.1                    209.320*0  361782*6   571,102.4                                    63.3        5.6
3. Slausiterbous - Titosrad                        154273.5  163,567.6   337,841.1                                   54.3        3.3
4. Dairv Plant - Ivarad                            18611.1   751277.9    93,969.7                                    30.2        0.9
5. Nedicinal Herb Plant - Rlzt                      76,059.5  171,76.9   2478.4                                       69.3        2.4
6. Rural Chete  Plant - Plsv                        15.B36.4   34,040.3    49,6X767                                   61.2        0.5
7. Food Iillint Unit - Spw                          24r652.4  100l571.0   127,223.4                                   79.1        1.2
Su-Ttal Asoindustries                                657,t165.4 1,193934.1  1S41,099l4                                   44.3       17.9
D. Instttutioal Delrwnt
1. Dorrowe                                          17,443.1    3,028.4    20,472.2                                   14.8        0-2
2. Investors                                        34,147.6   26415.1    60,63126                                    43.7        0.6
Sib-Total Institutional Develo,snt                     51.591.4   29,513.5    91,104.9                                   36.4        0.1
Total 3AELIIE COSTS                                   S,067.647.3 5,190.101.010.277,6.3                                    30-5      100.0
Physical Continencies                               510,218.9  548,465.2 1*0586M4.1                                     51.8       10.3
Price Continknies                                 48297,655.1 4.164.476.1 9.462,1U.3                                    49.2       8243
Total PRMJECT COStS                                   9,995541.3 9,903,042.3 19.798.5U.7                                   50.0      192-6
/L   Based on price contingencies usiag estimates  for domestic inflation:   55S for 1983, 422 for 198b4,
272 for 1985, and 17% for 1986-89.



APPRAISAL OF                                Table  3
HDNTENEGRO REGIONAL DEVEWLPHENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Ttals IrelM  CmnIInIs                             Totl
185        196        1W    96.     8      I99       OID
A, Prisaro Production Investmnts
I Indiviial Sector Orn-Faro Poduction
Dair  as                                        511980.6 1.2414243.1 2.181.716,1         -       -  3,936837
Sheet Fames                                     321,043.9  m7,577.0 I.M8157.7                    -  2,44,791.6
Iproved Pasture                                  3960.2   66,063.7   088363.3  90,461.9          -    28139.1
Maize Sild                                       76p348.4   92,15.2  106478.8            -       -    277,50.4
In-calf htiters                                 1346156.1  162I872.6  190,560.9          -       -    467W.7
Bke K6e,inl                                      94O062.9          -          -          -       -       44O02.9
Fish                                             22,949.2   13,870.1   16/221.0                  -      5209472
Deciduous Fruits                                 17,811.7   34,573.0   32.393.1  24697.1 21419.9    131,544.4
Berries                                          12,937.7   38,462,0   40.376.9   7,477.3        -      99o253.9
Olives                                           19,715.5   29,23.5   130758.0  43,240.7 41188.2    147.725.
Ve"etables u.der Plastic                         19,289.6   23418.6   27.3S              -       -      70010.1
Fare lI,ecwization                              217,955.9  264,488.6  1540725.0                  -    637,070.4
Hamicraft                                        47,3!4.3   53,688.9   45.532.0          -       -    146t575.2
Sub-Total Individual Srctor O-Fare Production    1.534.326.0 24802.716.3 4t267.688.5 166877.0 62F256.2  8S833,59.?
2. Social Sctor Production
Forestri                                      1.517,039.7 1t38.018.7  943P143.3 204,954.2        -  4,045,155.8
Deciduous Fruits                                 75t366.8   71976.3   20.975,6  13s482.7        -    18i61.4
Pomegranate                                      76,993.7   18,019.6   20.947.1  25794.2 34,910.4    176,445.2
Fish                                            251,425.9  118,522.7          -         -        -    34946
Sub-Total Sccal Sector Production                1.920926.1 1.5t8,537.6  985066.0 244,231.1 34910.4  4t773.571-1
Sub-Total Prissri Prodwtion Inwnotwits             3.455.152.0 4.391.253.9 5.252,754.4 411,100.1 97168.6 13,60747V.0
B. Sweort Services and lntrn.xtuer
1. ExtEnsion Servic,                               29,307.0    3,092.0           -          -       -      32t399.
2. Research                                         49,686.4   24.?49.5          -          -       -      74,435.
3. Ucational Trainir Center                        37,065.1   41,843.3           -          -       -      85e994
4. Veterinar Service                               112,382.7   84,551.3               -         -         196Y7M4,*
5. Milk Collection Crter                           144680.0  2754649.1           -          -       -    32,329.1
6. Cooerative, Cents                               187,90.9  22S.211.7           -                        416.199.6
7. Villag  Roads                                  41279.5  334,044.1  400#5679 491,967.5            -  2t63?9374.0
B. Proud  namect                                    52,395.1   63,781.1   62.064.1  58737.6         -    236,97.
Sub-Total SAtort eretvi e   d Wtriftruthaur          iQZ1,069.7  962,93L.1  462.651,9  tSQ,74.1.       -  3402,37?7.
C. Asromndustries
1. Fruit Procssina Plant - Titoerad               671.267.1          -           -         -        -    672,267.1
2. Slauftrhmnt - 3iJlo Polio                     t.011.916.6          -          -          -       -   19011.81644
3 iSlaihtarbosu - Titorad                         548470.5           -           -         -        -    5486137.5
4. bint Plant - Tvnrad                             149753.4           -          -          -       -    149,781.6
S. tlediciul Pthe PFlnt - Rizn                    4000713.9          -           -         -        -    400713.9
6. Rural Chse Plant - Pl-                                .            -                             -      6016.4
7. Fe  Nillirs Lnit - S5 g                        206,617.1          -           -         -        -    206t617.1
Sub-Total Agroindustries                           3.06U025.1           -           -         -            3.069,023,1
O. Institutimal D lw,nt
1. Borrower                                        30,225.4          _                                    30225
2. Invtstors                                       69.518.5           -          -         -        -      69519.5
Sib-Total Institutinal telwornt                       119,743.9         -           -         -        -    119,743.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                                  7,670,010.7 5.354.184.9 5715.406.3 961,313.3 97.166,6 19t79p8563.7
/1   Based on vorLe  con@titoRnlcso usinp eometntoo for doaetic  inflotonm    55' for 1?83,
42% for 1984, 27Z for 1985, and 172 for 1986-89.



- 62 -                          ANNEX 2
APPRAISAL OF
MONTENEGRO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Schedule of Disbursement (US$ Million)
Cumulative                       Cumulative
IBRD               Disbursements  Disbursements                      Disbursement
Fiscal    Period       During        at the end       Cumulative         Profile
Year     Ending      Periods        of period      Disbursements   Agriculture /1
1985      12/31/84       0.4              0.4             1.0              0.6
06/30/85       2.0             2.4             6.0              5.8
1986      12/31/85       4.5              6.9            17.2             12.7
06/30/86      5.5             12.4            31.0             22.3
1987      12/31/86       6.5             18.9           47.2              35.0
06/30/87       5.0            23.9            59.7             49.5
1988      12/31/87       4.0            27.9            69.7              64.0
06/30/88       3.0            30.9            77.2             76.8
1989      12/31/89       3.2            34.1            85.2              86.8
06/30/89       3.0            37.1            92.7             93.5
1990      12/31/89       1.9            39.0             97.5             97.6
06/30/90       1.0            40.0           100.0            1DO.0
1/  Represents average of nine agricultural credit-type projects in Yugoslavia
as of October 11, 1983.



- 63 -                              ANN1X 3
Ta-DLe-T
Page=1
APPRAISAL OF
MONTENEGRO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGO SLAVIA
Prices for Major Outputs and Inputs
Financial Price    Ecomonxic Price
(Dinar)               (Dinar)
OUTPUTS
Farm Products (per kg)
Apples                                              23.0                 17.3
Blackberries                                       41.0                  30.7
Pomegranate                                        21.5                  16.1
Olives                                             28.0                  40.0
Lettuce - early and winter                          80.0                 60.0
Tomatoes - May                                     80.0                  60.0
June                                   40.0                  30.0
July                                   20.0                  15.0
Maize silage                                         2.5                   2.5
Meadow hay                                          5,0                    5.0
Cow milk:  3.75% BF (per liter)                     28.0                 21.0
Sheep milk (per liter)                             40.0                  30.0
Wool                                             180-270                270.0
Honey                                             200                    90.0
Trout - market fish                               215                   161
Fingerlings (10 gns)                              800                   600
Fingerlings (55-65 gas)                           350                   263
Livestock for Meat (per kg liveweight)
Veal calf                                         150                    98
Baby beef                                         140                    91
Cull cow                                          110                    72
Lamb:  15 kg                                      200                   128
Lamb:  28 kg                                      150                   102
Breeding Livestock (per head)
In-calf heifer                                 80,000                78,000
Heifer calf                                    33,000                31,000
Hogget                                          6,000                 5,300



- 64 -                               ANNEX 3
Tabl.e I
Page 2
Timber (per n3)                                                           A
Sawlogs:  conifer                              3,200
broadleaf                           2,400
Pit poles:  conifer                            4,000
Pitprops:  conifer                             3,000
Chipwood;  conifer                             2,800
Chipwood:  broadleaf                           1,300
Fuelwood                                       1,230
Milk Products (per kg)
Pasteurized milk                                  26.0                  21.0
Yoghurt (set and stirred)                         38.3                  28.7
Butter                                           283.5                 212.6
Cow/sheep cheese                                 270                   202
Cow cheese (full fat)                            230                   172
Meat Products (per Kg)
Fresh beef                                       239                   163
Fresh lanb                                       396                   277
Fresh mutton                                     224                   142
Fresh pork                                       215                   150 /2
Fruit Products (per ton)
Peach puree                                   32,000               35,000 /3
Sour cherry puree                             42,000               45,000 TS
/1  Yugoslavia is a net importer of timber although it also exports large
quantities. A conservative estimate was used by applying a conversion
factor of I to the financial prices. Export prices for Yugoslav timber
are of limited use in determining economic prices in Montenegro because
they are largely confined to high quality logs whereas prices used in the
project are for average quality.  Timber import prices from neighboring
Mediterranean countries are about 10% higber than the price used in
Montenegro for comparable quality timber.
/2  Import Parity, based on Yugoslav Trade Statistics and FAO Trade Yearbook
for Romanian pig meat imports, adjusted for transport and inflation.
/3  Export Parity, based on Yugoslav ex-factory price of buyers in Switzerland
(Hero), Sweden (Arvidson), and in Slovenia (Fructal).



-65 -                                   ANNEX 3
Table I
Page :
Concentrate Feed (per ton)
Dairy concentrate                              22,000                17,700
Calf starter                                   35,000                20,900
Sheep concentrate                              18,000                15,500
Medicinal Herbs (per kg)
Sage oil                                        4,000                 4,000 (1
Laurel oil                                      6,000                 6,000 7T
Juniper oil                                     5,700                 5,700 /1
INPUTS
Breeding stock (per head)
In-calf heifer (400 kg)                        95,000                78,000
Hogget                                          6,500                 5,300
Improved ramn                                  20,000                16,400
Concentrate feed (per kg)
Calf starter                                       35.0                  20.9
Dairy concentrate                                  22.0                  17.7
Sheep concentrate (av)                             18.0                  15.5
Fish food                                          55.6                  29.5
Fertilizer
Manure (per ton)                                  600                   450
KAN (27% N) (per kg)                                11                    17.3
15-15-15 (per kg)                                  15                    19.8
Seedlings (per piece)
Apples                                              s0                    60
Blackberry                                         30                    23
Machinery (per day)
Motor cultivator (exclud. operator)             1,20(                   900
Medium tractor (55165 h.p.)                     5,700                 4,275
Heavy tractor (100/150 h.p.)                   15,000                11,250
/1  Export parity, based on quotatiuons from major dealers of etheric and
plant oils from USA (Fritzche Dodge Alcoot Inc.); West Germany (H. Rohmer)
and Sweden (Culinar). rhese estimates were cross checked with export
organizations in Belgrade and Slovenia.



- 66 -                                ANNEX 3
Table 1
Page 4
Labor (per day)                                                            /1
Private
Unskilled female                                  600
Male:  peak season/coast                        1,300
mountain region and coast
off-season                              800
Social Sector /2                           Net         Gross
Unskilled                                  410           590
Skilled                                    540          790
Highly skilled                             720        1,050
Univ. graduate/managers                  1,050        1,520
Livestock Raw Material (per kg lw)
Cattle                                            110                    72
Lamb                                              185                   128
Sheep                                             110                    83
Herb Raw Material (per kg)
Sage                                               30                    22
Laurel                                             15                    11
Juniper                                            50                    37
Fruit Raw Material (per ton)
Peaches (processing quality)                    5,300                4,000
Cherries (processing quality)                   6,900                 5,200
Feed Material (per ton)
Maize                                          10,300               12,800
Barley                                         13,560               13,900
Soya meal                                     35,780                24,600
Fish meal                                     43,900                36,900
Premix                                        61,000                30,000
/1  See Annex 3, Table 3a.
/2 Based on 240 working days per year. Average cost for agricultural workers
is effectively about 25% higher to allow for down time brought about by
seasonality of labor requirements and inclement weather.



-67                                                ANNEX 3
APPRAISAL OF
MONTENEGRO REGIONAL DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
YUGO&L&VIA
Primary Production
Sumary Financial Characteriutica
Investment/                       locreisental     Incremental
Typical            Investor                  Model   Income at       Family Labor
Unit/   FRR       '000         Year of      Life   Full Dev.         Input
Investor   Z        Dinvrs       Full Dev. Year.   '000 Din.           (N.D.)
Individual Sector
Livestock Farms
Dairy (av)           1        24      1,060              7        20         341             100
Heifer               2        46        209              3         6         104              44
Sheep (av)           1        24      1,166              5        20         316             100
Silage               I ha    29         121              3        20          35               5
Meadow improvement  2 ha    20            35             3         6          16               6
Fruit and Vegetable Farms
Soft fruit           0.6 ha  26.6       311              6        15         137              63
Deciduous fruit      0.6 ha  27.6       394            l0         20         350              35
Olives               0.6 ha  15.6       372              8        20         104              41
Plaetic house        1       41         657              2        10         245              47
Mechaeization              1       45         423             3          8         188             100
Trout                      1       24       2,200             5         15         828              93
Sees                       1       30         305             4         20         127              30
.andicraf ts               1       43         167             3         20         69              120
Social Sector
Trout                     0.5 ha  25           84             5         20          25
Deciduous fruit          20 ha    15       32,216             6         20      7,316
Pouegranate              54 ha    11       57s641             6         20     10.820



APEAISAL OF
N           A     L           Pr
Agroin&wtry gnd Forest"y
Suaiy Financial Characteristic.
Year of    Model      Anuial             Capacity     &ditchiiu Values with OOC at 12i
FRR     Investmnt    FRai         Life  Incrntal               Utilization             Operatil Invetent
X      '000 Dinars Deveiopent  Yeer         ncm    NPV 12X    -101         Benefits     Cots        OCts
Slaugbterhoue - Titograd        16.5       212,070        3         20      38,218    55,967      15.0        -2.1       +2.4         +30.0
Slagbterse - Bijelo Polje   16.0           374,707        3         2D      61,585    74,978      16.0        -3.0        43.0        +23.0
Pkjree Fruit   - Titograd      13.0        280,370        3         20     42,697    16,633       11.4        -4.0       +8.0          +7.0
OD
Msdicimsl Herbs- Risan          14.0       137,440        3         20      22,003    15,740       8.0        -3.0        +5.0        +12.0
Cheese Plant  - Plav           21.4         29,040        3         20       6,600    16,425      19.0       -11.0      +15.0         +63.4
Dairy         - Ivnrad         25.2         61,600        4         20      19,702    57,968      23.0       -10.0      .12.0        +105.4
Feed Mill     - Spuz           24.0         71,000        3         20      17,129    49,243      22.0        -7.0       +8.0         +81.2
Forestry                        13.0     1,275,363        2         16    191,200    30,333                   -1.0       +1.4          +2.0
N La
DXX
t¢LA



- 69 -                         ANNEX 3
APPRAISAL OF
MONTENEGRO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Economic Conversion Factors
Construction                                                      0.65
Transport                                                         0.66
Standard                                                          0.75
Consumption                                                       0.75
Equipment                                                         0.75
Other intermediate inputs                                         0.75
Power                                                             1.70
Management/skilled labor                                          1.00
Other labor - shadow price x consumption Conversion Factor    (0.75)
Social Sector Labor
Hired - coast                      1.00 x 0.75 -                  0.75
Hired - other                      0.70 x 0.75 a                  0.53
Individual Sector Labor
Hired                              1.00 x 0.75 =                  0.75
Family - coast                     1.00 x 0.75 =                  0.75
Family - livestock farms           0.50 x 0.75 =                  0.38
Family - crop farms               0.625 x 0.75                    0.47



APPRAISAL OF
MONTENEGRO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Economic Analysis of Sub Projects
--------------------------Results Per Model…--------------------                 Phased Resulcs
Base     Benefits      Operating      Investment      Benefits                 ERR      NPV - Total
Model Title              ERR       Down          Costs Up       Costs          and Operating              2       '000 Dinars
102            102          Up 102          Cost Lagged 1 Year
… -   -   -  -   -  -  -   -  -  -   -   -   -   -   -  ERR   -  -   … -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
Individual Sector
Beef/Dairy - Average               16          10            12             14                  13                 15         82,341
Heifer                             20          10           14             17                   15                20          22,577
Sheep - Average                    19          14            15            17                   16                 18        182,261
Trout                              46          32            35            45                  41                  46         66,299
Bee Keeping                        13           8            10            ll                   11                 13          1,338
Maize Silage                       49          37           44              4                   33                 49         99,367
Meadow Hay                         19           8            13            16                   13                 19         14,694
Mechanization                      32          20            25            28                   23                 32         94,890
Handicraft                         18         neg          neg             16                   15                 18          8,049
Berries                            16          1O            13            14                   13                 16          5,210
Apples                             24          21            23            22                   21                 Z4         39,253
Plastic House                      31          22           27             27                  23                  31          9,775
OLives                             27          23            26            25                   22                21          38,541
Social Sector
Apples                             16          13            15             14                  13                 14          9,075           En
Pomegranite                        10           7            8              9                   9                  10         -7,075         0
Trout                              37          31            34            34                   30                 37        199,543



APWAISAL CF
MADEM HONL DEMiaff RO
YEIDSAVIA
EC4mic Madels - Agroisihstries. Fmestry and Rural Roads
Benefits ardI                                 switdiii  Valses
Base   len fits  Operatirg   Invest5Et   Op. Costs    eef its WV at                         Operatiog  esazmnt
inlesa          Locatian     ER Z   d-a 10!  Costs up 10! Costs up M1   laged 1 Yr !kp  10OX C 12Z Distance /1 Benefits  CGots    Costs
Slaimtese - Titograd           13.3    -31.0       -15            12.0        12.0      33.0    11,m      200 Km.     -1.0    +1.0     48.0
Slaujtertbtse - Bijelo Polje  12.1       -6.0        -2.3         11.0        11.0      25.0     2,265   193 RL       -        -       +1.0
Puree F Ait    - Titograd       19.1      16.0       18.0         17.0        16.0             103,871               -21.0   +63.0    449.0
edicinal Herbs - Risan         23.0       17.0       20.0         21.0        19.0              82,022               -11.0   +21.0    +77.0
FeHled        - Spuz I134                 -           -           12.0        11.5      33.0    43,634   130 Ma.    -1.0    +1.0       +8.3
Dairy         - Ivasarnd       25.0       12.0       15.0         23.0        21.0              43,202    62 lR.    -10.0   +12.0   *1K.0         
aCeese        - Play           20.7       12.1       14.6         18.6        17.3              11,282               -10.0   +14.0    +57.0
Forestry                       38.0       25.0       32.0         32.0        24.0              748,047              -2D     '43.0   467.0
baca1 Roads                    27.0       21.6       22.0         22.0        21.0             536,738               -41       -       469.0
j1  Raed on a calculation ccupriiHr awssport cotS with the iWstultt Cost, this figure detemines the mxinin distaxe the raw material can be
transported for furxher proceasig. For mDre detailed inToxmtion see Projert  lenatatim  File.
w  w
0 W



- 72 -                              ANNEX 4
Table L
APPRAISAL OF
MONTE NEGRO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
IST-UB:  Statements of Income and Expenses 1980-1982
(In mil ions o ainar)
1980      1981        1982
INCOME
Interest on loans                                   2,419      3,202      4,431
Interest on bank deposits                             434        563        674
Fees, commissions and charges                          50         74         111
Others                                                133        569      1,018
Gross Income                                    3,036     4,408       6,234
EXPENSES
Financial
Interest on individual deposits                   350       476         688
Interest on other deposits and borrowings    1,700        2,327       3,376
Debts written off                                  70         2           -
Other                                             204       685       1,078
Total financial expenses                        2,324     3,490       5,142
Administrative
Salaries and personnel                            143       213         284
Other                                              67       104         133
Total administrative expenses                     210       317         417
Total expenses                                  2,534     3,807       5,559
Income before statutory obligations                   502       601         675
Statutory obligations (taxes)                          17        24          47
Net Income                                            485        577        628
APPROPRIATIONS OF NET INCOME
Fund for the Bank's Working Communities                47         66         75
Distribution to membersL/                             334        324        272
Unappropriated, income not collected                  104        187        281
485       577         628
1/  Most of this is allocated to various reserves by Members as shown in
balance sheets in Annex 4, Table 2.



- 73 -                         ANNEX 4
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
MONTENEGRO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
IBT-UB: Balance Sheets as of Years ended 1980-1982 l/
(In millions of dinar)
1980      1981        1982
ASSETS
Cash and due from banks                             2,336      2,771       3,623
Deposits witb national bank                          1,282     2,154       1,498
Short-term loans and current maturities
of long-term loans                             19,534    25,901      40,567
Securities and discounted bills                     1,271      1,765       2,018
Long-term loans & investments over
1 year less current maturities                 37,036    51,943      60,422
Property and equipment                                 361       470         647
Other assets                                        4,483      3 342       3,916
Total Assets                                   6C6,303    88,4       112,6-§
Manage Fund                                    11J437    25,652       34,111
LIABILITIES AND FUNDS EMPLOYED
Demand deposits                                     12,627    15,666      15,374
Savings & short-term deposits up to 1 year          3,025      4,718       5,272
Savings & long-term deposits over 1 year            4,289      5,850       7,940
Sbort-term borrowings & current maturities          8,733      9,703      23,205
Long-term borrowings less current maturities    32,904    45,434          51,587
other liabilities                                   2.534      4 219       5,785
Total Liabilities                              64.112    85S90    109,6I3
Funds Employed
Joint liability fund                                   474       583         670
Reserve fund                                          447        532         624
Property and equipment fund                            519       664         897
Funds of the bank's working communities                100       139         218
Total Funds Employed                            1,540      1,918       2,-49
Unappropriated, income not collected                  651        838       1,119
Total Liabilities & funds employed             66,303    88,346    112,691
Managed Fund                                   11,437    25,652       34,111
Guarantees Outstanding                         24,963    35,120       41,660
1/  These balance sheets were prepared by SDK following, to the extent
possible, accounting practices of Western countries, which differ from
Yugoslavian accounting practice.



- 74 -                         ANNEX 4
Table 3
APPRAISAL OF
MONTENEGRO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
IBT-UB: Statements of Income and Expenditure, 1983-1986
(Current Prices)
Estimate          Projections
1983     1984      1985     1986
-------(in Dinar Millions)-------
INCOME
Interest - Long-Term Loans                     na       6,785    9,287   12,232
Short-Term Loans                   na      15,763   14,600   11,689
Total                            11,003   22,548   23,887   23,921
Other    - Fees and Commissions                 153       191      220       240
Foreign Exchange Gains            2,671         -         -        -
Miscellaneous                         98      115       125      140
Total                             2,922       306       345WO
TOTAL INCOME                                   13,925   22,854   24,232   24,301
Financial Expense
Interest - Short-Term Funds)                         4,380    4,726    4,047
Long-Term Funds )               6,69    13,116   13,757   15,202
Foreign Exchange Losses                     1,645    1,600    1,500    1,614
Total                                       8,339   19,146   19,983   20.863
NET INTEREST INCOME                             5,586    3,708    4,249    3,438
Administrative Expenses
Salaries                                      353       424      515       622
Other Expenses                                476       646      805       883
Total                                         829    1,070    1,320    1,505
Income Before Taxes and Provisions            4,757    2,638    2,929      1933
Transfer Payments                               -       239      467       416
Taxes                                         169       84D      862       530
169    10                   946
Net Income (International
Accounting Principles)                    4,588    1,559    1,600       987
Uncollected Income                          4,290        -        -        _
NET INCOME (Yugoslav Accounting                   299    1,559    1,600        987
Principles)                     =     ===          =           =
A   The foreign exchange risks on individual sector on-lending is aestimed by
the Republic Government. A portion of the interest earned on these
sub-loans is, therefore, assumed to be transferred to the Republic.



- 75 -                      ANNEX 4
Table4
APPRAISAL OF
MONTENEGRO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
IBT-UB: Sources and Applications of Funds
(Current Prices)
Projections
1984       1985        1986
(in Dinar MiLl ionT-
SOURCES
Short-Term Funds                               4,288       5,629     7,237
Long-Term Deposits                               477         445       426
Collection of Long-Term Loans                  9,992      10,684    12,274
Long-Term Borrowing                           11,300      18,540    25,570
Other Liabilities                              2,233         444       340
Internal Generation                                        1,600       987
29,849     37,342    46,834
=aem=   =====    ='==~=
APPLICATIONS
Short-Term Assets                              1,916       5,297     8,949
Long-Term Loan Disbursements                  14,092      20,014    26,564
Repayment of Long-Term Borrowing              11,885      11,897    11,941
Other Assets                                   1,956         134      (620)
7-9,849    37,342    43



- 76-                           ANNEX 4
Table 5
APPRAISAL OF
MONTENEGRO REGIDNAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
IBT-UB: Balance Sheets
(Current PricesT)
Estimate         Projections
1983     1984      1985     1986
-(in Dinar millions)--
LIABILITIES
Demand Deposits                              19,769   20,611   21,196   21,947
Savings and Short-Term Deposits               6,902    7,196    7,470    7,732
Short-Term Borrowings                        27,829   30,993   35,807   42,839
Accrued Interest and Other Liabilities        9,933   12,116   12.610   13,950
SHORT-TERM FUNDS                             64,433   70,966   77,083   86,468
Savings and Long-Term Deposits               11,20-   11,680.  12,125   12,551
Long-Term Borrowings                        102,907  102,310  108,909  121,730
LONG-TERM FUNDS                             114,110  113,990  121,034  134,281
TOTAL LIABILITIES                            178,543  184,956  198,117  220,749
FUNDS EMPLOYED
Property and Equipment Fund                   1,027    1,062    1,106    1,164
Reserve Fund                                     657    1,517    1,982    2,233
Joint Liability Fund                             664    1,328    2,419    3,097
2,348    3,907    5,507    6,494
Less Deferred Foreign Exchange Losses         9 231    a 081    6,931    5.781
(6,883)  (4,1 4>  (1,424)      7"13)
Unappropriated Income not Collected           5,409    5,409    5,409    5,409
177,069  186,191  202,102  226,871
TOTAL ASSETS
Cash and Due from Banks                       3,720    3,847    4,063    4,577
Deposits with National Bank                   4,073    5,640    6,590    7,826
Securities and Discounted Bills               3,515    3,667    3,780    3 952
LIQUID ASSETS                                11,308   13,154   14,433   16,355
Short-Term Loans                             71,303   7D,820   75,934   84,387
Accrued Interest and Other Assets             8,690   11,374   12,106   12.513
SHORT-TERM ASSETS                            91,301   95,348  102,473  113,255
Long-Term Loans                              83,861   88,514   96,748  110,612
Long-Term Investments                         1,087    1,304    1,651    1,651
Property and Equipment                          820    1,025    1,230    1,353
LONG-TERM ASSETS                             85,768   9D,843   99,629  113,616
TOTAL                                         177,069  186,101  202,102  226,871
mmuinu   X=4-u53  :was   oa=l



- 77 -
Table 6
APPRAISAL OF
NDN1EINA  REG1DNL DEVELUEBI FRa=
YULWAVIA
Project Fin=sir Plan
In Mi-sa   rm  (millit  tl
Total      % Share      Interest                  Total Project  % Share
Project   in Project      durirg        Etd          Financial    in Funds
Cost       Cost      Constn±tion /2    Fee        Bnirement    Rewired
FUnds Required            19,798.6       100          842.0          12.5 /3    20,653.1         100
Furding Sources
World Bank              9,903.0        50          622.1          12.5        10,537.6         51
Local bariks             989.9          5                                        989.9          5
Federal Fund           4,946.0         25          219.9                       5,165.9         25
Ivestors equity        3,959.7         20                                      3,959.7        19
/1  Based on domestic irflation rates:  55Z for 1983, 42% for 1984, 27% for 1985, ard 17M for 1986-89.
/2  Based on the orchard, olive, local roads and cooperative center canxents.
f3 Front-end fee converted at USa $1 Din 125.



APPFISAL Ci
YEAV1A
List of O(t-fam Iwsbm!itn L1
Vegetables
Dairy Sheep Fish    Bee   Ordcards              wuer    Hmxii-   meciwi-        Madow       Maize    i-wlf
Invstor             GDMme         Farms  Farm  Farm  Reepi   & Berries Olives  Plastic   crafts   zation /2    !        t     Silase  Heife-
(X  AK "13 Ju?'
WD hAopolilje            IvuVrad         50     45    10       60       25
w KaXata                Titoamd          25     20
WO KOMMta               Dmiikwrad   30
WD Bisaica               Pesaje          40     50
WD Sinievim              Smik            45     80
WO PIK Bie1sica          Bijelo Polje    60     55    1D       60       95
WD PIK Nikic
BXL Agri. Prodwtiku      iksic           45     40
WiLTrade & Agrik.       Pluzime          25     40
WO PIK PieElia          Plijevlja        60     50
WO Priufta               Br              15                                     60       .4
WD Veletruw,vii          Kolasin         50     30
BIYL Thmriter           Zabljak          30     35
JIO!L4rn                Ulcini           15
IO Rojn Njiva            )bjlko          40     50
7a&v a Plav             Play             40     65
7a&w Peniiee            Ivaigad          30     40
WOBoka                   Vtor                                                             9
wo gnpradA               lmmJje                                                                   140
IvsVrad
Total Units                           600    60D    20    120                          33       140       500                             1,200
Total Ho                                                             120      60                                     Z,7W 20700
11 A partim of these investmeta will be made diwou#  lendiiw to -frmers ai a nintrg±tual basis.
71 39 bp  acter euivalets.



- 79 -
ANNEX 5
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
KONTENEGRO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Phasing of Investments in On-Farm Development
1         2        3         4       Total
Category                Unit       -Project Year- …
Total
Dairy farms                  No .        100      200       300         -       600
Sheep farms                  No.         100      200       300         -       600
Fish farms                   No.          10         5         5        -        20
Bee operations               NO0.        120             -              -       120
Improved meadows             Ha         500       700       800       700    2,700
Mechanization                No.         200       200       100        -       500
Maize silage                 Ha          200       200      200         -       600
In-calf heifers              No.        400       400       400         -    1,200
Handicrafts                  No.          46       46        48         -       140 /1
Orchards and berries         Ha           32        54       34         -       120
Olive revitalization         Ha           30        30         -        -        60
Vegetables under plastic   No.            11        11       11         -        33
Total No.                             987    1,062    1,164           - 
Total Ha                              762       984    1,034        700   340 /2
/1 Plus 400 knitters in Bijelo Polje, who will be supported through an investment
in a cooperative center for knitwear and a mini-van.
/2 Equivalent to about 3,600 farm households.



- 80 -                               ANNEX 6
Table I
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
MONTENEGRO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Key Technical Assumptions Underlying
Individual Sector Livestock Development Models
(a) 12-ha Dairy Farm with 6 Cows
Without           With
Project          Project
Full Development reached by                            -               PY5
Number of Cows                                         3                6
Calving Rate                                          80%              83%
Mortality Rate of Female Calves                        7%               5%
Mortality Rate of Adults                               4%               3%
Culling Rate Cows                                     12%              16%
Cul'ing Rate Heifers                                   5%              10%
Age at First Calving                              30 months        30 months
Milk Production - Cow/Year                         1,500 1          3,000 1
Cull Cow Liveweight                                 450 kg           550 kg
Cattle Breed                                       Busha          Brown Swiss
Concentrates Fed - Cow/Year                        400 kg            500 kg
Forage Production;
- Pastures                                         4.5 ha           4.5 ha
- Unimproved Meadows                                5.3 ha          2.8 ha
- Improved Meadows                                 0.3 ha            2.0 ha
- Lucerne                                           0.2 ha          0.5 ha
- Forage Maize                                      0.2 ha           1.0 ha
Grazing in Coamunal Pastures                        yes               yes
Production Costs/Year                            Dia 87,500       Din 261,000
(b) 13-ha Sheep Breeding/Fattening Farm with 80 Ewes
Full Development Reached by                           -              PY4
Number of Ewes                                        30               80
Weaning Rate                                          90%             105%
Mortality Rate Female Lambs                            4%               3%
Mortality Rate Adults                                  5%               4%
Culltig Rate Rams                                     20%              25%
Culling Rate Ewes                                     20%              20%
Culling Rate Hoggets                                   5%              10%
Raw/Eve Ratio                                         6.7              3.8
Age at First Lambing                                2 years         2 years
Milk Production - Eve/Year                          40 1              50 1
Cull Ewe Liveweight                                 40 kg            50 kg
Wool Production - Ewe/Year                           1.7 kg           2.6 kg
Sbeep Breed                                      Pramenka      Wuerttemberg
- type        - type
Concentrates Fed - Eve/Year                         50 kg            60 kg
Forage Production
- Pastures                                          8                 8
- Unimproved Meadows                                4                 2
- Improved Meadows                                  -                 2
Grazing on Communal Pastures                       Yes              Yes
Production Costs/Year                            Din 57,200       Din 219,200



- 81 -
Page 2
(c) Beekeeping Operation - 25 Bee Rives
Full Development Reached by                                   PY4
Honey - Hive/Year                                            35 kg
Wax - Iive/Year                                            500 grams
Swarms - Rive/Year                                           0.15
Feed - Hive/Year
- Sugar                                                      20 kg
- Cake                                                        3 kg
Queen Replacement                                        Every 2nd year
(d) Establishmeent of Improved Meadows - I ha
Without           With
Project          Project
Full Development Reached by                            -              PY4
Yield/Year                                          2 tons           7 tons
Cbemical Fertilizer Application/Year                                500 kg
(e) Maize Silage Productioa - I ha
Full Development Reached by                                PY2
Yield(Year                                                32 tons
Cbemical Fertilizer Application/Year                     300 kg
Manure Application/Year                                    9 tons



- 82 -
ANNEX 6
APPRAISAL OF                     Table 2
MONTENEGRO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Key Technical Assumptions Underlying Models
Initial Production    Full Development
Trees/Plants     Project    Yield      Project    Yield
Horticultural Crops          No./ha         Year       t/ha       Year       tlha
Apple
Intdividual Sector           830            4         2.0        10        33.0
Social Sector              2,000            4        10.0         7       40.0
Blackberry
Xndividual Sector          2,600            3         4.0         6        10.0
Pomegranate
Social Sector              1,100            5         3.3        10       29.0
Olive Revitalization
-ndividual Sector            160            1         1.3         8        11.2
Lettuce
Individual Sector          6,300 /1         -         -           1       33.0
Tomato
tadividual Sector          1,312 /L         -         -           1      100.0
/1 per plastic house of 450 m.



- 83 -
ANNEX 7
APPRAISAL OF                      able 7
_ __.              ~~~~Table f
MONTENEGRO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Forest Road Program by BOALs
Logging           Road               Road             Total
Locations      Construction      Reconstruction      Road Work
BOAL          (kNo.)           (km)               (km)               kmn
Niksic               3               30                                   30
Pluzine              2               29                   6               35
Savnik               2               16                                   16
Zabljak              4                                   21               21
Pljevlja             8               40                                   40
KCola0ia             2                19                  4               23
Mojkovac             2                8                                    8
Bijelo Polje         2                8                  12               20
Ivangrad             2                3                  15               18
Plav                 2               18                                   18
Rozaje               2               15                                   15
Danivlograd          2               12                  10               22
Titograd             1               18                  12               30
Total             34              216                 80               296



- 84 -
APPRAISAL OF                   TANEe 2
MONTENEGRO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Reforestation/Afforestation Program by BOALs
Conventional
Reforestation/            Experimental
BOAL          Afforestation              Plantations            Total
Niksic                   220                                            220
Pluzine                  2L2                       100                  380
Savnik                   200                                            200
Zabljak                   40                                             40
Pijevlija                50C                                            500
Kolasirn                 200                                            200
Mojkovac                 320                                            320
Bijelo Polje              80                                             80
Ivangrad                 350                                            350
Plav                      80                                             80
Rozaje                    80                                             80
Danivlograd              260                                            260
Titograd                 320                                            320
Total                2,930                       100                3,030



- 85 -
APPRAISAL OF                         Table 3
MONTENEGRO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Forestry Physical Targets
1        2         3        4
Unit          ----  Project Year… -               Total
Roads
Construction                        km            60        78        78        -       216
Reconstruction                      km            20        30        30        -        80
Maintenance                         km             -        80       188      296       564
Wood Production
Industrial wood                     m3        77,700  194,200  194,200  194,200  660,300
Fuelwood                            m3        12,300   30,800   30,800   30,800  104,700
Afforestation/Reforestation
Conventational plantations
Planting                          ha           300       876      877       877    2,930
Meintenance                       ha             -       300    1,176    1,753    3,229
Experimentation plantations         ba             -        20        40       40       100
Natural regeneration                he           400       940      940       940    3,220
Nursery Production
Danilovgrad (only)                  M. plants  2.2        5.4      5.8        6.1      19.5
Training                             nm/months  37.0       32.5      3.5.5     29.0    134.0



APPRASAL OF
MWn2CM  EGliAL UEVELaFft    F1DJr
YUOsLAVIA
Agricultural Suppott Services
!Mnber aid Qualifications of Existim and Additionl 6ttension Agents
Existisju Extension Agents                                 Additicsl Extewsion Agents            Total No.  Total No.
Total                                                    of Addi-  of Existing
Live-              Plant                Existing           Live-               Plant                timal    and Pddi-
Agroxr  stock   Horti-   Protectiou   Agrf-   Extersion Agron- stock   Horti-   Protection   Agr             Ext.    tioaxl Ext.
Qmmtne           aust  S       culturit    S.    Ecoanist  Agnts   anist  Spec. culturist   Spec.    Ecoast  Agents                      Agents
1. Bar                                     1                                1                1                   1                     2            3
2. Ulcinj                                                                   I                1                    1                    2            3
3. Kotor, Budvn, Tivat                                                                       I         I         1                     3            3
4. Herreg Novi                                                              1                                     1                    1            2
5. Cetinje                 1I                                                                                                                       I 
6. Titograd                       1         1         1                     3        1                                       1         2            5
7. Daniloarad                     1                                         1        1                                                 1            2
8. Niksic                  I      1        1                                3                                     1          1         2            5
9. Pluzine                                 I                                I                1                                         1            2
10. S&mik                 I                                                 1                1                                         1            2
11. Zablak                                 1                                1        1                                                 1            2
12. Pljevlja                     I                                          I        I                 I         I           1         4            5
13. BijelO Poije          1      1         1                                3                                    2           1         3            6
14. bjkmc                 1                                                 1                                                         1            2
15. Kolasin               I                                                 1                1                                         1            2
16. Ivagrad               1      1         1                                3                                    2           1         3            6
17. Rozaje                1                                                 1                1                   1                     2            3
18. Plav                  1                                      1          2                1                   1                     2            4
TUrAL                  9     6         9           1         1         26        4       9         2         12          5        32           58         W



- 87 -                       ANNEX 9
APPRAISAL OF
MONTENEGRO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Road Improvement Program (km)
Type of Improvement,                        1      2       3      4
Comiune and Road                           -  Project Year------       Total
Major Repajir
Bijelo Polije;  Lozna-Moravac                      18                       18
Ivangrad    : Peaca-Jelovica                 9      9                      18
: Andrijevica-Konjube                         10               10
; Dulici-Cecumi-Kuti                                 11        11
Kolasin      : Bare Kraljske-Vraniestice                           8        8
Plev         : Lijesce-Velika                               5                5
Reconstruction
.ijelo Polje:  B. Polje-Grnearevo           11                             11
: Tomasevo-Potrk                                      3.5       3*3
Ivangrad    ; Petnjica-Bor                  12                             12
: Jelovica-Vranjak                     6                        6
: R. Marsenina-Laze                                  11       11
: Zaostro-Stitari                                    10       10
Kolasin     : Bakovic-Vratlo                       10                       10
: Vranjak-B. Jezero                           18               18
Plav        ; Gradine-B. Polje               7      2.5                     9.5
: Gusinje-Dolja                                       5         5
: Plav-Bogajice                 3                               3
Upgrading
Bijelo Polje:  Lozna-Moravac                               12              12
: Tomasevo-Potrk                                      1.5       1.5
Ivangrad    :  Bor-Savin Bor                        6                       6
: Stitari-Brzava                                      2         2
Total                                     42     51.5   45      52      190.5



- 88 -                              ANNEX 10
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
MONTENEGRO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Raw Material Supply for Agroindustries and Milk Collection Points
Relocation of the Slaughterhouse in Titograd
1.       Projections of raw material supply from the southern region of the
Republic, from which the Titograd sloaughterhouse would draw its input
requirement, were based on expected net livestock production, including
incremental production from the proposed project, the projected offtake to the
slaughterhouses, and the calculated slaughter capacity in the southern region,
in addition to the Titograd plant. On this basis, the Titograd plant's input
requirements in 1990 would absorb 37% of the cattle available for slaughter in
the South, 24% of the sheep and lamb, and 95% of the pigs. Although pig
production has been rather stagnant, Agrokombinat "13 July" has a pig farm
currently producing 1,100 to 1,200 tons of liveweight per year, which is
expected to at least double its production by 1990. The increased pig
production would all go to the slaughterhouse. If for any reason, plans to
expand pig production did not materialize, sufficient cattle and sheep are
available to fill in the excess capacity.
Expansion of Fruit Processing in Titograd
2.       The source of raw material would be surplus and second quality
peaches and sour cherries, which are grown under irrigation in the nearby
Cemovsko Polje area. The establishment of these modern, high-density orchards
consisting of 214 ha of peaches and 281 ha of sour cherries was also financed
under Loan 1370-YU. By 1985, at full development, 3,000 to 3,500 tons of
peaches are expected to be obtained from these orchards. Between 55% and 60%
of this production would be of a quality that can not be readily sold as fresh
fruit, and would need to be processed as puree. The sour cherry orchards
would yield about 3,600 tons at full development in 1987. Of this amount, the
present plant would process about 2,200 tons as destoned, deep frozen
cherries. About 600 tons would be sold fresh, and an estimated 800 tons of
fresh cherries would be of inferior quality and uould be processed into 680
tons of frozen puree.
Dairy Plant Improvement in Ivangrad
3.       The milk processing industry in Montenegro consists of five
processing plants. The Hercegovni plant with a daily capacity of
20,000 liters operates entirely with milk from Serbia. The Titograd plant has
a nominal capacity of 30,000 liters per day, with a present capacity
utilization of about 80%. The Niksic plant's present capacity of
10,000 liters per day (10U% capacity utilization) will be expanded up to
25,000 liters by 1984.  In Bijelo Polje, a plant will come into operation in



- 89 -                               ANNEX 10
Page 2
late 1983 with a daily capacity of 15,000 liters, and the Ivangrad dairy
proposed under this project would have a projected capacity of 15,000 liters
of milk per day.  The five dairies with the'. expanded capacity would be able
to handle 105,000 liters per day (33.6 M 1/,ear based on 320 days). The
production of cow and sheep milk in Montenegro in 1981 was 109 million
liters. In 1985 and 1990, it is projected to be 118 million liters and 130
million liters, respectively. By 1986, the expanded milk collection system,
including the milk collection points and cooperative centers to be financed
under the project, would closely match the processing capacities of the
dairies. Total nominal capacity of the collection system is estimated at
142,000 liters per day. If the system operated at 70% capacity, a total of
100,000 liter:i per day (36 M 1/year) would be available to the milk processing
industry in Montenegro. Specifically, in the case of the Ivangrad dairy, the
milk collection capacity matches well the dairy capacity. The Commune of
Ivangrad will kiave no less than 20 milk collection points in 1986-87, which
includes those to be financed under this project. If the capacity of the
collection system handled about 40% of the milk calculated to be produced in
Ivangrad ComiLune in 1986-87, then there would be 4.8 million liters annually
available to the dairy, which matches its planned capacity.
Rehabilitation of the Slaughterhouse in Bijelo Polje
4.       In the northern part of the Republic, from where the Bijelo Polje
slaughterhouse would draw its raw material, there are ';ve slaughterhouses of
poor standard which currently handle 1,550 tons iiveweigi*L per year. This
volume is expe-ted to decline in the future, unless the plants are
re-ibilitated. In additioii the communal slaughterhouse in Bijelo Polje,
which absorbed 700-800 ton liveweight annually will close down in 1983 in
favo of supplying the rehabilitated Bjelasica sl-ighterhouse. Projections of
raw aiaterial supply in the r rthern region were bc. .ed on expected net
livestock production gains wirh the project, the prj)ected offtake to the
slaughterhouses, and the calculated slaughter capac-ty in the northern region
in addition to the Bijelo Polje plant.  On this bacis, the Bijelo Polje plant
. ould absorb 74% of the cattle available for slaughter in the North and 20% of
the sheep and lamb. The slaugh erhouse would have th.e flexibility to switch
between cattle and sheep/lamb slaughter, and also to expand the slaughter of
sheep and lamb, if more animals were procured.
Expansion of Medicin--i Hero Plant in Hisan
-.       In 1982, the investor purchased about 2,200 tons  f medicinal herbs
and forest fruits, of which about 823 ton, ;ere products ti,-it could be used
for sream dist 'llation to extrn  L oils, as  -oposed ur,'er the project.  Based
on a survey conducted by the Center for Medicinal Herbs in Belgrade, the
annual pr ,uction of naturally occuring herbs (50 speci ~;) in SRM is about
9,000 tons of fresh material. The investor currently C rates three
collection points in Montenegro and two each in Kosovo and Serbia. Two more
collection points in Montenegro are scheduled for the near future. The 20
cooperative centers to be established under the project would also serve as
collection points for herbs and forest fruits. It is estimated the 20 centers
would handle about 800 tons per year. Recently, the Agro-Community in
Montenegro reached agreement that all local collection of herbs should be
channeled to the Risan plant for processing.



- 90 -                           ANNEX 10
Page 3
Small Rural Cheese Plant
6.       Eighty percent of the inhabitants of Plav are engaged in agriculture,
currently producing about 4.7 M liters of cow milk and 0.95 M liters of sheep
milk annually. The Cooperative, through its cooperative center, purchases
about 750,000 liters of milk annually, which is currently sent to the dairy in
Ivangrad, 50 kilometers away. Under the Second Agricultural Credit Line (Loan
1477-YU), 50 mixed mini-farms already have been implemented by the
Cooperative, and another 100 are proposed under the new project, plus two new
milk collection points. Since the new plant will only require about 102 of
the region's production, and the Cooperative plans to expand its miLk
collection network, no problems will exist in the supply of raw material.
Replacement of Milling Unit at the Feed Mill in Spuz
7.       About 20% of the total raw material rc:quirement for the feed mill,
based on value, would come from the Republic, mainly consisting of bran,
barley and malt. The remainder, mainly maize, would be procured from
Vojvodina, where Agrokombinat "13 July" has close business contacts.
Milk Collection Points
8.       The 40 milk collection points would provide a total capacity of about
52,300 1/day of milk by 1986. This, added to the planned capacity of
40,000 I/day from the 20 cooperative centers to be financed under the project,
plus 50,000 1/day from the 43 units (either existing or under construction),
would result in a total capacity of 142,000 1/day for the milk collection
system in Montenegro in 1986. Assuming the average use of the system is 70%,
then the total capacity would be 100,000 1/day (36 MI/year), which would match
the expanded processing capacity of Montenegro's five dairies in 1986
(para 3). In 1981, Montenegro produced 109 M liters of cow and sheep milk.
Conservative projections for 1985 and 1990 are 118 H liters and 130 M liters,
respectively. Under these conditions there would be an ample supply of raw
milk available for purchase by the milk collection system, which would
represent roughly 30% of the total volume of milk produced annually in the
Republic.



- 91 -
AM= 11
APPRATIL OF
"IIEYR    BEIO&L DEVELO r   WAlE
YOSEAVrA
Prorcureit - Prima Proy cZion
Procureamt Method
Equiit         Civil Works
Subproject         ICB      ILB       LCB           Dther L    _         Total
Individual Sector
Livestock                      8.47 /2                 19.11 13   0.02 /4  27.60
Horticulture                   0.35                     1.23 75              1.58
Farm mechanization             2.41                                          2.41
landicraft            0.01    0.42        0.07          0.05                 0.55
Sub-total           0.01   11.65        0.07         20.39      0.02      32.14
Social Sector
Forestry               6.65               6.78          1.86 /6             15.29
Fruit                          0.41                     0.92                 1.33
Fish                           0.08                     1.33      0.07 /4   1.48
Subtotal            6.65    0.49        6.78          4.11      0.07      18.10
Total                 6.66   12.14       6.85          24.50      0.09      50.24
Procurek n t - Institutioral Developwrnt
Berror                                                   0.13 /7              O.L3
Investors                                                0.37 /8              0.37
tal                                                     0.50                 0.50
/1  The agricultural credit line praoides finseog for materials and supplies for
livestock housing on mini-farms, fish pond costruction, infrastructure developmeit
for horticulture, and inputs as seeds, fertilizer, etc. procured locally off-the-self.
/2 Includes local livestock at eatinxated cost of US$6.0 M.
Includes iqnported breeding stock under LIB at estimated cost of US$2.0 M.
Inreental working capital.
/5  Includes nets for collecting olives urder L1B at estimated cost of US$0.24 K.
6  Includes training both within and outside Yugoslwia at estimated cost of US$0.07 M.
77 Prision for training within Yugoslavia.
Provision for training within Yugoslavia and conmltamcy gervices.



- 92 -                           AMEX 11
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
MMMNl3RO REGIONL DEEAXM PRQJbE
YU;SAVIA
Procureint - Support Services and InfratruCture
Procurent Mettod
Eauip=it      Civil. Worka
Type of Irvesent      ICB     LCB       W           Other  NA           Total
-Us$ Milli -q
Cooperative centers            0.36       1.26 /1                          1.62
Milk collection points          0.44      0.81 /L                          1.25
Agricultural extension   0.10    0.03                                      0.13
Agricultural research    0.03    0.06    0.14          0.02 /2 0.05 /3     0.30
Training and deuns-
tration center       0.01    0.07       0.23                 0.02 /3     0.33
veterinary service     0.06    0.04      0.66          0.02 /4             0.78
local road inprovement                   5.23                              5.23
mocal road maintename   0.67                                               0.67
Project rsnaeit        0.08    0.03                            0.77 /5     0.8
lbtal                0.95    1.03       8.33         o.04    0.84        11.20
/1  Includes subproject design, engineering, project docwentation and building permits
at a total cost of US$0.13 M.
/2 Inputs for medow, pasture and orchard establishzat for research ard training by
direct purcae.
/3 Incrental working capital.
/4 Miscellaneous nEterials by direct purchase.
/5 Incremntal operating expenses of the Project Managent.



- 93 -                                                A        11
TOGl 3
APPRASAL OF
tMM          WREIL DElellXEM
PnOxMt - Agroi^tatry PRe1.1bil itathi
Pfocuemnt ehdod
Equt  Civil Wosk           1Y
9ub.oject          Inestor              LJOCation     IC_   _E      LBLi         ICB    Other 2 NA /3  Tbtal
Slaughtezuse        CAWL AK "1.3 JalIy     Titog?ad                     0.18        2.09                      2.27
WD Arpwro&act
DAL Slatute*ume
Slaugterhouse       O Bjelaica            Bijelo Polje  1.96  0.03    2.30                                  4.19
UML Mat/Mlk
Fruit proc. plant    ODL  AK "13 July"     Titograd      1.15  0.18    1.45                                   2.78
W) Vinptoht
Medic. herbs plmt   WO Ljek*bilje          Risn          1.00  0.08    0.51                          0.07    1.66
Dairy                AL AK "13 July"       Ivalgad                      0.05                 0.46    0.11    0.62
WO Agvpolimlje
BOCAL Polimlje Prod.
Rural cheese plant   Zedruga               Plav                         0.09                 0.21    0.03    0.33
Zanjoradnic
Feed mill           AliL AK "L3 July"      S                            0.03                 0.82     _      0.85
t.5) Agropjoduot
BDAiL Feed Wil
Total                                                 4.11  0.29    4.61          2.09    1.49    0.21   12.70
/1  Illudes subproject design, egmeeriwi, pnrjet doexmntation anI building permits at a total cost of US$0.92 M.
/2 Eauipzent unler LIB.
7T  Incremental working capital.



- 94 -                            ANNEX 12
APPRAISAL OF
MONTENEGRO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Project Management Staffing Pattern
The Project Unit
1           2            3            4
----years…-----------------
Central Level - Titograd
Professionals                   15           19           18          16
General Service                 14           20           19          17
Sub-total                      29           39          37           33
Regional Level - TWOe
Professionals                    7           11           11           5
Sub-total                       7           11          11            5
Total for Project Unit              36          50           48           38
Unit In the Forestry Technical Institute
Professionals                    3            3            3           2
General Service                  1            1            1           1
Total                            4            4            4           3



- 95 -                            ANNEX 13
Paige IL
APPRAISAL OF
MONTENEGRO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAV1A
Outline on Credit Arrangements for
Non-contracting Individual (NCI) Farmers
1. OBJECTIVE
1.1     The objective of the scheme is to promote rural and agricultural
development in the Socialist Republic of Montenegro by making
subloans available to individual farmera for agricultural
development purposes. The scheme is designed to benefit those
individuals who desire credit for on-farm development without any
marketing contract with the organization extending the subloan for
that particular credit transaction.
1.2     In pursuance of the above objective, the basic banks of IBT-UB,
participating in the project, will make available a total of
US$2.0 million from the World Bank Loan for subloans to eligible
non-contracting individual (NCI) farmers, through organisations of
associated labor (cooperatives and social sector organizatioua),
in accordance with lending policies and procedures established
under this scheme. In effect, the cooperatives and social sector
organizations will act in behalf of the basic banks in the
capacity of on-lending organizations (OLOs), and will appraise NCt
farmers and investment proposals on criteria set forth in Section
3.
2. PURPOSES OF LOANS
2.1     Subloans will be made for the purpose of;
(a) livestock development, incLuding purchase of animals, and
other improvements on dairy and sheep farms, pasture
improvement, maize cultivation and bee-keeping;
(b) improvements in production of deciduous fruits, berries,
olives, vegetables and trout;
(c)  accuisition of small tractors, motorcultivators and related
farm equipment; and
(d) acouisition of equipment and training for handicraft
development.



- 96 -                              ANNEX 13
Page 2
3. ELIGIBILITY AND APPRAISAL CRITERIA
3.1     The OLOs will apply the following criteria in appraising the
subloan applications of the NCI farmers:
(a) The OLOs must be satisfied that the applicant (i) is an
owner-operator of the land; (ii) has a need for the credit
applied for; (iii) has a farm plan which will enable the
applicant to meet his obligations to repay tha loan and
interest thereon; and (iv) is capable of tarrying out the
proposed farm plan;
(b) The OLO must be satisfied that the applicant is creditworthy
and is in a position to provide recuired security for the
loans; and
(c)  The OLO will not reauire a marketing contract with the
applicant for the subject transaction.
3.2     Specialists from the OLOs, with the assistance of staff from the
Project Unit, will prepare a Farm Development Plan (FDP) for the
NCI farmers. The FDP will contain minimal information necessary
to demonstrate the technical feasibility and financial viability
of the proposed investment. The OLO will ensure that investment
costs in the FDP include a base cost estimate and price
contingencies estimated for the period of implementation of the
investment project.
3.3     For each subloan application, the concerned OLO will prepare a
brief (1 to 2 pages) appraisal report which would analyze the
following:
(a) creditworthiness of the subloan applicant ;
(b) applicant's ability to use the proposed subloan effectively,
taking into account his farming experience and perforniance;
(c) reasonableness of cost estimates; and
(d) financial viability of the proposed investment as follows;
(i) minimum 12% FRR for investments in meadow improvement and
olive rehabilitation;
(ii) mimimum 15% FRR for investments in farms for dairy, sheep,
berries, deciduous fruits, trout and silage; and
(iii) minimum 20% FRR for heifer farms, plastic houses,
mechanization, bee operations and handicrafts.



AtlNEX 1 3
- 97 -                             Page 3-
3.4     The appraisal report will be prepared following a field visit to
applicant's farm.
3.5     The subloan will be approved within 30 days of date of application.
4. FARMER CONTRIBUTION AND AMOUNT OF LOAN
4.1     The NCI farmer will be required to contribute a minimum of 20Z of
investment and/or production costs shown in the FDPs; the subloan
would be sufficient to cover the balance of the costs. The NCI
farmer's contribution may be in cash or kind, including the value
of family labor.
4.2     The OLO will ensure that the subloan is disbursed in a timely
manner and that at the time of subloan approval the aggregate
amount of all subloans extended to the NCI farmer does not exceed
$10,000 equivalent.
5. INTEREST RATE
5.1     Each subloan shall carry interest in accordance with the
provisions of Part B.2 of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
6. SECURITY
6.1     Each subloan for an investment project, which includes
construction of barns, sheds, greenhouses, and other installations
on land, will be secured by a mortgage of borrower's land.
6.2     All other subloans will be secured by a promisory note or
guarantee (signed by the borrower plus two other persons); a
mortgage of land will not be required.
7. REPAYMENT TERMS
7.1     Repayment of principal of each subloan will be made in accordance
with the provisions of Part B.3 of Schedule 5 to the Loan
Agreement.
8. PROCUREMENT
8.1     Goods, to be financed out of the proceeds of the World Bank Loan,
shall be procured in accordance with Schedule 4 to the Loan
Agreement and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
investment project.



ANNEX 13
- 98 -                            Page 4'
9.  ACCOUNTING
9.1     The OLOs will maintain a separate jccount for each subloan.  All
subloans to the same farmer will be recorded in the same place to
ensure ready access to debt and repayment records and facilitate
supervision of subloans. For this purpose, an Inspection Card
will be maintained for each borrower showing the account's status
and observations during field visits.
9.2     Each borrower will be provided with a passbook which will record
subloan disbursements and repayments. The passbook will be
presented every time a withdrawal frow or deposit into the subloan
account is made.
9.3     The subloan account will be maintained in accordance with the
established banking and accounting practices in Yugoslavia.
10. SUPERVISION
10.1    Supervision of the subloan will be carried out by staff from the
basic bank through which funds for the subloan are obtained, the
OLO and the Project Unit as an integral part of the overall
monitoring of the Project. Information obtained during such
supervision wiil be included in the semi-annual progress reports
which IBT-UB will submit to the Bank.
10.2    Each borrower will be visit?d at least once every 6 months.  All
observations will be noted on the Inspection Card (See Item 9.1).
During these visits, particular attention will be paid to the
condition of the crop/livestock, its yield and production,
availability of technical advice to the farmer, and financial
health of the farmer.
10.3    Following these field visits, a brief report will be prepared and
.made available to the World Bank staff during supervision missions.
11. LOAN RECOVERY PROCEDURE
11.1    The OLO will establish a running Loan Recovery List (LRL) listing
the amounts of principal and interest due under each subloan, and
the due dates thereof.
11.2    15 days prior to each date on which payment of principal and/or
interest under the subloan is due the OLO will send the NCI farmer
a reminder of the amount due and the date on which it is due. All
payments made by the NCI farmer under the subloan will be entered
in the LRL, as well as in the Inspection Card and the NCI farmer's
passbook.



- 99 -                              ANNEX 13
Page 5
11.3    If any payment owed by the NCI farmer under a subloen remains
unpaid 15 days after the due date thereof, the OLO will send the
NCI farmer a reminder that such payment is unpaid.
11.4    If any payment owed by the NCI farmer under a subloan remains
unpaid 60 days after the due date thereof legal action will be
commenced against the NCI farmer in accordance with Yugoslav law.
11.5    Rescheduling of interest and principal due under the sublan will
be permitted in exceptional circumstances and in accordance with
the guidelines established by IBT-UB and the basic bank for this
purpose.



- 100 -                           ANNEX 14
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
MONTENEGRO REGIONAL tEVELOPKENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Guidelines for Appraisal of Subprojects by
Investiciona Banka Titograd -Udruzena Banka (IBT-UB)
1.       IBT-UB would appraise subprojects submitted to it for financing under
the project in accordance with general guidelines presented below.
Social Sector Subprojects
2.       IBT-UB will prepare a subproject appraisal report for each investment
subproject, taking into account the following: (a) subprojects provide
satisfactory financial and economic rates of return on the basis of detailed
and realistic cost and benefit estimates and would generate sufficient cash
flow to cover debt service, legal claims, compulsory allocations to enterprise
funds, and reinvestment needs (minimum 12% ERR for all investments, and a
minimum 12% FRR for investments in forestry, fruit farms, slaughterhouses,
fruit processing and medicinal herbs; and 15% FRR for investments in trout
farms, cheese and dairy plants, and feed mill); (b) subprojects are
technically feasible; (c) sub-borrowers are creditworthy, and their
organization, management, and financial structures are satisfactory for
subproject implementation; (d) generation of sufficient cash flow to cover the
debt service; and (e) continuing technical assistance and adequacy of market
outlets, where applicable, are ensured.
3.       An outline of the subjects to be covered in each subproject appraisal
report is given below.
(i)   Summary and Conclusions
(essential elements of subprojects, purpose, size, benefits,
total value, main components, period of investment, financial and
economic results, conclusions)
(ii)   Introduction
(iii)   Investor
(background information and analysis of creditworthiness)
(iv)   Conditions for Subproject Implementation
(social, economic, environmental)
(v)   Subproject
(description, purpose, capacities, technical aspects,
procurement, implementation schedule)



- 101 -                           ANNEX 14
(vi)   Raw Material Supply
(vii)   Marketing
(viii)   Financing
(ix)   Organization
(x)   Economic and Financial Effects of Investment in the Subproject
Individual Sector Subprojects (Other than Non-contracting Individual Farmera)
4.       IBT-UB will prepare a brief (1 page) appraisal report for each
individual sector subproject for primary agricultural production, which would
address the following:
(a) technical feasibility and financial viability with a minimum FER
as follows;
(i) 12% for investments in meadow improvement and olive
rehabilitation;
(ii) 15% for investments in farms for dairy, sheep, berries,
deciduous fruits, trout, and silage; and
(iii) 20% for investments in heifer farms, plastie houses,
mechanization, bee operations and handicrafts.
(b) adeauacy of technical assistance and recurrent input provisions
for assisting the individual farmers in implementing the
investment;
(c) availability of suitable market outlets at fair and reasonable
prices;
(d) reasonableness of investment cost estimates and generation of
sufficient cash flow to cover debt service;
Ce) creditworthiness of the loan applicant in accordance with the
Yugoslav regulations; and
(f) adecuacy of mutual agreements between associated individual
farmers and the cooperatives or social sector organizations.



- 102 -
ANNEX 15
APPRAISAL OF
MONTENEGRO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Crlteria for Mid-term Project Review
1.       Project implementation is expected to commence in late 1984 and would
continue over five years. Provision is made for a mid-term review by mid-1987
of project progress by the Bank, Borrower, Project Unit and the Forestry
Technical Institute.
2.       The mid-term review would be based on the following criteria:
(i)   The financial and economical viability of the project based on
new project cost estimates;
(ii)   Status of physical implementation of all project components;
(iii)   Progress in the credit program to non-contracting individual
farmers, and an evaluation of the credit arrangements to achieve
this objective;
(iv)   Impact of the institutional development aspects of the project,
incLuding the performance of the Agricultural Credit Officers,
the Project Units for Agriculture and Forestry, and the benefits
from the training programs and studies of selected social sector
enterprises; and
(v)   The effect of price policy, particularly for milk and meat, on
the financial viability of the investment subprojects.
3.       Based on the results of the mid-term review, agreement would be
reached on the need for modifications in project scope and design.



- 103 -
AMEX 16
APPRAISAL OF
MONTENEGRO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
YUGOSLAVIA
Sumary of Net Incremental Production
Individual  Social    Total   Iocremental Val-- ,'2
-   - - - - - - Tons     … -  =- _  _  _  
Meat L.W,                   2,570        -       2,570 /l     220,860
Milk                        13,000       -      13,000      3,640,000
Trout L.W.                    400      223         623      1,339,450
Trout fingerlings                -     120         120        240,000
Hard fruit                  1,840   1,290        3,130        719,900
Soft fruit                    500        -         500        205,000
Pomegrenste                     -   1,565        1,565         33,647
Olives                        600        -         600         168,000
Out of season vegetables      240        -         240        192,000
Honey                         105        -         105        210,000
… ----------…Head…-------------
Breeding heifers              570        -         570         54,150
Breeding hoggets (sheep)  11,400         -      11,400         74,100
---'000  M2------------
Cloth                         250                  250         94,500
Wood products J3                   224,993    224,993      '7 549 116
-ood products /24993            22493740,723
/1 Includes production derived from hay and silage, estimated at 8 starch
units per kg L.w.g.
/2  Dinars '000' estimsted annual value a t full development.
7!  Expressed in cubic meters.



- 1.04 -                            ANNEX 16
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
MONTENEGRO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Summary of Net Incremental Production from Agroindustries
Full Development            Annual EKports
Unit      Quantity    Value         Quantity    Value
('000 Din)               ('000 Din)
Milk Products
Milk                     Liter L/   1,823         48,309
Cheese                   Kg         91,600        22,970
Yoghurt                  Liter /1       910       34,898
Cream                    Liter /1       135       16,929
Butter                   Kg          5,000         1,417
Livestock concentrates  Tons         4,500        92,900
Meat
Beef                     Tons        1,087       259,793        217        51,958
Lamb                     Tons           198       78,606         59        23,582
Mutton                   Tons           223       49,952
Pork                     Tons          990       212,850
Canned meats             Tons           500      164,000
Byproducts               Tons          688        88,068
Fruit
Peach puree              Tons        1,275        40,800        892        28,560
Sour cherry puree        Tons          680        28,560        476        19,992
Medicinal Herbs          kg         14,700        74,363    13,230         66,927
TOTAL                                          1,140,052                  1.91,019
/1   Quantity in '000 liters.



- 105 -
A      17
APPIAAL G
YSAVIA
mioect ftlaonInit
--Wjitilht   iroject-     ----With Project -
Hectares or             Dyn per                       Day  Fr PMtal
Activity                   Units        Nsnbe   11 or Utit    T1tal Day       Ho or VUit           1       I_ tAD
Primary Prduction
Iodividzl sector
Dairy                      unit          600        300        180,000            400            240,00        60,000
In-calf heifers            Linit       1,2D0          1          1,200             20            24,000        22,800
Sheep                      Unii 6t00                200        120,0(0            3D0            180,00D       60,COO
Mize silage                HA            600          7          4,20D             12              7,200        3,000
Meadow establistrent       HA          2, 700         3          8,1(LO             6             16,20         8,100
Ordchads - soft fruit       HA            60          5            30D            205             12,30        12,000
Orchards - tree fruit      HA             60          5            300             60              3,600        3,300
Olives                     HA             60          40         2,4C0             70              4,200        1,800
Plastic huses              Unit           33          -              -             50              1,650        1,650
Farm mechnization          Unit          500          -              -            140             50,000       50,000
Trout                      Unit           20          -              -            135              2,700        2,700
keeping                   Unit          120          -              -            130             3,600         3,600
Haniicraft                  Unit         210          -                           120             25,200       25,200
Sjbtotal                                                       316,5                            570,650'      254,
SDcial Sector
Trout                       Unit           1.8        -              -          4,10D              7,380        7,38D
Apple                       Unit           2         250           500           1,800             3,600        3,100
Poregramnte                 Unit           1         162           162          4,400              4,400        4238
Sbtotal                                                            662                            15,380       14,71B
Primary Production &ibtottal                                   317,162                           586,030      26868    I
Agroin tries
SlaLigterhxise Titograd    Factory                                   -                            16,800       16,80D
Slauitertise Bijelo Polje  Factory                              19,880                            22,400        2,520
Dairy Ivarrad               Factory                              1,400                             1,6004
Ebiral dcee  plant Plev     Coll. center                             -                             1,120        1,L20
Feed mill Spuz             Factory                               Z,800                             4,200        1,402
Fruit pinee Titograd        Factory                                                                4,000        4,000
Medicinal herbs Risen       Factory                                                                7,0U0        7,000
Agroindustries Subtotal                                         24,08                             56i920       32,840 /2
Project lbtal                                                       341,242                          642,950       301,708
/1  smn/years for primry productioo are 240 days per year.
7r   Man/years for agroirlustry are 20 days per year.



- 106 -
ANNEX 18
APPRAISAL OF
MONTENEGRO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.     Selected Reports and Studies on SRM
A-1: Five Year Social Plan of SRM: 1981-85.
B.     Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B-1:  The Montenegro Regional Agricultural Development Project.
FAO/WORLD BANK COOPERATIVE PROGRAMME, ROME, 30 June 1982. Three
Volumes.
Vol. I : Main Text
Vol. It:
Annex 1.  Project Area
Annex 2.  Marketing and Prices
Annex 3.  Individual Sector On-farm Development
Annex 4.  Social Sector Primary Production and Forestry
Vol. III:
Annex 5.  Agroindustry
Annex 6.  Support Service and Infrastructure
Annex 7.  Project Costs
Annex 8.  Financial and Economic Analysis
B-2:  Revised Annexes to Above Volumes Given to the Appraisal Mission
in June 1983.
B-3:  Additional Information to Annexes 3 and 6 dated September 30,
1983.
C.     Project Implementation File
Volume I
C-1: Project Costs
C-2: Financial and Economic Analyses
C-3: Primary Production
C-4: Support Services and Infrastructure
Volume II
C-5: Agroindustry
C-6:  IBT-UB, Selected Investors, and Terms of Reference for Study of
Two Work Organizations
C-7: Selected Indicators for Monitoring and Evaluating Project
Components



XWJ1O IAA                                                          Chire I
-OMM  Kom)  MIWOPNUQ PRO
p0 -
_ ^_-. I I  *d    I  * :CE C T I 1-                                       I     C-- -     alI      IC                C          1-4
A, UMF= Op4 OW"
pa)  Iu(~Ue 
t2  <nams(IM  now        s><^l _f                              _    _40 36l@@*
Placta Mu Ca)                                                                                              CCIII CII09
y I                                           _       ON evil slls ass a|ll,l
"7                                             3l im TPM                                    lol slll 
PCI I                                      U          U   U  III  CC  I
o j U#eQN                                                                      *           s *c *s   mm**e1 "      7 - 1 |    blaEH*St   @ 
CYIM~ t@)                                  mm       iu     :11   a  3   I  I:         | e Ha§  ::e            I             I         I
PCI                                           I   I   I           I   I               II                           I                  I
PVC      @        £    r e (                    I       I,  I  Iora
PC) 4eot i. l2g5ae.                                                                      SOCIC 4 Bi call g *1  1 64 4   4
(I                                                                                         oi coo sak too its I l l    to  ko I"  Sol to Sao
oVI mca1c                                           1 uCI Ns IN             II                                      III
PY        o I                                   I0 Iwq     _      _ _=.t            .       I  Io   i       I Boi   Io feelI
i   V _  D,wn _    Ckrt                                                                      oil_ _F1.o1.1.   11141  l l               !       !
SD *k   - - AVSOet                                               _            *1|1e*                                                     I           ,
A FS1WC
_0,I              W-_ * *C1gWW** IS
ri~ %me a3 *w3              A,Opw m e
400ttimmucil-1.mmuq  0amme  m   a-
PC  2C.,Wo   @1tIW   __ _ _*W.* .                      j              i,
PI                                                                  I I a   -I  -
"ft"*aim"  Rew        a                                                    ' .   I mw  a    r                                  I a         I   I
£{~     AL *-my  *_                          I                                                 ma-- It    e"ui| l   sl a       ii  sa| 'tea! ma 
PCI  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~es
I  t t                      l   I   I   *Zts'r@s2y$  ''I''''||@|5@@'ize5||e,'''l'''4 MS, Is Ila  081 to 't't't' "'f"'f""too "  to  ofI
C IVO PfCt=naN
-    _                                         _      _     a'''''l'1'1'lse4't8@asa               $$||ls§§|4 ma1|||l| .i  S                            I
05~aftwmow,oftaua                                                   C5CesJm
-                                                                    .,o,  Ia I   I                        I 1
s ~4C till, Poo                                                        liscsgema lee .¶   as M
-       I,                                                          me see !Jeq                                 I   I
-dou                                                   ace4    W1?c    Ito~s emsCaCas uso slog IC  essaseee   ssm~saw
-ww%  amm                                                              lollemPoo   as. mIt  si.msm    sssssm  aeeesa
MD-    mm    co  (IO                                       sus3ae  mml cami sagoS  a
-Cao '.eao wm(aW)                                           a, ass a. p            lsoas   ss e14olm smuiis  sel lam
mal Ston,
ma Ia:1:tv,,I
sa
_~~~~~~~~~~o c4mimime
eslO    wmlf_flb     C,1 &   t 



Chart 2
VUGOGLAVIA
APPRPJS4 OF MONTENEGRO REGIONAL DEVELOPMEW  PROJECT
Room OigwIz1_   amd  nIttukInd AanVwrftl
. _    .M OX cDD b                                 0b a u I      AP
ORD Ckwm w~ SUO              palco~w%&~*WV9mcfivmstt rc
cow         0090olo ~wUomildlito frtg
CCW- a CCC)
-      fcw O4        r
_                                                      _      ~~~~~~~~          ~~~~~-  w   IW s~ 0 W
- Co owl  
- 9?mIftR df~atg
-~~~~~~~~                                                                   _a
COAL AlL I3AjY    ~ ~ ~~~~~.                vaokgylorraC IPI                a
.rwo * PrwVv                v%0*. n                     hna n                          0%                       n Wl   Cv
COALA(1 AyCA g 13= i9o co_is awo*eoa_r
_    pOPs .o     -ro         X   d  > -¢                    l
- AC0 rag     9MwC u  
NO KcO scOg o 1t0            vocvt won cw              __._h__                                              __
- AC K.COOlao ZD*IS,W
V.40 &46yoeq OiWtj huat Pot.                         *VEhwon.enrov~ w,StAAO4A"  w
___0 PR Picsura                     t %tO
/.0 PI. u.4d                                            Mgae!=
.~~~~~~~~~~iowr at fo Mt                          t
'~~~~~~~ FJ    r                            VKol ttun 
MA) ',f  A 90 PVfo          vmc  IO
A.0 P4~ftCQV R                                        C_t  &woowdo Pow
-voa-wto amt -
t4vwnc vo PC*WON / . os
. A& A                                                     cc 2¢Oor slawns
Po".w or
90tN 8 Po, P47,AWt' :0                                                                      D     t P       AC
Lgg ~       ~        CO pot-m  .2js'\/   
vW SO KOIo                  vEwcc>                                                           s CPO MOa
V40 - L t_ocw r.0
a~~~~~~~wO wol>lk0    O                                                      Parcontaw Irnrrot Saro of
Lowsor, of W%cw~~o                             D_tnt Pro"W  Ac%fs
-vomots



YUGOSLAVIA
MONTENEGRO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MNeta) ka
B OSIV/A  -                                                                                                           Prlrnory Roads
HERCEFGOV)JNA                                 Borit                                                                           Regional Roods
Locol Roads
To f OZA *>                 \     - Z2                                          t I tRewy
drne.a                                     d;__ \ >t f090 -  Autonomous Provnnce Boundories
`4                       .                         Runicoi                                         Rt__ epuUlc Bounclories
FUEV                                                         Irinernationol Boundaries
- -. ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~                                                   £~~~~~~Eevations in Meters
Grieatig than~ 2000
1000 -2 000
Kouren\-____200 -500
evo
':'                      __~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S  l  I
Ib,      KrNaOO Ie                         ~       -
Kuside___O P.                                                                                J



\ d~~~~~~~~~~ \ITNJE   /1 Vana                                                                        *                               AGOIDSRoA AIiES \
Podboi or           Bei                                                                              g
N~~~~ Y  ipza UPPORTSLRVICE  V                SheMepFrms
Pie             Ao                                                                   Ef
\*~*M is 7a r
vilus~~~~ IK5                                               M-**rutRsorce tain  ri
~~~~~~~~~,s(OA                 Vc ,  S                                                                                  riS 'se  na  ben ' seVoponed0l Tee inaeBns saC entcber to  One  on'esen'
X °y _ _ _ I ~~olr                                                                 <                                                                   0rra  
T~4OALy MCfOOF/An!                  's. Sveti Nikolo  .o  orrarlolThedsarriroPemwllFSa* 7 _
AL8ANIAj     ~~.1._- _jn ronte egonsamena.u rany :en.neuq' a any nosennteano on au ln~ea' rsnnn ua,anos    - NJ
-   GREECE                                                              . .
agora                                                                 KOS 0 v ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  C
Rison                                                                                          Sabina PS.



~~~ - ~- ~- rqr vLl ; _(I _7 108
YUGOSt AVIA
MONTENEGRO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
Melollka   .                                          '  ~ ~~~- PIIOJLC1 ROhOS
80SNIA-                                   MeaiaPtic   oD
B O  S N  / A   ,A^K                                                              _          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRIMARY IIOADS3
HERCEGOVINA                                       an'                                                                         -    REGIONAL ROAD0
f   <   to                              _          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 0CAI. RDAD0
AUTO!jOhIOUS PROVINCE DOUNDARIEC,
jv al RRudnico  °                                     QFPUBLIrC  OUNDARICS
-,\   P J; V  ;  INTLRNAlIONAI. BOUNDARIES
SUpan Polio      .,Me5revac            7   \       lTnIco
Mnohnie ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~soi
'   \                            \s  Kosanlca   l                             ,~~~~~~~~~~rcaey
)ITeso~~  obj                         D,vrdov'ca Tarci    cccvr 
(   08  1            6;                rINgna~~~~~~~~i   Vodo                                                                    SFR81A
rsicc                Biolovo Polle                                              Poi %.POLJEM
Morciva
°,o\                                     \                   (~J   +                     ~4                    SI,epac Mosl SIavn Bor
Mokovoc       Stitri      Lav Vn
Vrana\         Jelavco \ANGRAD
NIKSIC         ~~Manosr., Moroac                 Mareev                 R Marseneci                          Kula
I$                                                                                       ar 7_  >Mr Oe               g         LozeK 
otur                                                                             n r,levLoc tSV
I                                           vEirNkookl                T.vr,.\ tK.'.,,,,'.',A L  B        A    N IvA,     \
Rodonov.c,   l   |  tslekeCrnolewicogl    f  -       tESBabKnA  Po
HER                   1<010B    e mie                                                                    A    L B A  N    I 
\  \   .V~~ir pozor/
Peroo A                    t 
ss JA, l t_, ft1-  _   _     _         _q%~~~Bc,                   Osr rQ_
? F \ C'f                                                 K X ^   _  ler'''4t,',A*'  o
Y  t C, O S t A   IB  A NI1                                         a (dr                                               t I  r r s
A Vftt))9'/txl-An1s     .1X1v~t,.                                                                                   ... V./.¢.n. l.; .......;-t.f;'



