Docuet of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
RepMt No. 12454
PROJECT COM4PLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
MONTENEGRO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2467-YU)
NOVEMBER 5, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12454
Type: PCR
Agriculture and Water Supply Operations Division
Central Europe Department
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
This document has a restrcted distribution and maY be used by recipients ondy in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Baolk authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Local Currency Unit = Dinar (Din)
Year of Appraisal (June 1983) .......................  US$1.00 = Din 80
Year of Negotiations' (April 1984) . .................... Us$1.00 = Din 125
Year of Completion (November 1992) ......... ......... US$1.00 = New Din 323 2
WEIGHTS ANM MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
BOAL = Basic Organization of Associated Labor
ERR = Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP  = Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank Cooperative Program
FNP = Federal Fund for Accelerating the Development of the Less Developed
Republics and Provinces
FRR = Financial Rate of Return
FSFRY = Former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
HA = Hectares
IBT-UB = Investiciona Banka Titograd-Udruzena Banka
ICB = International Competitive Bidding
LCB = Local Competitive Bidding
LDR = Less Developed Region
LIB = Limnited International Bidding
MDR = More Developed Region
PCC = Project Coordination Council
SDK = Social Accounting Service
SMA  = Self Management Agreement
FISCAL YEAR OF THE BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
1/ Basis for project cost estimates.
a/ At the beginning of 1990, a new currency (New Dinar) was issued at the rate of New Dinar 1  Dinars
10,000.



FOR OFFICLAL US ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Oirotor4,nofrl
Operations Evaiuaion                                              November 5, 1993
MEMORADUM  TO THE EXECUTIE DRECTORS AN-) THE PRIE
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Yugoslavia
Montene ro Regional Development Project (ban 2467-YU)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Yugoslavia - Montenegro Regional
Development Project (Loan 2467-YU). Parts I and m of the PCR were prepared by the Europe
and Central Asia Regional Office. Part II was requested from the Borrower, but has not been
received.
The objectives of the project were to increase food output and rural incomes,
through better use of Montenegro's agricultural and forestry potential, and to improve the
republic's institutional and policy base in agriculture by more rational investment allocations. Ihe
project was implemented during a period of deteriorating macroeconomic conditions and, in the
last year, political turmoil and the outbreak of hostilities. Early implementation was very slow,
mainly because of lack of interest from sub-borrowers, which led to the Bank and the Borrower
agreeing to a reduction in project scope. Fmal results were mixed: quite good for, agricultural
production, forestry and infrastructure, but much reduced for agro-industry investments.
The PCR provides an adequate account of the project experience. The project
outcome was marginally satisfactory, partially achieved its institutional objectives, and is of
uncertain sustainability given the disruptions resulting from recent events in that region.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution arkd may be used by redpients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witout World Bank authrization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECr COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
MONTENEGRO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
(LOAN 2467-YU)
CONTENTS
PRPFACE ........................................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY .............................................iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ....... ..........
1. PROJECT IDENTITY ......................1.................
H. BACKGROUND .            ...........................................1
EI. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION  ........................  3
IV. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION ..........................  5
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  .................................  7
VI. PROJECT RESULTS ........................................ 11
VIL PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ................................... 12
V11I. BANK PERFORMANCE ...................................... 12
IX. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .................................. 13
X. PROJECT RELATIONSHIP .................................... 14
XI. CONSULTING SERVICES ..................................... 14
XII. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION .................................. 15
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BOMROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ............. 16
PART Im. STATISTCAL INFORMATION  ................................. 17
Table 1 - RELATED BANK LOANS  .................................. 17
Table 2 - PROJECT TIMETABLE       ..................... .. .            ..         17
Table 3 - LOAN DISBURSEMENTS ............................... 17
Table 4 - PROJECT COSTS ..............................  18
Table 5 - PROJECT FINANCING ............................... 18
Table 6 - STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS .............................  19
Table 7 - STAFF INPUTS .............................. 20
Table 8 - MISSION DATA  .............................. 21
Table 9 - PROJECT RESULTS ............               .................. 22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLWHON REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
MONTENEGRO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2467-YU)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Montenegro Regional Development
Project in the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FSFRY hereafter), for which
Loan 2467-YU in the amount of US$40.0 million was approved on July 31, 1984. The loan was
closed on June 30, 1992, two years behind schedule. The last disbursement was made on May
19, 1992 and an undisbursed balance of US$2.6 million was cancelled from the loan effective
September 4, 1992. Total disbursements amounted to US$37.4 million or 93.6% of the original
loan amount.
The PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division in the Technical
Department of the Europe and Central Asia, and Middle East and North Africa Regions for the
Agriculture and Water Supply Operations Division in the Central Europe Department in the
Europe and Central Asia Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and O). The draft PCR
was sent to the Borrower for comments, but none were received.
Preparation of the PCR is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan,
Guarantee, and Project Agreements; Supervision Reports; correspondence between the Bank and
the Borrower; internal Bank memoranda; and some implementation data received from the
Borrower in February 1992.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLION REPORT
FEDERAL  REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
MONTENEGRO REGIONAL  EVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2467-YU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.    The project was to assist in the development of the Republic of Montenegro, one of the
less developed republics of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FSFRY). The
project, the first integrated approach to rural development in the Republic, sought to: increase
agricultural production and individual farm sector incomes, thereby improving mrual living
standirds; improve the operatig efficiency and capacity utilization of social sector primary
production and agro-processing facilities; and improve the institutional and policy base in
agriculture through more rational investment allocation. Other important objectives of the
project included improvements in the organizational and financial management or the sub-
borrowers, and expansion of credit and support services for the individual sector, including those
farmers not wishing to enter into marketing obligations with the social sector enterprises as a
condition for the credit (paras. 3.04 and 3.05).
Implementation Experience
2.    The project's implementation period was marked by substantially deteriorating
macroeconomic conditions coupled during the last year of implementation by political turmoil
and the outbreak of hostilities associated with the ongoing civil war in FSFRY. High and
accelerating domestic inflation, culminating in hyperinflationary levels, followed by successive
dinar devaluations, resulted in significant charges in the price structures and overall demand
levels. Interest rates charged to borrowers became increasingly negative in real terms and it
became difficult for borrowers to obtain local counterpart funds. Ongoing changes in relevant
legislation and regulations pertaining to the enterprise and banking systems, while generally in
the right direction, caused uncertainties for investors, particularly in respect of interpretation of
unclear provisions. All these, compounded by the uncertainties stemming from the politically
turbulent situation, had a detrimental impact on project implementation (paras. 5.01 - 5.11)
Project Results
3.    Overall, the project results were mixed; objectives were substantially met in respect of
some components, with more limited success in the case of others. However, the project can
be considered successful in one of its main objectives, the encouragement of the individual sector
farmers, whose response far exceeded expectations at appraisal (paras. 6.01 and 6.02).



-iv
Sustainability
4.    Project benefits are more likely to be sustainable in certain areas than in others. Most
investments under the primary production and forestry components are likely to be sustainable,
and to be able to maintain an acceptable level of net benefits throughout their economic life.
The benefits fro-m other components, such as the agroindustries component, should also be
sustainable provided the enterprises involved are enabled to undertake relevant restructuring.
However, future performance is very much dependent upon the current politically volatile
conditions moving toward a more normal and secure situation, and to the stabilizatinn of the
macroeconomic enviromnent. Witout these, project benefits would be jeopardized (para. 7.01).
Findings and Lessons Learned
5.    Findings and lessons learned are:
(a)  The implications of a distorted and deteriorating macroeconomic environment on
sectoral operations, like the project, should be more explicitly addressed dufing
project preparation. In hindsight, it would appear that the project was formulated
without sufficient regard to problems stemming from  the macroeconomic
environment.
(b) Directed credit in a Bank-lending operation may have some justification if the
market mechanism has not developed sufficiently; however, credit projects should
be general and flexible; too great a specificity in a changing environment is
detrimental to success in execution and often requires major modifications in the
project.
(c)  The difficulties in project implementation arising from the complex, multi-
component nature of the project demonstrates the need to simplify the project
concept from the outset, based on a realistic asse3sment of the possibilities of
augmentation of the implementing agencies' capabilities.
(d) Implementation success often depends on the pragmatism of the Borrower and the
Bank in responding to the problem-solving needs of a project in a flexible and
realistic manner.
(e)  Timely reallocations of loan funds between various categories, when needed,
increase the relevance and utility of the project investments.
(f) Heavy staff inputs and technical assistance are required to be provided by the Bank
for supervision of such projects undergoing many changes while weathering
economic and political turbulence.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLJC OF YUGOSLAVA
MONTENEGRO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2467-YU)
PART 1: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
I. PROJECT IDENTITY
Name:         Montenegro Regional Development Project
Loan Number: 2467-YU
RVP Unit:     Europe and Central Asia
Country:      Former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FSFRY)
Sector:       Agricultur
Subsector:    Agriculural Credit
H. BACKGROUND
The Main Features of Agriculture in FSFRY
2.01     Agriculture is an important sector in the FSFRY economy. In 1988 it contributed
around 14 percent of Gross Social Product (GSP), and together with agroindustries, about 9.5%
of exports. The sector employs approximately 17 percent of the labor force (19 percent with
agroindustries). The importance of agriculture is, however, higher than these figures suggest
since over half of the total population is rural and remains closely linked to agriculture, even if
not actively engaged in production.
2.02     A special featr of agricultre in FSFRY is the dual existence of a large scale,
"modern" social sector, and a small scale family sector where yields and labor productivity are
comparatively low. Although about 80 percent of cropped land is in the hands of private farms,
only 48 percent of the commercialized production originated from the private sector in 1988,
down from 55 percent in 1982. This was mainly because of the virtual complete control that
the social sector had over credit, marketing, and inputs. Consequently, during the difficult
economic period of the 1980s, priority for provision of subsidized capital, inputs, and other
services was given, under the then prevailing system in FSFRY, to the needs of the social
sector.



2 -
Policy Context
2.03     Prior to the political changes and outbreak of hostilities in FSFRY in 1991, the
Government was implementing a major reform program that included a stabilization and
structural adjustment program which was expected to lead to a market-oriented and more
competitive economy. The agricultural sector was prominent in the structural adjustment
program because th.e sector, along with other productive sectors, had been subject to inefficient
systems of production, input distribution, and marketing patterns, which stymied economic
incentives and constrained growth performance. The significance of agriculture also arises from
its impact on the standard of living, employment, and regional development. The sector
provides essential goods required by the population, with food products constituting about half
of household consumption expenditures. While the need for policy reform of the sector receix d
little attention in the past, the Government at the same time provided incentives in the form of
subsidies for inputs, such as fertilizer, and for interest rates with the objective of stimulating
production. Low interest rates encouraged the use of debt, led to a relatively rapid pace of
capital investment, especially in the social sector and eventually iontributed to problems of
liquidity. However, only a relatively small number of individual farmers had access to credit
for agricultural investments other than in tLe form of farm inputs for crops grown under
contract. Liquidity shortages in social sector enterprises was the main cause for the severely
restricted access of individual farmers to credit. Prior to the onset of the uncertainties stemming
from the currently difficult political situation, the Govermnent was taking measures to gradually
reduce agricultural subsidies, including subsidized credit, and to encourage producers-, including
those in the agriculture sector, to apply economic and fnancial criteria to the making of
investment decisions.
Linkages Between Project, Sector and Macro-policy Objectives
2.04     The Bank's objectives in respect ef its assistance to FSFRY have been to support:
the development of the less developed regions, promotion of agriculture, design and
implementation of institutional reforms, and reduction of the external resource gap. Agriculture
has been a priority sector from the point of view t 'both the government and the Bank, and its
development has contributed to the realization of other objectives related to reducing regional
income disparities and generating employment. Although agriculture has been the only major
sector, other than personal services, in which social ownership is not predominant, the social
sector, until recently, was predominant in terms of its access to financial resources and inputs
as well as its control of agriculunral marketing and processing. The official policy toward the
role of the individual farmer changed during the late 1980s, and it is now realized that the
individual sector contains many unexploited opportunities that should be realized by provision
of inputs and greater market orientation. The Government's policy to borrow for the promotion
of agriculture in the less developed regions of the country coincided, at the time the project was
prepared, with the Bank's concern for lending to benefit the poor. To that extent, the project,
which was formulated and prepared in the early 1980s and is located in the less developed area
of the Republic of Montenegro, supported the objective of reducing income disparities between
regions, and fits well the criteria mentioned above.



- 3 -
III. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
Project Background
3.01     The project was first identified by the Bank in January 1980, based on a project
proposal that or.ginated from the agrokombinat AK July 13, the sole investor under the
Agriculture and Agricultural Industries Montenegro Project 'Loan 1370-YU). On that occasion,
the Bank recommended broadening the project's scope to . f.;ude individual farm development
and other enterprises throughout the Republic, and not limiting the project to AK's own
requirements. In early 1981, the Montenegrins established a Project Preparation Coordination
Committee to supervise and coordinate project preparation, primary responsibility for which
rested with the Agroeconomic Institute (AEI), Titograd. The FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program (FAOIWBCP) collaborated in project preparation. The project was appraised in July
1982.
3.02     Montenegro was among FSFRY's less developed areas with a per capita income in
1982 of US$2,270. Located in the Southwest of FSFRY, it was distinguished by highly
mountainous terrain representing about 85 percent of its land area. Of the total estimated
population in 1983 of about 500,000, 27 percent were farm families. During 1971-81,
Montenegro's agricultural sector grew annually at about 1.7 percent. The depressed incomes
in agriculture were one of the main reasons for income differentials between Montenegro and
FSFRY as a whole. Individual farmers owned about 94 percent of the agricultural land. This
was divided among 58,000 households, and many holdings were fragmented. Despite the
obvious constraints imposed by the mountainous terrain, there was considerable potential for
agricultiral development, particularly with regard to livestock, forestry and the provision of
basic inputs for crop development. Mechanization was also relatively scarce with only about
one tractor per 141 hectares (ha) of agricultural land.
3.03     Montenegro had earlier received one Bank loan (Loan 1370-YU) for agriculture for
the Agriculture and Agriculture Industries Project as well as portions of three nation-wide
agricultural credit projects. The principal lessons learned from these operations included the
need for: (a) improving sub-project appraisal and supervision; (b) facilitating access to input and
credit for individual farmers; (c) strengthening support services for the individual sector; (d)
improving social sector investor management; and (e) stressing the developmental role of the
associated and basic banks (that formed the then prevailing banking system in Montenegro). The
Projcct under review sought to address these issues.
Project Objectives
3.04     The project was designed to assist in the development of Montenegro by supporting
virtually all of Montenegro's investment program in agriculture and forestry for the years 1985
to 1989, and was expected to have a major impact on increasing primary production and
improving the efficiency of agro-industrial production. In addition to increasing output and rural
incomes, and better utilizing Montenegro's agriculural advantages, it also ittended to improve
the Republic's institutional and policy base in agriculture, through more rational investment



-4 -
allocation, improved financial management in the social sector, and enhanced collaboration with
the individual sector ftrough expanded credit and suppolt services.
Project Components
3.05     The project involved 18 of Montenegro's 20 communes, 10 of which were among the
poorest in the Republic. It was to cover about 175,000 ha, 95 percent of the Republic's total
agricultural land area. The project consisted of an integrated set of investments fianced largely
through a credit program. These included:
(a)  Primary Production for the Individual Sector: Sub-loans to about 7,000
individual farmers for (i) livestock development (for around 5,800 farmers)
involving dairy and sheep farms; (ii) farm mechanization involving the
provisio.n of tractors and motor-cultivators; (iii) handicraft development for
about 540 persons for production of a wide variety of fabrics; (iv) fruit and
berry production covering about 200 farms; (v) olive tree revitalization on about
100 farms; and (vi) winter and early spring vegetable production involving
about 33 households.
(b) Primary Production for the Social Sector:  Sub-loans for  forestry
development to fmance construction and reconstruction of access roads to open
up about 46,600 ha of presently inaccessible forest; equipment, vehicles, new
forest plantings and regeneration on about 6,150 ha of land; experimental
conifer plantations; and research and training.
(c)  Support Services and Infrastructure: Sub-loans for (i) extension services to
provide vehicles and equipment; (ii) agricultural research support in the
Agricultural Institute in Titograd and the Rasovo Fruit Research Station near
Bijelo Polje; (iii) vocational training through the consucton and establishment
of a vocational training and demonstration fann center; (iv) veterinary services;
(v) 40 new milk collection stations; (vi) establishment of 20 cooperative centers
to serve as the link between the social and individual sectors; and (vii) a
program of improvements for about 190 km of existing local roads, and future
road maintenance.
(d) Rehabilitation and Modernization of Agroindustries: Seven sub-projects
which included investments in (i) machinery and equipment for an existing feed
mill; (ii) a dairy plant; (iii) the relocation and reconstruction of an existing
slaughterhouse in Titograd; (iv) the rehabilitation and modernization of an
existing slaughterhouse in Bijelo Polje; (v) expansion of a fruit processing plant;
(vi) a medicinal herbs plant; and (vii) the establishment of a small rural cheese
plant.
(e) Instituional Development: (i) strengthening of IBT's loan processing,
appraisal, and supervision capacity; (ii) carrying out a study of two selected
Work Organizations, to provide an organizational and management assessment



- 5 -
of typical social sector enterprises; (iii) training in cost accounting, budget
control and export marketing for senior financial and marketing staff of
participating enterprises; and (iv) training, transport and equipment for research
and project implementation.
IV. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
General
4.01     Project issues identified during preparation and appraisal included: (i) absorptive
capacity of the Republic of Montenegro and the Borrower, IBT-UB, for additional investments;
(ii) institutional weaknesses of IBT-UB; (iii) ensuring improved access to credit and services of
individual sector farmers, particularly those not willing to be bound by contracual agreements
with social sector enterprises; (iv) the viability of agroindustrial enterprises in light of problems
of excess capacity and shortages of raw materials; (v) appropriate levels of onlending rates in
the context of rising inflation; and (vi) the adequacy of institutional and organizational
arrangements for undertaking relatively complex, multi-component projects.
Conceptual Foundation of Project Design
4.02     The project was designed to assist Montenegro in the rationalization of investment
planning and execution in the agricultural sector. It represented the first integrated attempt at
.ural development in Montenegro, and focussed on those agricultural activities, including related
processing and marketing for which Montenegro was best suited because of its topography and
climate, namely cattle and sheep husbandry. some aspects of horticultural production, and
forestry. In this respect, the project sought to ensure the requisite balance between expansion
of primary production, and downstream processing and marketing facilities. Given the excess
capacities then prevailing in several agroindustries, the project rightly emphasized efficiency
improvements through rehabilitation and modernization rather than capacity expansion per se.
Strengthening of the local roads network was aimed at removing bottlenecks, and improving the
access of farmers to inputs and services.
On-lending Arrangements
4.03     In designing on-lending arrangements, the project took into account the fact that, at
that time in FSFRY, self-managed enterprises were responsible for most functions, including the
provision of extension and other supporting services. All on-lending was therefore, routed
through the intermediary, IBT-UB, which had been a borrower under earlier Bank loans to
Montenegro, and whose strengths and weaknesses were therefore known to all parties concerned.
IBT-UB's institutional areas in need of improvement, identified through the experience under
the earlier projects and through project preparation, were to be addressed primarily under the
concurrent Seventh Industrial Credit (IC V) project. To complement this, the project aimed
primarily at strengthening the agricultural credit functions in IBT-UB and its member basic
bans through appropriate training.



- 6 -
4.04     The foreign exchange and variable interest rate risks on the Bank loan were to be
borne by social sector borrowers, and, in the case of individual sector borrowers, given their
low per capita incomes, by the Government of Montenegro. On-lending interest rates for locally
intermediated funds were to be in accordance with the agreement on agricultural on-lending rates
reached under the Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL I) signed in 1983, namely, that they were
to be adjusted graduaOly in order to attain positive real interest rates within three to five years,
depending upon the type of investment. The exception was for local funds provided through the
Federal Funds for Accelerating the Development of Less Developed Republics and Provinces
(FNP) for which on-lending rates were fixed by law. Bank funds were to be on-lent to the
social sector at the variable rate plus a spread to IBT-UB to cover administrative costs, and to
the individual sector at the levels agreed under SAL I.
Inmovations under the Project Concept
4.05     The major innovative breakthrough under the project was the special provision made
for encouraging the growth of independent, individual sector farmers. In respect of credit for
individual farmers who were not associated with the social sector, the project made the first
specific and successful attempt in FSFRY to require such access, with a portion of the loan funds
earmarked for the purpose. US$2 million of the Bank's loan funds were initially earmarked for
such non-associated farmers in the individual sector; this amount was substantially increased later
through reallocations from underutilized categories.
Appropriateness of Project Scope and Scale
4.06     In pursuing an integrated approach to rural sector development in Montenegro, the
project scope and geographical coverage were designed to cover the whole republic, achieve
some policy objectives, and enable leverage for restructuring of institutions and rationalization
of investment decisions. This resulted in a relatively complex project with many components
and a large number of disparate investors. In retrospect, the absorptive and management
capacity of the Borrower and the investors were, perhaps, overestimated. This created problems
of coordination for both the Bank and the Borrower/Project Units, and a longer implementation
period. The Project was essentially a credit-type one, and, in hindsight, it can be said that more
flexibility in project design and components could possibly have reduced implementation
difficulties and the frequent later changes in the project provisions.
Quality of Project Preparation
4.07     The feasibility studies carried out by AEI and other institutes that first prepared the
project served as the basis for the Bank's technical and economic evaluation of the agroindustry
and the supporting services components of the projects. FAO/CP collaborated with the Bank
in reviewing these studies and recommending changes. As a result of these exchanges the
program originally proposed by the local institutes and investors was substantially modified,
including a broadening of the scope to cover all investors (both social and individual sector).
The Bank scrutinized the investment proposals at the preparation stage and made detailed
suggestions for changes, most of which were made. Economically least-cost solutions (e.g., in
dairies and slaughter houses) were recommended, and the comparative advantages of the social



and individual sectors were analyzed by Bank staff for purposes of investment approval and their
inclusion in one or the other sector. The Bank was also prudent in requiring a review of the
financial solvency of IBT-UB, and the financial viability of the investors and their probable
status in the future. This included a review of the Borrower's rehabilitation program for 18
major social sector enterprises with large debt servicing arrears, and Bank staff assistance in
developing detailed procedures for loan collection.
Appropriateness of Project Timing
4.08         The project was prepared in the early 1980s when inflation in the country was
showing a persistent trend towards increasing. By the time the project was approved in 1984,
SAL I to FSFRY had also been approved and was being implemented. Nevertheless,
expectations that the overall macroeconomic situation would improve in a sustained manner did
not materialize, and the project implementation period was marked by a deteriorating
macroeconomic environment.
Responsibilities of Participating Institutfons
4.09     JBT-UB was the Borrower under the loan. The project investments were to be carried
out by several different subborrowers, including social sector enterprises engaged in agricultural
production, services, and food processing; forestry production; and local road improvement and
maintenance. IBT-UB was to be responsible for financial aspects of project implementation,
including onlending to the different beneficiaries. Technical management of the project was the
responsibility of two project units set up within the Agroeconomic Institute for the agricultural-
related components, and the Forestry Technical Institute for the forestry-related components.
All concerned parties were to sign a Self-Management Agreement defining their muual rights,
obligations and responsibilities.
4.10     Project coordination was to be secured through a Project Coordination Council (PCC)
including representatives of the Republican Government and the main project agencies acting
through two Executive Boards, one each for agriculture and forestry, which served on the
executive arms.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
General
5.01     The project's implementation period was marked by substantially deteriorating
macroeconomic conditions coupled during the last year of implementation by political turmoil
and the outbreak of hostilities associated with the ongoing civil war in FSFRY. High and
accelerating domestic inflation, culminating in hyperinflationary levels, followed by successive
dinar devaluations resulted in significant charges in the price structures and overall demand
levels. Interest rates charged to borrowers became increasingly negative in real terms and it
became difficult for borrowers to obtain local counterpart funds. Ongoing changes in relevant
legislation and regulations pertaining to the enterprises and banking system, while generally in



-8-
the right direction, caused uncertainties for investors, particularly in respect of interpretation of
unclear provisions. All these, compounded by the uncertainties stemming from the politically
turbulent situation, had a detrimental impact on project implementation.
5.02     Loan signing and effectiveness took more time than was usually required in FSFRY.
Three postponements of effectiveness were required totalling eleven months. This was mainly
due to the delay in fializing the required Self-management Agreement between the project
participants. A major issue in this regard was the reluctance of many social sector sub-
borrowers to bear the foreign exchange risk, stemming from the uncertainties caused by the
deteriorating overall macroeconomic situation and the lack of clarity in frequently changing
Governmental regulations. In hindsight, it could be said that the SMAs should have been
required to be finalized by the time of loan approval, as they involved acceptance by over 80
participating organizations, of whom around half were to be sub-borrowers under the project.
However, in the then prevailing specific decentralized system in FSFRY, this delay in
effectiveness could not have been entirely avoided.
5.03     Project implementation ultimately required two years beyond the original estimates.
The pace of implementation was very slow in the early years. Continued investor concerns with
foreign exchange risks and interest rate arrangements, and increasing doubts in the Bank and in
Montenegro about the viability of the agro-industries components and financing of cost-overruns
in a high inflation situation, led to a major project review in 1985 with the purpose of maldng
modifications. Implementatior. was also being adversely affected by the worsening financial
situation of the basic banks and the co-operatives through which credit was to be extended for
primary production, IBT-UB's lengthy approval procedures, and the Project Unit's problems
caused by inadequate funds.  Some of the procurement procedures laid down in the loan
agreement were found to be not suitable for certain components. Consequently, and in spite of
rather intensive Bank supervision of the project, by Febnrary 1987 the Borrower had committed
only about 43 percent of the loan, mainly in the forestry (16 percent) and the individual (24
percent) sectors. Actual loan disbursements, however, amounted only to US$1.9 million,
prmarily for the forestry component.
5.04     To adapt to the changing environment and circumstances, the Bank and the
Montenegrin agencies made several pragmatic modifications. For example, only two of the
seven agro-industries projects were ultimately pursued and the balance of loan funds for this
component was reallocated, mainly to the individual sector prmary production. Amendments
were also made to the Loan Agreement to increase the disbursement percentage (from 45 percent
to 65 percent), to allocate funds to strengthen the operations of the two Project Units, and to
allow increased LCB procedures. With regard to IBT-UB's lengthy approval procedures, in
response to recommendations from Bank supervision missions, the authority to approve sub-loans
and supplemental fnancing for local cost overruns was delegated to its Management Board
which met more frequently than the Executive Board. In the context of its ongoig
reorganization following from changes initiated by the new Banking Law, IBT-UB was able to
explore options to provide direct lending to the beneficiaries, given the financial difficulties of
several of its basic banks. Towards the end of the project in 1990, the Borrower had set up a
specialized branch for agricultural and small business lending which resulted in better sub-project
scrutiny, and speeded up commitments and withdrawal of funds.



9-
5.05     By June 1989, a supervision mission noticed some acceleration of project
implementation. This was partly due to the project redesign agreed with the Borrower,
flexibility in project execution, and the increased advertising and other promotional activities
launched by a reinvigorated Project Unit in the individual sector. The liberalization of
agricultural prices, declining opportunities for off-farm employment in the social sector and
consequent renewed interest in farming, and the negative real interest rates on sub-loans resulting
from partial financing from the low-interest federal development funds for under-developed
regions, all contributed to the acceleration in project execution. Moreover, the Borrower had
agreed (effective 1987) to undertake annual reviews of project implementation and prepare an
implementation program for each following year for the Bank's review. This practice
considerably helped in anticipating and dealing with emerging issues, thus contributing to the
improved pace of project implementation. This is reflected in the dramatic improvement in loan
disbursements (Table 3); while only about US$16 million equivalent had been disbursed in the
five years up to 1990, over US$20 million equivalent were disbursed during the next two years,
1991 and 1992.
Project Costs
5.06     Actual project costs differ substantially from appraisal estimates (Table 5). The
reasons include: (i) substantial changes in the project components, particularly the agroindustries
componem; (ii) delays in subproject start-up in an inflationary environment; (iii) high inflation,
including periods of hyperinflation, in the implementation period; and (iv) substantial dinar
devaluations. The combined impact of the above factors was that the project cost was about 20
percent lower in US$ terms than estimated at appraisal.
Financing, Disbursement and Procurement
5.07     Compared to the financing plan at appraisal, the Bank share of loan financing
increased by about 10 percent, while that of IBT-UB and the investors correspondingly decreased
by 10 percent (Table 6). Actual amounts by disbursement categories were substantially different
from appraisal estimates, given the reallocations in the course of implementation. Disbursements
lagged substantially behind appraisal estimates during the first fi"te years of project
implementation, but picked up in the last two years following modifications made to increase the
disbursement percentage and to encourage increased utilization by the individual sector. Several
modifications had also to be made in respect of procurement arrangements, principally to allow
increased use of LCB as ICB procedures were found to be inappropriate for the changing needs
in the rapidly evolving environment.
Physical Components
5.08     Noteworthy results were obtained in primary production in the individual sector which
was targeted for special attention in the project. Participation by individual sector farmers,
through sub-loans taken mainly for farm mechanization, and dairy and sheep farms, far exceeded
expectations. Project funds, not being adequately utilized in other categories, were reallocated
to the individual sector, whose share in total project funding increased to 64 percent, instead of
the earlier planned 42 percent at appraisal. Around 1,200 tractors and their implements were



- 10-
procured compared to the 500 planned. Approximately 1,220 in-calf heifers, 19,290 breeding
ewes, 900 breeding rams, building materials for stables, and 170 tractors were obtained by
individual cow and sheep fanners. Olive tree revitalization programs on about 80 ha covering
pruning of around 14,000 trees were achieved, as compared to the appraisal target of 60 ha.
Farmers also received 29 motor-cultivators and saws. On the other hand, there was no interest
to borrow for the planned investments in pasture improvement and maize silage, and these items
were not implemented.
5.09     In the social sector, the forestry component was, on the whole, successfully carried
out. Out of a total target of 296 km of new and reconstructed roads, 235 km were completed.
Supervision missions found the roads well-constructed and of great benefit for increased access
to forest resources. Reforestation on about 6,000 ha was carried out compared to 2,930 ha
planned at appraisal. In respect of rural roads, 129.5 km were completed out of a target of 195
km. These roads are expected to support the economic and social development of the project
area. However, investments in the agro-industry component (mainly in the social sector) were
significantly curtailed. Out of the seven investments as originally planned, only two were
imnplemented, namely, the comparatively smaller sized Medical Herb and the Cheese Plants.
These socially owned plants were useful in so far as these were to be the processing centers for
herbs and milk production in the individual sector. Other sub-projects for agro-industries were
not implemented due to reappraisal by IBT as to their viability and/or due to the poor fimancial
situation of the investors.
5.10     Among the support services, 11 out of the 20 planned cooperative centers were built,
one of which involved reconstruction. Veterinary and agricultural extension services, and
research and vocational training centers were not implemented as these would have benefited
mainly the individual sector, and the investors who were in the social sector, were not willing
to cover the foreign exchange risk of the loan. The same was the case with the miLk collection
stations. The Government of Montenegro later intended to establish a holding company (with
a large government shareholding but operating on the basis of the market) to provide these
essential services. The final outcome is not known as the project has not been visited by Bank
staff since November 1990 due to the civil war which is going on in FSFRY.
5.11     The project's institutional development objectives were met to a significant extent.
IBT's loan processing, appraisal and supervision capacities improved gradually over the project
implementation period as did the functioning of the Project Unit. However, IBT's financial
situation worsened over time reflecting also the general deterioration in the overall
macroeconomic situation. Improvements in this regard, and in the matter of positive interest
rates, could only be pursued in the context of a more general reform of the FSFRY financial
sector. The Bank was assisting the FSFRY Federal Government to undertake a fundamental
reform of the financial sector, but this was brought to a halt by the progressive break-down of
the country situation. The other institutional development components, particularly training
activities for a variety of enities, were substantially achieved in most cases.



- 11 -
VI. PROJECT RESULTS
General Assessment
6.01     Overall, the project results were mixed; objectives were substantially met in respect
of some of the components, with more limited success in the case of others. The primary
production component, on the whole, can be considered to be a success, both in the individual
sector, where the response exceeded expectations at appraisal, and in the social sector, where
the forestry-related components were largely fulfilled. The financial and economic restilts of
these investments are likely to be satisfactory under normal circumstances. In respect of
institutional development, the project has contributed to strengthening of the agricultural credit
operations in the IBT system, although more substantial improvements, including in IBT-UB's
overall financial situation, can only be pursued in the context of a more general reform of the
banking system. The project has also contributed to development project assessment and
implementational capacity through its support for the two Project Units in AEI and FTI which
have functioned well. However, the achievements in respect of the agroindustries, supporting
services and extension services were much more limited. Only two of the seven originally
identified agroindustries investments were undertaken, while significant parts of the supporting
and extension services components were not undertaken by the responsible social sector
enterprises, given their reluctance to bear the foreign exchange and interest rate risks for
investments the main beneficiaries of which were to be the individual sector farmers. Improving
the situation in the agroindustries sector would require, among other things a program of
privatization and restructuring. Although this was generally the intention of the Government,
the appropriate enabling legislation was not enacted, and prospects remain uncertain in the face
of the current difficult political situation in FSFRY.
Project Impact
6.02     Although its results were mixed, the project has, nevertheless, had significant impact
on the development of the regions targeted under the project. The project has supported the
growth of the individual sector beyond the original expectations.  The extent of farm
mechanization supported under the project (about 60 percent of the total number of sub-loans),
and expansion of dairy and sheep farms with considerable addition of inproved breed of
livestock, should significantly improve the productivity of small-scale agricultmral and livestock
farms. In regard to the forest and rural access roads, commitment by the concerned agencies
to provide funds to maintain the roads was obtained, and strengthening of their organization was
ensured, under the project. Motor graders and other equipment were provided under the loan,
and both the forestry basic organizations and the communes sufficiently benefitted from the
roads to confinue to maintain this essential infrastructure. The two small agro-industries plants
(for medicinal herbs and cheese) are expected to have enough raw material supply for an
economic level of processing. However, their fnancial and management condition needed
review to determine their possible restructuring requirements. Towards the end of the project,
a Bank supervision mission was requested to assist in this review, but the matter could not be
pursued due to the prevailing country conditions.



- 12 -
6.03     In view of the response from the individual sector farmers under the project, and
considerable pent-up demand for further funds for investments, an Agriculture Development
Project for the Private Sector was being conceived by the Bank to continue the work already
started under the project under review. Unforlunately, this could not be pursued in the
deteriorating circumstances in FSFRY.
VII. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
7.01     Project benefits are more likely to be sustainable in certain areas than in others. Most
investennts under the primary production and forestry components are likely to be sustainable,
and to be able to maintain an acceptable level of net benefits throughout their economic life.
The benefits from the agroindustries investments undertaken should also be sustainable subject
to appropriate financial and organizational restructuring of the enterprises covered. However,
future performance is very much dependent upon the current politically volatile conditions
moving toward a more normal and secure situation, and to the stabilization of the
macroeconomic environment. Without these, project benefits would be jeopardized.
VIII. BANK PERFORMANCE
General
8.01     The Bank's performance during this project illustrates the difficulties of pursuing
multi-component, complex projects with relatively inexperienced institutions in an increasingly
uncertain and deteriorating macroeconomic environment. Clearly, the scope and magnitude of
the deterioration in the overall macroeconomic enviromnent could not have been fully foreseen
at appraisal. Nevertheless, in hindsight, the Bank could perhaps have addressed certain aspects
differently. While considerable time was devoted to design and organizational aspects of the
project, the Bank's initial evaluation of the project components proved to be, in retrospect, not
sufficiently robust in a changing macroeconomic environment. As a result, substantial changes
had to be made in the project components, particularly, for example, the agroindustries
component. The Bank would also appear to have underestimated the absorptive and management
capability of the project implementation agencies to react to the changing needs imposed by a
volatile environment.
8.02     However, the Bank was quick to identify and attempt to initiate remedial actions to
accelerate project implementation, showing considerable flexibility in making timely and relevant
modifications to the project, including increasing disbursement percentages (raised to 65 percent
from 45 percent) for local costs, financing of new items and more realistic procurement
arrangements.



- 13 -
Findings and Lesons Lerned
8.03     The principal lessons learned, with implications for other projects, as a result of the
experiences during project implementation and the preparation of the PCR are summarized
below:
(a) The implications of a distorted and deteriorating macroeconomic environment
on sectoral operations, like the project, should be more explicitly addressed
during project preparation. In hindsight, it would appear that the project was
formulated without sufficient regard to problems stemming from the
macroeconomic environment.
(b) Directed credit in a Bank-lending operation may have some justification if the
market mechanism has not developed sufficiently; however, credit projects
should be general and flexible; too great a specificity is detrimental to success
in execution and often requires major modifications in the project.
(c) The difficulties in project implementation arising from the complex, multi-
component nature of the project demonstrates the need to simplify the project
concept from the outset, based on a realistic assessment of the possibilities of
augmentation of the implementing agencies' capabilities.
(d) Implementation success often depends on the pragmatism of the Borrower and
the Bank in responding to the problem-solving needs of a project in a flexible
and realistic manner.
(e)  Timely reallocations of loan ftuds between various categories, when needed,
increase the relevance and utility of the project investments.
(f) Heavy staff inputs and technical assistance are required to be provided by the
Bank for supervision of such projects undergoing many changes while
weathering economic and political turbulence.
IX. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
9.01     IBT-UB's performance as a financial intermediary continued to reflect the wealnesses
of the then prevailing banking system in FSFRY. Although it carried out its banking functions
with considerable autonomy, its decisions were strongly affected by the social sector
organizations which, in effect, were its owners as well as major borrowers. These and other
weaknesses of the FSFRY banking system were recognized and were being addressed as part
of an overall economic and financial reform. Progress in this respect has been affected by the
unsettled conditions prevalent since 1991 in FSFRY.



- 14-
9.02     As implementing agencies, the Borrower and the Project Units improved their
performance after early weaknesses displayed in getting the loan effective and in promoting
investment in the individual sector. Over time, they took increasing initiative in suggesting
changes and modifications to improve project implementation. However, overall, the continuing
unfavorable macroeconomic situation, the large number of components and the multiplicity of
borrowers continued to present implementational difficulties, reflected in their inability to
respond fully in respect of providing the necessary guidance and follow-up to investors.
9.03     Compliance with covenants was generally satisfactory except in respect of timely
submission of audit reports, which occasioned possibilities of suspension of disbursements. In
one major respect, however, IBT-UB, as in the case of most other banks in FSFRY, continued
to be unable to meet its undertakings, i.e., in achievement of positive, real interest rates. With
the progressively deeper economic and financial reform being pursued in the early 1990s in
FSFRY, the situation in this respect was improving but the future is open to question given the
currently prevailing turbuleat situation in FSFRY.
X. PROJECT RELATIONSHIP
10.01    The Bank-Borrower relationship was maintained generally at an appropriate level of
cordiality and professionalism. Towards the end of project implementation, however, the
relationship was affected by the breaking up of FSFRY and the resulting isolation of the new
Federation (Serbia and Montenegro). The Bank suspended disbursements to Montenegro (and
other parts of FSFRY) in June 1992 because of arrears in repayments. Withdrawal applications
were submitted by the Borrower for the balance of the loan funds but not processed in view of
the May 1992 United Nations resolution Imposing fnancial restrictions on FSFRY entities. The
Borrower continued to represent to the Bank, suggesting various alternatives for disbursement
of the balance. The Bank reiterated its inability to do so for the reasons already explained. This
resulted in an unfortunate fine to an otherwise overall harmonious relationship between the
Borrower and the Bank.
XL CONSULTING SERVICES
11.01    At the project preparation stage, the work of local consulting firms appointad by the
Borrower was far below expectations. An FAO/CP mission found that its outlines were not
being followed, e.g., the technical parameters used in cash-flow tables were either incorrect or
unrealistic aud most of the financial tables had later to be redone. Subsequently, local
consultants were appointed under the loan for review of one of the major investors. This study
was found by Bank staff to be unsatisfactory, and major revisions were required. In the end,
foreign consultants were engaged who submitted a report recommending the restructuring of the
enterprise concerned. This was, however, not implemented, for reasons that remained unclear.



- 15 -
XII. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION
12.01    The Staff Appraisal Report and other project papers were generally thorough.
However, their usefulness as working documents for purposes of project implementation was
much diminished because of the significant modifications that were made from the original
project. Even though a proper evaluation of the project at completion was not carried out by
the Borrower, partly due to the pressures of implementation and partly to the difficult economic
and political circumstances in the country in recent years, the regular progress reports received
from the Borrower were regarded by Bank staff to be of good quality. There were considerable
delays in submission of audit reports of the borrowing bank. These delays were largely ascribed
to the bottlenecks and lack of resources at the Social Accounting Agency (SDK) which was
responsible for these audits. Supervision missions found that the contract documents sent to the
Bank were usually well-prepared.



- 16 -
PART IL PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments, but
none were received.



- 17 -
PART II. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1 - RELATED BANK LOANS
Net Loan
Amount                                 Year of
Loan Tide                           (USS million)          Purpose           Anproval            Status
1. Ln. 1370-YU Montenegro               2S.98    Land preparation, irrigation    1977   Successfully  completed  on
Agriculture & Agroindustries                  system, fbnn roads, winery            schedule.
Project                                       and cold stoage
2. Ln. 1801-YU Agrclral Credit M        74.61    Nation-wide   credit  to   1980   86% of original loan amount
individual sector for primary        disbursed at final closing date
producdon and to social sector        (December 1986), about 21
for meetng  domestic  and            months beyond original date.
export demands.                      Successful  in  improving
inestment policies, sub-
project  selection  and
institutional performance.
Table 2 - PROJECT TDWITABLE
Item                            Planned Date       Acta Daft
Identifition                         N/A               9/80
Preparation                          N/A               9/82
Appraisal                            5183              6/83
Post-Appris-l Mission                N/A              11/83
Loan Negodations                    2184               4/84
Board Approval                       5/84              7/84
Loan Signature                       8/84              1/85
Loan Efiectiveness                   5/85              4/86
Loan Closing                         6/90              6/92
Project Completion                  12/89              6/92
Table 3 - LOAN DISBURSENMES
IBRD Fiscal Year     Appaisal                       Actua As
Estimate        Acual        Percentage of
(US$ Million)             Estimate
1985                2.40          0.00             0.00
1986                12.40         0.10             0.80
1987               23.90          5.19            21.70
1988                30.90         8.42            27.25
1989               37.10          12.51           33.71
1990               40.00          15.94           39.8S
1991                0.00         31.15            77.87
1992                0.00         37.44            93.60
Date of Final Disbursement May 19, 1992



Table 4 - PROJECT COSTS (US$ Million)
Appraisal Estimate                     Actual Cost
Local    Foreign     Total         Loal      Foreign      Total
Costs     Costs      Costs        Costs I     Costs       Costs
A. Primary Production (Individual Sector)    12.49     12.11      24.60        14.84       21.34       36.18
B. Primary Production (Social Sector)        7.69       6.72      14.41         4.23        6.25       10.48
C. Support Services & Ifastructure           4.90       3.92       8.82         3.46        4.90        8.36
D. Agroindustries                            3.76       6.77      10.53         0.63        0.90        1.53
E. Institutional Development                 0.29       0.16       0.46                     0.51        0.51
Total Base Cost                       29.13      29.70      58.84        23.16       33.90       57.06
Total Project Financing Requirements 2  37.90    40.00      77.90
1  Due to fte hig local inflation and the magniude of Diner depreciation over the relatively long implementation period (8 years).
these ue estimated figues.
2  bIcluding physical and price contingencies, front-end fee and interest during constructon. Includes taxes and duties estimated at
US$1.6 million.
A'tble 5- PROJECT FINANCING (US$ MILLION)
Planned (Loan Agreement)                            Actual
-                             Br Xeakdown    --                           Breakdtown
Sources:                  Local  Foreign   Total      of Financing      Local  Foreign  Total     of Financing
World Bank                         40.0 a   40.0         51 %                    37.40 37.40          62%
IBT and Basic Banks         3.7     -        3.7           S %
Federal Funds              19.3     *       19.3         25 5          23.16 b    -    23.16          38 %
Investors' Conttibutions   14.9     -       14.9          19 %
Total Project Financing    37.9    40.0  77.9        100 %          23.16    37.40 60.56          100 %
a Includes loan charges of US$3.4 million on Bank loan (up to 4/14190) and front-end fee of US$0.10 million.
b Includes both Federal funds and investors' contributions.



TABLE 6 - STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANIMS
Original
Agreement       Section      Date                      Description of Covenant                                  Compan
Loan 4gr.    3.03(b)(i)              Borrower to submit semiannual project progress reports. Reports    Comptied
will be due within 45 days of the close of the six-moth period
concerned.
3.03(b)(ii)   03/87    Borower sall furnish annal evaluation reports on the benefits  Borrower has not prepared becaise of demands
derived from the Project withi three (3) months of the close of  of project implemention. lt was to undertake
eacb caenar year.                                          this evaluation for completion report.
3.03(c)      06/87     Borrower to undertake with assisamce of AEI and FTI a mid-term  Undertaken June 1987.
review of the project.
3.04(a)(b)             IBT will submit updated schedule of project epenfditures in dinars    Complied.
and related fimancing plan for each year.
3.05(b)      12186     BT to submit first agreement between IBT and communes for   Complied
extension, veterinary services, and road improvement/maintenance.
3.05(c)      01/87     IBT to submit socio-economic study for road improvement in 1988.  Submitted January 1987.
3.06         01/85     IBT to submit training program for IBT's and basic bank staff.  Received October 1987.
5.02(b)                Submit to the Bank aunual financial statements and audit report of    Audit reports submitted with delays.
IBT.
5.02(b)                Auditor's opinion regarding Statements of Expenditure funds be;ng    Complied with delays.
appropriately used.
Schedule               IBT to submit appraisal reports for investment projects in forestry,   Complied.
SA(3)(a)               agricultural reseauch, pomegranate plantation, training center, and
social sector trout farms, prior to approving subloans for these
investment projects.
Project Agr.  2.02       01/85       AEI to employ comsultants to carry cut study on organization and   Submitted June 1986.
manageenet of selected social sector sub-borrowers.
2.07       01/85       FFI to submit forestry fellowship and training program.   Received January 1987.
2.08(a).    01/85      AEI sO submit training program in financial management,   TOR proposed 12188. Proposed program was to
accounting and export marketing                           be submitted 8/89 but was not received.
Eventually, it was too late to implement the
program.
3.03       01/85       FTM to establish a forestry research unit with at least (4)  Research is being undertaken with existing
professionals.                                            Organization.
4.02                   Submit to the bank annual financial statements and audit report of   Submitted after prolonged delays.
Agro Economic Institute (AEI) and Forestry Technical Institute
(FTI).



Table 7 - STAFF INPUTS (Staff weeks per Fiscal Year)
Lending Operations            Up to 83    84     85      86     87      88     89      90      91     92      93     Total
Pre-appraisal                   26.6                                                                                  26.6
Apprai-r.                       23.6   59.1                                                                           82.7
Negotiations & Board              -     27.7    0.9                                                                   28.6
Sub-Total                    50.2   86.8    0.9                                                                   137.9
Projet Supervision                               4A    27.9   21.6   19.5    8.4    8.4    9.8    1.5                101.5
Project Administation & Review                   0.3    2.6    0.4    0.5                             1.3    0.5       5.6



-21 -
Table 8 - MISSION DATA
Mission             Montb/Year    No. of  Days in                            Performance    Types of
Persons    Field      Specialization'       Rating        Problems 3
Idendfication I        9/80          1         6               E
Idendficadon 11        4/81          2         5              E,A
Prepaadon I            6/81          2         9              E,A
Preparadon U           10/81         S        18          E,A.N,M,F
Preparadon m           3/82          9        24      EA,F.M,N,N,E,A,F
Preparation IV         4/82          1         6               R
Preparation V          9/82          3         6             A,N.L
Appraisal I            6/83          8        20        N,A.E,H.L.R.E,A
Follow-up I            11/83         2         5              F,A
Follow-up I1           2/84          2         4              A,E
Sub-Tota                         35        103
Supervision I          2/85          2         5              A,F                N/A           N/A
Supervision II         11/85         3        IS             F.E,A               N/A            N/A
Supervision mI         5/86          3        10             E,A,N               N/A            N/A
Supervision IV         2/87          2         5              F.A                 2           M,F,T
Supervision V          5(87          3         5             F,A,N                2            F,T
Supervision VI         5/88          3         6             F,E,A                2            F.M
Supervision Vll        5/89          1         9               E                  2            F,M
Supervision Vm         11/90         1         3               E                  3            FPM
Sub-Total                        18        58
Total                            53        161
1 Specialization
A = Agricuturas
E = Economist
D = Education Specialist
F - Financial Analyst
H = Horticulturist
L - Livestock Specialist
M = Marketing Specialist
N = Engineer
R = Forester
2 Perfonnance Raig
I = Minor problems
2 - Moderate Problems
3 = Major Problems
3 Types of Problms
F - Financial
T   Technical
M = Managerial



- 22 -
Table 9 - PROJECT RESULTS
Cumulative Approvals
Appraisal Target   till December 1991   US$ Million
(No. of Subloans)  Number or Capacity'
1. Primary Production
(a) Dairy Farms                    600                 939               9.98
(b) Sheep Farms                    600                 684               2.46
(c) Bee Keeping                    120                 144               0.52
(d) Deciduous Fruits                60                  84               0.47
(e) Berries                         60                 104               N/A
(f) Olives                          60                  80               N/A
(g) Farm Mechanization          500 tractors       2,642 tractors         8.52
II. Support Services and Infrastructure
(a) Cooperative Centers             20                  10               N/A
(b) Village Roads               190.5 (km)          97.3 (km)            N/A
111. Agroindustries
(a) Medical Herb Plant-Risan   850 ton/year        850 ton/year          N/A
(b) Rural Cheese Plant-Plav     87 ton/year     1500 litres per shift    N/A
I   Based on data received from the Borrower in February 1992. The actual figures as of June 30, 1992
(the fimal loan closing date) would be somewhat higher.
M:\YUGUALIL.PCR



