Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OmCAL USE ONLY
Rqwt No. P-3859-YU
REPORT AND RECOIMEDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THEE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMONT EQUIVALENT TO US$40.0 MILLION
TO
INVr-STICIONA BANKA TITOGRAD-UDRUZENA BANKA
WITH THE GUARAN4TEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR THE
MONTENEGRO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENiT PROJECT
JuLy 9, 1984
This documnemt has a restricted distribution ad may be used by recipients only in the perforance of
their officil duti  ts contents qy not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank autborization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit 1/         Calendar 1983 2/
US$1                     Dinar 93.831               Dinar 125.0
Dinar 1                  US$O.D0106                 US$0.008
Dinars 1,000,000.00      US$10,600.00               US$8,000.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BOAL    =    Basic Organization of Associated Labor
ERR     =    Economic Rate of Return
FNP     =    Federal Fund for Accelerating the Development of the Less
Developed Republics and Provinces
FRR          Financial Rate of Return
IBT     =    Investiciona Banka Titograd-Udruzena Banka
ICB          international Competitive Bidding
LCB          Local Procurement Procedures
LDR          Less Developed Region
LIB          Limited International Bidding
MDR          More Developed Region
PCc          Project Coordination Council
SDK          Social Accounting Service
I/     The Dinar has not been maintained within announced margins since July
12, 1982. Its parity is reviewed frequently to ensure maintenance of
external competitiveness.
21     Period average.



FOR   ICIAL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA
MC9TENEGRO REGIONAL-DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Snmmary
Borrower;            Investiciona Banka Titograd-Udruzena Banka (IBT)
Guarantor:           Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY)
Beneficiaries:       About 45 social sector organizations and about 7,000
individual farmers.
Amount:              t40.0 million, including capitalized front-end fre of
t99,800.00.
Terms:               Amortization in 15 years, including a three-year grace
period, with interest at the standard variable interest
rate. A portion of the Bank loan would be repaid on the
basis of an adjustable repayment schedule, reflecting
repayments of subloans by the sub-borrowers; the balance
of the loan would be repaid on the basis of a fixed
amortization schedule.
Re-Lending-Terms:    The proceeds of the Bank loan would be on-lent by IBT to
the social sector investors at the prevailing Bank
variable rates plus a fee of 1.25% to cover IBT's
administrative costs. For sub-loans to the individual
sector, in accordance with the terms agreed to in the
SAL I Letter of Development Policy (Loan 2326-YU) a rate
of 25.4% will be applied. The on-lending rate, on IBT's
own funds to the individual and social sectors would
also be in accordance with the policy on agricultural
on-lending rates set forth in the Letter of Development
Policy: 25.4% for individual and social sector investors
in primary production, and 30.3% for social sector
investors in agro-industry, infrastructure and support
services.   The repayment of subloans would not exceed
15 years, including 3-5 years of grace depending on the
investment. The foreign exchange and variable interest
rate risk on the Bank loan would be borne by the
Republic of Montenegro in the case of individual farmers
and by the sub-borrowers in the case of the social
sector borrowers.
Project Objectives   The proposed project is to assist in the development of
and Description:   the Socialist Republic of Montenegro, one of
Yugoslavia's least developed Republics. The project,
the first integrated approach to rural development in
T|is dDmmt has a ensictd distnbution and may be usd by redpients only in the peronce of
tI irn oKa duties. is cements may not otherwise be diclosed without World Dank au   izmo.



- ii -
tta Republic, would seek to;  increase agricultural
production and individual farm sector incomes, thereby
improving rural living standards; reduce income
disparities between the less and more-developed communes
and between the individual and social sectors; improve
the operating efficiency and capacity utilization of
social sector primary production and agro-proceqsing
facilities; improve the Republic's institutional and
policy base in agriculture througb more rational
investment allocation; improve organization and
financial management of the sub-borrowers; and expand
credit and support services for the individual sector,
including those farmers not wishing to enter into
marketing obligations as a condition for the credit.
The proposed project would represent virtually all of
Montenegro's investment program for agriculture and
forestry for the next five years. It includes: (i)
Primary Production-for the Individual Sector with
subloans to individual farmers for livestock
development, fruit and berry production, olive tree
revitalization, winter and early spring vegetable
production, and trout production; tii) Primary
Production for-the-Social Sector including subloans to
finance forestry development, fruit production, and
trout production; (iii) Support Services and
Infrastructure througb subloans for agricultural
extension services, agricultural research, vocational
training, veterinary services, the establishment of milk
collection stations and cooperative centers, and a
program of local road improvement and maintenance;
(iv) Rehabilitation and Modernization of Agroindustries
including investments in a feed mill, a dairy plant, two
slaughterbouses, a fruit processing plant, a medicinal
herbs plant, and a small rural cheese plant; and
Cv) Institutional Development including support for IBT,
the Project Unit and the Forestry Technical Institute,
and for selected social sector enterprises for improving
their organizational and managerial efficiency.



- iii -
Estimated-Costs:                             Local      Foreign    Total
-       (US$Million)
Component
A.  Primary-ProductionrIndividual Sector   12.49        12.11       24.60
of whicbz Livestock                     10.78       10.28      21.07
Horticulture                   0.58       0.58        1.17
Farm Mechanization             0.89       1.02        1.91
Handicraft                     0.21       0.22        0.43
B.  Primary Production-Social Sector         -7.69       6.12       14.41
of which: Forestry                       6.46        5.67      12.13
Fruit                          0.61       0.43        1.04
Fish                           0.61       0.62        1.23
C.  Support-Services and Infrastructure       4.90       3.92        8.82
D.  Agroindustries                            3.76       6.77       10.53
E.  Institutional-Development                 0.29       0.16        0.46
Total Base Cost                         29.13       29.70      58.84
Physical Contingencies                   2.92        3.14       6.06
Price Contingencies                      5.'1        4.71       -9.72
Total Project Costs 1/                  37.07       37.56      74.63
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan                -          0.10       0.10
Interest during Construction             0.83        2.34       3.17
Total Project Financing Requirements         37.90      40.00       77.90
1/ Includes taxes and duties estimated at US$1.6 million.



- iv -
Financig -Plan:                                                      2 of
Local      Forei,g   Total        Financing
Sources:-
World Bank                   -        40.0 1/     40.0          51Z
IBT and Basic Banks         3.7         -           3.7          5Z
Federal Funds              19.3         -         19.3          25Z
Investors' Contributions  14.9          -          14.9         192
Total Project Financing   37.9        40.0        77.9          1OOZ
Estimated-Disbursements:
- ----(US$ million)
Bank-FY                        FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89    FY90
Annual                         2.4    10.0   11.5    7.0    6.2      2.9
Cumulative                     2.4    12.4   23.9   30.9   37.1    40.0
Benefits and-Risks:  About 7,000 individual farmers would benefit directly
from subloans under the project. In addition, about
10,000 families would benefit from the upgrading of
local roads which would improve access to markets and
input supplies. After full development, the average
participating farmer's income is expected to increase by
an estimated 120%. It is also estimated that at full
development the investments under the proposed project
would result in the equivalent of 1,240 incremental
man-years of employment. The portion of the incremental
processed output to be exported is expected to result in
foreign exchange earnings of about $2.38 million
annually. In addition, increased self-sufficiency in
livestock products, livestock feed and pulp wood would
enabLe Yugoslavia to reduce imports. The project would
also further support improvement of IBT and its basic
banks by providing for a training coordinator and
training in project appraisal and supervision for its
staff, as well as training for financial and marketing
managers of the participating work organizations, and an
organization and management review of several social
sector enterprises. In addition, the Forestry Technical
1/ Includes interest during construction of US$2.3 million on Bank loan and
capitalized front-end fee of $0.10 million.



- v -
Institute vould be strengthened through the project in
order to expand its activities into forestry researcb
and development. The main risk is the possible
sbortfall of local counterpart investment funds. Such a
risk has, bowever, been minimized by: (i) establishing
a firm financing plan wbicb accords this project
priority status in Montenegro; (ii) preparing updated
financing plans in Dinars annually; (iii) establishing a
local Dinar account as part of the Revolving Fund; and
(iv) by recently approved legislation at the Federal
level which exempts World Bank financed projects from
import and credit restrictions.
Economic Rate of Return: 22Z
Appraisal Report: Report No. 4856-YU, dated June 27, 1984.



INTERNATIONAL-BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO INVESTICIONA BANKA TITOGRAD-UDRIZENA BANKA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
. .      FOR-A-MONTENEGRO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan to Investiciona Banka Titograd-Udruzena Banka witb the guarantee of the
Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, for the equivalent of $40 million
to finance the Regional Development Project in the Socialist Republic of
Montenegro. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including three years of
grace, with interest at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY }/
2.        An economic mission visited Yugoslavia in June 1981 and its report,
Yugoslavia: Adjustment Policies and Development Perspectives (3954-YU), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on November 2, 1982. Updating
missions visited Yugoslavia during the last six montbs and this section
reflects their findings. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Institutional Setting
3.        The social sector in Yugoslavia, which includes goverrment,
enterprises and public institutions, plays the leading role in economic and
social development. It accounts for 85Z of GDP and employs over half the
total labor force. The private sector consists predominantly of peasant
farms and small enterprises. Decision making at all levels is governed by
the principle of workers' self-management, involving a unique set of
institutions and instruments of economic policy. Responsibility for
important social and economic decisions has increasingly shifted from the
federal level to the republics, autonomous provinces and communes.
Concurrently, the control of workers' collectives over production decisions
has been increased by a restructuring of all economic organizations into
legally autonomous Basic Organizations of Associated Labor (BOALs) which are
the smallest units producing a marketable output.
4.        In addition to this strengthening of workers' participation at the
microeconomic level, the concept of workers' management has been extended to
encompass macroeconomic decisions. A set of instruments, called social
compacts and self-management agreements, enables the participation of all
economic agents in the formulation of macroeconomic policy, while maintaining
decentralized responsibility for policy implementation. These instruments
are used to supplement more conventional monetary and fiscal policy measures,
particularly in the areas of prices, incomes, and employment.
1/ Part I is identical to Part I of the President's Report for the
Fertilizer Sector Loan (Report No. P-3773-YU, dated April 13, 1984) which
was approved by the Board on May 8, 1984.



- 2 -
5.       The 1974 Constitution also introduced a new framework for economic
and social planning, designed to reconcile decentralized decision-making with
consistent and coordinated action. The system of planning first seeks to
establish, thirough a set of social compacts, a national consensus on the
major mediumr-term goals for the economy. Thereafter, plan formulation is
based on participation of all economic and social units, including government
bodies. Once consistency is achieved, economic units enter into medium-term
agreements on supply, demand and investment intentions.  In case agrements
cannot be reached by the prescribed date, state bodies at the relevant level
are permitted to intervene, but only on a temporary basis.
Economic-Trends and Development Issues
6.       The economic development of Yugoslavia over the past two decades has
been impressive, characterized by rapid economic growth and structural
transformation. Between 1960 and 1981, GDP grew at an average annual rate of
5.5% in real terms. The share of investment in GDP has been higb throughout
the period, above 30% in most years. With population growth at about 1X per
annum, real per capita income more than doubled over this period. Per capita
GNP in 1982 is estimated to be US$2,840 at 1982 market prices. 1/ The past
three decades have also witnessed the growing integration of Yugoslavia into
the world economy. Between 1960 and 1981 merchandise exports and imports
grew by around 6Z and 81 per annum in real terms, respectively. However,
Yugoslavia's export performance to the industrial market economies showed
increasing weakness during the 1970s, particularly after 1973.
7.       While overall growth performance has been impressive, large regional
disparities persist. The Republics of Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia and
Montenegro, each with two-thirds of the national average per capita output,
and the Autonomous Province of Kosovo, with one-third, are officially
designated as less developed regions (LDR). The difference in per capita
output between the most developed region in the country, Slovenia, and the
least developed, Kosovo, is 6 to 1. These disparities reflect several
factors, notably the greater incidence of low productivity agriculture in the
LDR, their higher dependency ratios and their higher population growth rates,
which averaged 1.2% annually during 1971-81. Since 1965 concessional
investment credits have been granted to the LDR through the Federal Fund for
the Accelerated Development of the Less Developed Regions and, together with
supplementary resources for social sector expenditures from the Federal
budget, these resources account for about 10% of the social product of the
LDR.
8.       Since 1954, employment in the social sector has increased by around
4% per annum, facilitating rapid outflows from the agricultural sector.
Despite this very good record, substantial productivity and income
differentials remain between the modern (mainly social) and the traditional
(predominantly private) agricultural sectors. These differentials have
resulted in high demand for modern sector employment on the part of the rural
1/ According to World Bank Atlas methodology.



- 3 -
labor force. Large numbers of Yugoslavs have sought temporary employment
abroad since the late 1960s. At its peak in 1973 there were abour 1.1
million external migsants.  Since 1973, however, this trend has been
reversed, and returning migrants have added to the pressure on the social
sector to create new work places. Unemployment rates have risen rapidly from
about 7X in 1971 to over 12X in 1982. 1/ The incidence of unemployment is
highly regionalized; in 1982 unemploymdent rates ranged from 292 in Kosovo to
22 in Slovenia.
Recent Economic Developments
9.        Yugoslavia today faces perhaps its most difficult economic
situation since the upheavals which accompanied economic liberalization in
1965. In many respects the difficulties facing Yugoslavia are similar to
those facing most middle income developing countries: higber oil prices and
interest rates, sluggish world trade and more difficult access to
international commercial bank credit. The severity of Yugoslavia's economic
problems, however, also reflects structural deficiencies in the pattern of
Yugoslav development which became increasingly apparent in the seventies. In
response, the Government since 1980 has concentrated on stabilizing the
economy and bringing the balance of payments under control. The main
elements of the stabilization program introduced thus far have been
restrictive monetary and fiscal policies designed to curb investment and to
reduce inflationary pressure, and the more active use of exchange rate
policies to encourage exports. Increased reliance has also been placed on
more frequent interest rate adjustments and the Government has introduced
minimum or floor lending rates for banking system credits in most sectors,
with these rates being adjusted progressively to equal the rate of inflation
over a specified time horizon, which will differ by sector. At the same
time, imports have been scaled back in line with the revenues accruing from
export earnings and more limited foreign borrowing. Yugoslavia's
stabilization efforts have been supported by the IMF in the form of a
three-year SDRl,662 million stand-by arrangement which was in effect from
January 1981 to January 1984. Agreement on a one-year stand-by of SDR370
million was approved by the IMF in April.
10.       As a result of its stabilization efforts, Yugoalavia has succeeded
in bringing the current account of its balance of payments from a deficit of
$3.7 billion in 1979 to an estimated surplus of $274 million in 1983. Over
the same period, tbe current account with the convertible area has moved from
a deficit of $3.3 billion to an estimated surplus of $300 million. Export
trends have been erratic over the period, both in the aggregrate and as
between market areas, with, however, a strong showing in exports to the
convertible area in 1983. Apart from strict demand management policies, this
performance refLects a substantial realignment of the real exchange rate in
I/ These rates are not directly comparable to those in other countries.
They represent the ratio of registered job-seekers (including some
currently employed) to the social sector labor force. The ratio of
registered job seekers to the total resident labor force was about 9X in
1982.



- 4 -
1983, with a depreciation of approximately 25% against a basket of currencies
over the course of the year. Import levels have been cut in each year since
1979, such that the nominal value of imports in 1983 was 13% below its 1979
level, representing a real cut of approximately 31% over the period.
11.       Yugoslavia's economic growth has slowed markedly since 1979, when
GDP grew by 4,.2%. In 1980 it grew by 2.3%, in 1981 by 1.4%, and in 1982 by
0.8%. Current estimates are that GDP declined by about 1.3% in 1983.. This
reduction in growth is partly a result of the controls on domestic demand,
but also due to shortages of imported inputs. Mining and manufacturing
output has been particularly affected. There have been marked fluctuations
in agricultural output. After stagnating in 1980 agricultural value added
increased by 2.8% in 1981 and an estimated 7.4% in 1982. Fixed investment
has also fallen markedly. Whereas fixed investment increased at an average
rate of 9.52 between 1975 and 1979, it declined by more than 6.0% per year
between 1979 and 1982. Despite these slowdowns in investment and economic
growth, Yugoslavia has been able to continue creating jobs in the social
sector. Social sector employment increased by 3.2% in 1980, 2.9% in 1981 and
2.3% in 1982. Generally speaking, employment growth has continued to be most
rapid in the LDR, where the incidence of unemployment is more severe.
12.       One of the major goals of the government's stabilization program
has been to reduce the rate of inflation. Despite significant declines in
investment and real domestic demand, however, inflationary pressures have
continued. In 1980 and 1981 inflation accelerated to 30% and 38%
respectively. In an effort to bring inflation under control, the authorities
introduced temporary price ceilings on a wide range of goods in July 1982.
This policy met with only limited success, however. Retail prices increased
by 30% in 1982, and by about 58% in 1983. As a result, a temporary price
freeze was reimposed at the end of 1983. The persistence of inflation has
been due to a combination of factors. The efforts of the authorities to
restructure the pattern of relative prices to promote more efficient resource
allocation, stimulate agricultural production and rationalize energy use have
all put upward pressure on the price level. The increase in international
prices since 1979 and the cumulative effects of the substantial depreciation
of the dinar have also considerably increased domestic production costs.
Nominal personal income growth has also proved difficult to control, although
there have been significant reductions in real personal incomes (totalling
25%) since 1979.
13.       Yugoslavia's adjustment efforts have been complicated by adverse
developments in the international capital markets. Increases in prevailing
interest rates since 1979 helped push interest payments from $0.8 billion in
1979 to an estimated 92.2 billion in 1983. Principal repayments on
medium- and long-term debt were an estimated $2.7 billion in 1983. While
there is recognition of the magnitude of Yugoslavia's adjustment efforts, the
international commercial banks have tended to adopt a cautious position
toward increasing their exposure. This has partly been due to adverse
developments in other parts of the world and partly to liquidity problems
experienced by some Yugoslav banks. However, following the successful
conclusion of the 1983 and 1984 debt restructuring (para. 17), the



- 5 -
international commercial banks are expected to slowly return to limited
financial transactions with Yugoslavia, some of which may be in the form of
co-financing with the Bank.
Medium-Term Prospects
14.       In the second half of 1981, a special high level "Stabilization
Commission" was established to devise a framework of policy and institutions
to guide Yugoslavia's medium-term adjustment efforts. The final report of
the commission was issued in July 1983 and has been adopted by the Federal
Assembly. The commission's recommendations call for a decisive shift toward
a more open economy, export-led growth and increased resources to the export
sector through reductions in domestic demand and active exchange rate
policies; they also aim at a moderation in domestic inflation. The period
until 1985 is seen as a transitional phase, oriented to completing the most
critical of the ongoing investments and to abandoning those which are no
longer viable, with the aim of creating the basis for a different investment
cycle in the 1986-90 period. Even over the longer term the orientation is
toward increases in the productivity of factors of production and lower
investment and output growth than in the past, with a more sparing use of
external capital.
15.       Since slower growth will make it more difficult for the social
sector to generate additional employment, emphasis is on the development of
labor intensive activities, incLuding small-scale enterprises and the
increased use of shift work. Finally, the reduction of regional disparities
remains a major objective of Yugoslavia's economic planning. Financial
transfers between regions will play an important role in this process, with
stress on encouraging social sector enterprises in the more developed regions
(MDR) to make direct investments in the LDR. The initial experience with
such joint ventures is encouraging and a number of such projects have been
launched. They could make a significant contribution to the overall
efficiency of production within the LDR by facilitating the transfer of
techaological and managerial know-how within Yugoslavia.
Creditworthiness
16.       Traditionally, about three-quarters of the debt contracted by
Yugosiavia was provided in convertible currencies through commercial
sources. The bulk of this was in the form of suppliers' credits, although
financial credits from commercial banks were also of importance.  In response
both to unsettled conditions in international capital markets and to the
balance of payments difficulties faced by Yugoslavia, there was a significant
decline in commercial financial credits to Yugoslavia after 1980, and gross
medium- and long-term capital inflows declined sharply from $4.6 billion in
1980 to $2.3 billion in 1982. Total medium and long-term debt, outstanding
and disbursed, is estimated at $16.1 billion at the end of 1982, virtually
unchanged from 1981, while short-term debt at end-1982 stood at about $1.7
billion. During 1982, there was a substantial decline in foreign exchange
reserves, which at the end of the year amounted to $1.7 billion, or rougbly



one month of imports of goods and services. Taking account of gross workers'
remittances, the debt-service ratio averaged 16% between 1976 and 1981, while
the debt-service ratio in convertible currencies averaged 19Z over the sam
period. In 1982 the estimated aggregate debt service ratio climbed to 22Z.
reflecting the increase in interest payments on floating rate debt, and the
decline in exports. Similarly, the debt service ratio on convertible
currency debt rose to 28% in the same year.
17.       In light of the depleted reserves position, the thin pipeline of
financial credits, the depleted stocks of imports, the liquidity problesc
encountered by some Yugoslav banks in 1982 and the consequent unwillingness
of commercial lenders to maintain their exposure on a voluntary basis, a
major multipartite financing effort involving certain OECD countries,
international commercial banks and the BIS was launcbed in early 1983 to
assist Yugoslavia in maintaining orderly debt repayment. Agreement was
reacbed on a 'oreign assistance package amounting to about $4 billion in
gross medium- and long-term commitments and in the deferment of maturities on
short-term debt coming due in 1983 to 1985. A similar exercise for 1984, on
a smaller scale, has been concluded. While Yugoslavia's liquidity situation
may remain difficult in the near-term, both the aggregate and the convertible
currency debt service ratios are expected to decline somewhat over the next
few years. Given its past d--bt servicing record, pragmatism, and
demonstrated capacity to implem±ent firm stabilization policies when these are
called for, Yugoslavia remains creditworthy for a substantial leveL of Bank
lending_
PART 1t - BANK GiOUP OPERATEONS IN YUGOSLAVIA 1/
18.       The proposed loan would be the 85th made to Yugoslavia by the Bank
totalling about S4,149.3 million, net of cancellations. Approximately 32Z
(C1,340.4 million) of the total has been for 24 loans in the transportation
sector--12 for highways, 8 for railways, 2 for ports, and one each for a
natural gas pipeline and an oil pipeline. In addition to the transportation
loans, there have been seven for power, six for water supply and sewerage,
three multipurpose loans (two of which include substantial irrigation
components), and one for telecommunications. To beLp increase productivity
and production, in recent years, Bank lendiag has increasingly focused on the
agriculture sector for which 18 loans, totalling about ¢1,110.9 million (27%
of the total), have been made. Twenty-one loans, amounCing to about $535.7
million (about 13Z of the total) have also been made for industry with the
aim of augmenting overall value added and opportunities for employment. Two
loans were made for tourism and tne first Bank loan for air pollution control
was approved in 1976. A first SAL of $275 million was made to Yugoslavia in
June 1983.
11 Part II is substantially unchanged from Part II of the President's Report
for the Fertilizer Sector Loan (Report No. P-3773-YU, dated April 13,
1984, presented to the Board on May 8, 1984.



19.       Due to the shortage of local funds arising from financial con-
straints, Yugoslavia's disbursement performance deteriorated somewhat in
1981. Following a subsequent implementation review of the whole loan port-
folio with Borrowers, project execution accelerated.  Yugoslavia's performance
now compares favorably with Bank-wide averages. Annex II contains a su ary
statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of Marcb 31, 1984.
20.       Tte interrelated objectives which the Bank has pursued recently in
its Lending to Yugoslavia are to: (i) expand exports and improve the
efficiency of import substitution; (ii) enhance the effectiveness of domestic
investment with a view to increasing production with the more limited
financial resources available; (iii) improve access to capical markets; and
(iv) reduce unemployment, particularly in the LDR. Not every Bank operation
can address all these objectives nor be entirely oriented towards the LDR,
but a basic thrust of the Bank's activities in Yugoslavia continues to be
toward their development. Given the complexity of the Yugoslav system
(paras. 3-5), however, the process of evolving acceptable solutions to policy
problems is cumbersome. As a result, the Bank bas concentrated its lending
operations in areas where its institutional and policy coordination impact is
expected to be greater. Accordingly, a sbift to more program, sector, and
SAP operations, as with the FY83 SAL (Loan 2326-YU) bas occurred to belp
consolidate and strengthen policy and institutional changes critical to
Yugoslavia's long-term structural development, whiLe at the same time
assisting the Government to overcome its immediate foreign exchange needs.
In addition to the SAL, SAP lending to Yugoslavia to date includes a
supplemental loan for the Middle Seretva Project (Loan 1561-1-YU) and the
recently approved Fertilizer Sector Loan, as well as increased disbursement
percentages for the Tenth and Eleventh Highway Projects (Loans 1678-YU and
1819-YT, respectively), and for the Montenegro Earthquake Rebabilitationr-Port
of Bar Project (Loan 1768-YU).
21.       A persistent foreign resource gap looms as the major impediment to
Yugoslavia's ability to maintain its growtb momentum and to address the
critical issues of unemployment and regional disparities. The Bank bas
helped attract additional sources of credit through co-financing arrangements
and the establishment of new banking relationships for Yugoslavia. The Bank
intends to continue its emphasis on increased cofinancing, recognizing,
however, the commercial market constraints that Yugoslavia faces. Until this
problem is overcome, the Bank is likely to remain the principal source of
long-term external capital.
22.       Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank in 1982 amounted to about 10.5Z of
its total debt outstanding and disbursed and this ratio is expected to remain
fairly stable. Service on Bank loans as a proportion of total debt service
was 6.6Z in 19S2 and is projected to be about 10X by 1986.
23.       IFC started its involvement in Yugoslavia in 1970; since then, IFC
has made 19 investments in the country and, as of March 31, 1984, IFC's
portfolio amounted to $358.3 million gross and $165.6 million net of
participation and repayments. The basic objectives of LFC in Yugoslavia are
to: (a) assist priority subsectors in industry and natural resources
development; (b) encourage foreign investment on a joint venture basis; (c)
foster technological transfers; and (d) mobilize other financial resources in
addition to IFC's own funds.



- 8 -
PART II --THE-AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture -in Yugoslavia
24.       In Yugoslavia, the share of agriculture in social product and
employment bas declined steadily in the post-war period due generally to a
rapidly declining rural population and policy and structural deficiencies in
the agricultural production process. It nov contributes about 12% of the
country's social product, and engages about 30% of the country's active
population. In addition, increasing demand for food and agricultural
products bas outstripped local production tbereby requiring increased imports
and creating additional demands on the country's balance of payments.
Agriculture exports have declined, witb their sbare in total export earnings
dropping from 13% in 1976 to 11Z in 1981. Yec the country bas a large
agricultural resource base, and its favorable climatic conditions have
fostered the growth of a well-diversified agricultural sector with
significant potential for future development. About 83Z of agricultural Land
is owned and operated by nearly 2.6 million individual farmers, making
agriculture the only predominantly privately-owned sector of the economy.
Witb an average family bolding of around 3.2 ha and possessing about 95% of
the total agricultural labor force, the individual sector accounts fer about
85% of maize production, 60Z of wheat, 75% of vegetables, and owns about 90Z
of all livestock. The balance is produced by Yugoslavia's social sector.
25.       With Yugoslavia's major emphasis to date on the social sector
agrokombinats as the principal means to achieve large-scale production and
self-sufficiency in food, social sector agricultural production grew at 5.4X
annually over the past decade, compared to 1.2% for the individual sector.
Altbough social sector growtb has been impressive in absolute terms,
production efficiency is generally low, because of over-investment,
over-employment and bigh overhead costs, weak financial discipline, and
outdated technologies in some areas. On the other hand, individual
agricultural holdings received scant attention during the seventies. Linkage
between the two sectors is provided through agricultural cooperatives
(Zadrugas) whicb associate with individual farmers tbrougb sbort or long-term
production and marketing contracts. Cooperatives sell inputs to the
agrokombinats and buy agricultural outputs from farmers cooperating in their
area of operation while providing farm machinery services, technical advice,
and credit to member farmers. The repayment of the credit is largely ensured
through the sale of the produce. Only about half of Yugoslavia's farmers are
in some form of cooperation with the social sector.
26.       For the Plan period 1981-1985 the Government iatends to improve
primary production to satisfy domestic demand; generate surplus production to
promote agricultural exports; modernize, reconstruct and improve efficiency
in existing agroindustry facilities; and utilize currently unused and
abandoned lands through land reclamation and social sector purchase. The
growth of agricultural output had been targeted at 4.5% per year, with social
sector growth planned for 6Z and the individual sector 42 per year.
Agriculture is also expected to play an important role in reducing the
deficit in the balance of payments, with exports expected to grow at an
annual rate of 10% by the end of the Plan, and agricultural imports to be
reduced by 5% per year. Despite some respite in 1981 with production



increasing 7Z over the preceding year, exports bave shown no improvement and
for 1983, agricultural imports were high at about 1.4 million tons. As a
result, agricultural growth rates have been revised downwards and henceforth
will be prepared on an annual basis. At the same time, the Government's
Stabilization Commission on "A Long-Term Program of Agroindustrial
Production", highlights the following as major contributors to poor
performance: (a) low efficiency of the social sector; (b) insufficiene
investment in the individual sector and an imbalance towards capital
intensive social sector agro-processing; (c) inadequately developed
institutional arrangements, services and inpL_s for the individual sector,
including restricted credit access for individual farmers; (d) the small size
and fragmentation of individual sector holdings; and (e) poorly developed
extension services for the individual sector.
27.       The Socialist Republic of Montenegro is amongst Yugoslavia's least
developed areas with a per capita income in 1982 of $2270, about 80% of the
national average. Located in the southwest of Yugoslavia, it is
distinguished by highly mountainous terrain representing about 85Z of its
land area. Out of the total estimated population in 1983 of 503,651, 27Z are
farm families. While from 1971 to 1981 population in Montenegro increased by
1% per year (compared to a national growth of about 0.8%), the agricultural
population decreased from 185,000 to 158,000. Rapid rural migration has
caused serious bottlenecks and labour shortages in certain rural areas of the
Republic despite high overall unemploymenc in Montenegro.
28.       During 1971-1981, Montenegro's agricultural sector grew annually at
about 1.7%. Montenegro accounts for less than 5% of Yugoslavia's total
agricultural land, and it contributed only about 1.4Z of its agricultural
social product during this period. Indeed, the depressed incomes in
agriculture are one of the main reasons for income differentials between
Montenegro and Yugoslavia as a whole. Of Montenegro's total area of 1.4
million hectares, only 13Z is agricultural land, while forests account for
4LZ and natural grassland for 24%. Individual farmers own about 94Z of the
agricultural land, 46% of the grassland and 34Z of the forests. The total
320,000 hectares of agricultural and pasture land owned by the individual
sector is divided into about 58,000 bouseholds, whose boldings, due to the
mountainous terrain are highly fragmented. There is considerable potential
for agricultural development in Montenegro, particularly with regard to
livestock, forestry, and the provision of basic inputs for crop development.
Mechanization is also relatively scarce with only about one tractor per 141
hectares of agricultural land.
29.       Montenegro's 1981-1985 Social Plan projected an agricultural growth
rate of about 4.0X annually, and despite on-going revisions to the Republic's
investment allocations arising from liquidity constraints, the authorities
have indicated that agriculture's proportional share will be slightly
increased over the original plan allocation of 10%. The major factors
constraining production are: (a) low productivity in the individual sector
due largely to a lack of critical inputs such as services, modern farming
technology and credit; and (b) inefficiencies in the social sector due to
poor financial management, outdated technology, and uneconomic investments.
To deal with these problems, the Government's Plan proposes to encourage



- 10 -
increased cooperation between the individual and social sectors by better
serving the needs of small farmers, strengtbening the links between them and
the social sector, and improving the efficiency and responsiveness of social
sector organizations to respond to the needs of small farmers.
Bank Investment in Yugoslavia's Agricultural Sector
30.       In recent years, the Bank's leading strategy for Yugoslavia-.as
given increased importance to the agricultural sector. To accelerate
agricultural growth, the Bank assisted in formulating the 1973 "Green Plan",
a comprehensive framework for agricultural development which, for the first
time, emphasized the need to support the individual farm sector in the
country's least developed Republics. Bank lending is also pursuing ways to
increase the accessibility to services and inputs for all incividual farmers,
including those unwilling to sign delivery contracts with the social sector.
Investments in selected agro-industries in the social sector which serve as
the marketing cbannels for farm production are also being financed under Bank
loans. This strategy has recognized the need to use investment to promote a
more equitable income distribution, both nationally and at the Republic
level, by raising the incomes of the rural poor and alleviating rural-urban
migration. In support of the economic restructuriag effort in Yugoslavia,
Bank lending is also increasingly emphasizing institutional and policy
initiatives with a sectoral significance, such as pricing, investmenr
selection, financial management and strengthening the development orientation
and institutional capacity of the banking system. The Bank is supporting a
series of in-depth studies of agricultural development issues. Recently, a
study of agroindustry development was completed, and this study will in part
form the basis for revisions of Yugoslavia's agricultural program through
1985 and beyond. The Bank is also engaged witb tbe Yugoslavs in a joint
study of primary agricultural production, from which future Bank lending is
expected to draw.
Performance Under Previous World Bank Agricultural Projects in Montenegro
31.       The Montenegro Regional Development Project would represent the
nineteenth Bank loan for agriculture in Yugoslavia, totalling about t1158.25
million or about 27% of all Bank loans to Yugoslavia. Since 1973, Montenegro
has received one direct Bank loan of t26 million for agriculture for the
Montenegro Agriculture and Agricultural Industries Project (1370-YU), and a
total of $10.4 million under three nationwide agricultural credit projects.
Both the former (1370-YU) and the first of the credit projects were
successfully completed on schedule, although the investor under 1370-YU
experienced difficulties in servicing its outstanding debt during the initial
years between project completion and achievement of full development. The
situation has been improving with the investor, making a serious effort to
reduce production costs and obtain lucrative export contracts. The second
(1477-YU) and third (1801-YU) credit projects, initially experienced delayed
implementation due to effects of the stabilization measures taken by the
federal authorities. The effects of these measures have now to some extent



- 11 -
been overcome, with the Bank exempt from a number of them. For example, the
Federal and Republican authorities in 1983 exempted Bank financed imports
from restrictive measures imposed by the stabilization program and Bank
financed projects from local credit ceilings. Under the third credit
project, therefore, funds for the individual and social sectors are rare 100%
committed witb about 50X either disbursed or contracts signed with
suppliers. At the same time, the financial difficulties of IBT, the proposed
borrower, as well as other major investors in the Republic, are being dealt
witb through a comprehensive program to reinforce appraisal standards and
financial management included under the ongoing seventh Industrial Credit
Project (2340-YU) and the proposed project.
32.       The principal lessons learned from Baak agricultural lending in
Montenegro to date, and particularly from the completed First Agricultural
Credit Project (1129-YU), include the need for: (a) improving sub-project
appraisal and supervision; (b) facilitating access to inputs and credit for
individual farmers; (c) strengthening support services for the individual
sector; and (d) improving investor management and stressing the development
role of the Associated and Basic Banks. The proposed project seeks to
address these issues.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Objectives and Description
33.       The proposed project, identified by a Bank mission in January 1980,
was prepared by FAO/CP and appraised in June 1983. Negotiations were held in
Washington in April, 1984. The Yugoslav Delegatinn was led by Mr. Pbilip
Ognjenovic, President, Committee for Agriculture, Socialist Republic of
Montenegro. A Staff Appraisal Report, Montenegro Regional Development
Project No. 4856-YU, dated June 27, 1984, is being circulated separately to
the Executive Directors. The main features of the loan and project are given
in the Loan and Project Summary. Annex III summarizes key events and special
conditions of the project.
34.       The proposed project will involve 18 of Montenegro's 20 communes,
10 of which are among the poorest in the Republic. The project will cover
about 175,000 ha, 95 percent of the Republic's total agricultural land area,
and about 58,000 households. The investments would increase output and rural
incomes as well as improve the Republic's institutional and policy base in
agriculture through more rational investment alLocation, improved
organization and financial management of the Borrower and sub-borrowers, and
expansion of credit and support services for individual farmers. For the
first time in Yugoslavia, a specified amount of credit would be made
available to farmers without the requirement that they enter into a marketing
contract with social sector enterprises.
35.       The project would consist of an integrated set of investments
financed largely through a credit program. These would include:
(a) Primary Production for the Individual Sector: Sub-loans to
about 7000 individual farmers for (i) livestock development for 5800 farmers
involving 600 dairy and 600 sheep farms, 2700 ha of meadows, 600 ha of maize
silage, procurement of 1200 dairy in-calf heifers and 120 bee operations;



- 12 -
(ii) farm mechanization involving the provision of 500 35 h.p. tractors and
motorcultivators; (iii) handicraft development for about 540 persons allowing
for production of a wide variety of fabrics; (iv) fruit and berry production
on about 120 ha total covering about 200 farms; (v) olive tree revitalization
of 60 ha of old trees on about 100 farms; (vi) winter and early spring
vegetable production involving about 33 households; (vii) trout production
for about 20 individual farmers on a pilot basis in collaboration with
existing social sector fish farms.
(b) Primary Production for the Social Sector: Sub-loans for
(i) forestry development to finance construction and reconstruction of access
roads to open up about 46,600 ha of presently inaccessible forest; equipment,
vehicles, new forest plantings and regeneration on about 6,150 ha of land,
experimental conifer plantations, research and training; (ii) fruit
production including apple, pear, pomegranate, with irrigation facilities;
and (iii) trout production.
(c) Support Services and Infrastructure: Sub-loans for (i) the
extension service to provide vehicles and equipment in support of the
proposed increase in the current number of agents from 26 to 58; (ii)
agricultural researcb support in the Agricultural Institute in Titograd and
the Rasovo Fruit Research Station near Bijelo Polje; Ciii) vocational
training througb the construction and establishment of a vocational training
and demonstration farm center near Bijelo Polje in which participating
farmers would undergo training; (iv) veterinary services; (v) 40 new milk
collection stations to be built and operated by 18 different Work
Organizations; (vi) establishment of 20 cooperative centers to serve as the
link between the social and individual sectors; and (vii) a program of
improvements for 190 km of existing local roads and future road maintenance.
(d) Rehabilitation and Modernization of ArSeven
sub-projects which include investments in (i) machinery and equipment for an
existing feed mill; and (ii) a dairy plant; (iii) the relocation and
reconstruction of an existing slaughterbouse in Titograd; (iv) the
rehabilitation and modernization of an existing slaughterhouse in Bijelo
Poije; (v) expansion of a fruit processing plant; (vi) a medicinal herbs
plant; and (vii) the establishment of a small rural cheese plant. In all
cases, the sub-projects will benefit from a readily available raw material
supply and excellent market opportunities.
(e) Institutional Development: (i) strengthening of IBT's loan
processing, appraisal, and supervision capacity; (ii) carrying ouc a study of
two selected Work Organizations, to provide an organizational and management
assessment of typical social sector enterprises; (iii) training in cost
accounting, budget control and export marketing for senior financial and
marketing staff of participating enterprises; and (iv) training, transport
and equipment for research and project implementation.



- 13 -
Project Organization and Implementation
36.      Institutional Arrangements:  Investiciona Banka Titograd-Udruzena
Banka (IBT) will be the Borrower under the Project, and will have primary
responsibility for implementing the farm credit program and administering
sub-loans to sub-borrowers responsible for the other project components. It
will share responsibility for supervision and monitoring of sub-project
implementation with a Project Unit, established within Montenegro's
Agroeconomic Institute. The Project Unit would be responsible for assisting
the sub-borrowers in the technical supervision of project implementation and
coordination of all technically related activities in liaison with all
implementing organizations, the Republic authorities, and IBT. In the same
way, a separate unit within the Forestry Technical Institute would be
responsible for implementation of the forestry component. Establishment of
both units would be conditions of effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section
7.01(b), (c)). For the purpose of carrying out their responsibilities under
the project, IBT would, under Subsidiary Loan Agreements, relend a portion of
the Bank loan proceeds to the Forestry Technical Institute and to the
Agroeconomic Institute, on terms and conditions approved by the Bank (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.01(c), (d) and (e)). Execution of these Subsidiary Loan
Agreements would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Loan Agreement,
Section 7.01(d)). To spell out their obligations in detail, the
sub-borrowers and implementing organizations involved in the project would
sign a Project Self-Management Agreement. Receipt of a final signed
agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, would also be a condition of
effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(a)). The terms of reference and
staffing requirements for the two Units described above were agreed to during
negotiations (Project Agreement, Sections 2.01(b) and (c)).
37.      All the organizations involved in project implementation would be
linked through the Project Coordinating Council (PCC). The Council would
provide general guidance, planning and regional coordination, approve annual
financing plans, assist in mobilizing channels of financial resources, and
resolve major issues. To be chaired by the Deputy President of the
Republic's Committee for Agriculture, the Council would include the Borrower
and representatives of all investors, the Agro-community, the Secretariat for
Finance, the Committee for Agriculture and Forestry, the Institute for
Development Planning, the Economic Chamber, the Cooperative Federation, SOUR
SIK-Crna Gora and the Community of Interest for Roads. Establishment of the
PCC with Executive Boards would be a condition of effectiveness (Loan
Agreement, Section 7.01(a)).
38.      Under the guarantee of the Federal Republic, IBT would implement the
credit program through its basic banks in the project area. IBT is the
dominant banking institution in Montenegro, yet it has in the past lacked a
strong development orientation, having an inadequate system for sub-loan
identification and processing, particularly for individual farmers. To
remedy this, the recent Seventh Industrial Credit Project (Loan 2340-YU)
seeks to strengthen the bank's development role and impact through the
implementation of a plan of action arising from a study of IBT's
institutional structure and loan portfolio. This plan includes inter alia
strengthening the WorLd Bank  Unit within IBT, and improving project
appraisal and supervision through training and the development of an



- 14 -
effective Management Information System. The proposed project would seek to
complement and extend this effort.
39.      IBT, with its 14 basic banks, is the primary channel in Montenegro
for disbursing proceeds from the Federal Funds (FNP) as well as being
responsible for mobilizing financial resources from foreign sources and
handling the foreign exchange portions of investment projects. To extend
IBT's impact and improve access to credit for all individual farmers,
(i) $2.0 miLlion of the proposed Loan has been allocated for or-lending to
individual farmers who have no marketing contract for the investment project
to be implemented under the sub-loan (Loan Agreement, Section 1.02(s) and
Schedule 1); and (ii) as a condition of loan effectiveness, IBT will appoint
an Agricultural Credit Officer in each basic bank participating in the
project (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(e)). These Credit Officers, in
collaboration with the Work Organizations and the Project Unit, would be
responsible for assisting in the identification, preparation, appraisal and
supervision of all individual sector sub-loans. In order to deal with the
lack of in-house training in IBT and to ensure training for the Credit
Officers, IBT has designated a full time Training Coordinator to prepare a
comprehensive staff training program to be submitted to the Bank for review
by January 1, 1985 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06).
40.      Prior to approving them, IBT will; : i) submit to the Bank for
approval, the forestry research and investment plans for the proposed
experimental silvicultural plantations, (ii) submit to the Bank for approval,
comprehensive appraisals of the proposed pomegranate plantation and social
sector trout farm sub-projects; (iii) sdbmit to the Bank for approval,
detailed programs and investment plans covering four years, for livestock,
veterinary research, and for the vocational training and demonstration center
sub-projects; (iv) confirm to the Bank that the existing slaugbterhouse in
Titograd will be closed down upon completion of the new one; (v) limit the
maximum investment per cow space in individual sector dairy sub-projects to
the equivalent of US$1,250; (vi) ensure that investments for livestock
development in the individual sector yield a minimum ERR of 12% by updating
annually the farm models; and (vii) in the case of a subloan to a
non-contracting individual farmer, ensure that the total amount outstanding
of all loans to such farmer does not exceed US$10,000 equivalent. IBT will
also ensure that all social sector investments have minimum financial rates
of return (FRR) of 12% or 15% (depending on the type of project) and (except
for infrastructure and support services investments) a minimum economic rate
of return (ERR) of 122. Similarly, all sub-loans to individual farmers will
have minimum financial rates of return between 12Z -20X depending on the type
of sub-project (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, Part A). It was also agreed that
the free limit for sub-loans under the Project would be US$l million.
41.      In order to avoid any adverse effects from investments in the same
sub-sectors outside the project scope, during the project period IBT has
agreed to inform the Bank prior to taking a final decision on future
agro-industry investments (Loan Agreement. Section 4.02).
42.      As with all banks in Yugoslavia, IBT does not operate to maximize
profits, but rather to provide services and earn income adequate to cover
expenses. Its largest financial source has remained long-term borrowing from



- 15 -
federal and provincial special funds, and from the Bank and other foreign
banks. The debt/equity ratio increased from 27:1 in 1980 to 30.1:1 in 1982,
due mainly to an increase of loans from the Federal and Republic funds.
Excluding these borrowings, the debt/equity ratio in 1982 was 24:1. As of
December 31, 1983, IBT reported arrears of about Dinars 4.5 billion (in its
principal) 65 percent of which was linked to 18 major social sector
enterprises. With a recently approved emergency mediumrterm loan from the
Government to the 18 enterprises, these arrears will be liquidated by the
end-1987. The loan, which is administered by IBT, is conditional upon the
enterprises accepting long-term rehabilitation programs which would ensure
that there is little likelihood of recurring arrears in the future. To
ensure this, repayment schedules for the period 1984-1987 for the 18
enterprises in question were confirmed with the Bank during negotiations.
IBT's liquidity is considered acceptable by the National Bank of Yugoslavia,
by its auditors and by the Bank.
43.      Implementation.  Project investments would be made througb sub-loans
from IBT to about 45 participating organizations including 24 social sector
agricultural production, service and food processing enterprises; 3 farmers
cooperatives; 14 Work Organizations in forestry production; and 4 comnunaL
Work Organizations concerned with local road improvement and maintenance. In
addition, about 7000 individual farmers are expected to participate in the
primary production component of the project. All investments would be
committed over a period of four years, witb implementation completed by the
end of 1989.
44.      With regard to the local roads component, it was agreed during
negotiations that IBT will only enter into subloans under this component
after an agreement is obtained with the participating communes
(i) designating suitable organizations in the commune to be the sub-borrowers
for the road improvement subloan and for the road maintenance equipment
subloan and to carry ouc the road maintenance program; and (ii) providing
evidence of adequate funds for road construction and maintenance, and that
the first such agreement between the Borrower and a commune would be made
available to the Bank for review and comment before it is finalized, and used
as a model for future agreements (Loan Agreement, Section 3.05(a) and (b)).
45.      The Agro Economic Institute, with the help of internationally
recruited consultants selected in accordance with Bank guidelines, would
undertake a study to improve the institutional efficiency of social sector
investors (para. 35(e)). It would: (i) engage consultants no later than
January 1, 1985; and (ii) submit the study to the Bank no later than June 30,
1985 (Project Agreement, Sections 2.02 and 2.08(b)). At the same time, some
250 man/months of training would be arranged in the fields of financial
management and export marketing for the financial and marketing managers of
the participating social sector enterprises. The Agro Economic Institute
will prepare course outlines and an implementation schedule for this
training, and submit them to the Bank for approval by April 1, 1985 (Project
Agreement, Section 2.08(a)). At the same time, for the Forestry
sub-component, the Forestry Technical Institute wiLl submit to the Bank by
January 1, 1985 a detailed plan for fellowships and training both in
Yugoslavia and abroad of about 134 man/months (Project Agreement, Section
2.07). The project will provide a total of about 384 man-months of training.



- 16 -
Project-Monitoring and Evaluation
46.      In addition to monitoring of the project's technical aspects by the
Project and Forestry Units, IBT would also monitor project implementation
through field supervision of subprojects and through review of key financial
indicators. IBT will prepare semi-annual reports and provide them to the
Bank at six month intervals. They will also continuously evaluate the impact
of investments under the project and collect and analyze data on costs,
benefits, and the financial viability of investments, and submit evaluation
reports to the Bank no later than three months after the end of each year
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.03(b)). A mid-term review of the project
including a re-estimate of project costs will also be carried out by mid-1987
by the Borrower in consultation with the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section
3.03(c)).
Accounts and Audits
47.      IBT would maintain and cause the participating basic banks, to
maintain separate accounts for the project. IBT, the Agroeconomic Institute,
and the Forestry Technical Institute, will have their accounts audited by the
Social Accounting Service of Yugoslavia (SDK) in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles, and submit these to the Bank within six months of the
close of each fiscal year (Loan Agreement, Section 5.02; Project Agreement
Section 4.02). The auditors would also give a separate opinion as to the
adequacy of IBT's accounting system and internal controls. At the same time,
IBT agreed to require the social sector investors to have their accounts and
financial statements audited for each fiscal year in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles, and to have them submitted annually to IBT
(Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, Part B(4)(g)).
Project Cost and Financing Plan
48.      Total financial requirements, including working capital, physical
and price contingencies, the front-end fee and interest during construction,
are estimated at $US77.9 million, of whiich US$40.0 million, or 51%, would be
the foreign exchange component. Unit costs are based on April 1984 dinar
estimates. Details of the project cost estimates are shown in the Loan and
Project Summary. Average physical contingencies of IO of base cost, and
price contingencies of 17% of base cost plus physical contingencies, have
been included. The proposed Bank loan of US$40 million would finance 100% of
the foreign exchange costs. It would include US$0.10 million capitalized
front-end fee. By January 31 of each year and beginning in 1985, the
Borrower will prepare and submit to the Bank an updated schedule of estimated
expenditures in Dinars, taking into account the effects of inflation on costs
along with a related financing plan. (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04). The
Bank loan would be made to IBT for 15 years, including 3 years of grace. IBT
would on-lend part of the proceeds to sub-borrowers in accordance with the
terms and conditions described in para. 49. An adjustable repayment schedule
would be used for these sub-loans. The balance of the loan would be repaid
on the basis of a fixed amortization schedule.



- 17 -
On-Lending Terms -and Conditions
49.      It was agreed that under the project, both the agro-industrial
subprojects and the individual sector sub-borrowers would be expected to meet
specified criteria including minimum rate of return and cash flow
requirements, as a condition of eligibility for a sub-loan from IiT (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 5, Part A(2). The terms of the sub-loans will be based
on cash flow projections for each investment. Repayment of sub-loans would
not exceed 15 years, including a grace period of 3 to 5 years of grace
depending on the investment. All individual sector and social sector
sub-borrowers would normally contribute not less than 20 percent of total
investment costs in either cash, kind or labor (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5,
Part B(l)). In accordance with Yugoslav law, proceeds from the Federal Fund
for the Accelerated Development of the Less-Developed Republics and Provinces
(FNP) would, where necessary, be treated as part of sub-borrowers'
contributions.
Interest-Rates
50.      In accordance with the Government's decision to have interest rates
play a more important role in resource mobilization and allocation,
agreements reached in the context of the first SAL reflect the Government's
medium-term objective of introducing over time a structure of positive real
interest rates by gradually adjusting nominal rates upward while concurrently
attempting to reduce inflation. Government anti-inflationary measures, while
consistent with agreements reached with the IMF, have not, bowever, been
successful so far in reducing inflation and the rise in the producer price
index went from 32% in 1982 to about 55% in 1983. To ensure positive real
rates of interest, and in accordance with the understandings under the first
SAL, a new mechanism for annual adjustments of the interest rate on locally
intermediated funds took effect May 1, 1984. Such adjustments are designed
to result in minimum interest rates for bank investment credit to social
sector agro-industries reaching positive real levels withiu the next three
years, with minimum rates for a limited number of high priority exemptions
sucb as primary production in agriculture, reaching positive levels over five
years. Concurrently, interest rates on selected categories of time deposits
are also being adjusted to reach positive levels by April 1985, in agreement
with the IMF. Commercial banks will adjust their actual lending rates as
needed to ensure full coverage of their interest costs. Local funds utilized
in the project would therefore be on-lent for primary prodaction at a minimum
of about 25.4Z in 1984. Similarly, Bank funds would be on-lent to individual
sector farmers at the same rate (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, Part B(2)).
Because these farmers are in Yugoslavia's lowest income group, the foreign
exchange and variable interest rate risks for individual borrowers will be
carried by the Republic of Montenegro. Local funds to agro-industries and
for support services and infrastructure would be on-lent at a minimum of
30.3% in 1984. For Bank funds to the social sector, the prevailing Bank
variable rate would be charged, plus a 1.25% spread for IBT. Based on the
current Bank rate of 10.08%, the effective interest rate to the social sector
on Bank funds would be 11.33%. The social sector sub-borrowers will carry
the foreign exchange risk, bringing the real cost of Bank funds close to that
of international commercial sources, taking into account the currency pooling
system and current international lending rates. As for Federal Funds, since



- 18 -
they are derived tbrough obligatory contributions from enterprises to meet
specific social objectives, and their mobilization is inelastic to interest
rate changes, their cost in Montenegro is fixed by Yugoslav law at 6.5X.
Markets -and Prices
51.      Market prospects for the primary and the processed products under
the project are excellent. Although the majority of goods produced would be
for consumption within the Republic, there is opportunity to expand exports
of fresh and canned meat, frozen fruits and medicinal herbs and oils,
particularly to the Middle East and selected European countries. Market
channels in Montenegro are reasonably well developed, with a strong private
market, particularly for fruit, vegetables, cheese, lamb and meat products,
existing alongside the social sector market system. Although agricultural
prices are being addressed at the Federal level through the first SAL, to
monitor price moveinents and their effects on proposed investments, IBT would
amend the minimum FRR criteria for sub-loan approval, by annually updating
investment models following annual price changes as decreed by Government.
Procurement and Disbursement
52.      Procurement for (i) agroindustry equipment (about US&4.1 millica);
(ii) a turnkey contract for the Titograd slaughterhouse (about US$2.1
miLlion); (iii) forestry and road equipment tabout US$7.3 million); and
(iv) vehicles for support services and infrastructure (USt0.3 million),
totalling about US$13.8 million would be carried out through International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines.  Qualified
domestic manufacturers would be allowed a preference of 15Z or the applicable
customs duty, whichever is lower. Pure bred breeding stock, nets for
collecting olives, and equipment for the feed mill, dairy and cheese plants
(about US$3.7 million) would be procured tbrough Limited International
Bidding (LIE). Contracts for: (i) equipment for milk collection stations
and cooperative centers (about UStO.8 million); (ii) utilities equipment for
the agroindustries (about US$0.3 million); (iii) livestock, small tractors,
motor cultivators, farm macbinery, handicraft equipment (about US$13.5
million), would be procured using Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. Under primary production, materials and supplies
for livestock housing, fish pond construction and horticultural
infrastructure (about US$22.1 million) would be procured through direct
purchase. Civil works for agro-industry, support services and
infrastructure, amounting to about US*l8.7 million would also be carried out
under LCB procedures, as vill subproject design, engineering and supervision
services (US$l.l million). Under LCB, foreign bidders will have the
opportunity to participate since both Yugoslav and foreign manufacturers
maintain established market positions with adequate competition to ensure
competitive prices. Some 8 man-months of internationally recruited
consultancy services would be obtained in accordance with Bank guidelines,
costing about US$10,000 per man month including salaries, travel, overhead
and related fees. Total procurement under this project is estimated at about
US$74.63 million and is expected to result in about 55 contracts.  Of these,
about 16 ICB and LIB contracts, amounting to roughly US$18.1 million, would
be subject to the Bank's prior review (see Annex III, Section IV).



- 19 -
53.      Following appraisal, expenditures were undertaken to finalize and
reduce in scope the seven agroindustrial proposals, through preparation of
designs, specifications and documentation. In order to maintain this
momentum in project preparation and implementation, expenditures for these
activities up to an amount of US$0.8 million, as well as similar activities
on the cooperative centers, milk collection points and forest and local
roads, incurred after May 26, 1983, would be eligible for retroactive
financing (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, Para. 4).
54.      Disbursement of the Bank loan would extend over 6.0 years and be
made as follows: (a) for subloans to individual farmers, 100% of foreign
expenditures and 50% of local expenditures; (b) for sub-loans for
agroindustry and social sector primary production, support services and
infrastructure and for project management items, 100% of foreign expenditures
and 40% of local expenditures; and (c) for sub-loans for institutional
development involving technical assistance and training, 100% of total
expenditures. In order to avoid tying up scarce foreign exchange while
withdrawal requests are being processed by the Bank, it was agreed that a
revolving fund, in the form of a special foreign exchange account, would be
established by IBT. The initial deposit would be US$2.0 million from the
Bank loan. At the same time, to ensure the prompt availability of local
funds for the project, it was agreed to establish, as part of the revolving
fund, a special local account, with an initial deposit of Dinar 83 million
(about US$0.7 million equivalent) (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(b)). Opening
of these accounts is a condition of effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section
7.01). Disbursements would be supported by full documentation in the case of
foreign expenditures. For all other expenditures, the Bank would disburse
against Statements of Expenditure.
Benefits and Risks
55.      General:  Project benefits would derive from: {i) improved
productivity and incomes of individual farmers through investments in primary
production; (ii) strengthening of infrastructure formed around social sector
enterprises providing essential services to the farmer; (ii) increased
output thrcugh greater efficiency in processing of primary agricultural
products; (iv) development of forestry resources and a reforestatior/
afforestation program; and (v) strengthening of development institutions in
the Republic. Though most of the incremental production due to the project
would be used to satisfy domestic needs, part of the incremental processed
output would be exported, resulting in foreign exchange earnings estimated at
about US$2.4 million annually at full project development. The project would
have no adverse impact on the environment.
56.      Beneficiaries:  About 7,000 individual farm families would benefit
directly from subloans for livestock, horticulture, handicrafts, machinery,
farm inputs and technological changes due to the impact of the improved and
expanded agricultural extension and veterinary services. About 10,000
families would benefit from the upgrading of local roads (190 km), which
improve access to markets and input supplies. Ten of the eighteen communes
in the project have per capita incomes which are 60Z of the Republic's
average or about UStl,400. After full development, the average participating
farmer's income is expected to increase by an estimated 120%.



- 20 -
57.      Employment.  The project's contribution to employment in the
Republic would be substantial. At full development the project investments
would result in an increase of about 1,240 manlyears of employment as a
result of more intensified agricultural production and processing
operations. The agroindustries component would account for 85 full-time jobs
and some 25-30 seasonal jobs, while the milk collection aad cooperative
centers would employ 23 permanent staff. In addition, the project would
create considerable employmenc under the forestry component and the lqcal
road program.
58.      Rates of Return:  The economic rare of return to the overall project
is expected to be about 22 percent. The sensitivity analysis demonstrates
that the project would retain economic viability even with substantial
changes in cost or benefits. For example, investment costs would have to be
46 percent above the appraisal estimate and benefits 11 percent below
estimates to lower the rate of return to 12 percent.
59.      Risks: A principal risk to the project is the general shortage of
local investment funds resulting from current economic problems and the
stabilization measures being applied ro correct them. To ensure timely
availability of local funds, it was agreed to establisb a local account in
the Revolving Fund (para. 54). In addition, a financing plan has been
provided to the Bank. To reduce future risks during implementation, annual
financing plans in dinars are to be prepared by the Borrower and reviewed by
the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04). Finally, Federal legislation was
enacted recently exemp:ing Bank financed projects from (i) import
restrictions, which in the past hampered project implementation, and (ii) the
local credit ceilings imposed on Yugoslav banks.
PART V - LEGAL INSrRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.      The Loan Agreement between the Bank and Investiciona Banka
Titograd-Udruzena Banka, the Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Bank, the Project Agreement among the
Bank, the Forestry Technical Institute and the Agroeconomic Institute and the
Report of the Comittee, provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank, are being distributed separateLy to the
Executive Directors.
61.      In addition to the features of interest of the loan which are
referred to in the text and described in Section III of Annex III of this
Report, special conditions of effectiveness for the proposed loan (Loan
Agreement, Section 7.01) are receipt of evidence that: Ci) IBT has opened
two separate special accounts--one in Dollars and one in Dinars, and has
deposited in the Dinar account Dinars 83 million; (ii) the Self-Management
Agreement between all parties and organizations concerned has been entered
into, is in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, and is in effect and
the PCC and its Executive Boards have been established; (iii) the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements between IBT and the Agroeconomic Institute on the one hand,



- 21 -
and between IBT and the Forestry Technical Tnstitute on the other hand, tEave
been executed on behalf of the parties thereto; (iv) the Agricultural Credit
Officers have been appointed at the participating basic banks; and (v) tbe
Project Unit and the Unit for Forestry component have been duly establisbed.
62.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOO ENDATION
63.      I recoamend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
July 9, 1984
'Washington, D.C.



ANE I
- 22                                                Page 1 of 6
!USEXAT                -SOCaAL   XWSThS DA  
!ZUG.AT1AVZ                           EUU  GMS CXUZED AVUjl;) /a
nos"                       1     *ET  ESim0L) l        -
Z~~~~~b                             rZ   Sb X 
196Wb       197Lb  IS?AA aL S
"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uo a w xlo
amA cz- Q_ 100
TO2AL                              255S_       255_S       255._                -
LaTcILT0L                           148.2       14&63      142.9
F ca           C1)                   3J0O0   U 20-0         2790Q0            2453.b                   1112-7
(Eflfl8h~ OF WAL EQUIVAEN.m)       305.O      1Sa.0       2402.O           15_008                    75006
vm.m a- VML ImSC
POpL.aOJ-CD.TEA  C(DWSAIWS)  10002.0    ZC37L_O          M2100                  -
CUM P QI:AZZ   C- OF TUMAL)          V7.9        34.c       43-L              67.o                      7s.z
29rUUAk;t  IS UAt 20001 01ILL) -                          25.0
SMI-aEI FOrGLAXIOF CNIL.-)                                30_0
TM  STAT2OUARL POP. :2*0100                              2070
POPCLATIOP DENSS
P9 SQ- x-                         71n1        79.b    n 7.3          n       2.0                     139.0
FM  SQ. EA.  X. LA=               12 .2   ; 39.3         L56..             157_2                     514_2
P      0OCLArO  AGE STRUCTURE C.)
0-14 1S                          30_5        27.4        24 5              3L 9                      2Z.4
15-04 US                          63.2        04.0        66.7              6009                      00.0
65 AM 410E                         0-3        7T_          S.0              7J2                       11 6
POPULATIO GO     RAME (Z)
TOTAL                     1.2~~~~~~~~L-  1.0      0.9               1.0                       0.0
CIan                               3.b         3.2         2.9               3.4                       1.4
czM  ou RA5E (P          sCICS)     23-5        17_8        1l.7        Z      5_ U                     L3.
CRUDEm WA    LAZ Ct Oa TRs)          9.9         8.9         9.0               9.1                       0L9
GROW        CMIS L=E                 1.4         1.3         1.1               1.7                       0.9
FARLUE PLAAI00
ACPEFDS,    AL CDCS)                ..--                                                                -
SUS C. a' OF RI0 Mor)               ..        59..0    .    -
MOO AM   o  NOD  PE corr
TN=A OF F000 P104. PEM CAp 1T
(1969-71-100)                       85.0        93.0       117.0             100.4                     112.4
FM WILL& 51W OF
CALOR2ES C. Or EQCIfECrMT)       120.0       130.0       14o0.             129.6                     134.4
PROMEM  (C00*S FM0 ")             95.0        93.0       101.0              2.3                        9.0
or miCa ANWAL AND PULSE          29.0        32-C        39.0/k            34.6                      61.4
W  (AGES 1-4) DEAE LATE             11.2                     L .-a            10.4                       0.4
LIFE EXPECT. Ar iar  (tUllS)        03.2        66.7        70.8              67.2                      74.9
117A1r 3MT. RATE CP  THOCS)         91.9        55.5        30.6              71.4                      10.7
2sS TO SAFE IATEA 5 POP)
1011AL                                        33.6/d        -.-                -
Gas"                              42.1/d     62.rd.
00*LAL                                        12.37w         _                .
ACASS TO EXCREXA OISPOSAL
(z oF PWUmLATIO)
:L                ..                            ..TA
UfDAN,,,_                                       _ .,.  ..
gURLL _"                                              _.     .                _ _                       ,
POPULATION Pm  lSlCLAS            l620-0      LOOO.U      600.0             1094.6                     5S3.6
Por. PFa MLRS1S PERON              630.0.e   410.0         260.0             762.5                     182.9
POP. pm HOSP;TAL. D
TOrAL                            200.0        MA8.0      170.0/1           334.0                     119.8
URIS                              90.010    100.0        io0.071           216.0                     143.2
AURAL                           10io.d7T  100.0        law.o7F.
OMISSIONS       HOSPITAL  D           .a17.3                18.2/f            20.0                      17.7
AVEAACE SIZE OF HSEXI0LD
L                  -                . 0        3.8          3.81f
SSRAN                              3.3          3.2        3.37f_
000AL                              4.4         4.3         4. 7T
AVEAAL0 SO. GP PERS0lNS/ROO
TOTAL                               1 .6        1._4
LI  5                               1. 7        L.3
RLLRAL                              1.5         1.5
ArCESS MD ELECT. CZ OP mELLIX.1Cs)
TOTAL                              54.5      867.9
UIrLN                             92.7        98.4
RURAL                              36.1       00.1



AEliC I
23                                           Page 2 of 6
IU06SAVK              - Soe    zrn    a   U?
1"A  1970^-              zUit=         1. cu         aiinainS 
urmAza&r                               m 
ADXST= emoiMELNT 1
1Em*E:  TV.                    111.0      106.0       99.0           103.2                   16l.5
maLi                 113.0      108.0      10.o            107.2                    0M33
FnoLo 106.0                     10.0         6O             97.9                   10.3
5ZAET: s0T8                     58.        63.0       63.0            34.5                    69.2
a63.0      680        80              63-4                    8 5
PIULE                 33.0       58.0        0O             48.9                    ".0
VOC CnO. (t2 Of  °6    )            -        26.4       242             22.4                     .3
PtPU -72ACR RATIO
PRIMAR                          33.0       27.0       24.0            24.7                    20.2
S5AR                            13.0       22.0       16L0            22.1                    14.4
&Dm5. LTrEEAcTATZ CZ)             76.5       83.5       MOLL            69.7                    96.9
P?SS        CAUR/Th0IESI  POP     3.0        35.4       86.7/h          32.9                   336.5
DoIO B1WUSJ130WA   U0             64.9      16539      207.-           16.35                  1o6s-4
TV   I  5 I-A 11                   1 1.4     63        192.4           124.2                   4495
NUBAPEA (0*Z.T GE.E
111TERSV  C!RWUTZ
Pu TwasA 01 .ATZ06               70.3       653       103.0            963                    33t.3
CINI AX8. ATMl10K1CAu1             7.X       4.3         3.3             2.9                     3.5
0O2M LASOL 90 (06)              8303.0    8crs1    9483.0,1
FEqJZ  (PERCN)                  33.0       3&.9       36.1            34.3                    36.1
AQ0ICULTU  (    )               63.0       31.0       29.0            40.7                     6.2
TZT (I        )                 18.0      23.0        33.0            23.4                    37.6
PARTICIPATION AM CT! CERr)
T03L                            43.1       43.4       42.1            42.0                    43.5
aLE                             60o0       5.6        34.6            35.2 S90
VDIe.                           30.9       30.4       30.0            29.1                    32.5
ECOWIO    D CP T RATIO            0.8        O.8         0.8             0.9                     0.6
1u DKTJl
wzew  Qw mzv   ica
PRCEI NTarFTAXPM
tDcr    sr
zIIST 5t OF UOSCMDS             18.4fj     1IS  1t.1/_
R T: 2Ct or ND S                41.5      41.4       3                 ..                    43.1
LulST 20 or 3S0u.m6                         6.61       i.A7.             . ,                   3.5
Loucsr 40Z or UD   .S           19.0I    1ze7&         MM7              ..                    1465
7012  r  c_s
10EU-   - 
ESTflhTE ABSOLUTE IOTUTY ECW
LEVEL. MUS MI CAF%U)
max                      ..         ..         .                 ..
UMDAX= REgATIV POVERTY 1y4CP
LEWE. (CM PU CAPITA)
0-A                               ..        ..          .                ..
um                                ..        ..        30.0           409.0
ESTATED POP. ILCO. A3Smr.Ot
POVERT! 11 "l LIE.- CZ)
U3j~..                              ..         .                 ..
'- AVAXLA.Z
WT APPLICABE
9 e r a s
/  The group avrqes for eeb lud taer are pbpdStwwmlgbted ar1tbetl  mand. CW_re of c             r _trle  MOM th
indicators depede on avalmblXlty of data Sm-is ewe ud2fam.
lb Uleaa otherw   eooed. -e-a 2or 1960- reer tl. V eerc her.. 193 =0n 1961; Data for 1970 hewue 1949 ed
197n; and date for -met Recent: atinte betme 1979 and 1i91.
Ic 1977; /d Percent of occmeopd bouslg umalte Wlch piped water; 1I 1962; /f 2976; , 19T7  lb 19783 /1 Ualelei
mlzrant wuarkrs abroad;    196l3; Ik 196.
wa ua13



012.a  P. neSt's fl..fl                            ss. p  - eqs -  n2*5   saeq.s~~~~~~~~P. ..    Sq    n...." -   aa- 
-lhle4' T._    lse. , . 2101                                                 3@     355       u2, . -* ISle  10     -  .0-T.      1    t'.5 _
-u- .1 IM1.11 a. iat. -q-201    !**t - .S3.t    j  S535)Tn-                                               *nP   -S '.
-I@wog ist __I T_                                          _"t-e      S    J. .aj          -  *42 leass*sT 1 _9 0-_:
ase-      - - (anfleel   -P,    .- s-S                                                                 an   sa              =
. an.  , C._   - ...  5. iW   I s              . 55 _l                    .,*         - _ 0_  P0 r                 - S.
t- 0-1 *5 -nfl- PU'  01 -     *-.-qs-_ .A   a   * a-... lfld                       -01        15        S ST  *        _    _3 * T- .1    -
_-.   -n  0       P- a-  T"_-       -TOa  1_V -. "            -                        T- O       _4u -VS2                     T_  *- *-
- -T4T-s.                                                                                       P -    a_ An      *s. S_ : -,  x Pa   a--  - .a-.-an  ntl- 
~~~~~~~~~~~*1.an                                                    .   *-_at *..a  .Tesn   mass_ -l --__*. nesas s-' *1-    v    __S   trT Ze
*-  'I el51-    i-~        t'l~a~   1 51 e          * '.la       e s=s- i_ a-_  _                               '-121a_  a p . n   a_  *se. _       _M
- tt.e.-R ann               sa   -s1i- * Ci te .0  a-C t_ IJ-:-   *X_.                          0, 1-i -  Dii  0.i  * t   11P1S5C03
_ 15 P* aa -            -sT hSJ 11    41 'a-           i    p      s          _           -is. '.1es a. aP            -  i-.-*-a     J   1 C.s   lee
-   .Ti? AS*   O -. -5         .... A._    I.s   e             -n 6.Oe   s1a a-                       h      _  *_   *I - . __-. a.  _ass-"
_  'X_S *_S F- __ *a_D _ * * _z_r_ _1_!] _:~~2.,                                  -      IXt-A  .;J . *.;2*_2J-  . -    -     '     f -*ts
Se s; ^:W                                                                                           s
j- P_ go ~W CZ  -12""    A "3tu                                              a   sMi an   Oft  .i  0.tn *I    n.jToo  ! .,,, etar 9n aPm
~ sasta a. P5*25W - [3-54  - 35.-_ 51 5-o, s-   -J          '.-_               In l _ .   -  ' S 5f d-  '   -  .Sl . S? fU  #
.  *_-.Ml - P-"                  -O    -.v lot,      Utz .Deal                                  -    T_SI.  _ail  IS-isti   - M- *- T  .S.  I.-    S. -- ..s*
%_,    SI J5 O. t  . .. 5 .     S 5*I   .i       - -  tAW i-i.
*-&  _3-GOT- -1--q                                                                            ., e  _          mt  1AYt Ta_s          --n Sl eS  Pt_p
3 ei.-tiSi-4 *- 11 -               -  1 a sX-  -    lB _4 iC *Lo.s                               t %a I  -   -                                   v-   1
- 0,Cli P"U  I 'oval p.- 01   155. I    t2') 31SeSSia5I                                e    q - aSpiS                   on01 A-4.     *a-  Oll1t 6-Aid~- 
Ol ;  T-aPM. 10 T-i _-   -aC *e                                              4-Yt            Af- '-SA  1 _          14 t-
~al  .55 nesT ies.t p    ass  - M.   a s     f  *f,..s. -.                                            *sw-    v-t i-ftv-..  0-tai  P-t .n n*s
3-tsase.   -*l IP          3-1-1. l-  Sst 'l * [Sena.] 'i-                         . _-J -_ .V_d 0'1a ._ O - 3.Vt    a  'sd 11-' P .mz55_Sel-  I ."-
.1  TUll          l ALiT   -l ta _t -  _- _e' pt ._ 3                               *..sm     0   _s          te       s  3ssx           e _     Sel
a 3- n -    ---  tI.i-       05 5   -               _        ,L            _           t- sn                  -    e  w  S         i   Is
el 1-I tail 5- SasC         - CCs.3  _t-el ela, - 1      siiCCY~Ts                           014i5501 0_  -sa__t  _  a-..apP-I-0 _ _     i-n*  -iiis-
0-~~~~~~~a -n-  _-p                    Ola ln         1_ _T_    t.                     _ *n     _s   _- P--
~~~*ai issa-% _asii  Osi lateas                                a _    _        _-t  *s_ - _   as_ t                               a
__T   Pt_Y -Mvs                                       z -  t                               -gd                                              r-     S._s _ s - *_ X 
5 .5. 3-iSa-   01    1   55i55101as  _ Ii. 3. Sete'I                   nat *550    _u      s   'is-      5.     al_:     -*ee _-
3-,_W___    aen._  -ae*.   *1_e                     St                              Sn -o,  *1S Lss        ittSB.n¶- 1T-3 s  il len. 
_.. Paa^ -,; tOt                      -J                                  a   Wi-  * -t *---*    nC  s. _. *-  -1  -
5i  .Iiq                     51 Lan   .53-llar         Si - _   _s1-       *     __ -    s    15a a
p. _-I   01fi5      0     - 3-P?-t1-as1 7-s. V1  *-. aii                            1*    TlA      te     a  atip if51.  (~  p ~1 *-t-            *
3.      ^a-  a- _ 51- Sn *5 1    .  r-.S.                 .                       ._, .9..3 ,             l         *1e.  - _, ,        - _1 a-
* aiS~~~_t _St 557-  mans s  l.1..--   S_ .i"   - 1Sd  *l                                        2    z-e z.  s= 
easp~si - - ijse  an   s-..., sP.." Zni   ja   Ir9s'5I.SgT                                                                                        Sn
_ mOu -  _  a- 52nf-a              MAsr.  .P* -    *_       s        oftpS                       -                       -r --aT t a   - i       iU S  1?
-         .... -t ..  fl .                                                                                                ter  P" !
a  Oaasq 55 .5l.n. 5? - (i5.  i-a-aS  -54J.  5--d.5?J- -n
q_* t S~~~~I._s Tlw i-Sle3-S 01a                                                  *-i*5  _   1 5l _s ia-s- 56_ __S         __    IS.45
sIP  SE  525  .___ 1  - (Selelai               .....e.. .i..aa.:nr   513.               ....t....-.  sesa _ .aA    a  31~ P1- 5C                 -
0.1- l- P_1-   51'                                                     is-.1'.a   ..C~                   a    a         
a a    MOa*t.   1-IaW                                                                                         -WaVsl   a  i3s-n--  n  zaii aW  B~ UTl s
-   n,  eala a.nsa - (.,s.iC   a~   sap e-  .-.e.                        s.Se.a    -...C             -        -     LTs...s-S.550   1
i    Tii _  *0:* '_l  i _i ?
-  -4  je              ~  -ri ta- _ (i.a               _      _   _
=-  a  na' _I          _       - 5_  32 P .    0-5;-                                                 1io      a  'c:lD -s i ,o.i-        s
_.-  A-0        d  P --A e l            --T . 1   -aS-,  aa-s                      -. ta 3 *.                             _-- a- _. 52 _ __ - (v.5 .  450
P...06.0~~~~~~-- SOq TM    11 ;_ 1 
-'*  P-S         - _       r         _ W- a  a . s   :-_  -WM se..ns-t.i !nrrC_
*g t"-W.ZOllm a   Sii   3a-  3. *-a                    -    Si..-                       -01.        :     - '_a         '     -_ 14__1t _ " J- 'n !-_
ll-*   a-i. .51'. a-a  a-n -  *,                  -         si7 sdd4.0 .1-43 n1-zi_                                     - 4    a- _-F  a   al-t
_.               I-"                   -ft       L1 _                               a      s_ -S e- rp- jP551 _- P0  tes-S3_5l   -  _  s-S
-  a-a~~~~~~~~~~~~- eP.iTn   *a _l ..aeei £1 ___    p£1- elm                  _*  mt a_ s&i _l-
S_Sna-T   a-P. i-S-S  -T.-S v_ _.                                                    -f S   0-3S_  1 sP  aa-T.-
£1        le*   _p i-T_ I_-_- is  qa T.n  le   - a.  aa.sq-ens-a, _1 11  _  _l-_S-I-
'ST_l10035        a_- -   Ie.T _.1 C    -                    .                           a-01  i         *-~ T -P3.101I--  LaSC- 
-T B-Tt ~it ~a Jzin wD-T.  v-
si-1it an  L  1.a-    ~12-_ T-  a. a*-0 -I-1!.                                                              :   a . -       IiiIj
1-.:.         as-Sn I..-sI         .PJ       i- P-_& Z. 4 ia-S                     a -T- PO         e.a "W - 110     as aM             - P.a  p
1-4      -mai'ealei5n   ?-u.2.iC   r-..                     .                        sss. i-sn(.na  *- 'ie  e.w -  _-                a -i-4 nla-CC
_p_T _-n.s.sn -                                _s.at *5.0   a.I-.L -    _" _15   -  AnI ania pns-  1-s-   -I
a  a _in  tia  .e s  -         s ICi                                                              - -l--  1      * l                 *m-
*bT-n                                                                                         _     _    _       0                      - -  r -i- s  a-;
1-Sq  qAn aOf v-e ang                                           a-0v  ta~ a-  0   I          
P.P.12                    -owl   J-e  q-5  - 01  1- S                                                         C    A_       - _1 -
-Aa.n   -O11 i P.- P.   1s 15 p                 ~         5.C0a5                 e    5154          5~s       .51
a   - ans  -i_ti 0 AlsUS_  _elle 05111- t-T-                                                     IF         *
_ __.s a   *an    .ss -  sa                  aJ 3-. as'-   aa -                          P   IAnST   a- A1 -015   a  - _5.
q  *          II501       _-l  01                               ,nPiaAfe5 saaa                            3A 
* 1-i-ia          L  - An .P05p   -- Ta                      aa                             i-a -  .1        * _-n as- I
.s..S   S*t s_ns-  a_ q     1  _  dS"   - - .a'1_ lta t-                                                                       -  q -- a  -
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ 05  3. Aai2.  sas_   Sna .n  p _sp s_-_S _ 
'Ova~~~~~ .nUeC53.S                                   4         501    -T-35' 3. AaS1505a
srXe}~~-     Psan es Sq_  _~   -sliP    _.                                                                                                     -
J*a1-TP a..   C.)1- - An       ..............a-   .1- -              _i  _O`3 0~                        _81d0            "Z3Av3 =W   555.05  imams
*1*55  1-W '1   _Istal _-- elel34ni --li-Ani                                                                 10-SLle3S-SIC - i -r.
s.    ASiiaa  a  i-l-e  a .!.asa ti..a - lea- 'd?o-I 5513-M    MFIJ
*len_a 1-*i'i  leani-is5   _1                 _W  '1e21d       s-__ aaep u.s_  B- a  05il q* U;0 1la
~~~~~~~_a   -1   ni.-e   as  a  _g  01le    a   s-l                   a_    B_S               _3S   aat'sCCa                  xq-> _o~   Aon
a .ua- e-_ 'aa    eua_w s,.  tin                _n-  en *__nsa__   
10 5LlI 3Ise   .a-iW5,  ''1lC4 -_i-I 5t nq                                                           '                               _- les  a  _* *e_  ai s l 
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m v_ _LL
P- sO-Aie         CII4-f.  Oa--   W T.,- &3-                                  I-.o 01..   ?14b. i-.Wei p a-a    pla-     as- 
ORa O  ".na    let-isa-   t "    a=s      a 'nnp-i                   ---'           *n.i  --                 2,-M ,-a               --Pn---f    A
iei  OagI a- SW ~noi   rw  S.- o14-   S-tens a- -an
1o-A. ielieAnii- i.  a  -aa n lga .01a -. a        00     CU... On  Sese.3O5a          n        K-.   . 00AM    tt-                   alt  "llas      L
ns5   -o-.a      --"            1 1-leA   lla a   -s  a-1       . -18" a-       :J-- -- -
*  s.S  01~~~~ -  .. ~~A               :sP   s  v-  -rg-         n Otap- s@S-              --e
aa- Sq piles,            -v  SeM teiCa  -                                                                         t'.3s  a  M- aggr- -
slaw3no WM= M gs,m5 -
9   0     ;a -P            a,e.asi-i                        .35         1tP.L,              a            -a         ns i   -Paa    -2350    l n
01 -aa  an50    aen       Ssntp   a-   P~  1n-I01  P                     la-p    an             a      5131   P.ata,aZ-



-25 -
Pa*g 'of 6
1msLAVZA - E          IC DCALS
iopslaziom: 22-7 amllion (Cid-L9"2)
cm Per Capita:  0S2,0 (152)
Swat                                                Annul Grt flartes (Z)
Emillion US$ at                                        Cat constant price)
Ineacaror                  curre.c prices)                                 Actual                                            Pro petted
1981            1973     1979    1980      1981     1982     1983 c   1984     1985    19l6     1937     1988
NAUCOAL AC00325
Crass  d0mtcc product at        69.005            5.5    4;2        2-3      1        O_. 0.  -1.3       1.5      2.;9     37       4.6      5.2
AgrtcalLure                    8*130           -5.4      5.4      0.0      2.8      7.4    -2.1        1.0      2.0      2.0      2_0      2.0
Inustry                       27,1*97           9.2      8.5      3.2      2.2    -1.1       1.3      2.0      320       . 0      S.0      6.0
Serv=cs                       23.814           11.3      3.1    -4.6       0.0      0.8 ci  -4.0       1.0      3.0      .0O      5.0      5.5
LonsaspriOU             ".Ab8            13.8      3.0      0.6     -1.7      0.5    -2.1       0.       1.9      2.8      3.7      54.
Cras  tneest                    24,155           -1.8     11.4    -6.4    -0-5    -1.3         0.0    -2.7        ;.       5.1      6.8     5-.
papra of  llS                  I54&8            -0.2     12.7     LO-4      0.5   -11.5       0.1       7.7    4*.        4.7      5.1      S.&
Laport of CWS                  16.482            0.6    La3.      -8.6    -10.8   -15.3      -3.6      1.2       3.5     4.1       5.5      6.1
Cross national savings          21.209           -0_2      2.0      3.0    -6.0    -0_6         I.       -        -        -        -        -
COP deflacor (li9C-lO0)            140           65       79      10o      140      181      254          -        -        -       -         _
Exhange rate MDinors per TSS)       35.5          U.s_    19.0    24.6    35.0    50.3    92.8           -         -        -       -
Share of GDP a: arikt Prices (:)                                  Average _1al Increase C)
(at rr       rices) b/                                        (at cOtM     pric5)
L 1960   Ig0 o     t975     19110     19r35     19s7              1960-70   1970-75   1974    198-I8   19S5-90
Grams t Omaac Product aI      100.0   100.0    1W0.0    100.0    100.0    100.0                      5.9       6.5       4.1       0.8       5.0
Ancsltms                     22.5     16.1      13.3     11.1      12.9      11.2                  3.3       2.9       2.0       2.0       2.0
Incatqy                      42.2    37.4       44.3    40.5       40.9      41.9                 A.3        8.3       7.s       0.1       5.5
Service                      29.0    38.1       33.1     35.8      36.2      36.9                 6.9        4.7       4.9      -0.6       5.4
Ca.wpc&o                       67.2:    72.8      74.3    58.3       65.9      65.3                 6.5        6.9       6.3       0.3       4_8
Gr as taveatmmt                36.5    32.3       33.5     35.8      27-5      28.7                 4.7       515        5.4       0.4       5.9
Exports GIS                    13.9    18.5       20.2     20.6      31.5      32.2                 10.2       6.7       5.2      -0.4       5.4
Zaocc. SFS                     17.5    23.5       28.0     24.7      24.9      26.1                 9.8        6.7       5.0      -5.5       6.0
'Cs Detional ae,aogs           32.6    2956       25.6     32.3      33.1      31.7                  5.3       6.2       3.2        -         -
AP   of GOP
1560    1970       1975     1980      1981
PUBLIC FIUAWZZ
loco  r                        27.9    33.1       36.8     34.0      32.3
Total .p it-s                  24.1    33.2       37.2    34.6       31.6
Surp' us 1) or deficit (-      -3.8    -0.1       -0.4    -0.6       .0-7
1956-70  1970-75   1975-00  1980-85   1985-90
011    IPDICLTOS
G   growt rate (:)              6.1      6.7       6.0      0.2       5.3
CUP per capita   wth rate       5.0      5.8       5.1     -0.7       4.4
XCOIL                           5.4      4.6       5.6     53.7       5_7
Import elstCicity               1.6      1.0       1.2    -6.3        1.2
A/ AC market prics; cqone cts are  epraoad at factor cost ad wiLl not add up to toctl du  to esclion of net indirect taces_
b/ Projected years at comtant 1972 prices.
c' Estctmte.
1567H                                                                                                                                   D g     IC
April 11. 194



A r
P*e, 5 of 6
Peeatida: 22.7 minim  (Sid-1M2)
CW VW Capitc: 0"2.50 (192)
TOCOOLU- m L T_Sm
1pow                                           mama GreetS gaem  CZ)
Won 0  at                                           (at CeetOt uric.) 41
iodsc-t-r                cocs_t price)                               Actual                                          ted
(19521         1915      1979   low0  1151    352        195 .1  1946    1965    1936    1957    1945~
_ec _   _t-rre                 9.923           t4      1.6    11.0      4.3    -5.G      IJA     5.3      6.0     5.3      5.3     5.3
Priewy &1                    1.S16           3.3    -0.J      3.0   -19.5   -12 9      5.7     3.5    6*3       5.5      5:5     5.5
u facee bi                   5.107           OJ      2.'   13.5    11.0    -7.7        *.1     *.1      5.9     5-3      5.3     5.3
n_rck_e  rapert               12.3OW         -1.3    t .0   -10.5   -2.3   -t0.0    -3.4    -1 .          3.6     J.7      5.9     6.S
Need                           714        -24.3    54.9    -71J   -t7.2    -.2   -tO.4         1.9      3_0     5.3      6.7     7.7
NctL_  c/                    3.2U           10.4    10.6    -3.1    -9.4      2.0    -2.0      1t       2.0     3.2      3.9     4.2
XthCkefy _t .qeiV            2.93           -0.2    26.7   -19.3   -226      -16.8    -5.2    -2.0      3.3     5.0      6.3     7.1
oera                         5.U8    O      -2.1    10.8    -7.9    -4.6   -13.7    -1.7       2.0      3.7     4.7      5.9     6.6
MCS (L9S0 - UR)0
l rp nrce  iez                   117         73       n4 1o0          10      117      3II      U 116  126     137      149     163
iapatt ri_ aes                  112          70       33     1OO      1to     112      II1     its      126     135      I"      160
?._ of tr       - iade           104.5       106.4   101.2   100.0    99.1   304.5    01.5   10A    1I06   101.5   300.7   101.9
Comostion of J_rch,ai  Tr.ie CZ)                                AJrWiACoua1  ecres  CZ)
Cat reat 2      )                                           Ca tm  c_"taat *rie.
Zapara                               3000o   180.0    7.00.0    100.0      00.0 A   100.0                8.1      5.7      2.9      1.7     5.3
VrINIME1                            49.6     29.4      19.5     22.0      14.6     14.7                 -      -1.3      4.2    -4.1      5.5
_      _eelACt  bJ                  50.4      70.6     80.5     75.0    -85.4      85.3               -         5.1       2.3     2.6      5.3
t_prt-                               100.0    10.0    30.0    300.0    100.0    100.0                    9.0      7.4      4.0    -5.0      6.6
Fted                                 9.1      7.2       5.5      7.2      4.7       5_0                 -       5.0      8.7    -6.4      7.6
p l   c                              5.4      4.0      12.3     23.6     20.2      1S.6                 -       3.2      *.7    -0.7      4.0
Vachiaa    t aq_ipac                36.J     33.2      33.9     280        7.9     25.*                 _       9.        1.8    -8.9      7.0
Other                               68_7     54.8      48.3     41.2     47.1      *7.0                 -       6.0      2.6    -4.0      6.6
Je" of itsa  width      *          t of Trade with       Fee  of Sre with Capital          share of Trade with
laduc_tri  a_t C_.etrio ()     ~10pimp~jqe~L..                  1     ImL t_!    CZ) O        itacreily 1td tgcue.ee  CZ)
1965   1910    1913  t91  70D75  _U1511-3'UU   l5l                          1U  tIi         195   1970   1975   1933
-zaurlw at 7
on=    Or ta US     40.1   53.3    36.0    31.0    17.4   13.6   16.8   17.0   0.4    0.7    2_1    3.0    42.1   32.4   41.1   49.0
_  _               UA61.0   70.2    14.0    -       9.1    5.2    5-9    -       0.2    0.2    1.9    -        29.7   21.4   35.2    -
-amictere         24.0   41.9    26.0       -      23.5   17.2   20.0    -       0.6    1.0    2.1    -        51.6   39.9   51.9    -
Zap-wta             55.3   66.1    *7.5    50.1    16.0   12.7   tS.7   15.3   0.1    0.1    0.6    9.1    25.6   21.1   24.6   28 .
51 1C 0-4
E' szc o a
cE  UrIC 3; aele_se tlbrica.ca. cal _ e 1ccrwity..
;/ PeaJeted peea at c ewAt 1972 prirs; Eath rical yarsbhee yewr prices are Ibmee of the precajug peer.
.1 SatitaeA.
1661
zm IC
Ware 27. 19t4



- 27 -
NiMet :
WDG0UUNZ  - uAIAUC3 0r PATA     , 222032. CAPTc  AND VW
Pcwlasims  22.7  UIL.i -UU2
coW V CpitL 03U262,640 (1332)
IMimatma                                                           kluml                     :ue
,     co              *                      11 *U      S   UX ll,"  .  3,06  1.64    18.061   1634          5      20,637   23.1t2    26.014   23,417
et whisks U-1 1ataa f.o.b.                 5.672     6*794       8,.73     10.205    3123   3,14   l1,10    U.?"   S146            16U,735   1,271
Zapsts ot _a   Oa aervimm                   12.702     18,137     20.383     20.36   18.712   16, 8S0  18.103    1U,767   21.675   24.311   27,533
et whisks  *gadi ae 6i.tf.                 got"      14,013     13,0"      14.52    12U       12,1U3    12.979    14.41A   16.4U6   18,1"2   22,038
not c saowta,                                    -          _          -          -        - -       -             -        -             -        -
Coumt  m t balama                            -L.250     -3,61      -,221        -34      -624       174     356        670    1.4,5    1.703    1.872
P"uvta di.m  iUE-t---
ItS ta   (Mt)                                1,713      1,544      1,34         54       -187    1,111    -241        203     -295    -773       t16
Othu epital  -I                               4         1.173        49         63u      -201   -1,510     -173      -540     -732     -537    -61
0 La                       *-25                         1'2         -132       -231    1,0u         55    -456       -279     -321    -453   -1,345
24m,uUamml ="Twov  LI                        3.243      1.380      2.567      2T."?    1.675    1.612    2.15U      2.434    2,736    3.215    5.153
Of fisk% asl CeU   ftisal valuasta)           63         73         is         70 23             76       7i         73       76       76       76
aEgmawu  as months Ispevs                        3.1        1.3        1.3         1.8      1.1      1.2      1.4       1.5      1.5      1.6      2.2
C-a                                          3,057      3,331      4,53"      3.107    2.14    3.640    3.316       3,2 36 1.    4.005         1OS
pubolsy gmtaaul                             3"        53t.       670.       712.    471.  1,136    1.816          602      479      475      451
MgsIsuvaL                                  O        318.       30         216      344.    340        32        436      *6       453      454
*230                                  10U        294.       261        216.     330.    no        35*       434      44        453          43
SUcetml                                  ISO        201        3U         464.     in.    73    1*27            106       63       22        a
*w,iw.c. mz-'im   a"g sam-uurumg           2,687      3,372      3,20       2.335    1.643    2J524    1,500      26,0     3.435    3.330   35.60
lUmea  _upCn mctt (t.e)                      (-10)      (-13)      (-215)      (-234    (-177)  (-137)   (-200)   (-3602   -(123)       (31)  (C-3)
sate   debtuc     cam
giabugc V                               11.353     14,177     10,237     17.34    11.30   18.365   13.613    13,934    13.134   17.122   13,287
buiabuat debt                                1.671    1,333      Lo2w       1.763    1.441    2.418    2,53      2.702    2,781    2.366    3,010
TdL aiva* pmym                             2,029      2.56       3,337      4.001    4,0      4.873   5,135       5,729    6,600    7.2 2    3,343
14tm.                     U                           U3 621   1,282      1.367    3.04     2, 155    2,137    2,376    2,102    1.331    1,651
lpuumm      a I a  sen                       1t          to         13         20        2       23       31        2        23       26       13
AVutvg  iainut rate ommm  lem    CZ) a/          6.1        7.5       15.0        12.5    14.5    10.6    10.6         10.3    10.3      10.3    11.0
vwam  unsaity ot m  lean  Cymgi                 16.6       14.3        6.3        11.7      3.6      7.4      6.0       7.3      7.4      7A       7.1
uMnes sMt U"e af M   eralit (Irai n  1.9e    @ zrasesm), nat mc of Aheff-tra m it ad chau   in bniltemal
haLma.
eofZatmlul snag Lerelga sst st  *um       ful bamta.
It   mumd berneva  gaafa  in the biasalami balaa of pm-mte it sa sumatet  wigh caci 1debt tals.
I D Sebt aewam     _udg  inti"t. end  tUat          ont m cuper mrcict  Oteud  by !hg dais.
E  t   L60W. atmldee  MaGal en sat of VW rem.          .
p1  J 1     am publialy guamtaad dbta may.
1,6u112
4ALt 12, 1954



- 28 -
ANNEX I1
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS 0P BANK CGOUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
As of March 31, 1984
A. STATEMENT OF DANK LOANS
US$ million
Amount (less
Local    Fiscal                                                         cancellatious)
Number    Year       Borrver()                   Purpose               Bank   U-disbured
Forty-five Loans Fully Disbursed                 1534.0
916      1973       Nsftagas                    Gas Pipeline           59.4      4.6
1360      1977       Nanagement Organization     multipurpose
"etobhLjd                  Water               54.0      17.5
1469      1977       JUGEL sad six Electric
Power Organisations in    Second Power
each Republic               Transmission        80.0       2.8
1477      1978       Vojvodjunska Banks          Second Agricul-
tural Credit        75.0      1.4
1534      1978       Commuity of Yugoulav
Railvays                  Railways              99.6       0.1
1561      1978       Elektroprivroda
Bosnia Herscgovina        Bydro Power           73.0       3.4
1561-1    1984       Blektroprivrods Bosnia      Mostar Rydro
Booni Hersegovina           Supplimntal
Loan                61.0     61.0
1611      1979       Kosovska Bank& Printina     Hydro Power           40.0       5.1
16L2      1979       Privredns Banks Sarajevo    Fourth Industrial
Credit              20.0      0.6
1613      1979       Stopansks Banks Skopje      Fourth lndustrial
Credit              20.0      1.7
1614      1979       Investieions Banks          Fourth Industrial
Titograd                    Credit              20.0       0.9
1621      1979       Privrodua Banka             Bosauka Irajina
Sarajevo                    Agriculture and
Agro-Industries     55.0     13.7
1678      1979       Road Organization of
Kosovo, Montenegro,
Vojvodins and Hges-
govina and Maceodnia      Roads                148.0      17.8
17S6      1980       Zagrobacks Banks            Croatia Sava
Drainage            51.0     25.6



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
us$ million
Amount (less
Local     Fiscal                                                           cancellations)
Number   Year         Borrwer(s)                   Purpose                Bank   Undisbursed
1768      1980        Port of Bar                  Earthquake Rehab-
ilitatiow-Port
of Bar              35.0       7.7
1769      1980       Railway Organization          Earthquake Rehab-
of Montenegro                ilitation
Railways            14.0       3.3
1801      1980        Vojvodjanskta Banka          Third Agricultural
Credit              86.0      44.4
1819      1980        Road Organizations of
Slovenia, Croatia
Serbia and Vojvodina       Roads                125.0       53.1
1909      1981        Kosovska Blanka Pristine     Fifth Industrial
Credit              50.0      36.7
1910      1981        Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Fifth Industrial
Credit              30.0       4.7
1911      1981        Investiciona Banka           Fifth Industrial
Titograd                     Credit              20.0       10.4
1912      1981        Stopasuka Banka              Fifte  Industrial
Skopje                       Credit              10.0        0.7
1951      1981        Investbanka                  Agriculture &
Agro-Industries    87.0       66.9
1977      1981       Pristine Railway
Transport Organizatica    Railways               34.0       20.7
1993      1981        Kosovska BankA Printina      Agriculture and
Agro-Industries    90.0       72.3
2039      1982        Stopauslca Banka Skopje      Agriculture           80.0       62.6
2055      1982        Radna Org. Regional
Vodorod                    Kosovo Water
Supply              23.0       6.1



- 30-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
USg million
Amount (less
Local     Fiscal                                                         cancellations)
Number    Year       Borrwer(s)                   Purpose                Bank  Undisbursed
2132      1982       Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Sixth Industrial        33.0       24.1
Credit
2133      1982       Stopanska Banka Skopje       Sixth Industrial       33.0      27.7
Credit
2136      1982       Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Agriculture             35.0       29.9
2161      1982       Privredns Banks Sarajevo    Semberija Drainage    34.6        32.9
2233      1983       Regional Work Organiza-      Tuzla Water Supply    19.7        16.7
tion KOMPRED                and Environment
2306      1983       Udruzena Kosovska Banka
PriStina                  Kosovo Reg. Dev'c.   79.0         78.4
2307      1983       Udruzena Beogradska Banka   Serbia Reg. Dev't.  136.0         134.7
2326      1983       Udruzena Beogradska Bank    Structural
Adjustment Loan   275.0       211.3
2336 1/   1984       Zeleznicka Transport
Organization Skopje        Sixth Railvay       110.0       ll0.0
2338 1/   1984       Electroprivreda Bosne                              I
I fiercegovine            Third Power Trans.  120.0        120.0
2339      1984       Udruzena Kosovska Banka      Seventh Industrial
Pristina                     Credit             45.0        44.9
2340      1984       Investiciona Banka           Seventh Industrial
Titograd                     Credit             25.0        24.9
Total (less cancellation                                     4019.3 2/ 1401.3
of wbich has been repaid                                    754.4
Total now outstanding                                        3264.9
Amount sold                             9.2
of which:  Amount repaid              9.2
Total now beld by Bank                                       3264.9
Total undisbursed                                                      1401.3
1/ Not yec effective.
21 In addition to the above loans, a $90 million Fertilizer Sector Loan was approved by
the Executive Directors on May 8, 1984.



- 31 -
-ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IPC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1984)
Fiscal                                     Type of           Amount in US$ million
Year              Obligor                 Business          Loan      EquitZ   Total
1970      International Investment        Investment
Corporation for Yugoslavia     Corporation      -          2.0       2.0
1970/     Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat    Automotive
S.p.A.                         Industry          12.4      0.6      13.0
1980
1971/     Tovarna Automobilov in         Automotive
1980        Motoriev Maribor (TAM)          Industry
Klockner-Humboldt                                 9.2      0.9      10.1
Deutz A.G. (KID)
1972/     FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler      Automotive
1980        Benz A.G.                       Industry         16.3      0.8      17.1
1972/     Sava Semperit                   Tires              12.5      2.5      15.0
1978
1980
1973      Belisce-Bel Tvornica Papira    Pulp and Paper      70.9      -        70.9
1974      Zelezarna Jesenica/ARMCO        Special Steel      10.0      -        10.0
1974      Salonit Anhovo                  Cement Plant       10.0      -        10.0
1975      RHK Zenica                      Steel              50.0      -        50.0
1977      Frikom RO Industrija Smrnzute Food and Food
Hrane/Unilever                 Processing         4.0      2.4       6.4
1977      Tvornica Kartona i Ambalaze    Pulp and Paper
Cazin                          Products          15.6      2.6      18.2
1978      Soko-Mostar                     Hermetic
Compressors       7.0      -         7.0
1980      Investiciona Banka Titograd-
Udruzena Banka               Tourism             21.0      -       21.0
1980      Radoje Dakic                   Machinery           18.7      -        18.7
1980      Eigbt Republican/Provincial    Small-Scale
Banks                          Enterprises       30.2      -        30.2
1982      Igalo                           Physical
Medicine
Center           15.7      -        15.7
1982      Industrija za automobilski     Motor Vehicles
Delovi I Traktori (Ruen Auto   Accessories       10.9      -        10.9
1983      LBZB                           Development
Finance          32.1      -        32.1
Total Gross Commitments                           346.5    11.8     358.3
less cancellations, terminations,
exchange adjustment, repayment
and sales                                       187.5     5.2     192.7
Total commitments held by IFC                     159.0     6.6      165.6
Total undisbursed held by IFC                      21.9     0.8       22.7



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
YUGOSLAVIA
MONTENEGRO-REGIONAL-DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY-PROJECT-DATA SHEET
Section I---Timetable of Key Events
(a)    Project first presented to the Bank:      January 1980
(b)    Time taken to prepare the project:         2 years
(c)    Agency which prepared the project:        Agroeconomic Institute in
coordination witb the
Socialist Republic of
Montenegro, the FAO/World
Bank Cooperative Program
and Consultants
(d)    First Bank mission to review the
project:                                1981
(e)    Departure of the Appraisal Mission:       May 26, 1983
(f)    Completion of negotiations:               May 30, 1984
(g)    Planned Date of Effectiveness:            October 30, 1984
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
Retroactive financing is recommended for expenditures incurred after
May 26, 1983, in the amount of US$0.8 million equivalent, for preparation
of final designs and bidding documents for tbe agroindustrial subprojects
and for the cooperative centers, and milk collecting stations and forest
and local roads (para. 53).
Section III - Special Conditions
A.   Effectiveness Conditions
(i)   Receipt by the Bank of evidence that the Project Self-Management
Agreement has been signed by all parties, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, is in effect, and the PCC and
Executive Boards have been established (para. 36 and 37).



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
(ii) the Project Unit and the Forestry Project Unit have been
established (para. 36).
(iii) the Agricultural Credit Officers have been appointed in the
participating basic banks (para. 39).
(iv)  IBT has opened two separate special accounts:  one in Dollars
and the other in Dinars, and has deposited Dinar 83 million in
the Dinar account (para. 54).
B.    Other
(i)   The Borrower would carry out the scbeme for lending to
non-contracting individual farmers from US$2.0 million of the
loan allocated for this purpose (para. 39).
(ii)  The Borrower would submit to the Bank for review and approval
all sub-projects which exceed a total investment cost of US$1
million equivalent (para. 40).
(iii) The Borrower would consult with the Bank prior to approving
future investments in the agroindustry activities the project
will finance (para. 41).
(iv)  As a condition for providing subloans for local roads, and, in
order to ensure adequate road maintenance, the Borrowe-. will
require thot the participating communes enter into an agreement
with the Borrower which designates appropriate sub-borrowers and
ensures funds for road maintenance (para. 44).
(v)   The Agro Economic Institute, with the assistance of conmultants,
would undertake a study, to be submitted to the Bank by June 30,
1985, to improve institutional efficiency of social secLor
investors (para. 45).
(vi)  The Forestry Technical Institute, by January 1, 1985, would
submit to the Bank for its approval a detailed plan for
fellowships and training both in Yugoslavia and abroad
(para. 45).
(vii) The Agro Economic Institute, by April 1, 1985, would submit to
the Bank for its approval, course outlines and an implementation
schedule of training for financial and marketing managers of the
participating social sector enterprises (para. 45).



- 34 -
ANEX III
Page 3 of 3
(viii) Beginning in 1985, by January 31 of each year, the Borrower will
submit to the Bank an updated schedule of estimated expenditures
taking into account the effects of inflation on costs nd -a
related financing plan. (Para. 48).
(ix) The Borrower would prepare an appraisal report for eacb
sub-project prior to approving sub-loans based on specified
criteria (para. 49).
Section-IY---Procurement
Procurement -Method /1
Not
ICB      LCB    Other   Applicable   Total
-mSt Killion-
Civil vorks                      19.79                           19.79
(8.2)                           (8.2)
Equipment               13.81    13.46     3.73                  31.00
(7.8)    (6.5)    (3.7)                 (18.0)
Technical assistance
and tr ining                             0.57                   0.57
(0.6)                  (0.6)
other inputs                              22.13       1.14       23.27
-  ---    (10.6)   (0.2)      (10.8)
Total                 13.81    33.25    26.43       1.14       74.63
(7.8)   (14.8)   (14.9)     (0.2)       (37.6)
.   .    . .. . .   ..   .. . . . .   ..   .. .  
Il Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank
oan. (USWO   less interest during construction and front-end
fee).



MON lTErEGRO REGIONAL CEVELOPIJENT PROJECT
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROGRAU
BOSNVIA-                                                                -~ 
H'ERCEGOVINA As_c
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
- S- -=
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                              ER i A
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
g  J -r hi -- >    1- z <                                  !t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K,i e 
'.-~~~~~                                 )n            8                     Si,
-N /\oso vo
1   7EG                                                                 L BA N. I/A 
r-                 / ~ I- 'ra ..o       /  E5 
II  4-
I~~~::~ 7



*,'.* ^ @-*^ou.*_............... *r- .    e .i  N &}1*r    
Iw      6,   .  ,  .,,:  ,  rr.§.XltS 2W"'*'~~ N (D , ' s, .............I ..
010)(u  W    S'  I' lu I     'mAilelnsAi
I,,    --,-        i oni 'Iaee            '        $                        o.X         ';u      e;''   ,s..j',,
go            unif'11qLfli't AflMJt'AlA" t''
10             f)IQtU uuaiu,i%l                                                                  , N
*u,i &nih,n. W 0ip
htll)fltlo*^    iUVWlia ~ ~ ltiol  Iff-r w                      "VP /} 5   F       t   h  \v ^ t r )v
"nosu, grnp.Win  S            1        | .pseJ: v               n                  S  qhDpbaf 
2 A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1U
\  ;'VINVO 1fVj
POl
OAOSOVY 7 5nI
--4  t1X1I"l7e       j                       .  .,                                 C
1I111b1vwS *40131I1J                                         ,..a;f9UnltsV  ,R1s1'   \  tbpl.|6 st3          'n
oa;~~~$O
v     |11l I V Y I J'                       7       r"/                   _dtvZfn
IFbz-b IUOAS~Vl __0o 
II'IS)I 4 IIJW'D    -  4                                                                         -V(NSOU
1±3rOUd iN3WdO13A3O 1VNOIV38 O893Ni± NOW
00I         500  lA



YUGOSLAVIA
MONTENEGRO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
90SN/IA-                                                                                                          p ,rimur y Rocuii
HFAREC GOV I/\NA                                                                                                          Roounail Roads
Local Roadrs
Auitonoryious Provirico RoundurOS
Sudnico       1t)s                                Ropublc Boundurius
;W=olle PLJE                   *                            --- Ininrncilaoncl Poundurios
dElovatnris in Motors
_rroalvr thacn 2000
1000  2000
> ,'? 0 . ! ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5()0 - loo
200  500
0 - 200
O              VOIOA
rs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~on a                                                                              N
A IC Most~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~            Peing C9J no
4         c ~   iI~.k      O~
It
~~~~~~~~~~on
-A~~~~~~~~~~~~ol
.22 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Kud



Nudo                                                                                                                             . soKOSOVO
t  N IVI           livxlXK5iRisnrn@g   ,IIOGRD.
CEI < D TINJE    .                 / VA  B''-:' 'i                              AGRO-INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES
RndLano W  i    V        o                  i( alelkCrriblevica V_                     o        ^''"           Mclcll4r)
cUdVC<<\\A          g                    '                                  Z Mili Packcflin(I tinPRIMARY  PRODLJCTION
\@g   8>2t~~~~irpazar                     ,/SUPPORT SERVICES                                                        A ihts3ry fcrr
Pcerova~~~~~~~~~~((llti:>\   ,/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Extension Office                                             I' I F.1
\%E    j0b/>   F\\   R                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Voloerinory Station   (DB(?f!eS
____________________  ____________                                                                                   Fruit   Rosoarch   Sta t on               F    ult
Vocaliornol TrOiiriifg Cosomti        4) C1 ve.
Mi1k ColIwtr.ig CPritnr                    O  VWOtL1h7,1S
)  T |   _  f /    x  t ,,, :,                D§>#\X9Xtrs/                                              Cooperative (Ce..nt                     v urifclcrulls
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
U           ,(L A V I A   .q  A I'                                                                                                              f Vmt T fk,'
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
-  I.'                                                  'i                                                                         U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' p  . 
/   wa   't""*{  t'  " ^('@  9  N 1, ,,F4,;0|1",,"lw,tw,§,l"lit l, lS*l,0P  I1,11l1k  l   .-lm O,,Aw N-          ..I   t,  VA  Al wl w.10
I A I                                                 t                                                    #1 f....)Sve*l ... oV Nikola                           *-e,,A";,, l t*,#,^dl01  S1fW11 V>f, f v,,1,,  
GNI AR  I4I                                                                                                                 E                                      C
AL8ANIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -~~~~~~~ I~~J






