RESTRICTED
FILE    CO1PY                     Report No. P-40 1
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF THE PHILIPPINES' COLLEGE
OF AGRICULTURE EDUCATION PROJECT
October 2, 1964



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVEOPMENT
PiPORT AND RECOMI>BiDATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THIE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR THE UNIIVERSITY OF THE PHILIPPIINES'
COLLEGE OF AGRICULTURE EDUCATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan in various currencies equivalent to $6 million to the Government of
the Philippines for the University of the Philippines' College of Agri-
culture (UPCA) Five-Year Development Program.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.       In January 1963 the Philippine Govermnent applied for an IDA
credit to help finance the construction and equipment required for the
UPCA Five-Year Devalopment Program. The Government was informed that because
IDA funds were short and the Philippines was capable of servicing additional
foreign debt, the Bank, rather than IDA, would be the appropriate source.
The Bank would, however, be prepared to consider making a loan for the
project with a term somewhat longer than was customary. It was agreed to
proceed on this basis.
3.       The project was appraised by the Bank in July/August 1963 and
further discussions were held in Manila in February 1964.   Negotiations
for the proposed loan were held in Washington in August 1964. The Govern-
ment was represented by Dr. Sacay, Head of the Agricultural Division of
the Program Implementation Agency (PIA), and Mr. Zamora of the legal staff
of PIA; the University of the Philippines by Dr. Umali, Vice President
of the University of the Philippines and Dean of the UPCA.
4.       If approved this would be the Bank's seventh loan in the
Philippines and would increase the total amount lent by the Bank in the
country to about $106 million net of cancellations. Loans previously
made are:-



-2-
Original Principal
Year         BorrowTer                   Purpose               Armount
1957    National Power Corporation  Electric Power (Binga)   $ 21,000,CCO
1961    Republic of the Philippines Dredging                     8,500,000
1961    National Power Corporation   Electric Power (Angat)     3h,0C0,C00
1962    National Power Corporation  Electric Power (Maria
Cristina)                 3,700,000
1963    Philippine National Bank    Relending to the Private
Development Corporation
of the Philippines
( PDCP)                  15,000,000
196L    Nlational Waterworks and
Sewerage Authority        Manila Wiater Supply        20,200,000
Original principal amount                                $102,400,000
of which has been cancelled                                 2,600,000
Total net of cancellations                                C)9,800,000
of which has been repaid                                    2,300,000
Total now outstanding                                      97,500,000
Amount sold                     3 5,200,coo
of which h2s been repaid         1,800,0cc                  3,400,000
Net amount held by Bank                                    94,100,000
Undisbursed balance as of
August 31, 1964                            `61,100,000
5.      As reported when the loan to the National Waterworks and Sewerage
Authority was considered by the Executive Directors, disbursement of the
dredge loan has been slow.  The present construction schedule is expected
to be maintained. Also as reported the construction of the Angat works
is about 15 months behind schedule.  Houever, the project is now proceeding
satisfactorily.
PART II - DESCRIPTIONi' COF TE PROPOSED LOANT
6.  Borro!,;ar:          Republic of the Philippines
Amount:              $6 million
Amortization:        By semi-annual payments which together with interest
will make level debt service payments throughout the
life of the loan. The first amortization payment of
$80,0cO.00 is due January 1, 1975 and the final pay-
ment of ;3240,0CO.C0 is due January 1, 1995.
Intarest Rate:       5 1/2% per annum
Commitrment Charge:  3/8 of 1% per annum
Purpose:             Construction and equipment required for the UPCA
Five-Year Development Program.



-3-
PADT III - THLN PROJECT
7.      The project is described in the attached report "Appraisal of the
Development Program of the University of the Philippines' College of Agri-
culture at Los Banos", No. TO-439a (No. 1).
8.      About two-thirds of the population of the Philippines live in rural
areas and their livelihood is directly or indirectly dependent upon the
country's agricultural output. HIowever, except for export crops, farm in-
comes are substantially lower than the average for the Philippines. The
principal reason is the generally low level of crop yields resulting from
the poor quality of Government agricultural services and the disincentives
associated with a system of share tenancy. Farmers' needs for better
extension services, production supports and research have long been recog-
nized in the Philippines, but until 1963 effective steps to improve the
situation had not been taken.   The present Government has embarked on a
major land reform program designed to abolish share tenancy and at the
same time has begun to reorganize its agricultural services, giving
priority to the areas designated for land reform.   Apart from its direct
effects on agriculture, this reorganization is expected also to have in-
direct benefits. It will raise the productivity of other investments in
the agricultural sector and thereby encourage the development of irriga-
tion schemes as well as the opening up of new lands for plantations and
cattle ranching.
9.      In support of these objectives the Five-Year Development Program
of the UPCA is aimed at improving the quality of the UPCA's graduates who
provide more than 80'o of the key technical staff of the Government agri-
cultural services. The essential features of the Program are: upgrading
the academic qualifications of the teaching staff through exchange programs
with overseas institutions, strengthening the program of undergraduate and
especially graduate instruction, expanding the research program with emphasis
on applied research related to the production of foodstuffs,and the improve-
ment of faculty salaries and amenities to attract and hold highly qualified
people in academic life. In addition, the UPCA enrollment will be increased
from 2,000 to 2,500. The largest proportionate increase will occur in the
graduate student body.
10.     The project to be financed by the proposed Bank loan is the con-
struction of the physical facilities and the procurement of the necessary
equipment to carry out the Program. Together with site facilities,
architects and engineering fees and administration costs the total cost of
this part of the Program is estimated at 47 million pesos of uhich the loan
would finance about half. This estimate is based on preliminary drawings
which were used to establish satisfactory space utilization ratios to ensure
that the facilities were adequately suited to the academic curriculum and
that unit costs would be reasonable.   The Government has already appropriated
21 million pesos for the project and has undertaken to provide the University
of the Philippines when needed with additional funds necessary to complete
the project. The Government will provide the University of the Philippines
with the funds to cover the total cost of the project, including the pro-
ceeds of the Bank loan, as a grant.



11.       The Gov2rmJint has also undertalken to provide the University of
the Philippines with funds required for the on3ration and maintenance of
the UPCA on the basis of the Program to the extent that this requirement
should not be covered by the University of the Philippines' and the UPCA's
own resources. The operating expenses are expected to increase from about
threa and a half million pesos in the fiscal year 1963/64 to about seven
million pesos in 1970/71.
12.       By special legislation the University of the Philippines has been
given exemption from the payment of all import duties on all supplies and
materials imported for use in the Program. Contracts for civil works and
procurement of equipment will be awarded without any restrictions or
preferences. All procurement will be on the basis of international
competitive bidding and in conformity with the "Guidelines Relating to
Procurement under Bank Loans and IDA Credits". As far as practicable con-
tracts will be prepared in amounts sufficient to attract foreian bidding.
It is probable, however, that identifiable foreign exchange outlays on the
Project will be relatively small and that the greater part of the loan will
be disbursed against expenditures in pesos.
13.       The UPCA is establishing a Technical and Administrative Unit to
supervise the overall implementation of the Project and has already selected
the Project Mvianager.  Negotiations are now underway with the architects who
have been selected with the Bankts agreement to design the major buildings.
Including detailed desi-n iwork, the project is expected to take 5 1/2 years
to construct with completion scheduled for 1970.
PART IV - THE ECONOMY
L1.       The economic background against which the proposed loan should be
considered was described in detail when the proposed loan to the National
Wateriyorks and Sewerage Authority was considered in July 1964.  The
"I'Memorandum on the Economic Situation" (R64-86),dated July 13, 1964, which
was part of the documents then submitted, brought up to date the information
contained in the report "Current Economic Position and Prospects of the
Philippines" (R64-2), dated January 6, 1964. At that time, it appeared that
the Philippine authorities had brought under control the upsurge of monetary
expan-;ion that had reached its peak around the end of 1963 and had led in-
ternally to rising prices and externally to losses of foreign exchange reserves.
15.       Developments during the last few months confirm that financial
stability has been reestablished. Money supply has remained stable at
the level of June 1964 when it was 10% below the peak of December 1963.
Efforts of the Administration directed at keeping Government outlays below
appropriation ceilings have begun to make themselves felt. Net credit out-
standing to the public sector declined. This decline made it possible to
permit a moderate increase in credit to the private sector where restrictions
on credit threatened severely to dampen economic activity, while at the same
time total net domestic credit remained stable. As regards external finances,
net foreign exchange reserves have continued to rise since early June and'now



are about .$25 million higher than they were at their lowest in April.   In
mid-September 1964 they stood nearly at $100 million, roughly equivalent
to two months' imports. This increase in reserves reflects in part the
continuing high level of export earnings. However, its main cause lies in
reduced payments which probably result largely from renewed confidence in
the stability of the exchange rate.
16.      It is estimated that in order to sustain a rate of growth of gross
national product around 4-5% a year, the Philippines will need to supplement
its own resources for domestic investment by a net capital inflow from abroad
around $75 million annually over the next several years. Since during this
period service on existing external debt and additions to the country's ex-
chang,e reserves will require about $75 million a year, the annual gross in-
flow of capital will have to be about $150 million in order to make available
for investment roughly $75 million a year. A large part of the needed gross
inflow is likely to be provided by means other than borrowing abroad, i.e.
Japanese reparations, foreign grants, war damage payments, and, above all,
net private capital inflow. The remainder - perhaps upwards of Yj50 million
- will probably have to come annually from drawings on foreign loans. Per-
haps p20-25 million can be expected from drawings over the next few years on
the undisbursed portion of loans alreac5y committed. New financing would have
to be fouid, therefore, for 425-30 million a year.   External public debt
contracted, including debt undisbursed, presently amounts to about ML406
million, requiring maximum annual debt service (1968) of (h3 million.    In
addition, there exists from the time prior to the abolition of exchange
restrictions in 1962, private external debt with an exchange guarantee,
amounting to $164t million at the end of 1963.  If this debt is included,
total service on present debt amounts at its peak (1967) to about $74
million, roughly equivalent to 10% of exDort income. This is not a large
portion are,because service payments on presently contracted debt will
decline towards the latter 1960's and export prospects are favorable, there
is scope for additional borrowing on conventional terms. At the moment, it
is not certain whether the substantial inflow of capital required by the
Philippirnes will be forthcoming and the terms on which loans can be obtained
are not known. In these circumstances, a Bank loan having a grace period of
10 years and a life of 30 years seems appropriate.
PART V - LEGAL INS Th,LLPK`T A11D LEGAL AUTHORITY
17.      Attached are drafts of the following documents:
(a) Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Republic of
the Philippines (No. 2)
(b) Project Agreement between the Bank and the University
of the Philippines (No. 3)
18.      The draft Loan Agreement conformis generally to the pattern of loan
agreements with member governments.
19.      Attached is the report of the committee provided for in Article III
Section 4(iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement (No. 4).



- 6 -
PART VI - CO14PLIU.NCE `.ITH THE ARTICLES OF AGREENINT
20.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VIII - RECOPiENDATION
21.      I recommend that the Bank grant a loan to the Republic of the
Philippines in various currencies equivalent to $6 million for a term of
30 years including a grace period of ten years at a rate of interest of
5 1/2%, and on such terms and conditions as are specified in the Loan
Agreement attached and that the Executive Directors adopt a resolution
to that effect in the form attached (No. 5).
Washington, D.C.                                         George D. Woods
October 2, 1964                                          President



