RESTRICTED
Report No. TO-439b
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or compieteness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
LNTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
THE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF THE PHILIPPINES' COLLEGE OF AGRICULTURE
AT LOS BANOS
October 2, 1964
FILErtment of Technical OpYrations
Department of Technical Operations



C:URRENCY EQUIVALENT
U . S. $1   =   Pesos 3. 90



Apraisal of t'e 7evelonm.ent Croor2
of the Univers4 t, of tne Phlip' inesp
Col'ege of Agrioulture at Los 3anos.
REPUBLIC OF T11E PHILIPPTE=S
r~ E;r r'    1 77sC~
?aSe "o.
5- r -iAF Y ALYiD C IC LU. S I CO*S
I.         J7I:RC:UCTTG
7I.       THE AGRICULTURAL TAG CT'GRCTTD                        2
III.      THE :TUCATTCIl SYSTE:14
TV.        T'.n. 7F?RCJ OCT                                     9
V.         7CC'.iOlC J-STITCJ TIC7T C
VwU .      57COTLTUS IC1T'S AT7E -ECCOI,7=ATIONS              16
APPEUDICES:
AnDendix I      -      Current Institutional Refoms in
Philippine Agriculture.
ApDpendx II    -       i-an-oower Cutlook.
Anoe . dixr III     -  U.st of Colleges and Schools in the
TUniversityr of the Philininnes.
-Aoendix rJ    -       EstirLated Cost of N,jew Buildings,
Renorations, Equipment, and other
Tters Included in the ?ro4ect.
AooendLx V      -      Einance
Appendix VI T          Crganization and ?ronosed Duties of
the Technical and Administrative
IJnit.



APPTAISAL OF 'TH  D:V7L0PP3MNT PRCGFHA  OF TiE
ThrrT'fiSITYr C0FT ?IFHTII?P-7TTEJ
COLlu=C-2 CIv_ G_C TLT G E
SlU-.  Tr-- CciiKcLUS:CKE 
(i)       In January 1963 the Philippirne Goverrnent requested an IDA credit
to help finance the buildings and equipment required for tne Five-Year
Develorment Proera- of the Tniversity of the Phlippines' College of Agri-
culture at Tos Banos.  The Gove=nnent later agreed to proceed on the basis
c-'a  anf- loan, and an acnraisal mnission visited the country in- JulV and
A,uFust 1963.  Further discussions were held in I.anila in February 196L.
(-'i)     :7rove-ent and scme ex,.ansion 3f the tcaching and research
activities of the College and an increased outout of well-trained graduates
are essential for the further development of agriculture in the Philicoines.
In oarticul ar, they-- will give m,:uch-needed support to the Goverenrtlts
acricultural ser,ices.  The unsatisfactory condition of these services and
oroducticn supports, especially with respect to their organization, has
long been a source of concern to the Bank.  The Government has now taken
the initiative and begun to introduce far-reaching changes in tuhe organization
of these services, particularly in conjunction with the implementation of the
land reform program which the Philipoine Congress approved in 1963.  It is
still too early to judge whether the measures now, being taken or considered
vwill eventually produce a satisfactory organization of agricultural services.
I'owever, they are steps in the right direction and are in mafked contrast
to the inaction that long prevailed in this field.
(iii)     The TJnivers-ity of the Philiopines' College of Agriculture at Los
Banos was founded in 1909. It is the oldest and best of the country's 18
agricultural colleges. The College has a we'll-established reputation not
only in the Philipoines but also in several neighboring countries which have
sen't to it many of their agricultural students. In recent years the Ford
and Rockefeller Foundations have singled out the College as an inst-tution
of special importance and oromise.  Together, they have pledged $6 million
in grants to finance important non-construction elements of the Program.
(iv)      The main objective of the College Program is to imnrove the quality
of agricultural education and research. Some expansion in enrollment is also
nlanned.  These objectives will require a doubling of staff, the uDgrading of
staff qualifications, an improvement in the tenms and conditions of employment
(particularly for senior staff), a strengthening of the curriculum, stronger
support for agricultural research, and a major construction ard equipment
program. The proposed Bank loan would finance approxixately 5C% of a
construction and equinment prograr, that will cost about $12 million equivalent
and take five years to complete.
(v)       The project azpears justified and feasible.  It presents a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of $6.0 million car7ring a 30-year term, including a 10-
year grace period.  The loan would be made to the Republic of the Philippines.
which would pass to the University of the Philiopines the proceeds of the loan
as a grant. The Government would further undertake to provide the Tihiversitv
of the Philipcines with whatever additional funds are necessar, to finance the
oroject, also cn a grant basis.



A,ppsraisal of the Develorment Progeram of
the College of Agriculture at LOs 3ancs
* __ _ _ TWCvTAO
1.        In January 1963 the Government of the Philippines approached IDA
for a credit to help finance the Five-Year Development Prcogram of the Uni-
versit,v of the Philirpnines, College of Agriculture (UT.P.C.A.).  The Government
Twas infornmed that the Philinp i'nes ->as not eli.;ible for an _-A credit sirce
the country -.as economically stron, enough to borro-'W fronr. th1e Bank;.  Th1 
3ank -would, however, consiaer easing the f nancial burden of serv4cicng .^e
debt by making a loan for a terr  nomewhat lcnger than had been custonary
and arranr.ing for  renayment toc begin only- after substantial oenefits begin to
accrue from, the nrogrom.  The Gcvernment agreed to p,-oceed on this bas'S.
2.         The Colleget s Five-'Year Develcoment Program .,as appraised b-y a Bank
mission which 'cisited the Phslipoines in July/Aui7ust, 1963.  In February
196-4, another Bank N.ission conducted further discussionz in -Ianila to
clarify some asnects of the Program.
3.        The acadenic and physical development needs of the College have
been studied by the Ford and Rockefeller Foundations and Cornell University.
Tn 1962 a tear, of experts from these three institutions published a report
that has been relied on hieavily bT,y College authorities in dra7rng up the
Develomnent ?rogravn.  F'Ford and Rockefeller Foundationrs viewr e  the College as a
Droimsiing center of higher agricultural education and researcn in Southeast
Asia and have made major commitments.  They have already helped to establish
on College property the International Rice Research Institute.  This Institute
is rapidly becoming the most important center of rice research in Asia.  There
are several advantages of proximity for both the College and the Tnstitute,
e.g., many of the 'o - 60 foreign trainees brought to the institute are
expected to register at the College for graduate  studies.  Similarly Cornell
University (whose relations with the College go back to 1952) 'has entered
into a close working relationship with the College,designed to benefit both
irnstitutions.   The United Nations Special Furd recently chose the College
as the place to establish a Dairy Training and Research Institute to serve
not only the Philippines but Southeast Asia as well.  The Phlilippine Goverr-
ment has also singled out the College as a key center for assisting the
government in its agricultural programs. 'lJithin the past five -ears, for
example, the Government has established at the College a Comn'nity Development
Training Center and an Agricultural Credit and Cooperatives Institute.  These
examples reflect the cast achievements of the College and the confidence in -ts
future held by ot'her irmcrtant organizations interested in agriculture in
the Philippines and Southeast Asia.
4.        This report is based on the findings and recommendations of the Ford
and Rockefeller Foundations and Cornell University;  on subrmissions from the
Upiversity and the College; and on the investigations of the Bank missions.



- 2 -
II.  AC-'BICL7TLJRA.L IAC7GRO
5          The U.P.C.A. ?rogran is closely linked with the develocment needs of
agriculture in the Philippines w1hich has fallen far short of fully realizing
its potertial. It is designed to make possible an enlarged and more
effective development effort for agriculture by supplying graduates with
higher qualifications and in larger numbers, and by expanding and improving
agricultural research.  These are both areas in which serious deficiencies
exist to the detriment of the level and rate of growth of outoPut.
6.         Snereas exoort agriculture, poaucΩing coconut products, sugar,
abaca and timber, has on t4he whole been performing satisfactorily, domestic
crops, principally rice and corn, have suffered frcm generally poor yields
which are amcng the lowest in the Far mast.  As a result, per capita income
in .he rural areas, in which acout t-wo-thirds of the rnonulation live, is
equivalent to only one half the national average ard one cuarter of Per
canita incom.e in the urban centers.
7.       Poor agricultural yields in the Philippines are caused by a r'ult-
olicity of factors, including insufficient irri-ation and other facilit-es
of infrastructure as well as the disincentive effects inherent in share
tenancy under which about one fourth of the farm area under cultivation is
farned.  However, the most striking deficiency was in the quality of the
Goverrn.ent's agricultural services.  Extension services failed to bring to
the fam=ers information about imoroved techniques and better farming practices
to the extent necessary to encourage greater productivity.  Production
supports such as fertilizers, improved planting m.aterials and credit were not
available in suiffcient quantities and when needed.  Research has been unable
to give strong impetus to the diversification of present croooing patterns,
better plant and animal disease control, improvement irn irrigation and
drainage, effective erosion control and better means of forestry exploitation
and protection.
8.         Shortage of personnel with high professional qualifications was one
important cause of the inability of the Gocvernment' s agricultural services
to lend effective su! oort to the development of agriculture, and it set
limits to the possibilities of exoansion well below the desirable level.
How,ever, even existing talent was utilized much below caoac.tlr because these
serices were not organized effectively.  The Department of Agriculture
and Tatural Pescurces (D.A..R.), which had major responsibl ity in this field
and had some 16 bureaux and cornorations under its Jurisdiction with a staff
of over S,cco, was rendered largely ineffective by frag,mentation, division
of functions, and duplication of effort.  The number of agencies concerned
with extension w\zork e.xpanded rapidly, but all their efforts were badly
coordinated.
9.         in view of the imnortance of agriculture in the Philipoine economy --
it accounts for one-third of national oroduct and two-thirds of exoort
earnings -- and of the large potential for further agricultural development,
the Bank had been concerned for some t-.e acout the unsatisfactory condition
of the Govervnent's agricultural services.  Thus, when asked to help finance
the U.P.C.A. Program, the Bank -wTas already aware that w-ithout a major
reorganization of gfovermnent services agriculture could not be expected to



benefilt to the full extent possible from the better training and increased
number of graduates as well as the research work which the Progra2.m is
designed to produce.  Tt was therefore intended that appraisal of the
U.P.C.A. Progr,am would include, as an integral part, a review of agri-
cultural senrices, directed towards recomniendations on a feasible approach
to their improvemer.t.
19.       nowever, by the ti.,e the .Apnraisal .'.ission arrived in the Philin ines,
t'se Gover-mment h.ad already begun on its o.'n in itiative to embark on a major
refons of agriculture.  Tn August 1965, legislation was enacted comnitting
t'he Government to a far-reach-ing "and reforn nrogram.  Cncurrently, trie
Goverrm,ent indertook a review and began a reorganization of all aericultural
servTices w:w t. oarticular ern.phasis on the needs arising out of land refcr.,
In ad ition, the Government established a high level RFice and Corn Auuthority,
to for,ulate and administer a long range food nroduction pro'rar. and
establish a national land-use oolicy to serve the objectives of the program.
11.       The changes which preparation for land reform and establishment of
the  Rice and Corn Authority have brought to the organization of agricultural
services are described in Aopendix I.  In effect, they anount to the
reorganization of some '-ey agenc Les and, above all , to providing in the
National Land Reform Council and the Rlce and Corn Authority tw-o institutions
arr-ed with all necessary power to utilize and coordinate the activities of
all Government agencies whose services are required in the execution of their
functions.
12.       Too little time has passed since enactment of these measures to be
able to judge by their results whether they can be relied upon to provide
the effective, well coordinated agricultural services which the Philinnines
need. The first, small land reforin distri'ct has only recently been declared.
The Rice and Corn Authority has concentrated on an emergency rice productior.
orogram throughout the principal irrigation areas of the country.  At the
same time, a review of the need for further reorganization is continuing.
Thus it is clearly orenature now to attempt to assess the adequacy of the
emerging new organization of agricultural services.  Howiever, the Aopraisal
1,1ission was satisfied that the organizational structure as now envisaged
TTould meet the needs.  This judgment has recently been confirned by the
Bank's Resident ".issior in the Thili-nines.  The Appraisal Hission was also
in.pressed byr the earrnestness and vigor with which the p,roblems Tere attac'.ced
by the Government and which -were in marked contrast to the lcn-z ceriod cf
inaction. The Bank'ts 'Resident ,'ission in the Philippines is collaborating
closely with Philinnine aut'norities irn working tow,ards a final solution.
13.       Desnite the nrcrislng beainnings that have been made it -w-ould be
unrealistic to disregard the possibility of failure of the present efforts. In
particular, it must be recognized that much of the reorganization is tied to
land reform.  It will only be as effective as execution of thie land reform pro-
gram. wnhich in view, of its substartial demands on the human and financial re-
sources of the country may nrcceot more slowl,than . the Gover-nent ncw'
Dlans. It would therefore be anpronriate to obtain assurances from the Govern-
ment that it will continue reorganization of its agricultural services wMith the
aim of increasing their effectiveness.



- 4_
General Education
14.       Since TTorld TJer IT the coiuntry has made irnressive gains in school
and college enrolments.  Quantitatively, there are feTw countries of cormarable
ircome levels that have as high a proportion of their children in schools and
universities, or which devote as high a proportion of their natioral budgets
and incomes to education          strength of the Filicino's desire for education
is reflected in the fact that 7ore than tw;o-thirdsC of all secondary and
university students ettend Drivate institutions, most of which are run for
profit.  However, es the system has expanded, quality has fallen behird so
that today the general stand^rd of educatior, at all levels, leaves m-uch to
be desired.
15.       The table belcTw! sur.marizes the nresent size and structu=re of the
education systerm:
Enrolmert at Primary, Secondar-, and Un-iersitv Levels (1962)
Enrolrent
1.T1,mber of   Public 1/    % in Private   % of Total
7.ducation            Ye2rs      & Private-       Institutions   Enrolment
1.  Primary             6        L,LCO,QCo              5             80
2.  Secondary           4          760,000             65             14
3.  TJnversity          4          318,C00             87              6
14        5h478,000             18           100
The 4.4 million children in the six primary grades represent the achievement
of nearly universal free primaryf education.  The proportion in secondary
schools is low by 7western stand2rds but not for courtries at similar income
levels.  The number in colleges is very high, being over 40% of the number
in secondary schools.  The 6-4-4 structure of the system reans, of course,
that students enter universitv at an earlier age, and with less preparation,
than in most other countries. This fact necessarily affects the standard of
university work.
16.       Educetion is much the largest single item in the national budget,
accountirg in FY 1963 for about 27% of the total.  A.ppropriations for educa-
tion have increased rapidlv in recent years, rising from P236 rillion in
1959 to Pv±"9 million in FY 1963.  3v FY 1968 approrriations are expected to
rise another P337 million, giving education about 29% of the anticipated
1/  Includes all schools, gerneral and vocational, recognized by the Depart-
ment of Education.



- 5 -
budgot.   inrety per cer.n of the ntio2nai funds for education are spent on
primary and secondary schools (the f3rner are supnorted entirely by
national funds:  most government secondary schools are financed by provin-
cial funds, but an increasing number are being designated "national't
secondar-, schools and are being transferred to the netional budget). Pri-
mary and secondary schools come under the authority of the le-partment of
-ducation, *which spends 96% of the national appropriation for educetion.
The reneining L% 's divided a-onor  the countrrys 12 indecendent ch^rtered
universities (2% to the UJniversitr of the 'hiliines, 20 to the 11 other
universities).
gric-uitural 7ducti on
17.        A,ricultural education is conducted in o3 agricultural secondary
schools, 5 chartered public agricultural colleges, 9 unchartered agricultural
colleges run by the bepartnent of Education, and 4 private agricultural col-
leges.  The agricultural secondary schools are not so much technical insti-
tutions as rural hi:h schools vith considerable agricultural material in
their curriculum.  In 1962 there were about 20,CCO studerts enrolled ir- the
53 secondary schools 2nd 8,235 in the 18 agricultural colleges. (See
Appendix II, Table l, fcr a list of -agricultural colleges and their enrol-
rents.)  College enrolmrents are not distributed evenl'y over the system; of
the 70% attending the 5 chartered publ-c cclleges, about 25% ere at the
rU.T. . .
18.        In recent years the network of agricultural high schools and
colleges has exoanded rapidly ard without careful design.  Knowledgeable
observers are nowT worried that the system is becoming larger than the
country needs or can support at reasonable standards. The policy of the
Department of Elducation is to consolidate and upgrade the existing agricul-
tural schools and colleges rather tnan to establish new ones.  However,
political pressures may again make it difficult to hold to this policy.
TlThenever a high school is designated a national high school, or is converted
into a college b-y authoriz-ng the addition of extra years to the curriculum,
th,e instituto-n is transfer-ed from the provTincial to the national budget, a
measure that has obvious apneal to local nolitical renresentatives.
19.        All of the countryts agricultural colleges except the  J.P.C.A.
have been established since 1946.  Ihese other institutions have already
become quantitatively more im=ortant than the college in supplying agricul-
tural graduates at the bachelor's le-vel.  However, the standerd of insiruc-
ticn in these colleaes is extremrely low-! and research is almost non-existent.
The comp2rativel7 high standards of the U.P.C.A. have wT,on it recognit-on as
a leadinL  gr`ic ltural college, not only in the Philippines but in other
countries of Southeast Asia, from which mar-y students have cone.



The .`niarersit-T of the ~`hiliaolnes (U.P.) a.nd its College of -:icu1ture (f.?.C.A.)
20.       The U.P. is the oldest and largest of 19 state institutions of higher
learning.  7stablished in 1908, t'e U.P. now has a staff of over 1,300 with
15a,CC  studenrts in smr-e 15 colleges and a nurber of Institutes, Scnools and
Centers (see _Anendix II).  Its activities are conducted at 5 different loca-
tions.  The main site is ct Diliman, 10 miles north of ',arila where a Soacious
carmus has been develoced since 1943.
21.       The US. is an independent institution operated urder its own chnarer
and governed bnr a -oard of RPe-ent.s consisting of 5 ex-o-ficio rembers and 7
mrerbers appointed by the PresiJent of th-e Republic iith the consent of the
CosMission on rapoint-ments of Congress.  The Regents elect the President and
approve all basic university policies, administrative rules and regulaztions,
faculty eppointments and promotions and the Urnivars4ty budget.  Annual appro-
priations from the national budget provide about half the University's re-
venues. The other half cones rainlv from student fees and certain revenue-
producing assets.  All accounts of the U.P. are subject to auditing by the
Auditor General.
22.       The U.P. is one of 7 universities in developing countries that have
been singied out by the ?.ocksfeller Foundation for special assistaance in tne
nexct few years.  It has good control of its administration and budget, and has
develoned a tradition of indencendence frcr national colitical influence. The
or goal of the University for the next several years w11 be the progressive
development of graduate studies and research to build up the nation's supply of
professional marpowaer.  The Developmrent Program of the College, which the pro-
posed Bank loan wrill help finance, is part of this objective of the U.P.
The ColleL7e of .Agriculture
23.       The U.P.C.A. was founded in 1909 in Los B:nos, some 40 miles south
of Ilarila.  It is the second oldest college in the University.  At present it
has 2,050 students and a faculty of 400 members; three-quarters of the latter
are engaged on instruction ard one-cuarter on research and adirLnistration.
The carmus and colleme land conti2Tous to it contain 825 hectares.  The Collese
has another 3,500 hectares in land reservptions at other locations (several
Phililoine state colla,es and universities have land reserv7tions, which are
intended to support revenue-.,Tieldinq activities).
24.       Although not nart of t,^he U.P.C.., several other related irstitu-
tions have their buildings on Colle-e land in the townm; the U.P.'s College of
Forestry, the U.r.'s Forest Products Riesearch 7nstitute, the CormLnity Develop-
ment ALdrministraXtion Training Center, the `.gricultural Cooperative and Credit
Institute and the International Rice Research Institute.  An International



- 7 -                                 I
Dairyr Training and Research nstttute is being established on the carmus.
The existence of these n7ricultural irprcvement institutions on College land
at 'Ls FanoE emohasizes the imncrtance of Los Banos as a center of agricul-
tural education and research.
2:.       Although certain aspects of the Collegets academic standards, its
overall budget, its salar- schedules and business crocedures are governed
by TUnivers-ity-wide regIlalions, the B'ean c` the C:llege and his faculty enjoy
con.saucrable autonory in, the operation of the College's instructional and
research crograms.  College of'ficials may comclain about certain of the cnr-
Wrols aexercised from  Jl'irmra (particularly albout unnecessarily tig,'ht finan-
cial co-ntrols) but these sources of friction seem minor.  Lhe administrativa
and cersonal relation=hips between the University ard the College are
generally good.
26.       The Collere offers the following underzraduate and graduate
degrees:
Jnderzraduate rerrses (after a miniruI of 4o years)
B2-chelor of Science i.n kricuure (B.S.A.)
3achelor of Science in Suga-r Techrolozy (B.S.S.T.)
Bachelor of Science in Agricultural Engineering (B.S.A.E.)
Bachelor of Scierce ir Homne Technology (B.S.-H.T.)
Graduate Derrees
P'aster of Science (with soecialization in one technical department)
Ylaster of Science in Cormmunity Development (MI.5.C.D.)
M12ster of 'gricultural Education (NM.Ag.Ed.)
Ph.D. (the first such degree was a:arded to a Pakistani in 1963)
The College also awavrds a special Teechers Graduate Certificate of Agricul-
tural Education (T.C.A.E.) and a special pcst-graduate 10-month course for
peonle intending to take u33 work as F2rm and Home Development speclalists
(Opeciallv trained rural credit adnvsors ana extenslon ,-,orkers).
27.       The academic courses are offered by the 1b departi,ents into wThic4.h
the faculty and curriculum  are divided as follows:
A gricultural 3otany
Ari cultural CThe- str-y
Agricultural Economics
I-gricultural Education
Agricultur2l Engineering (including the di r sions of
TIathenatics, Physics and Statistics)



Agricultural Information and Communications
Aeronom.y
Animal Husbandry
Home Technology
Languages
ntoamolomY
Plant Pathology
Soil s
Physical and M;Iilit2ry Education
nhe -eneral organizatior of the curriculura is re,sonable, although there is
roor for i-rm-ovements as the Dean and senior faculty rembers Sre fully aware.
28.        Adrission to the College ls non-selective, which ils the general
cractilce in all Phili:onine colleges.  The only add.nssion recuirements are a
diploma from a recognized four-year secondary school plus a satisfactory
physical examination upon arrival at the College.  The College maintains an
active recruitment program, but it never knows how many incoming students
it will have until the-y arrive on rezistration day.  As a result of this
system, much of the selection process occurs durirng the first and seccnd
years of undergraduate w-Tork.  AL1 students are recuL-rd to take some tests
i7rediately after recistration; these uncover deficiencies (usually in
mathema-e.7tics and English) and determine assignments to remedial courses.
Until such courses are passed, students are not admitted to second-year
status.  7.urther selection is achieved by a heavy offering of professional
co-urses during the first two years.
29.        The nmuTber of first-year students has increased in each of the
last five years.  This suggests that the recent development of many new
agricultural colleges in the country is not seriously interfering with the
supply of secondary craduates who wish to attend UJ.P.C.A.  The 1962/63
first--ear studenats still came from all parts cf the country   0oci ally,
the student body can be described as middle  and lower-middle class in
origin, -ith many corin$ fro. rural backgrounds.  Eetween 10-15%  us-ually
are worien.
30.        The composlt on of staff of U.P.C.A. is at nresert unbalanced,
with many youn7 anm  underqualified ind-viduals.  It has also suffered in
recent ypers from serious losses of a number of hiaghly-qualified serior
staff.  Two-thirds of the staff have only a bachelorls degree; a cuarter
hold a master's degree; onlv 10% have doctorates.  Faculty turnoer has
averaged 10% per annum over the pest five years.  The development of en-
larged and more effective programs of graduate study and research would be
irpossible without a major effort to ucgrade and retain the more promisirng
faculty members.



-9-
-7.  THT- PRCJ7CITI
31.       The project which -he Bar-s has been asked to help finance is the
construction and equipmrent sector of the College's Five-Year Development
Program.  This Program has been conceived as a means of strengthening the
College's role as the country's leading source of high-quality professional
personrel for agricultural services, for research scientists in public and
pri,rate ennloynent, and for agricultural higher ed-cation.  This objectivze
recures a coordinated prcgrami of several parts.
32.       The Program- has seven main sectors:
(a)  Emnansion of the student body f-rocm the present total of
apprcximately 2,000 to 2,500 of wl:om 2,CCO would be under-
graduate and 5cC graduate.
(b)  Upgrading of the academrc qualifications of the teaching staff,
through a carefully planned program of overseas study for
doctoral degrees.
(c)  Improvement of faculty salaries and amenities, particularly at
the serior grades, so as to atTract and hold highly qualified
people in acaderoc 1ife.
(d)  Strengthening of the program of undergraduate ard gracuate
instruction, especially in certain rrofessional f_elds now
recognized as weak.  It is proposed to develop textbooks,
course syllabi, and other teaching materials specifically
adapted to the needs of the country and the region.
(e)  Expansion of the research program, with particular emphasis cn
annlied research related to the production of foodstaffs.
This orientation means concentrating on corn (7aize), livestock,
and poultry. Research on rice, the country's largest crop, w,rill
be left mainly to the nearby International Rice Research
institute.
(f)  Construction of phys2cal facilities and th>e procurement of
equipment recessar-y to carry out the Propram at the desired
scale and standards.
33.       The Program is soundly corceived.  It has been prepared -ith the
help and advice of men from Cornell  n TiyerSity experienced In university
adrinistration and acricultural education who are also knowiledgeable abcut
the country and Southeast Asia.  It is a comprehensive program which should
be considered in its entirety, of which the construction and equipment form
an intecral part.  The University's program provides for 100% salary-
increases between 1963 and 1963;  the first 33,X of this became effective irn
July 1963.  A seccnd Increase Is d:e                                       -'c lcee into eé~sc- u s -.  he
Program has been assured of financial support from the rord and 'Rockefeller
Foundatlons for advanced graduate work abroad by staff m,embers and for the



- 10 -
suPn7,r to the College cf several Correll ,`ni-versity faculty members.  Tne
other sectors of the Progrwa  (items a, c, d and e) -,ill be financed by
Government contribution.  During negotiations assurances should be obtained
from Governenent that the ocerating budget of U.P.C.A. will be adequately
increased to meet these requirements.
A. The Project
3L.       The Colleg&els 7h7rsical f_cilities wrere severely damaged at the end
o-$ <'orld W,ar IT.  7hev iwere rebuilt to minimia-r post-,war standards and are
today inadequate for t,,lhe orcoosed improvement and excansion of teaching,
research and extensiorn training.  Classrocms are crowded, ooor1y lighted and
ventilated, and lack; basic teaching aids.  Teaching and research laboratories
are deficient In soace, ecuipment and services.  Student housing is ocor and
scarce.  Thre absence of adecuate heusing facilities is adversely affecting
the attraction and retention of qualified College staff.  Public roads
traverse the carmnus.  Service fci'cties (the telephone, water, power and
light and sewerage systems) are old, inadecuate and, in the case of sewage
disposal, unsafe.
35.       The Colleze's construction and ecuipment program consists of new
buildings, the renovation of some existing ones and, in some cases, the
addition of annexes 'Annendix TV). 'ine of the ne7 buildings are for teach-
ing and research purposes;  and five are for admtninistrative or general
services purcoses including student housing,, audit-orium and infirnary.  "o
included are new houses for the faculty staff.  In each new building,
renovated buildings and in some of the existing buildings new equipment will
be brought in;  equionent represents about 187,< of the total cost of the
p-roject, which also includes the necessary site utilities.
36.       When the project was first submitted to the Bank, it was somewhat
larger than it now is.  A fewr new buildings, renovated buildfngs and somre
equiprent had to be omitted in order to fit the project within the financial
limits set b,yr legislation enacted for this pcroject (RA 3854). However, the
crolect as it now stands w,ill substantially correct present deficiencies
and will adequately supcort the academic objectives of the Ui.?.C.A. program..
The orojected space and utilization standards for classrooms and laborato-es
are acceptable.  The proposed academic facilities as most recently revised are
adequately suited to the curriculum.  The non-academic facilities now mieet
reasonable standards of what is required to sustain a productive university
coninunity uncer Phillcpine conditions.  Construction is phased cver five
-ears and first oriority is  ilven to the most urgently needed buildings,
i.e., starting with the Physical Science and Biological Science buildings in
the first year, followed by students' facilities and the administration building
in the second and third.  The remaining academic buildings will be built in
the latter Dart of the constructi on program.



- 11 -
37.       14aintenance of University buildings, equinrment ard services is
at present inadequate.  University adG.inistratcrs are aware of this problem
and as a result of recent discussion witil the Bank mission in -Lani'a,
attention is now to be g.iven to this important oroblerr.  For the next f'ive
flsca1 years the Collegels financial plans include additional operatIng
ewnenditures which shculd be suff4ic_ent to ensure adequate ,aintenance of
t'.e buildinEzs and reolacenent of equipment (Tee Aperndix -7, Table L).
'ssura.nces shnculd be obtained frcn Government and the U.?. that adecuate
financial orovision will be made in the future.
B.  Design, Construction and Procurement
33.w      r. r,.aster plan of the cTnUS was trenared by a Manila architect
under an agreement with, and financed by, the Word Foundation.  It -.ras
modified to im-prove the relationship of academic buildings and to effect
corollary savings in utility and road costs. An adequate description of
the type, _ ze, and use of each space and a list of the necessary ecuinment
have been prepared by the College, wihich indicate that the standards of
construction will be sirmle and ecororic.  Detailed plans and soecifications
can onl-y be nre>ared zter fte U.?.C.A. and the 3ank have agreed on schematic
plans, outline specifLcations and the cost estimate for eacr buildinrg, major
utiLity and read item.
39.        In this project, as in all major works carried out by U.?.,
.erivate archnitects and enginee-s are cormmissioned by the President of the
University to prepare designs and construction documents.  Plans are approved
by the Universit,y Co0m.ittee on Development Construction and fomxarded to the
Committee on Bids, which solicits bids from ore-cualified contractors.
Reconr.endaticns for awTard of contracts are made by the Committee on Awards.
The 3oard of Regents authorizes the President to enter into contracts after
approval by the Government's General Auditing Office.- Standard constructicn
contracts are acceptable provided an arbitration clause is added.
4C.        The Colleg,-e staff (as disti'ruished from t'he University staff at
Diliman) does not have adecuate exo-erience to administer a complex majcr
corstruction nrogram..  Therefore, the Universit7r -ill have to establish a
special administrative and technical unit at the Collece during the
construction neriod.  The unit should consist of three sections:
(a)  architecture/enΩ neerl.:,
(b)  procurement, and
(c)  accounting, reportine, and audit.
it should be headed by a project rmanager i.'}ho should be respocnsible to the
Dean of the College and, at the same time, should be the head of the
archiitecture/engineerin , section.  In addition executi-Ve architects should
be apnointed for the major buildings.  (See Appendix VI).



- 12 -
L!1.      As a result cf recent speci-fc legislatior the U.?. is exerpt f rcm
imoort duties for all articles, material or supplIes imported for use in the
Program;  contracts for civil wcrks and orocurement of equipment will be
awarded on the basis of' international competitive bidding, without any7
restrictions or preferences.
C. Summar,y of Project Costs
12.       The initial anolication  _ross7lr underestinated tre total cost of
the construction and equipment program., and was referred to U.-P.C.A. ffor a
more accurate estimation.  In the course of the revision of costs, the Bank
questioned the unit cost of buildings and the ratios of the net to the gross
area for each building as they ,ere established by the College's architect.
TIhey have nowf been reviewed by the Bank and the College and modified by
mutual agreement where necessary.   he College has confin=med that the net
areas 'nave been revised without detryiment to their nrogram.  The unit costs
of buildings used in the final estimnates anpear adequate and based on costs
of similar buildings recently constructed.
4;3.      As finally revised, cost estimates are considered realistic.  They
bring the total cost to about 212 million.  Identifiable foreign exchange
outla,s directly related to the project are cnlyI a small portIcn of total
cost.  Indirect foreizn excnange outlays associated with the project are
believed to be considerable, but cannot be readily identified.  It is orcposed
that the Bank loan should cover 50 Der cent of the total cost.  In order
to facilitate administration of the loan,disbursements would be made on
the basis of a percentage of the cost of agreed goods.
bL.       The estimated cost of each building includes allowances for
unforeseen changes and minor alterations which may be encountered in the
Lmplementation o-f the project.  Provision has also been made in the total
cost of constraction and equipment for a possible rise ln labor wages, local
materials, and in the cost of imeorted materials and equipment. This is
calculated on the basis of about 1  per cent of the estimated cost.
45.       The total estimated cost consists of the following:
(See table on following page.)



--tiea_d Cost
Renovations
Categories                            ?Tew        and Annexes   Cotal       Eq-aivalent
(i          (in million   (in        (in  llion
million         nesos)    million    TJS dollars)
pescs)                     pescs)
T. Cnstrac`tion
a - Acadae1ic                     12.5              .4        12.9          3,22
b-  ac ities for Studerts        7.7              -         7.7          1.?3
c - *nr.4nis4raticn                1.2              -          1.2          0.30
- Faculoy Housing 3s6                             -         3.6           0.90-
Sub-total                 25.o            c.4        25.4          6.35
I±. Site Utilities                                                 4.C          l.CO
!.    uirment                                                                   2.17
7-7. Architects & Engineering fees
& Project Administration                                       2.5          0.63
,. Contin7encies                                                  6.1          1.53
TrT'-;L                                        ? 46.7       Q :1.68
L6.      TUnder Rk 385L Government has aporopriated P21 million for this
oroject.  it has also indicated its willingness to provide additional funds
as needed to cover the cost of the oroject as given above.  In any case, it
will be necessary to obtain from the Goverrment assurances that it will
crovide to the University on a grant basis for use by U.P.C.A. funds to cover
the total cost of the nroject, including tJhe -roceeds of the Bank loan.



- 114 -
EJ mC C5xC'  JT'Ivi^I>
47.       U.?.C.A. has supplied the rPhilippines w,ith the miajority of its
present agricultural technologists and officials holding impcrtant key posts;
about 55"' of the College's graduates are e.moloyed by the Gcvernment's agri-
cultural service agencies, another I6 are in agricultural education.
4S.       The ob ective of the College's Develcprent Prcgrar is primarily to
iMprove the cual-itv of a7ricultural eduzaticn and research.   .However, some
ex.ars on i-n enrclL^ent is also planned and by 1970 ,he Progra7- w 11ave
'ncreased the annual output of fcur-year graduates pfrcm a7^cut 260 in 1964 to
around 350 and of^ cost-graduates from about 20 to 50 or 60.   The co-utry -will
neea these additional rnumbers  cf U.P.C.A. graduates.  The four-year graduates
will7 concri "ute na_i_ t 7o the up-rading cf the uCvernmentls agricultural
servi ces, which will continue to expand for the foreseeable future.   Suzh
ex-ansion is  iorvano to the effective exploitation c' the -h21 lnpi.nes!
potential for increasing the output cf agriculture.   The post-graduate degree-
holders -ill contribute orimarily to the ex-pansicn ard improvement of research,
and to the imorovement of agricultural education.   The economic justification
thus rests on both qualitative and quantitative grounds.   Alt.hough the Program
is intended also to increase the role of the U.P.C.A. as a regional institution
for Southeast Asia, it is mainly justified by its prospective contribution to
Philippine agriculture.
I4C.      The major cualitative benefits of the Program are the follow,ng:
(i) Improvement of the cuality of ad  nistrative and professional leader-
shiD in the Goverrment's agricultural services.
(a)  The quality of administrative and professional leadership in
the Goverrment's agricultural services makes a critical
difference to the effectiveness of those services.   In the
long run the exdstence of a first-class educational institution
is the main instrument by which a country recruits and trains
its scientific and professional leaders for any productive
sector.   No educational institution other than the U.P.C.A.
will be capable of supplying the Goverrment service with
significant numbers of the leadership personnel needed.   Other
institutions do not have the quality of faculty, the physical
facilities, the research carabilities, nor the degree of
Government support necessary to prcduce graduates comparable
in quality to those from the U.P.C.A.   This is already re-
cognized now in the  Philiprines and ;.il be even more as the
Program ls implemented.
(b)  The value of having a country's agricultural services and
research institutions led by high-quality staff takes the
forn of higher rates of growth in agricultural output.   Even
small differences in the agricultural growth-rate prcduce
large changes in economic values.   The need for better
quality services has already been stressed (Chapter II); the
role of these services -will increase with the implementation



- 15 -
of the land Reforn -rogram, because Gcver=r-.ent services will
nave to substitute for tne fcrmer landlords in giving
technical advice and guidance to the farmers.
(ii)  -h'e imProvemrent of research< canabilities, both at the U.?.C. .A. and
tarouFhout the s7ster. of nublic and oriVata research inst-Ui4u4ons.
T-ere is every reascn tlo exnect that, as a result of the  ro,gram,
research at th;e J.P.C.A  - Al1 be mcre nrcductive in the future
than it has been in the -ast.  This resu't is a reascnable
excectat4on in li     of t.e ccntr- ut'Tcn o-: .e r-r,ogram to
reduction of Faculty turnover, the increased number of  -arduate
students and th.e imoroverent of buildings, eqarn    and
libraryr facilities.
,0.       The quantitative justificatior of the Prorgran rests on the
country! s need for additional hig7,h-quality agricultural manoower.  A study
of future needs for agricultural graduates entering Government serviee in
1970 sug-ests that overall sunolv and derand will be in a7urox;-mate balance.
This assessm.ent is based on an estimated number of 19020 apricult:lral
graduates  n 10,70 an assumrtion t-hat about LCO of these v-'l en-er Or-vate
ermslonrment (leaving  about 1591  to enter Gover=ment erolcynent',, and an
est-nated demand of about 1700 fronr the agricultural services, excluding
agricultural education (see  cppendix ITI).  Both the supply and demand
figures are subject to large uncertainties.  The suonly figure assumes
that the Govermment will be successful in resisting pressures for the
indiscriminate exPansion of agricultural colleges.  The demand figure
assumes a relatively rapid continuing exnansion of the agricultural
services (mainly to support the Tand Reform program).  However, the rate
of growth for these services has been assumed no hir.her than the Gover-nment's
administrative and financial absorptive capacity.
51.       75 to 80 per cent of the 1970 graduates wll be supplied by
institutions oth.er than th'e U.P.C.A., i.e., by institutions whose standards
of instrnctior and research are far below thcse of the U.?.C.A.  In vie-w7
of the Lnnortance of well-trained leadershin to the Goverrment's prcfessicnal
cadre, and in view- of the U.?.C.A.'s almnost exclusive role in supplyting
such personnel, a PrograT. thic'h will ne=n-t the U.P.C.A. to supply 20-25 per
cent of th.e total reuirem.eent by 1970 seems necessary to provide a
reasonable pronortion of higher-quality personnel.
52.       In summary, the Program is considered of high value to the long-run
improvement of ?hiliopine agriculture, provided the Governmrent!s agricultural
services are effectively organized, research activities are well co-ordirnted,
and the comolenentary inputs (e.g., fertilizers, seeds, vehicles, credit)
are :orthcoming in adequate quantities.



- 16 -
V7I   C cC,-1lT_ST Or-  AYTD  FCOTC,  DATYDTIC-TS
53.        The primary aim of the UJ.P.C.A. Five-Yfear Development Prcgram is
to increase the effectiveness of the UT.P.C.A. as the Philippines' leading
center of agricultural training and research.  Its ultimate objective is to
help realize more fully the agricultural potential of the Philippines,
primarily through sunplyrinc better-trained personnel to the Govermment's
agricultiural services and undertakir.g an  nrprcoed and enlarged researcn
effort.  She oroject covers the construction and eou:pment sectcr of the
Procram.   t 's in l'n  with, and necessary for the attairnent of, the
broad objectives of the Frograml.
UThe TJ..C.A. is a well-administered instituticn, led by a capable
and dedicated Dean and his senior staff.  Although further im.proveiment is
necessary, there is no better place in the Philinnines where the tra-ning
of high-cuality agricultural leaders and research scientists can be
conducted.  Without these leaders, sustained increases in agricultural
nroductivity cannot be achieved.  It is certain that the U.P.C.A. car
only attain the needed level if the Program is carried out in its
entirety.
55.        The Progran is w,ell conceived.  It is supported byl the Ford and
mccKefeller Foundations and by Cornell University. Its implementatiocn wi-l
not nolace an undue burden on the GovernnentTs resources.  zcono.ic returms
do not lend themselvres to nrec4se measurement, but a rough estimate
indicates that the benefits offer returns which mal-e the project acce`table
for Bank financing.
56.        But substantial benefits can begin to accrae only if further
reorganization of agricultural services, as now being planned, is imolemented.
The reorganization already effected appears, at this early stage, to have
provided much imnroved administration of some agencies that are directly
connected Tith land reform.  The current review of other agencies is
indicative of the Governmentfs appreciation of the need for and its further
intent of improving the effliciency and effectiveness of its agricultural
services.
57.        A reviewr of tJhe estimated supply and demand for agricultural
graduates in the year 197C, after comnletion of the TT.P 1.0A P -rogram,
showvrs that the market will be in aooroxamate balance.  However, the
Governmert should be strongly advised not to authorize vie establishment of
any new agricultural colleges, public or private, before 1973 without
first conducting a thorough study of the need for new facilities.
58.        The oroposed oroject, involving a total estimated cost of about
tel2 million equivalent (or PL7 millicn), provides a suitable basi-s for a
Bank loan of $6.0 million equivalent which would cover roughly 50 per cent
of the total cost of the project.  Because the economic benefits of educational
projects of this kind are realized only slow.ly and because the develonnent of
the Philippine econom.y requires a large continuing capital inflcw from. abrcad,
it would be suitable that the loan be for 30 years, including a grace oeriod
which suitably could be 10 years.  The loan should be made subject to the



_  7_
fo71G-:i<.r cc.dlti'on; ard assurances:
(a)  Government should undertake to pDrovide to the University
for use by the 'J.P.C.A. funds to cover the total cost of
the Project, including the proceeds of the Bank loan.
(?ara.46)
(b)  The TUTniversilt- should establish a technical unit satis-
factory to the Banl. to ensure adeauate tecnnical, firanc-al
and administrative sunenision durinz tne constructicn
cerin. (cd  ara..O)
(c'  roverrent s=ouIld underta-e to orc 7ice to the University
for use by the U..C.A. the :untds necessary for adequate
maintenance of U. .G.A-. 'rcunds ard buildings. (2ara.37)
(d)  Government ar.d the Cniversity should give assurances that
they Trill provide sufficient funds to the T.T.C.A. to
operate on the basis of its Five-Year 3evelocment Program.
(?ara.33)
(e)  Government should give assurances that the reorganization
of its azricultural serrices will continue along
satsriactory  `.nes, sc t,hat these ser,vi.ces .i  ful
benefit from the U        . .rogram. (?ara.13)
Cctober 2, 1964



CU:-P ''T IY?ITTr:TTIC'TAL~Thz7 OTTD r L-T1 `7T7 A_G- CTLLT-
1,        Tn order to assess the irract that the U.P.C.A. Program might have
on the economy, it is necessary tc anprec-ate certain institutional develop-
ments in the agr;cultural sector.  The organization of agricultural services
and nrcduction supnorts is nowf under review, as previous Bank missions have
u-rged.  1i1aJor land refori legislation ias been enacted and a special
cannaagn  +'or `ood producticn is being launched.
2.        :he Programm Implementation Atgency (- T  .) has in recent mornths
been actively reV4ie.ing the agricultural services in the Philininnes.  The
3ureaux and A2-encies imzrediatel-7 affected by tihe Land 3efo=. Act and the
R4ce and Corn Authority have been given top priority in the reviewf.
3.        T:Land Beform - Attempts at land reform were made in the cast but
programs were never imlemented.  T'he Act signed on &aogust &, 1963, hc-wever,
*as made satis9actory legal erovision for these services, although ofIficials
recognize the difficulties of implementation.  They look for4ard to whatever
assistance the Pank' s Resident Advisory Technical Assistance Plission may be
able to give them.
4.        The new7 Land Reform Code (Republc Act 384) aims at establishing
owner-cu`tivatorshio aned economic family-sized farrs as the basis of
Philippine agriculture and at oroviding a more vigorous and systematic
program of land resettlement and publiz land distribution.  In pursuit of
the first objective, it is intended to convert all share tenancy into a
system of leasehold or freehold agriculture.  This change will eventually
affect an estimnated 1.2 million tenants who work about 26%, of the country's
fain area (plantation agriculture is specifically exermpt from. the land
reform program). As for the second airm, about 2.2 million hectares exist
of land suitable for settlement which could be used to relieve increasing
pressures on land in Luzon.
5.        In accordance with the Land Reform Code a Snecial Committee on
Reorganization of Agencies for Land Refore. was established.  It has now
comoleted the reorganization of the establishments and functions oc tne
asenc es di rectly concer-ed -..ith lnd reforn  ("the incorporated agencies").
These asrencies are described below.  In addition, there remain unincorporated
co-ooerating airencies ln land reform districts such as the 37ureau of Plant
Industry, Soils, Animnal Indus uDry, Agricultural Economics, Com,-munity Develop-
ment, and Irrigation.  Their w8lork- 4 S to be integrated into that of the other
agencies through the Comittee of Unincorporated A:encies.  This o-rganization
is designed to provide over-all co-ordination of all agricultural services
for land refore districts.
6.         Ihe six new.ly created agencies and their functions are as follows:
(i)  The Land Authority is authorized under the Land Before Code
to initiate and orosecute exnrorration nroceednngs for
the acquisition of private agricultural lands for the
purpose of subdvision into economic family units and resale



.Ki iD IX I
Page 2
o: :nese far  u,nitc to sreczaeu -ersons.  Ir. reslpect to
public cands it is requ`-ed to develo- plans and initiate
actions for t;^e s ,steratic opening of alienable and disposable
lands for speedg, distribut-on to ard deve'ooment by deserving
and aualified  ersoons or corporations for large scale
agricul-ture.  The authority is, howTever, not permitted to
reh-ab1litate urivate land or to develor p,ublic lands other than
by reclaim,ing swamps and marshes.  It is intended, with regard
o bcoth c_a-es of la-ds, t hat the dvelopment will be the
resnons Loility of the purchaser.  It is possbible   at  o.e
financ-a- assastance will be extended for tis purocse by
t.e Agricultural Credit A.dministration and other Government
crodot agencies.
(ii)  The Land Bank is irtended to solve what is considered the
major zrobleer of the Lnd Ref-orm  rogram,  i.e., financ'ng.
This ;,1ll ir.cncudl the payment of jusu compensation to owners
of land acquired for redistribution and the re-sale of land
t-o the beneficiaries under reasonable terms and conditions.
(iii)  Th-e m -riculturFl Credit ,d-inistration (ACA).  The iCA is a
reorg,anization o-' thie Agricultural Credit and Co-operative
Financing Adrinistration. (n CCs).  The ACA is of special
significance for the orevious share tenants ,ho are converted
in`to lessees or      07e-, oers of lrc.  Their ocx _tatus wll
cut them off frlo  their traditional sources of credit, Their
landlords.   S slm of - '50 imillion is appropriated for
this pur-ose and auathority given to re-discount and borrow,;
Lronm the Central Banr  and othier financial inst-itutions.  The
ACA is directed to grant production loans and loa,ns for the
acquisition or construction of farm equipment, supplies and
facilities especially to cooperatives to sti-mulaLe their
organization and coordinate t'heir production, marketing,
manarement and service or facilities such as irrigation and
transport.  ind:iidual loans not exceeding 2 2,CC0  may
be extended to farmiers on the basis of their repayisent
capacity or offered securamLies.  Tnterest on these loans is
limited to a maxim f. of CS rper arnnum.
(-v)  Thle  gri cultural 'roductviv- Corm'iission (A'C).  The ABC is a
consolidation of tn_ 3ureau cf ,gricultural Ixtension (Bif)
and the ,cgricultural Tenarncy Co-ission (AIC).  The purpose
is to nrovide tech-nical, ed'cational and informational services
throuzh extension work-ers fo +he far.,ers, p-rticularly lessees
and new land owners who are beneficiaries of the land reform.
(v)  Office of th-.e AErarian Council.  7he Office cf the Agrarian
Council is a reor-anization of the Tenancy .:ediatior. Cormission
(Tho).  Its specific nurrDose is to strengthen the legal assis-
tance to agricultural lessees and owner cultivators.  Land
disputes are to be dealt with iL  the newly established Courts
cf -igrarian Relations tD be established in the various regions
of the count,>.



e -IDIX I
ge 3
(vi) fhe's,icncl Land Ts-4^srn Coucil is to be~ c3.m.pojad of the
'o-;-irmnor of the Lo^f ku:iorizy  (Chairma n), t       miistratcr
of tne hg-iculturai Creudit A.drinistration, the CChairman of
the Board cf Trustees o' the Land 3ar'i, the Cc"v"issioner of
the Agricultural Prcduc"Jvity Cor-mmission arn another member
appointed by the Fresident.  Thne functi ons ofL the Council
include the des-gnation oa  specific la.nd r-formr districts
and the formulation of' detailed regulations governing -he
selection of land for acou-siticn and distributioa. the
selection of beneficiaries, and the deterrination of farm
sizes.  ReEaional La-d Hef'orn. Conmittees, responsible to the
Cou.ncil,  Till be es-tab se  in each ^egion of t'e ccu,ntry.
-overnm-ent oflficials 'ro7e that nolitic-al .ressures w^:ill not
zorce the coui^ncil to desiclnate land refcorm  i'stricts moe
ra2idly than th.ey can service ef'f?ectivel-.
7.          Tt is, however, clear t,at a reorganiz2tion of the a-r-'cult'ural
services and land tenure will not in itself be sufficient to ensure
increased agricultural prodac+tiity.  There is urgent need to improve
the supply of prodiction su-norts, particularly fertilizer and improved
seed.
8.          T.he countr_y now has one sma±a nlant ranufacturing aTmmoniun
ulrhate, e ncther meaking surer roschate, te    o .-^ivg plants, and a large
urea plant under const-rnucion.  Consus-1!tior, of nitrocen fertilizers is
esti.mated at L4,CCC tons.  'h-is fi gure is exoected to double by 1967,
although a triplin- is considered cossi'ble if' certain unliikely assumptions
should materialize. 2
9.          l.oderate tariffs are levied on ir.morted fertilizers (two thirds
of total supply) to protect local industry.  An exception is made for
fertilizer imported by the Agricultural Credit A:dministration (ACA) for
suHply to parvicipants in the current "crasr" rice production program.
Tn this case the fertilizer is held either in ACA warehouses or under
arrannement by private fertilizer distributors.  It is disbursed to
individual grc7wers on orders from .'C.  Payment is to be made frcrm the
proceeds o- the crop w7hich must be delivered to "CA designated .warehouses.
It  2as not yet been decided whether this crash prograrm fertilizer credit
scheme ;ill be continued and ex..anded to the main rice croe  later in the
year.  Sligarcane growers obtain their fertilizers mainly from  their ow;n
co-oneratives who b'a-uy in bulk and supply to their members. Other farmers
can obtain limited supnlies 'r=m the private fertilizer distributors
operating at siare o- the main centers.  Finance is available :^cr its
purchase through the private Rural Banks.
1/  See th.e study Pr,IDection of Fertilizer Tsag,e in the Phil-ipines sponsored
byJ the Internatioial Finance Cor-oration.  This study emphasizes the limDited
extent to ihich increased fertilizer use can lead to higher output unless
it is accompanied by (a) many chanres in cultural practices and (b) the
development of neTw varieties more resnon.sive to fertilizer than many native
varieties now are.  There is also great need for research on fertilizer
applications and resconses under Philippine conditions.  The report tends
to discount the contribution to be made by a greater availability of
f ertilizer alone.



fagen L;
10,         The seed, cer-Ification schene for- rice, at ,resent the- res-onsibility
of the dureaic of Pla3nt L7ustry            ha91), nas not 'been succesoful.  -uantities
of certified seed produced annually are s-ufficient only to plant less tnan
one per cent of the total rice acreage.  Dcring 1962/63, of son,e 50,000
cavans of seed oroduced by f--rer co-onerators for certified seed oroduction,
only 47,0DO cavans -,;ere of an acceptable standard.  This :ias erloca all
due to the disnersion of selected co-ocerators -.ith^ consequent insufficient
su,pervisory service ana to a r^t.rer unrea -stieal_,- hi.c-h standard acon-ted.
I,--a-le endeavor to satisfy all demands for an opportunity to cotain a
nremiuri    co for their crc-s, thre BPI snreads the co-o7erators as nIdely
as possible rat`her than locating the.ml in concentrated areas so as to
fa.cilitate supe: ision.  Ir order to irinv-ze th.e availability of good class
zcrcrerc_al rice seed, CA` is institut%ing a contvrolled prod:uction program
of reccmmended varieties in the vario-us districts.  vUnder th-s sceme
selected seed will be b-uLkLed up bv crivate growers under CAPf sunervisioon.
if develc--ed this .;ould bseneficial-ly ccnmlel ent the seed certificaticn
scneme and generally improve the eualaHty of seed available ccmmercially.
11.         Table I shoLis that tne production iincreases of rice and corn over
the cast 15 years have been due a7Lost entirely to ec)anded area rather t.han
increase in yield.  It is obvicus that the fertilizer and seed situations,
among oher th'ings, uill  need to b'e nroved to permit any reorganized
ser,vices to inake a s,-niaicant i!oressicn on thie present agricultural
cosition.  A recognition of' this fact is sho in in the moves now being made
to crganize supplies of fertilizer for rice productJon and to prov-de cred-t
for its purchase and in th'e conmencement of a program for tne bulking of
selected rice seed of recommended varieties to meet the requirements of1
rice growers.



Z77 LI7  I
Tabole 
Changes in Area and Yield for lice and Corn Consuruption
1948149 - 1961/62
Area
lCC0 Hlectares
1 9L4/L9
C ran            1952/53      1959/60      1960/61      1961/62
Corn                969        1,o46        2,o4'5       2,c2L4
Rice              2,350        3,306        3,198        3,179
Yield
1C0 K-o/:-iec tare
Corn                7.2          6.3          5.9          6.2
Hice               11.8         11.3         11.6         12.3
rrOQon2stof
1,CC0 eOric Tons
Corn                696        1,lc5        1,210        1,266
?.ce              2,76r7       3,739        3,N705       3,910
Source:  Vood and Agr-icultnre Orgarnlzation Froductior. Yearbook, 1962



A??E7-';D  II
'l-.ecuiremer.ts a,nid *5-     s in th-e "ear 1707
I.         nc?raisal of the oresent project does not depend crucia.lly on
overall estinates of the future demand for and sucnly cf agricultural
Oraduates throuc-hout the econcrmy.  Ho,.wever, it is useful to try to derive
some notional fiLu.res fr annual requirements and supclies in the future.
Supol,  and demand est-mates have lbeen r.ade focr 1'7^,, treated as a bencn-
mark, vear.
2.        Irn 1970 thae TJT.?.C.A.  o:l be only one among perhaps 20 agr±cultural
colleges supnlyir  --raduates to t-he labor rmarket.  There are too manv
variables to nermit a confident judgment as to whetezher or moto there -.iill
be sufficient oceninΩs to absorb all the graduates of agricultural colleges.
The best estimate, however, is t'hat there uill not be any ser-ious surplus of
graduates.  Regardless of the overall rmarket situation in 1970, adjustrents
in enroLments at U.?.C.A. alone cannot make any -major contribution to the
closer gearing of the total supply to requirements.  The only remedy is a
mrore controlled expansion of the total systerm of agricultural education
than is now occurring.
A. ) ecture o' future requirements can be developed bay:
(a) ccroaring the oresent density, of such graduates
against international standarcs, or
(b) ask-ing the main emnoyers about their plans for
expanding employment, or
(c) working fonrard frcm a base-line figure for the
Dresent stock1 of agricultural graduates by applying
arithmetic factors covering growth and replacement
of this stock.
Ihese th.ree anoroaches serve as checlks on each other.  Toaether they lead
to a judgmrent cn the annual requirements for new agricultural graduates.
mequirements can then be compared w.ith the estimated annual supplIes.
4.        Table A li'sts all agricultural colleges and un-versities in the
country, the dates of their founding, their estimated enrclments in 1963,
and tne assumTied nunber of grradiuates in 1-970.  Until 19 r8 -,.hen the first
graduates began to come from Araneta, th-e U.P.C.A. had been the only
donestic source of agricultural graduates.  Entirely a?art fron its past
monopoly, however, the College enjoys a position of strong mnarKet preference
among many employers because of tthe superiority of the education which thev
feel its graduates receive.
Tn 1963 the U.`.C.A. conducted a auestionnaire survey of all
living graduates to determine,  among other things, their oresent employment.
At the time of the appraisal mission's visit, returns from nearly 3!5 per
cent of the alumni had been received. Their distribution by four major



Page 2
classes cf emnlo,,ent is s`hc-Tn hereunder:z'
ur.=uber
1. Dept. of Agriculture & éTaatural Pesources         879       15
2. -ducation                                          632       32
Cffice of the President                            315      16
Pr. Pivate emplcyrent                                 131        7
1,957     100
W,ihen these figures are ad-usted to allow for known distortions in the
coverage of the returns received, they suzgest t'nat abcut 55 per centt of
tn',e eradkates are em:Iloyed by the government's agricultural service agencies,
another 4.0 ner cent are in agricultural education, and the remaining 5 per
cent are employed by four large private em.loyers.
6.        There are rno nublished data on the distr-bution of public employ-
ment of agricultural graduates and thne unpublished data are pcrly organized
and diff cult to locate.  At the end of 1963 the Program  Imnlementaticn
Agency (PTA) was finishing an inventcry7 of agricultural  =raduates in
goverrment empQloyment.  Preliminary results from t'ne PIA survey show,Ted that
the central government emnloyg about 10,000 university graduates of wuhom
6,2.00 hold agricultu-ral degrees (including degrees ln agricultural education).
Table C presents the best estimates available cr. the ccmoosition of this
72E400 rDoouiation now 4mn groverrment service.
7.        Table C shows that two-thirds of the public employees with
agricultural degrees are emcloyed in the agricultural services, one-third
work in agricultural education.  Sixty per cent of those in the agricultural
services are extension wvorkers of one kind or another including Home 7conomics
workers.  With 1.6 million farmers in the country there is one extension
agent for every 1500 - 1600 farnmers.  This ratio compares -;ith 1/650 in Japan,
1/1,5C0  in Taiwan, 1/2,5C0  in South Korea, 1/5,C00 in Malaya, 1/15,0C0  in
Thailand.2/   Thus the present density of extension -vw=orkers in the 'Philipoines
is considered satisfactory as measured by crude international comparisons.
Growth cf the agricu'tural services during the next decade should be slower
than 4n tne recent years of very ranicd exnansion.
8.        DFe may estinate the annual government demand fcr agricultural
graduates in 1970 bv (a) apnl4ing a range of growth-rates to the present stcck
1/ - Table B gi-ves more detail on the distribution of ennl oyment by er-loying
agency.  Although ex ension workers constitute the largest single Cccu-
pational group among LT.?.C.A. graduates in tne sa-,.ple, they account for
only cne graduate in every five.  College a'thorities believe that
graduates employed by the Bureau of Public Schools, teaching in agri-
cultural high schools and colleges, constitute the largest occupational
group of alurni.
2/ - Taken from th'e U.,,. oublication "Decentralization for Mational and Local
De-velonmrent, kST/TAG/I1V9-1962), ?.132.  The ratios refer tc 1959.



A2T:D=K  IT
Page 3
of universiy  ra d_r aes in the agricultnural agenc-es (irscluric  r  ao ricutura
education, ,o) ad&'n'Ωa an allowance 'or -enlace7,ent, and (c) mak;- assunotions
about -h'.e prooortion o-f graduates wtho W-ill hold agricultural degrees.  Table ,
begins with the present estimate of 10,000 in the ac=icultural services and
education, applies a rarige of growth and replacement rates to arrive at
fl,,ures of gross annual recuirerients and then applies fi-re assumotions as to
the proportion of new,_y-hired peo wle w,o w,ill hold agricultural degrees.
Table 3 ;s not cumrvulativire;  i't refers cnly to t'he year 1970.
9.        The low,-colunn estimnates seen unlikely on two grounds, (1) an
inL1orta,nt set of' novernnent services th,at has recently been expanding rapidly
cannot suddenly -e assumed to slow dan  its gr-:..t'` to the expected growth-
rate or the i'arv oopulation, and (2) a 2 oer cent growth rate is only one-
*-f-h of the nrojected annual increase o-f 3AHP expenditures for t'he nex't
''ie    ears.    t the oth,er end of the scale, the high-co'umr  estimates would
(if the present distribution nattern continued) g7ive the ccuntry one extension
agent fcr eve_, 260 fai-, units.  Tiis -nt-ches the JMetheriardvs present ratio,
the hi,gest in the world.  .' figure of about 17CC (- or - 6Cc) is as accurate
an estimate of new recruits in 1970  as can 'be h-oned for nowr.  7his figure
can be comoared w,ith the probable output of agricultural graduates in 1970
sho-wjn in Table A.
10.        Table A gives us an estimated figure of 1,900 agricultural graduates
in 1975    otC  all these will seek g-ove=ient en,coyment.  Tf we apply the
oresen+ factor of about one-auarter -w;ho do not choose government, we have a
net fi-ure o-f 7,L2  as the nier of domestic graduates likely to seek public
ennlo,yment in 1973.  Th1.e number returning fron. foreign study is unlikely to
increase this figure sigr.ificantly, (perhaps by 5c-l00)   An estimated supply
ficure of about 1,550 comrared to the est;mated demand figure of about 1,7C0
sugests thnat there 'will be a reasonable balance in the system. 'Hcwever, both
the supply and dermand figures are subject to wide margins of error.
Sept.16/64



Table 
LIS. 'I    lIIU. TuRLF  CCLL D-S
Estizrrated
Airproxima te    Numaber
Date of      nroll.ment      to be
t o-rudin:Lg   19b2/)I63    gradua Led
______an     __ _cat_ion                                                 in 1970
1. U? Colle_e W' ..'-,ricultz
Colleg,e KIos _anos)                      1909         2,C50
Ono.er Chartered A'zr. Cclleges (PLdbic')
2. Central   uzon igriclt^ural
Collec- IlinCs, .-eva Llcija              1950         1,4C0          250
3.  iindanao Agr icultural Col e'ge
a .usuanl, l3ukidon                       1953         1, CC0         200
i&.             tiintaUao Insttute cf '_c=1nlog-y
195i        1.CCO           250
5. Samar Institute of T-eclnology
Cataran.a. Samar                          1958           300          l00
Sub-_otal - Chartered:              5, 750       1,15
Public Co5 cI    s
(unrer Jffureau Public Schools)
6. itountain & :,ricaituraL Coll eg,,e
1ir-inidad ,3enz-luet
.ourtair _-~ozvinca                       1 9525*        235           IC0
isayas .;ricultural Col ee
aycay, Leye                              1952-          3C0          100
C. iarines Sour :attinael
r cultu^ral School
P  i, Car-;arines aur                     l?50-          200           75
. cxas -e.crial A_cicultural Sc  oo
GuiLnocatan, i'may                        1956*          2C0           75
10. -egroc Occidental Aiculjura
c'chool :iao.-ang,kaan,
t,e<Lros uccidental                       1962*"          50           25
- 2-



-PM-D'DI   17
Table A> (Page 2)
Ap-roximate  £s4-mated
Date of           inrrcient  u7-er
Foundinr    1962/1963       to be
graduatea
'T2rZ and Locatian _                                                       in 1970
_11.  loΩ_5 c 1;a~.   =:l7'CuL lnral OchCiol
-a-,n011o, _o1cl                          W-S2<c           5C             25
12. farlac   ational- ,ricultural School
OC I1i n_,  ar s c                       l9c2/;           50             25
13. Oulacan  AafUtcna' <-ir calturai
.an Iidef2ones, 3ul.ccan                  1',2-            5∞             25
l. Zamabales  &atiornal AL;ricuI tural
-School
ran iv,arcelino, Zarbales                 l9c2-C           50             25
S'WO-Total - 3Ps                     1,125           475
!-rivate Co1l_*es
15. Araneta unirer:ity
Victoneta Park, ;izal                     l9cb          1,O0            100
16. Central 9hil-p-7       - ne Uiiversity
Tloilo City                               195h/           100             50
17. Dil1rar   University
Dèma;,uest,  ocrros ur,n _nta!l           I95 h           lC0             50
13. XCavic-r University
a-a-Ta  de Crc
riisanaC  Orieental                       l5L-            100             25
Sub-e'otal - Priv.rate:                 1,3C0            225
Grana Zotal:                             ,233
;Year uhen colleriate courseE startedc to be offered.
n4ote:  Sc,,e other sc;-ools --nder th;e 313S  u-1ch as tiln  schools ir. .Aklan province
ana Ca, ayan are an tl.  roce_s o0  ce,nvercion into a ,ricultural cclleges



Table
él?olo..ent i`;,ftribit,ion o" TJ?C' Graduates in 1962/1963
(based on  estionnaIe reaurns from 1778 graduates)
- eartznent of .   calture :nd  tat   a  Reso-rces
_ureau oZ. Hèr±outcur~1  xtUession                      369,
- e au of 71-.nt  n-s'_-tr-Y                            27,
-U!'CaU of Soils                                        1C3
A_.,u of Aim-ral Ii?. f_-U 
__:;hili-pcine Su,--  nt-Sae>
b"~~~~~~    L ~ '*UO2                                          2
Ii ion >ervtoe TJrit                                 10       322
TEc   0-ice of the Iresident o  the Philirnines
Agr. Credit `dniristraticn                               36
7orest Products Research Trsts tute                      13
rresidenti4a  'ssistant >or  o'rxunity Develormnent    39
Dm1er7ency Zmnloyment Adniinistratian                   102
Prozr n^ Imnlenentation Agency                            8
De-'-elonnent Bank of the i-wapliar.-cies                L2
4t-hi-Anie .Vlr.-iria Tol,acco  -1oin-1   aion5
I-hilin,in.e Coconut ideinistnation                      19
aa 1ana1 Economic Counci                                13
Hational Science Develoanent Board                        6       283
LL    zs-dcationAl In.sttinE
Bureau of Public Schools                                303
Central Luzon A<ricultural College                       24
UPCk - (ircludes some graduate students)                258       585
T,V.  Prirate 7BrvloTrers (2 o"n'- an)
niternational .9ice Hesearcn Institute                   Lo
Shell Oil Companry                                       12
Canubang (sugar comnIex)                                 26
San a i,uel Brewey                                       20        98
'otal               1,788
*  Chartered colleges: not resnonsible to the Deaartment of Education.
Source:  U`-SCA, July 25, 1963.  These returns cover only about L1,O% of
the estimated L45c00 gaaduates stUi  in enployrnent.  Since the
cuestionnaires were mailed out on a non-randorm basis the
above returns cannot be takern as re-oresentative of the whole
a'Lmni body.



AFnTB:Dj  1T
Table
1 V _-
PubfElic  -.Bulo.-.ent of  Hgricultural 3egree Holders (1963)
c.             a !"'C   A1  _erv .ces                 jmTcer       Per Cent
_ .   ; =en_i:_n ofh iz           _           . 42                LO
e an^-  t.-,- -, er n ni3
-ca Deve1oarent  r '            6
2, Others
Bureau of Flant Industry        ,50
13ureau of Am-L-al Tnc(ustr7r    3CO
Bureau of  oi ols               2 50O
Corrui ty Develor-ment          200
Bureau of A=-icultura1
'con-omcs                      6c0
.;rXA                             50
Coflut Inst_u,e
-hilip^lne HIational Dank,
Centr-al Bar k
Several other agencies          300        1,6C0           25
Sub-Total                       L,Cd2
A              Egr±clΩrol Bducatlon
Bureau of Public Schools                           1,784          28
Classromrn teachers:                  40 5
-har ered agricultural
col le.es                                          5CO           7
Sub-Total                       2,28L          (35)
r.A:,-.D :r-i_'T                69366



AFP¢D?3 II
Table 3
Govte'-.rent Recui-renents for Ule>s Agricultural Graduates in  9,7C
?.elvart Cc.or7aricons:
~.  ass!e- 3-rate of nc^ulatim              Q`rov. to   7  3: 5, o .a.
2.  Ioverr=ientls nrodjecticns for n-cu-sases in overall exrerditUr5
P7è 1963-62:  ave. 8.5; ..a.
3.  Grovernrm.ent irojection for increases in exnenditures of Dent. of
Agriculture and LTatural  esources,  l 1763-63 :  10.3%  .a.
2.R  Becinn.in,g Stock JO ~of univers:t tr,  cuates in govJe=zent devaca,rents
ser.ricing agriculture:  L0,0C0 (1963)
A. Aoorox. ratio of agricultural graduates to all universit7 -raduates
n goverement denartments serr4cing agriculture:  .62 '1963)
T.  Positions to be filled bv-
,nt''''ers' tT .-raduates           LoW       Intermediate      Hiih
1. Size of stockc (end 1970)   (11 ,27)        (l9,036)       (19,287)
2. Growth  in stock.                 230(2-')      902(         1 )   1,929(107  )
3. Ren,lacement of vasta, e          3%t5(3%)      759(5-)      1,374(7%)
botal:  2 + ,               575         1,65            3,323
II. Acriculture Graduates
(assumed portion of total intake
of university graduates)
P-ercent
50       283            827          1,662
b0       3L%            992          1,995
70       403          1,1-58         2,326
80       I6L          1,323          2, 68
90       518         1,239           2,991
Average of troe minimum and maxim.m figures is 1,620.
"most reasonable range"r:  110C tc 23C0 (or 17C0  + 600)
July 1/62



IlST L.F CJLFG.'IS .A D SCIMCLS Th       VT W,,  ,    CF T.- F FLTOOT-:S
(.irrarged in t'ne order of tiaeir fcunding)
1.    Colleae of Medicine
2.    CDlleoe cf Ag,riculture - Los -nics
3.   vColege of =rchizec:ure ar1 Pine Arts
4.    Collere of Arts iand Sciences
5.    CCllege o  Ingineering
6.    College of Veterinary `edicine
7.  Cc'leOe cf La".
2.    G7raduate Cole,Ee of Educa-ion
9.    Col'lege of n7'ar,nacTr
1C.   Philipin e General H4ospital Ccnool of Cursing
11.   College of forestry
12.   University '-'gh Scnool
13.   Conservatory of ffisic
14.   Col lege of' Dentistry
15.   Cu=mer Tnst-tute
16.    Institute of hygiene
17.   Hiural hizh School
13.   Colleoc of Busness  ,dministration
1C.   Univers it.;,- :ementary vS.hool
20.    bib   College
21.   College of :iursing
22.   Graduate Schcol of Arts arnd Sciences
23.   Zxtension Division, M'anila
24.   institute of Public Adr-rn-istration
25.   University P'reparatory School
26.   Statistical Center
27.   Asian Taoor Iducation Center
25.   Clark Air S2ase 7ranch
29.   institute of 'sian Studies
30.   College of F'sheries
3 nst-tute of Econoric Develor ent arn  tesearch
,2.   Agricultural Cr-edt ad Coo,peratives  nst-'tute
33.   Univers-t.y Co5Llege
34.   U.-". Cllee,  aguio City
35.    Institute of Library Science
36.   Colle ,e of  :oIe cononics
37.   Schocl of Allied 'Medical Professions
Source:  General Catl7'ome, "T.F., 1963/64, pp. 7-11.



XFF2'TDTX 1D
T-,   ,T  o  >  ¢ j > ~~~~~~~~~~iLT 1    - >rt>
CS                   :  _. J;. .1.^03 J   - .D_
Estimated costs cw lreu,, bu-ldings, renovaVon,
eau:on.ent. -ti ites and other costs7
:e T-, B t I2E.                   ~ve scs                             ? 'c12~- i le. J
1;     s-cal 5cience                                   2,702,G0           065,
2.  34ological Sciace                                  3,735,700           9 35.V0C
. er,eYU. of .r c-lt,ral _r.;or=a,ion a.d
cations -         carm cme  :'eel oeIst   710,c0             177,7 ,70
c. A"o07::7 /ols                                       2,,29,C000            22.('0
5.  `h7, si cal P`'lant                                  c5 ,3             '63h^
~~~~~1J~~~~~~~~~~~~~n± ~ ~ ~ ~    c,c   633,,CO,6 L0
6.  a.P.ricaltura'l iongineerier'g                       7975700           1099,!'0
7.  3iolog-cal Science --reenrhose                       2k6 600            61,700
8.  Agrono.my/Soils Greenhouse                           275,CCO             68,800
9.  Food Science and Techrmology                         974,400            2h3, 600
10.  Students SJni on                                   2,30L,,8c0          576,200
11.  ITen's DormirLtories                              1,686, 9C0            21,700
12.  .cm.ents ocrmitories                               1,38C,100           345  C
13.   dmJ nist-ration                                  I,227,               30o6,900
13.  -                                                    913227, 65C        22,LCO
15.  Auditcr if.                                        1,335,,3C0          358,9c0
16.  Faculty, :Housing                                  3,0,00C               90,CCCO
Iieno=ration
17.  Librar-                                              20C,0o0             50,0oo
18.  l'ural hiigh School                                  10,OCO              25,c00
19.  hz an,l  itie s                                      10C,C00             25,000
-Ub-total          25,373,0o0          6,3343,300
20.  E uc: u  -ent                                      8,732,5C0         2,183,10o
21.  Site Utv                                          3,9 69,5C0           992,.'0
22.   --:c,    "1  -rd Zugineeri-g Fees                1,830,0C0 O57,500
23.  Administration                                       599,0c0           149, 700
TOtal              L0, 50I,0CC0       1C,126,00C
24.  Contingencies                                     6,196 .00c         1,I,89 000
G?RA;O!O T?  L    L)h6,7`0'CCO       /11,675,COO
/ Subject to revisior duri-.g neotiations.



This appendix contains data and exn'lanations that bear on the
UniversityTs and the aovernm.ntfs ability to finance the Project.  Four
tables 'Lol!o'. thes3 explanatory paragraphs.
2.         Taci  1 shcws the Universitv- 's total cash income and expenditures
for .r.e se n var s        ' 1,57 - F  1963  plus tenLative projections for the
five-ye2~ ner- ad of ans Ph roraLm  F r 1,9. _-7,r F168.  In five of the seven
most recent  ears the University has realized an overall surnius desnite an.
increase of 45;S in exmenciitures over the period.  The cumulative net surplus
for these seven y-ears was p2.7 million.  Anmnual surpluses rerain the pronerty
of Zhe unfversLty:  zhey do not revert to the '-,aticnal TrasuZr.
3.         Th^.e sources of University income in  T '9963, and Dsti.mated scurces
for each of the next five years, are given in Table 2.  3y FY 1c68 the overall
income is excected to rise from P20.6 to ;34.2 mirdllion, an increase of 13.6
mi  on, or t-.so-thirds.  This is exactly the amount by wh och the '2overmnaenu
contribution is assumed to inrcrease. The net changes assumed for the five
other sources of incone are zero.
L.         It is useful to conmare the orojected five-.y-ear exoansion ir
Goverrnment expenrcitures Lor the Unive rsit -y with the projected ex-ansions for:
(a)  eleven other charterea  educational institutions not ur.der
the Desartment of  ducnction,
(b)  the Denartment of Education,
(c)  the total expenditures of the National Government, and
(d)  the National Govm-rnmentts financial resources.
Five-year estimates for all th^ese items are surmrarized in Table 3.  The main
points of interest are these:
(i)  .lthough no estimates are 7ive.n for the exnansion of total
i'lancial resources, i:ncore fron Gereral Fund (wh!ich regularly
accounts bor oC-z,, of Governaent resources) is expected to
grow by P621 mill-on1, or 53,.
(ii)  Total exnenchizures of ;,e -National Government are expec.ed
to rise by ^927 rmillion, or  ,9''.
(ili)  Total expenditures for eductition b,y agencies of the National
G-ov~rnmenet (the s-Lie ofA lines 3, 4 and 5) will rise by P337
million, or 703Ob.  Ihis total exceeds the budget appropriations
needed by tne amount of the University1 as e:enditures that
are fin,anced from  sources oh:_,r then the national budget
(cf. Table 2).



AP-.IX V
Pa2e 2
(iv)  In 7f 196,  9656  of  National _ovarnrment funds for education
went to tre  eartnont.of Educaticn; less than 2i went to
the University of the  hlirpines -while just over 2' went
to the 11 other charts red unmiversities nct run by the Department
of Zduc2tion or financed throu-h its budget.
(v)  A'thougrn exnencitures for the University ard the 11 chartered
unLraivrsities a- e ex-ected to rise at c-nsiderably faster rates
than thosa of -Lne _ooartm-ont o- o ducation, t;.e latter  7ill
tln ce s3encfng 91, of .he Gov- rr7nCn ?s eaducation fLuncs
in FY 196.  About 8- of the total increase ln aciucational
outlays  vill -,o  o      r_e:artment.  'he increae  in this
t_e: alone will acco -t for about 32,. of the tctal increase
in all Gover=nter- ex,ecitures.  The result wiould be to
raise the total pro-ortion of ecucat-on ie=xenditures in the
Philirpine budget fror. 2c6, ir, FY 1963 to 29,, in 1968.
(v.;) Ti-e absolute increase nro4ected for the University is less than
10;5 of that for tie Deoartnment cf &ducaticn.
5.         The p rojected andditional o,oerating ex-cen6itures for U.P.C.A.
resulting afrom, the im-ipslementation of the Five-Year Levelsmrent Prograr
have been prepared by U7-2..COA. and have been approved recently b'y the
Gover-nmentIs Program  -implem entation )_g*ncy.  T,hey are shnown in 7hble 4
broken dow;n into divisions and individual items.  Acccrding to                t
estimates, the increase in ocerating expenses would be spread over f'our
years, rasing from P3.4 rmillion in FY 1964 to  7.9 million in FY 1968;
thereafter they -vould level off at about P8 million.  The anrnual increase
over the firs. four -years of the Program is slightly over -1 million as can
be seen from Taoble 4.  Thlese projections will be discussed during negotiations
in order to ansure that proJected operating expenditures w4ill adequately meet
the requirements of U.?.C.A. s Five-Year Development Program.



APPET r'I> 'J
Table 1
Unil;ersity cf the `hiliormines
Projection of Inccme and E=en6iture/
(in thousand paso s)
TI   C C T7                        X P 7 N ; I T TU p E
fi-scal Years         Actual       Pro jectior           Actual        2rc    t c
195-7             12630.1                             li, 54. 1
13,957 .3                         1_ 3 63. 9
1959              IL4,977.7                           15,710.7
1960               16,222.2                           15,511.2
15961              18,377.5                           17,689.c
1962               16,483.1                           16,618.9
1963               20,52i .2                          19,763.5
113,180.1                         11o,472.6
1964                                23,960                             23,960
1965                                26,190                             26, L430
1966                                28,630                             20,150
1967                                31,290                             32,150
1968                                3L,200                             35,)60
1i4, 27C                          1 4 7, 150
1/ - Lces not include capital exoenditures of the Five-Y-ar Develop-ent
- rogjro..
2/ - Ratas of increase of income, 9.3 per cent, anr expenditure, 10.3 per cent.
Source:  Uriversit-- cf the PhiJappines, Certified Statement of t-he
Ch;ief Accountant.



APPIINDIX V
Table: 2
Universityi ?f the Philippine s
Five-Year Projecti on of IacozT by Source cfr ncomc
in thousarndI pcsos
Actual
Income
Fiscal Years                          1S63                   1961h      1965      1966       1967       1,963
1.  Tuition and other fees                       4,177U9      20      5,000.0   5,000.0   5,GoO.0         ((, ,OD0.0
2.  National Government contribution            7,212.4       35     12,371.  13,987.8  16,00b3,3   18,311.1  20,821,0
3.  NEC-AID Programa & Lump Sum andI
Counterpart Funds                           1, 865. 4     9       1,198.9   l,01b7.6      65859      625.8      31W2.0
)1.  Endowrmellts (Foreign and Local)              762.1              1,797,0   2,1hCO.c   3,00(.1   3,598.3   L,27',.0
5.  Ilisccllaneous                              G,650G.4      32      3,2 591j   3,666.6   3  7a-9   3,75Eh.3   3,7620o
T 0 T A I                             20,621h.2   (1(00)    23,960.0  26,190.0  20,630.0  31,290.0  34, 200 0
Source:  Budget Office, University of the Philippines.



AiEU11DBIX V
Tablle 3
National (Government
Projected Growth of Riesources, Total. Epepudi t,Lues,
and Expenditures for E(ducation, FY 19(3-1968
(in nillion pesos)
nivrc-Ycoar
Fiscal Ycars                                  19614         196¢j         1966           1,967         19f68         Growth
Resou.rces arid Exp,enditures                   P             P              Po4 %/                       p       %    B        ,-1
1.  General Fund lievenuc                       2315                       f 139           178      9    1919           823   I
2.  Total Expenditures                          300   1-6    1l        6 6    16     1 7    i(8    7    17       7    92 7   l 9
Educat,ion ErpencJitures
3,  Departnment of Education                     82   18       146    9       143    7      141.    7    1214   20      295   65'
11.  IUniversity of thie Philippines  1.3 23                    12.7 )45       2.0  5         13.6  8       2.9  14  (25.6)(ll0)
5.  Eleven othcr chartered
univer6ities I/                             3n1 30        6.3 63        3.7( 26        2.)i 243      I.0  14    -6.5)  -t.(O
3137.1
T Tiese increments refer t1o -the total bu(tdgets of the in,stitution,; not to tl-L  (Lcm1nnient S centr U;at:J t.
those hudgets.  The University of tlhe Philippinca; budp,et  dstimsLa   no ed ccl          J}l cr  S ci.it lii'da;r  liL:n those
used in Tahle 2,  lihich represent later estimiates.  T' bl e    sholwl tl A-; LIlc Ur:tv !t,i-tv i.   n ti.cif)Ai on, an
inctrcasc in th.e Govcrmcnme,na cont,  i btion of MJl3S    i±LL1>... (-10kb.  miLl i   u  us i-f 2 ni; 113 io(I)  Vi T'I c 2
fii urc  arc usedI, the ListL two fitures in row  I heecoil.c ,-13,6 r'.llion  nIld 190 per Cblt:,  Vigirc5 ar  not
available to makce a hidiiLar adjustmcnts fa  tOle 11 otlic r chartcrcd Ati vClSiLif..a.
Source:  Computed froin Tables 11 an(d 6, arl Annex A, Tieo 1trasidcnt's T3udpet Ileasape lo the Fifth Con-rteos Of tho
Republic of tle f h-lip-piries.



I      t                                                                     *   
A PPTIT)IX V
UHMVE lSITY OF THE P11IITPPTHES' COLLEGE OF PGRICULTURE                                  Table 4
Requirements for Additional Operating Expenses under the FivE-Year 1Development Program                     Page I
(in thousand pesos
Yearly Inerease in Opera ting Expense _           Proposed Budget at
Fiscal Years                     Total in 1964       1965      9S66    19 7     1968    19f9    1970    the end of 6 Years
Djivision and Item
Administration
Salaries                              405           28       30       33       35       28       140             609
'1ages                                60             5      --       --         5        '3     10               95
Travel                                 22 a/         -    -           --       --5                5               32
Supr,lies & Vlaterials                215 a/        --       --       10       1.0      15       I5              265J
Equipment                              40a                            --       -- __  __0                         90
Sund ry                                40 a/        __       __       __          __      S      10          __
Sub-otoals                        782            33       30       143      50       68      120(           1,126
Ins.tructi.on
Salaries                           1,0(09           71       76        'l      96      9(1       9u            1,510
A.ssi-.si.tuntships, Fellowships
and(i Scholarshis                 163            25       25       50       S0       C0       __              263
wages                                  42           --       10       15       15       Ii?      27              12,6
Travel                           Under Adm.         --         5       5       1()      10       ,0               50
Supplics and h.aterials                20           --       30       140      1,0      20       ho              ,-00
Equipjiment                      Urnder Addm.       __-- __                                      100            1i/()
Sund ry                          Under Adm.         __        3        3         4        5       10
Sub-ToLals                      1, 234           96      1149     1914     205      2142     293            ?,-4114



APPEI-HDTX V
Table 4
Page 2
Yearly Increase in Operating L.penses             Propo.-;ed Budeet at
Fiscal Years                     Total in 1964       1965    1966    1967    1968    1969    1970    the end of 6 Years
Research
Salari.es                            439            31       33       35       67 b/   69 h/   45                719
4 a gec                              145            --       15       15       20       30       35             260
Travel                                 45           --       10       10       10       1(0      20              105
Supplies & iklaterials                120            5       10       10       10       10       10              1.75
Publications                           15           --        5        3        2        2        3               30
Equipment                              23           --       -_       --       --       60      10(0             1-83
S'undry                                20            5       151      5 1      51 1    5         15 --           100
S;ub:-'T'otJals                   807            41       88       88      1214     196      228           1,572
Px tens ion
Salaries                               30             2       2        2        3        3        3               4
5 ages                                  9             1       1        2         3       3        3               22
Travel                                 15            2       10       10         r                                 6
Supplies and Diaterials                20           --         5        5
Field Day Fund                          6           --        1        1        i        1       -10
Elquipment                             12                    --       --       --       10       20                4
Publications                            S           --        2        2        1         1       2               13
Sundry           _    _2 8                            -2                         5 2  r   5        7
Sub-Totals                        105             5       2j       24       ?1.      22



APPYNJjJIX V
Table 4
Yearly Increase in Operating Experises,;          iProposed Budgetat Page 3
Fiscal Years                      Total in 1964        1965    1966    1967    19685?'   19C1    19y70    the end of 6 Years
cervice & Maintenance Division
Salaries                              168            12        13       1        15 r     96 c/   22                340
'-ages                                 140           15        25       25       30       30        30              295
Travel                            Under Admn.         3                                              2
Supplies & In1aterials                  12           15        50       50       70       70        53              320
Equin,Tlent                       Under .Adm.        --        --                -o 40                              120
Sundiry                           UJnder Adm.          5       20       20       25       30       35               135
Sub-Totals                          320           50      108      109      1t40      266o     2:2            1,215
Special. S Auxiliary S.,ervices
Salaries                                79             5        5        5        ti       6       331 (/           139
liages                                  11                      2             5        5       S7                    3
Supplies & Materials                    38           -_         5        5        5        6         7               66
Equil mricnt                             7           --        -- ?0 
Travel                                   1           --         1        1       --       --       --                 3
Capital Outlay                           9           __         _        _       _                                    9
Sundry               _18                             --         2        2        42 2 ?                             32
Sub-Tootal                         163             5       15        18       0        .1        (9             311
GRf'UD TOTVL                     3,411           230      413      476      5t60      87 6:?i                 6,903
a/- Lumpsuin for the administra3tion and( all acadermic deprtnnnts (Instruction)  ml service units.  Thecse will, b],e
relieved ultimately foi administration alone.
b/- Including about 8 ncw key posridtions for Food Science an,-l Technology.
c/ - Including 20 new positions to correct in Part the present weaknesses of thldis-( iLsion.
- Including about 5 ncr imlortant positions for the Infirmary.
NOT1E: (1)  Salaries inciease eaclh year by 7 per cent for seleCtive promotions andi a y       fe  ad.3itional positions.
(2)  Original. provision for general salary adjustment is omitted heree



APPFI.)lX V
SUMMTh'A RY BY IT E   AS 0v IDPPTTONL fXPT:.N2E                                 'l'able 4
(in thous r(d rx.Esos)                                                  Fage 4
Yearly Tncrease in Operating Exrenses             Proposed Pudget at
Item                             Total in 1964       1965    1966    1967    1968    19369    1970    the end of 6 Years
Salaries                           2,130           149      )59      170      212      303      2) 39          3,362
1l'ages                               4o07          21       53       62       7P,      90      112              823
Assistantships & Scholarships         163           25       25       5O       50       50                       363
Travel                                 83            5       ,6       26       25        0       56              2 I
Supplies & Platerials                 425           20      100      120      138      136    1I5              1,07v4
Equipment                              82                       __ --                  150      360              592
Publications                           20           --        7        5        3        3        5               43
Field Day                               6           --        1        1        1.       1                        10
Capital Outlay                          c9                             --      -                                   9
SundirV                                86           120   ____ 162            '13      6.        73)             3,76)
Totals                          3, 411.         230      613     7Li6      560      827      986           6,903
NOTrE:  The original provision for general salaryr ad1justjm(ent is omitted l,ere.
Sept.15/64



WJ~-71E  VI
_T7I l_     _ A_ j     i'.    
OL U.P.C.A.C T Lw C ~J ;Jv1: I-KTr .L       rIP~ 
1.        A technical unit (see beloi for details) should be established at
Los Banos to secure detailed information about requirenents of buildings and
equiTnent, rvie,,Tr thern and transmrlit them to the architects and engineers.
This unit should review plans and specifications for compliance w;ith these
requirerments; check ther, against applicable standards of design and construct-
ion; effect all appropriate economies; secure est-imates from the architects
and enoineers; recrncile thsee nvithi establ`shed budgets; ,r-ocure equipment;
an-d  re.a-re all necessary- renorts.
2.        The tec-nical unit should ccnsist of three sections:  (a  architec-
ture-engineering, (b) procurement, (c) accounting, repcrting and audit.  It
sho,ouldr be 'headed by a PJroject .Cana._-er rasnsonsible to U.P.C.A.-  s fean.  He
should be the head of the architecture-engineering section, be trained and
e--ceraenced in architectural oractice and have a ,orking kno-ledge of account-
ing practices.  ne should have an assistant trained and experienced in mecran-
ical and electrical engineering. An additional technical assistant and
clerical support should be adequate0
3.         Procurement services should be provided by an experienced
aerson ass4.rned to the Pro`ect.   his nerson shoul-  be
rcspinsible to the Frc;.ect   aage  but bear a line relationship to the
Eusinecs  iana:aer.   Co^rica  pool services shLould be made available as the
demand indicates.
Accounting and renortinr  should be provided by an experienced
person  assie:ned to the Pro'ect    -e sho;ld be resnonsible to the
~rcjeca :.anaaer.  Line relat-icshio and  supntinz SereS sh o lda be
as Lcr nrocureeno  .
5.         Project Manager should have as his advisor the assistant to the
Cornell University project leader J and should:
a.  ALct as advisor to U.P.C.A.Is Lean on all technical matters
related to the project and, uhen so authorized, act as U.P.C.A.ts
rec-resentative in these matters.
b.  Collaborate -,Kith U. .C.A. T5 academic and adriinistrative staff in
the preparation of data On soDace and equimrent requirements of
the building program.
*                     c.  Advise on the relative feasibility of renovations, annexes and
new7 buildings and propose schaediles.
d.  Transmit to the architect the surveys, data on utilities and
standards of design on construction as applicable.
A member of the Cornell University advisory- unit to U.?.C.A.



Page 2
e.  71f^ect all !.r)-I-vico7'be ecc^-j-nies in s;Dac.e -,tilizatl_cn,
design ar.d co;ruc.o.
f.  Secure estiriates of cost and schedules frc.. the architect
and reconcile t'hese Tvith t.he overall plan.
g.  Seeure cor.-lete and  conDe:ent crofessional oervzos from
trne architect i. acmolince .iith  the a=reement fo:r such
s ervic a .
-.  Coordinate the crocurerient of o-uir.ent :;iEc t-e cui'zano
cr.struction cchedu_le.
i. eva-eo7 ann suhnit accc'cnt- na--sc. n  other ra^norts and ad-J-ise cn
tre se`eduling of en:enditure of constraction funds.
-. :ovise on a program of mainten3nce and opceraticn Oct- mhe
'uildings and equipment included ur,nder the Project that
nould ensure tne continued efectiveness of the capital
improvements,
6.         t su,erv±sing architect should b-e appointed to ensur-e adherence to
the bocic a,rincioles and oWect4ives of the campus clan and to keen it current
as, the  ro~,r=m progresse_. -t -a  assu.med 'ha` ahe spoervis_ng architect
e arc.hitect Lo.e or nore DF t-he .:ajor buildings.
7.            addition to the apr,ointrment of the surtervising architect and his
additional anointment as executive architect for initial 7,major buildings,
other executive architects for early major buildings should be aspointed.
:he executive architect shGuld be responsible for all matters related to
the design of the building and should superrse constraction as part of
his services.  Insrection of the wlork should be by inspectors t;ho are part
of the technical unit, compensated from Project funds, and are responsible
to the ea:ecutive architect for the compliance of construction with the
contract documentrs.



