 IEG
                                                                                                 Report Number: ICRR14674

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 04/27/2015

               Country: Peru
             Project ID: P095570                                                     Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Peru Decentralized             Project Costs (US$M):                      150.0                160.0
                         Rural Transport
                         Project
  L/C Number:            L7423                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                        50.0                49.95
      Sector Board:      Transport                     Cofinancing (US$M):                        50.0                50.00

           Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                                12/19/2006
                                                                Closing Date:            03/31/2012          12/31/2013
           Sector(s):      Roads and highways (83%); Sub-national government administration (12%); Central
                           government administration (4%); General transportation sector (1%)
          Theme(s):        Rural services and infrastructure (33% - P); Rural non-farm income generation (17% - S);
                           Municipal governance and institution building (17% - S); Decentralization (17% - S); Legal
                           institutions for a market economy (16% - S)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                   Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Ranga Rajan                Robert Mark Lacey       Christopher David           IEGPS1
Krishnamani                                        Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

“To contribute to territorial development and to the fight against rural poverty in the Borrower’s territory by improving
access of rural households and entrepreneurs to goods, social services and income generating activities through
reduced transport costs and better rural transport infrastructure.” (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, page 7; Project
Appraisal Document ,PAD, page 10).

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

Component 1: Improvement of Rural Transport Infrastructure : (appraisal estimate: US$99.6 million: actual cost:
US$129.8 million). This component aimed at scaling up to the entire country the decentralized management of rural
roads. Activities included: rehabilitation of rural roads prioritized through participatory provincial road plans,
reconstruction of selected connecting bridges, periodic maintenance of rural roads, improving non- motorized
transport (NMT) tracks and other types of rural infrastructure (such as river based equipment), and launching initial
activities for stabilizing slopes and protecting rural roads against river-based erosion. The ICR (page 3) notes that the
NMT tracks - narrow pathways, usually without drainage systems and used by pedestrians and work animals - are the
only transportation available from the remote rural areas of Peru to the provincial and regional capitals.

Component 2: Institutional Development : (appraisal estimate US$14.7 million: actual cost: US$12.2 million). This
component aimed at strengthening the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Transport and Communications and
district and provincial municipalities. Activities included: improving the Ministry”s regulatory capacity, managing and
promoting research and innovations in rural transport, launching a fiscal revenue and road development study, and
assisting the other ministerial agencies involved in the decentralization process. Support to the district and provincial
municipalities included: preparing Participatory Provincial Road Plans, improving routine road maintenance systems
through micro-enterprises, enhancing local capacity to handle social, cultural and environmental safeguards issues,
mobilizing municipal and private sector financing for rural transport, scaling up the Geographic Information System
(GIS), and assisting the municipalities and the selected Provisional Road Institutes (PRI).

Component 3: Transport for Territorial Development : (appraisal estimate US$11.1 million: actual cost US$2.0
million). This component aimed at financing other complementary activities on rural development. Activities included:
identifying and promoting private and community activities complementary to transport investment activities through
the Local Development Window (LDW), and a rural infrastructure pilot in selected provinces aimed at providing
specific incentives for promoting cross-sector activities (such as involving the road, energy, sanitation,
telecommunication and irrigation sectors).

Component 4: Project Management (appraisal estimate US$17.4 million: actual cost US$16.0 million); This
component supported day-to-day project management. Activities included: technical advisory services for monitoring,
evaluation and audits, including the expansion of SIGAT (an integrated system for technical and administrative
management used by the implementing agency to monitor project implementation) and mid-term and final impact
evaluation studies.

The project was restructured (level 2) effective July 23, 2010, in accordance with the recommendations of the
mid-term review of April, 2010. Funds were reallocated among categories and the performance indicator targets were
revised. While the targets for road maintenance, NMT tracks and the number of bridges were revised downwards, that
for road rehabilitation was increased (despite the cost overruns), since this was a Government priority in the wake of
the global economic crisis.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project Cost: At appraisal the estimated cost (including contingencies of US$6.2 million) was US$150.00 million.
Actual cost at completion was US$160.00 million, 7% above the appraisal estimate. The costs of component 1 were
30% over the appraisal estimate, while those of the other components decreased by 17%, 82% and 8% respectively.
The higher cost for component 1 reflected increases in the price of inputs (such as materials, machinery and qualified
labor) due to the construction boom in Peru, which were not taken into account during preparation (ICR, page 3). The
cost increase was met through downward adjustments in physical targets, a 20% increase in counterpart funding, and
a reallocation of contingency funds.

Project Financing: The original approved IBRD loan amount was US$50.00 million. At completion, US$49.95 had
been disbursed. The balance was refunded to the Bank at closure. There was cofinancing from the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) of US$50.00 million, in accordance with appraisal estimates.

Borrower Contribution : The Borrower’s contribution was estimated at US50.00 million, and at closure their
contribution was about 20% more, at US$60.16 million.

Dates: The closing date was extended twice for a total of 21 months (33%). The first extension, in March 2012, was
for 12 months to March 31 2013, and was due to implementation delays caused by the regional and national elections
in 2010 and 2011. The second extension of nine months to December 31, 2013 was granted in March 2013, in order
to complete the civil works and the institutional component activities which had been delayed by an unusually heavy
rainy season.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

High:

The project development objectives are relevant to the Government's strategy of decentralization and transferring
public responsibilities to local governments. The Government's Development Plan for the 2006-2011 period prioritized
the development of rural areas through expanding infrastructure services and continuing with the decentralization
reforms.
The objectives are relevant to the World Bank Group’s strategy for Peru. Two of the four goals of the Country
Partnership Strategy (CPS) for the fiscal years 2012-16 were: (i) connecting the poor to services and markets through
better transport infrastructure, and (ii) improving public sector performance through greater inclusion of sub-national
systems. The objectives were also relevant to the first pillar of the CPS for the fiscal years 2007-2011, which identified
the need for accelerating growth and widening the base for growth through increasing public investments in physical
infrastructure. The project development objectives were relevant at the appraisal stage, with the CPS for the fiscal
years 2003-2006 identifying the need for competitiveness, economic management and private sector development,
through integrating the poor rural areas with transportation networks, and for providing employment opportunities in
rural areas.

b. Relevance of Design:
Substantial.

The statement of the project development objective is reasonably clear, and the linkages between the project
activities, their outputs and the intended outcome is logical; the intended outcomes were, for the most part,
measurable.

The civil works activities, in conjunction with the institutional dimension of the project, could be expected to provide
better rural transport infrastructure, and this in turn, could be expected to contribute to improving the access of rural
households and entrepreneurs to goods and social services. The rural development activities (such as,
complementing road investment activities through the Local Development Window, and the rural infrastructure pilot
aimed at complementing transport infrastructure activities with other cross-sector activities), could be expected to
increase the impact that improved transport conditions would have on rural development. This, in turn, could be
expected to contribute to territorial development and the fight against poverty through encouraging the creation of
income generating activities in rural areas.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

The extent to which the project development objective -- " to contribute to territorial development and to the fight
against poverty by improving access of rural households and entrepreneurs to goods, and social services, income
generating opportunities through reduced transport costs and better rural transport infrastructure" -- is achieved is
rated Substantial.

Outputs:

3,277 km of rural roads that were prioritized through the participatory planning process had been rehabilitated by
closure, as compared to the revised and original targets of 3,358 km and 3,000 km respectively.
7,806 km of rural roads were receiving periodic maintenance at project closure, as compared to the revised and
original targets of 7,506 km and 11,200 km respectively.
2,356 km of NMT tracks had been rehabilitated by closure, as compared to the revised and original targets of 2,525
km and 2,650 km respectively.
1 bridge was rehabilitated as per the revised target and as compared to the original target of 50 bridges. The ICR
(page 3) reports that fifteen bridges were to be rehabilitated using national counterpart funds, but implementation of
this activity was hampered due to the lack of a reliable bridge inventory.
A pilot study provided bio-engineered solutions for stabilizing slopes along the Llapay-Laraos-Lima road. The
proposal for implementing the recommendations of the study was under consideration by the implementing agency
(Provias Decentralizado) at the project closure stage (ICR, page 32)
188 Provincial Road Institutes (PRIs) were established and the road plans prepared by them were approved, as
compared to the target of 150. The ICR (page 4) reports that the Institutes - decentralized units in the provincial
municipalities - are responsible for managing rural roads, and providing for routine road maintenance activities
through contracts with micro enterprises. They are also responsible for road planning. The Institutes are governed by
a Provincial Road Board, which includes provincial and district mayors, and their operating costs are financed by
Central Government transfers and funding from the municipalities.
Since 2007, and under the auspices of the project, the Central Government began transferring funds to the PRIs for
financing road maintenance activities as targeted. The amount transferred in 2013 was US$250 million, as compared
to the target of US$75 million. The transferred amount in 2013 covered 90% of the road maintenance needs of the
municipalities (ICR, page 15).
The use of a Geographic Information System (GIS) was provided to 164 PRIs for developing rural road network
inventories. The inventories contained information on demographics, on location of schools and hospitals in the
vicinity, and on the type of interventions that had been performed on the rural roads in the past. These roads were to
be classified as "the tertiary road network" in the inventory of primary and secondary roads developed by the Ministry
of Transport and Communication (ICR, page 34).
325 micro enterprises were created for providing road maintenance, as compared to the original and revised targets
of 120 and 324.
3,250 one year equivalent permanent jobs were created by the micro-enterprises as compared to the original and
revised target of 1,400 and 1,560 jobs respectively.
Local Development Windows (LDWs) were established in 28 provinces for helping rural producers organize
associations around income-generating activities. The LDWs financed the preparation of 52 business plans for rural
producers' associations, and helped the municipalities in preparing 30 local economic development plans, 41 local
ordinances, 13 resolutions and 6 municipal covenants (ICR, page 35).
15 cross-sector Rural Infrastructure Plans (consisting of the roads, energy, water, telecommunications and the
irrigation sectors) were prepared as part of the Rural Infrastructure Pilot (RIP) and approved by the municipalities, as
targeted. These plans were not implemented as the municipalities could not get the cooperation of the different sector
agencies. The ICR (page 35) reports that the implementing agency nonetheless rehabilitated 19 prioritized roads
(totaling 122 km) with its own resources. The principles of this Rural Infrastructure pilot -- which aimed at rural
development through cross-sector cooperation and bundling of infrastructure projects -- were used by the Ministry of
Development and Social Inclusion to create an initiative in 2013 called FONIE ( Fondo Para La Inclusion Economica
de Zonas Rurales or Fund for the Inclusion of Rural Areas).


Outcomes:

An Impact Evaluation study was conducted in 2013, shortly before project closure, to estimate the project's impact in
the intervened areas, as compared to control group areas which did not receive project interventions (ICR pages
20-21 and pages 45-59). The study was conducted for two types of intervention: the rehabilitation and maintenance of
rural roads, and the improvement of NMT tracks. The study used a differences-in-differences methodology, which
entailed comparing how an impact variable (such as a selected socio economic indicator) changed in a project treated
group as compared to how it changed in a control group. The ICR (page 46) notes that the usefulness of this
methodology to estimate the impact of the project would depend on how well the control group represented the
counter factual changes that would have taken place in the project treated group without the interventions of the
project. Households who had been surveyed in 2004 and 2006 were resurveyed in 2013.

The ICR (page 49) notes that the 2013 study, had an observation window of 8-10 years. This relatively long time span
could help in identifying the long term effects on key development indicators on the project intervened areas. There
were, however, two practical problems associated with the sample for the rural road rehabilitation component of the
study: (i) some households who had been surveyed in 2006 could not be located in 2013 (1, 290 households in 2013
as compared to 1,432 in 2006); and (ii) there were problems associated with identifying the control group. An
engineering survey, found that half of the control group roads had received interventions from alternate sources (eight
roads in the control group had been upgraded, ten had been rehabilitated, and three had received lesser forms of
interventions). Only 21 roads in the control group had not received any kind of intervention. Hence, half of the sample
in the control group had to be eliminated, and finally, only 18 roads were found to be suitable as the control group for
the 70 roads that were treated under the project. In the case of the NMT track component of the study, the control
groups were deemed to be representative, as they presumably had not received any form of intervention (ICR, page
56). The main results of the study were:

    Estimates based on household surveys showed that travel time to reach schools was reduced by 24.2% in the
     project intervened areas relative to the counter factual scenario (ICR, page iv) This reduction in travel time could
     have helped to contribute to the increase in school attendance for children between 12 -18 years of age in the
     project intervened areas, which was 19.2% higher than in the control group..
    Travel time for farmers to reach "points of sale" (local consolidation centers) decreased by 26.2% in the project
     intervened areas as compared to the control group (ICR, page iv). The ICR (page 12) reports that these centers
     provide more competitive prices to farmers than local markets, since unlike the local markets, they cater to a
     wider market. The decrease in travel time for farmers to reach these centers could have contributed to the
     increase in sales by farmers through these centers in the project intervened areas, which registered increase of
     10.1%, (and sales by farmers through local markets decreased by 14.5%) more than the control group.
    Estimates based on household surveys showed that travel time for households to reach health consultation
     centers and provincial capitals from the remote areas of Peru was reduced by 55.2% and 20.4% respectively
     relative to the counter factual scenario, due to the NMT track improvements in the intervened areas . This
     reduction in travel time to reach health consultation centers could have contributed to the increase in health
     consultations, which increased by 70% along the intervened areas as compared to the control group.
    The relatively long observation window of the study (eight to ten years) helped in identifying changes in the
     structure of the rural economy near the project intervened areas, as compared to in the control group. Land
     under cultivation increased by 33.8% more in the vicinity of the project intervened areas than in the control group.
     Increased ownership of livestock by households in the project areas was also noticed. There was a 10.1%, 27.5%
     and 15.9% higher increase in ownership by households of cattle, pigs and livestock rabbits respectively, than in
     the control group.
   The study indicated that the rehabilitation and maintenance of rural roads had a positive and robust impact (at the
     1% level of statistical significance) on decreasing extreme poverty and increasing expenditures. Extreme poverty
     decreased by 13.8 percentage points more in the project intervened areas than in the control group.
   The Impact Evaluation Study found that road closures in the intervened areas decreased by 55.6% relative to the
     counter factual.
   The ICR (page vii) notes that a (separate) survey of people living near road rehabilitations in two provinces of the
     RIP pilot showed that the percentage of people with improved access to at least twobasic infrastructure services
     increased from 35.8% in 2006 to 95.4% in 2103. There is no information on the methodology used for this survey.
While it is impossible to gauge precisely the extent to which the rural roads rehabilitation activities contributed to the
project development outcomes, especially in view of the small size of the control group relative to the project treated
group, it is reasonable to conclude that the road rehabilitation activities - in conjunction with the NMT activities where
the sample control group was more representative - contributed to improving accessibility of rural households to
goods and social services, particularly from the remote areas of Peru. Also, given the relatively long observation
window of 8 to 10 years of the study, which enabled the identification of longer term changes to the rural economy, it
is reasonable to conclude that project activities contributed to improving territorial development (as shown, for
example, by increased land under cultivation and increased ownership of livestock holdings by households) and
reduction of extreme poverty in the project intervened areas.

 5. Efficiency:
  A cost -benefit analysis (CBA) using the Roads Economic Decision (REDS) model was carried out at appraisal and
at closure for three representative intervention types: rehabilitation and maintenance of medium volume rural roads,
rehabilitation and maintenance of high volume rural roads, and rehabilitation of NMT tracks. A cost effectiveness
analysis (CEA) was conducted for the rehabilitation of low traffic volume rural roads, which were primarily justified by
social considerations (such as contributing to accessibility to social and economic centers). These components
together accounted for 94% of the total project cost.

The benefits (for both passenger and freight movement) were assumed to come from reductions in vehicle operating
costs, passenger time costs, and accident costs (ICR, page 16). The ex post evaluation showed a net present value
(NPV) of US$108.3 million at a 14% discount rate, and an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 54.6%, as compared to
the ex-ante NPV of US$13.91 million, also at a 14% discount rate, and ERR of 29.2%. (The PAD, page 27, reports
that 14% was the standard discount rate adopted in Peru since 2000). The ex post ERR exceeded the ex-ante ERR
for two reasons: (i) transport costs were considerably higher than expected at appraisal; and (ii) the assumed value of
time for passenger travel was almost twice as high as expected. The ICR (page 42) reports that both of these were
reflections of the strong growth of the Peruvian economy over the last decade, which raised living standards and
increased real factor prices. This effect more than compensated for the higher than anticipated investment costs. As
the ICR (page 42) notes, “the reasons that led the project to cost more in fact also caused its benefits to society to be
valued more.”

With regard to the low traffic volume rural roads, an average cost of US$30.17 per beneficiary was estimated at
closure. According to the PAD (page 27), a low-volume rural road should cost no more than $100 per beneficiary in
order to be considered feasible.

There were cost and time overruns. As discussed in section 2d above, the actual costs of road rehabilitation and
maintenance activities were 40% and 50% higher than the appraisal estimate, and led to a reduced scope of project
activities. However, the overruns were explained mostly by factors difficult or impossible to predict at the time of
appraisal. There was a 33% time overrun, with the project closing 21 months beyond schedule; this was mostly due to
the influence of elections.

Efficiency is rated substantial.


 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                   Rate Available?                  Point Value                 Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                        Yes                             29.2%                            66%
    ICR estimate                     Yes                                      54.6%                                    81%
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   The project development objective was highly relevant to both the country strategy and the Bank strategy for Peru.
Relevance of design is rated substantial. There is evidence that the development objectives were achieved, and
efficacy is rated substantial. While it is not possible to gauge precisely the extent of the project’s contribution to this
achievement, since exogenous factors also played a role, it is reasonable to conclude that the project made a
contribution. Despite cost overruns, efficiency was substantial, with the ex post ERR considerably greater than the
ex-ante ERR. Overall outcome is assessed as satisfactory.

 a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   The main risk to development outcome concerns the possible lack of adequate provision for road maintenance.
Although the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) has been increasing its contribution to financing road
maintenance activities to 60%, with the balance of 40% coming from the municipalities, there is the risk that such
transfers might not continue, since there is neither a legal frameworks that binds the MEF to transfer funds to the
PRIs, nor self-financing mechanisms on the part of municipalities to provide for the maintenance of the rehabilitated
rural roads. The ICR (page 22) notes that the Government currently views the procedures and policies for transferring
funds as “temporary”, which may signify that these arrangements could be changed without the input of the local
communities affected. The adequacy of road maintenance could therefore be undermined due to the “lack of a rural
transport law that outlines a vision for the decentralization of the sector."(ICR, page 22).


   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The Bank's involvement in Peru's Rural Roads dates from the First Rural Roads Project (1995-2000). This was
followed by the Second Rural Roads Project (2001-2006), and then by the project under review. This continuity of
engagement provided solid analytical and procedural underpinnings for the preparation of the project. As with the
previous projects, this operation was co-financed with the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), and
preparation and supervision were carried out jointly. According to the ICR (page 2), the partnership with the IDB
has proved to be constructive and productive, and the sharing of information and experience of both institutions
led to an enhanced supervision performance. The Implementing Agency – Provias Descentralizado – under the
Ministry of Transport and Communication (MTC) had experience with implementing other Bank and IDB projects
and hence was familiar with the procedures of both institutions (See Section 9b below).

Design reflected the broad objectives of the decentralization agenda as applied to the road sector. Specific
arrangements were made to strengthen the capacity of the Provincial Road Institutes to manage their fiduciary
responsibilities.

The cost of road rehabilitation and maintenance activities were underestimated, with the actual cost of road
rehabilitation and maintenance proving to be 40% and 50% higher respectively than the appraisal estimates, due
to the increases in the price of inputs in the wake of the construction boom in Peru, which were not taken into
account during project preparation. As discussed in section 2d, this resulted in the reduction in the targets for
some project activities. However, the input price increases would have been difficult to predict at the time of
appraisal.

The M&E design was adequate (see Section 10a below) and sufficient provisions were made for safeguards and
fiduciary compliance (see Section 11 below).

Addressing the needs of rural development through cross-sector investments and infrastructure bundling was not
adequately prepared. A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed by Provias Decentralizado and
agencies representing other sectors, and a high level Coordination Group was created. However, the provisions of
the MoU were not complied with by the sector agencies, which did not collaborate with Provias in the
implementation of Rural Infrastructure Plans. The agencies claimed that they had insufficient funding from the
Ministry of Finance to meet their obligations under the MoU. Incorporating more binding coordination mechanisms,
or securing the involvement of higher levels of government at the project preparation stage, could have helped in
furthering the implementation of this activity.


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                     Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    Supervision missions were conducted twice yearly, jointly with the IDB, A timely restructuring was undertaken
after the mid-term review in 2010 to accommodate cost overruns. Ratings in supervision reports were generally
accurate in reflecting progress in both implementation and achievement of development objectives. The technical
composition of the team was appropriate. The fact that there were only two Task Team Leaders throughout project
preparation and supervision provided consistent support to the Borrower (ICR, page 23). The country office played
an active role in supervising procurement, and in managing safeguards and fiduciary compliance. The
supervision team displayed a problem-solving approach and quick decision making on taking remedial measures
when needed. It focused on monitoring project outputs and outcomes at all stages of implementation, and
provided support for the Impact Evaluation study.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :              Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :            Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    Both the Central Government and the local governments displayed strong commitment to the project
throughout the design and implementation phases. The project management component was financed entirely by
the Borrower in a timely manner (ICR, page 36), and by closure, the Borrower had exceeded its counterpart fund
obligations by about 20% . The Ministry of Economy and Finance facilitated the move towards decentralization,
both by promoting the participation of local governments and by transferring more than planned resources for road
maintenance activities to the municipal governments (see Section 4 above). Local governments (at the district,
provincial and regional levels) showed commitment to the Local Development Windows initiative, which aimed at
helping rural producers organize associations to organize income-generating activities. The local governments
created economic development offices, passed territorial development regulations and took responsibility for
promoting rural producers associations.


   Government Performance Rating                               Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The project was to be implemented at the national level by a special agency called the Provias
Descentralizado under the Ministry of Transport and Communication. This agency was created by the First Rural
Roads Project to oversee and manage rural transportation in the country. Since the agency had already
implemented the two Bank financed prior projects, it was experienced in promoting collaboration between the
central and the local governments, applying the knowledge of the procedures of the national and the international
organizations, and in utilizing risk management tools (ICR, page 8)..

During implementation, Provias Descentralizado resolved the issue of shortage of funds for road maintenance, by
reaching an agreement with the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and as a result, 60% of the road maintenance
needs were financed by intergovernmental transfers, and 40% by the municipalities (ICR, page 8). The
implementing agency also adapted to the unexpected increase in the price of inputs by providing incentives for
more firms to compete, through diffusing bids more widely and changing bid requirements (ICR, page 8).
Election-related delays were minimized through making appointments for rural roads management prior to the
elections, making the district mayors rather than the provincial majors responsible for overseeing the Provincial
Road Institutes' activities, and stipulating a condition that managers must be either professional engineers or
economists (ICR, page 8). M&E implementation was adequately managed; Provias's fiduciary compliance was
rated satisfactory in supervision reports; there were some issues in safeguards compliance, but these were not
directly associated with Provias.
   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The project benefited from the M&E system already put in place during the two prior Bank financed rural road
projects. M&E relied extensively on impact evaluation studies, although it was further strengthened for this project
through expanding the Geographic Information System (GIS).

The baseline data was collected in 2006 and there were targets for all indicators. The seven outcome indicators were
travel time, transport tariffs, number of days with road closure, number of beneficiaries of the program, number of
students registered in schools, number of health consultations, and number of people having access to at least two
basic infrastructure services in provinces where the infrastructure pilot had been implemented. The indicators for
outputs, and intermediate outcomes were conceptually clear, and measurable.

It would have been more appropriate to measure changes in transport costs through vehicle operating costs rather
than transport tariffs.


b. M&E Implementation:
   Provias Decentralizado was responsible for managing and implementing M&E. The GIS inventory of road services
covered 164 provinces. The methodology for the Impact Evaluation entailed the resurveying in 2013 of the
households who had originally been surveyed in 2004 and 2006, and collecting village level data to see how control
groups differed in terms of socio-economic indicators from groups that lived near road rehabilitated areas. However,
as discussed in section 4, there were two practical problems with the Impact Evaluation Study. First, not all the
households who were surveyed in 2004 and 2006 could be resurveyed in 2013. Second, a significant proportion of the
“control” roads had received interventions outside of the project. As a result, only 18 roads were found to be suitable
as a control group to compare with the 70 roads benefiting from project interventions.


c. M&E Utilization:
  The ICR does not provide any information on M&E utilization.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The project was classified as "Category B” for environmental assessment purposes. Four safeguards policies were
provisionally triggered at appraisal: Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01), Cultural Property (OP 4.11), Involuntary
Resettlement (O 4.12), and Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.10).
Environmental Safeguards : The PAD (page 33) notes that a plan for strengthening of social and environmental
management was prepared at the appraisal stage, and the implementation of the plan included specific training and
institutional building activities, According to the ICR (page 10), the recommendations of the plan were often not fully
implemented by the provinces due to low implementation capacity. The ICR (page 10) notes that “extensive
institutional strengthening in environment management at the local level is still needed,” It is not clear from the ICR
whether there was compliance with OP 4.01.
Involuntary Resettlement , Indigenous Peoples and Cultural Property .
The ICR (page 10) notes that the involuntary resettlement and Indigenous peoples safeguards policies were not in
fact triggered, since no new roads were constructed and the existing roads were rehabilitated and maintained within
their rights of way. The ICR (page 10) does not provide information on compliance with the Cultural Property
safeguard.
 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial Management :
The ICR (page 10) notes that Provias Decentralizado's financial management was rated satisfactory in supervision
reports. The agency reportedly applied sound financial management practices (such as adequate internal controls,
using an information module to track transfers and execution in provincial governments) and provided timely
information to the Bank. The ICR states that interim financial reports and audits were carried out by the stipulated
deadlines. The ICR does not provide information on whether the external auditors’ opinions were qualified or not.
Procurement Management .
The ICR (page 10) reports that Provias Decentralizado's performance in managing the procurement process was
rated satisfactory in supervision reports. In addition to the six ex-post procurement reviews conducted between 2009
and 2014, an Independent Procurement Review was performed by an international expert in April, 2010. The report
made the following recommendations: (a) better management of the procurement plan was required; (b) training had
to be provided to the procurement staff; and (c) further improvement was required in filing and archiving of the
procurement documentation. According to the ICR (page 10), these recommendations were mostly complied with.
The ICR (page 10) reports that a there was an instance of misinterpretation of the Bank's procurement procedures
resulting in bids being rejected by the implementing agency because of omissions or mistakes that could have been
clarified by the bidder. The Bank provided training to the implementing agencies to rectify this situation. The ICR
reports no case of misprocurement.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Highly Satisfactory          Satisfactory      The development objective is highly
                                                                              relevant to the Government and Bank
                                                                              strategy for Peru, and relevance of
                                                                              design is rated substantial. There is
                                                                              evidence of achievement of the
                                                                              development objective, and it is
                                                                              reasonable to conclude that the project
                                                                              contributed in an efficient manner to
                                                                              this result. Efficacy and efficiency are
                                                                              therefore rated substantial..
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Significant       There is a significant risk that road
                     Outcome:                                                 maintenance activities might not be
                                                                              sustained on the rehabilitated rural
                                                                              roads, since there is neither a statutory
                                                                              legal framework that binds the Ministry
                                                                              of Economy and Finance to transfer
                                                                              funds to the PRIs, nor self-financing
                                                                              mechanisms on the part of
                                                                              municipalities to fund road maintenance
                                                                              activities.
            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Moderately        The lack of adequate preparation for
                                                            Satisfactory      inter-sectoral coordination for the
                                                                              implementation of Rural Infrastructure
                                                                              Plans is a moderate shortcoming of
                                                                              Quality at Entry.
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The following lessons are taken from the ICR with some adaptation of language:
  Rehabilitating rural roads can be an effective mechanism for increasing access to economic opportunities and
    social services, and thereby reducing the incidence of rural poverty. However, while having adequate roads is
    necessary for a variety of production activities, road rehabilitation activities may need to be complemented with
    interventions in other sectors to enhance their impact. The experience with this project shows that these
    interventions need to be carefully prepared. Appropriate coordination mechanisms reflecting the commitment
    of higher levels of Government need to be in place, and the collaboration of agencies representing other
    sectors needs to be adequately funded.
  Activities, such as the improvement of NMT tracks, that connect the remote regions with provincial and district
    capitals had a notable impact in the case of this project, and may be replicable in countries with similar
    geographic and local governance characteristics.
  Using local expertise and knowledge, such as participating planning methods, and involving local populations
    in road maintenance activities can be helpful in both creating local employment and in generating local
    entrepreneurship.
  An appropriate legal framework and corresponding institutional arrangements are essential to ensure adequate
    funding for, and management of, the routine maintenance of the rural road network. While there was
    significant transfer of resources from the central government to the municipalities for road maintenance in the
    case of this project, neither Provias Decentralizado nor the Provincial Road Institutes had become permanent
    government structures by closure.

14. Assessment Recommended?                Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is well written and provides an informative description of the decentralization agenda. The results matrix
incorporating the inputs, outputs and outcome is clear. The assumptions behind the economic analysis are explained
well. The discussion of the assessment of outcome in the main text is not always sufficiently thorough. However, the
more detailed description of the Impact Evaluation Study in Annex 6 provides more information. Discussion of both
the M&E framework and of safeguards compliance is quite sparse, and the ICR does not report on external audits.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
