                                    Document of
                                The World Bank


                                                               Report No: 67696-LAC




                            RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                      ON A

                PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                               OF A
                 GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
              SPECIAL CLIMATE CHANGE FUND GRANT
                             FOR THE
    ADAPTATION TO THE IMPACT OF RAPID GLACIER RETREAT IN THE
                    TROPICAL ANDES PROJECT
                   (GEF TF GRANT NO. TF091712)
             APPROVED BY THE BOARD ON JULY 11, 2008

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF
                               US$ 7.94 MILLION
                                 (UNCHANGED)

                                     TO THE

GENERAL SECRETARIAT OF THE ANDEAN COMMUNITY (SGCA) ACTING ON
 BEHALF OF THE PLURINATIONAL STATE OF BOLIVIA, THE REPUBLIC OF
              ECUADOR AND THE REPUBLIC OF PERU


                                  March 28, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
Bolivia, Chile, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




EPMAPS        Metropolitan Public Water Supply and Sanitation Company of
              Quito (Empresa Pública Metropolitana de Agua Potable y
              Saneamiento)
EPSAS         Public and Social Water Supply and Sanitation Company of La Paz
              (Empresa Pública y Social de Agua y Saneamiento)
GEF           Global Environment Facility
MTR           Mid Term Review
PDO           Project Development Objective
PHRD          Policy and Human Resources Development
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
SGCA          General Secretariat of the Andean Community (Secretaría General
              de la Comunidad Andina)
TF            Trust Fund




         Regional Vice President:       Hasan A. Tuluy
               Country Director:        Susan G. Goldmark
                 Sector Manager         Karin E. Kemper
             Task Team Leaders:         Daniel Mira-Salama



                                    2
                        ANDEAN COUNTRIES
     ADAPTATION TO THE IMPACT OF RAPID GLACIER RETREAT IN THE
                         TROPICAL ANDES
                             P098248
                           CONTENTS

A.   SUMMARY ........................................................................................................................... 4
B.   PROJECT STATUS .............................................................................................................. 4
C.   PROPOSED CHANGES ...................................................................................................... 8
D.   APPRAISAL SUMMARY................................................................................................. 10




                                                                  3
  ADAPTATION TO THE IMPACT OF RAPID GLACIER RETREAT IN THE
                  TROPICAL ANDES PROJECT

                              RESTRUCTURING PAPER

  A. SUMMARY
1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Country Director for the following
changes to the Regional Adaptation to the Impact of Rapid Glacier Retreat in the Tropical
Andes Project (P098248), GEF SCCF Grant No.TF091712, and for any accompanying
amendments to the Project’s legal documents: (i) a one-year extension of the Project
closing date; and (ii) modify the disbursement table to reflect the correct amounts and
parts of the Project to be financed under Category 2. The current closing date (September
30, 2012) is preventing the issuing of No Objections from the Project team to
procurement processes that are critical for implementation but that, given the duration of
the activities, extend beyond the current closing date.
2.       The Project Development Objective (PDO), which is to contribute to
strengthening the resilience of local ecosystems and economies to the impacts of glacier
retreat in the Tropical Andes, through the implementation of specific pilot adaptation
activities that illustrate the costs and benefits of adaptation, as well as the scope of the
Project, remain unchanged. After the Mid Term Review, conducted in October 2010, the
Project was restructured, and changes to the scope of activities, intermediate indicators
and creation of a new component to capture the regional dimension of the Project were
introduced. Since this restructuring, the Project has increased its implementation pace
despite significant staffing problems, now largely resolved. Several activities are
expected to be completed ahead of the current closing date. However, the Project suffered
important delays, and an extension is required to ensure that the PDO is fully achieved.
This will also allow for extra time to monitor and extract relevant lessons, which is a
cornerstone of the Project.
3.      Each Beneficiary country has officially requested the Secretaría General de la
Comunidad Andina (SGCA, implementing agency) to seek a one-year extension. The
SGCA, through a letter dated March 15, 2012, officially requests the Bank to grant said
extension. The Project team, on a mission conducted in November 2011, confirmed the
relevance of the Project, observed on-the-ground progress, and believes that an extension
is justified. The extension of the closing date would not require additional funds for
Project management, since the Project Implementing Unit (PIU) has had an absence of
several of its specialists, as explained below, which has created savings that are now
available.
4.      The SGCA has sent the Bank a letter dated March 20, 2012, to request correction
of an error in their previous letter dated June 21, 2011, which lead to incorrectly
reflecting the amounts and parts of the Project to be financed under Category 2.


  B. PROJECT STATUS
5.      The Project has made good progress since it was restructured in August 2011.
Disbursements to date reach 31%, having increased 10% since said restructuring. The
Project disbursed US$282,000 in 2009, US$422,000 in 2010, and US$1,382,000 in 2011.
                                             4
The amount of resources committed to date are US$1,815,000. Therefore, when already
disbursed funds plus currently committed funds are accounted for, the total percentage
reaches 54%. Finally, to date there are additional US$1,331,000 which have entered the
procurement phase at the SGCA, raising the total percentage to 71%.
6.     On the ground, countries have made significant progress:
7.      Bolivia. Progress is remarkable. On the pilot project related to increasing
efficiency of water distribution of EPSAS, the La Paz and El Alto water company, key
equipment and software have been purchased to increase the company’s ability to detect
and repair losses, and to monitor and control their distribution efficiencies. A key
consultancy is currently being developed for the design and implementation of a
company-wide strategy to reduce unaccounted-for water. Another key consultancy to
identify and pre-design alternative sources of water supply for El Alto has had some
difficulties in attracting interested firms. A well-experienced firm has now been selected,
and the contract is in the process of being awarded. The consultancy is expected to be
completed in seven months, and thus it would extend beyond the current Project closure.
This critical activity, ready to be contracted, thus requires the extension of the Project.
The second pilot project will implement improved irrigation schemes in Batallas and
Palca. CARE, a strategic partner of the Bank in this Project, has had a strong presence in
the beneficiary communities, schemes have been designed in consultation with
beneficiaries, and technical assistance is ongoing. The procurement of works to
implement both systems is well advanced, although some difficulties in identifying
interested contractors have been encountered. Works are estimated to last 6-8 months,
and their adequate implementation is critical in the area.
8.       Ecuador. There has been significant progress since the last supervision mission
(November 2011). Regarding the first pilot project, activities to help increase climate
resilience of water supply to Quito are underway, with a web-based monitoring and
information system of water availability and climate change impacts nearly completed,
and a vulnerability assessment of the Pita-Puengasí river basin already being executed.
The team has recently contacted the Municipal District of Quito to complete the suite of
activities within this pilot, and some small-scale activities are being developed. Some
important pending activities include the purchase of hydro-meteorological monitoring
stations, whose quantity, type and location have been carefully chosen by relevant
national actors after performing a gap analysis of the existing network. Given the times
for procuring the stations and the delivery schedules of providers, this activity would
likely not be finished by current Project closure, and an extension is needed. Regarding
the second pilot project, focusing on high-mountain ecosystems in the Antisana region,
activities are more advanced: a consultancy to develop and implement a strategic
sustainable tourism plan in the Papallacta area has started, and the final selection of a
firm to design and implement a management plan for high paramo ecosystems and cattle
is expected soon (estimated execution time 9 months). The procurement process for a
small water supply scheme is also well advanced (estimated execution time 6 months).
The design of these two activities was completed long ago, but there have been some
delays in the preparation of adequate bidding documents and in the subsequent selection
processes due to difficulties securing experienced firms. Thus, these two important
activities will not be completed on time if the Project closing date is not extended.


                                            5
9.      Peru. Most of the key activities have been completed, including four irrigation
schemes, the refurbishment of an irrigation canal, tree and grassland reforestation in the
Huancayo area, and strengthening of local capacities to adapt to climate change impacts
in the agriculture and water sectors in the Santa Teresa (Cusco) area. There have been
some delays procuring all needed seedlings since the local market could not provide them
all, and it may be necessary to wait for the next planting season. Should this be the case,
this activity would benefit from an extension in Project closing date. Another delayed
activity is the implementation of a monitoring system to evaluate climate change impacts
in a high Andean paramo ecosystem. This is a very relevant activity for Project
objectives, all arrangements are secured, the system is designed and it is only missing the
final no objection of the Bank to the terms of reference, which cannot be given at this
time because the estimated time for completion is 10 months and goes beyond the current
closing date.
10.      Regional activities. A regional component, key for Project relevance and success,
was included in the August 2011 restructuring. It focuses on proper systematization and
dissemination of experiences gained through the design and implementation of adaptation
activities, as well as knowledge generation and sharing of the scientific processes
supported by the Project on climate change scenario generation, satellite image treatment
and use for glacier retreat estimates, and glacier monitoring stations. The component is
also expected to develop scientific baselines and adaptation guidelines for mountain
ecosystems. Several of these activities are being implemented through a contract with a
Swiss consortium of top research institutions. Unfortunately, activities for dissemination,
extraction of lessons and an increase in the regional profile of the Project are still
delayed, partly because they are awaiting conclusion of pilots, partly due to the lack of a
regional coordinator in the PIU, as later explained. A closing date extension is critical to
achieve an appropriate implementation of this regional component.


Project relevance and extension justification
11.     The Project has already delivered many positive results, directly reflected in the
results framework. In addition, it has indirectly yielded other very significant successes
which are sometimes difficult to measure. It has been, and continues to be, an important
catalyst in each of the participating countries to articulate a national-level dialogue on
climate change adaptation. It is one of the first Projects of its kind to target the adaptation
agenda in the Andean countries with on-the-ground pilots, and is providing support at
scientific level, increasing monitoring capacity at the local/national level, and testing
different approaches to adapt to climate change impacts. As such, it becomes crucial to
ensure a complete and adequate finalization of all planned activities and their
systematization.
12.    Most Project activities have been agreed, planned and coordinated amongst a
wide variety of actors, and commitments have been made over the years with
beneficiaries, local/national governments and other key partners, which would ultimately
be the most impacted if the Project cannot be properly completed.
13.     This regional Project is helping to improve the dialogue on adaptation and other
related issues between the Bank, the beneficiary countries, and the SGCA, and a one-year
extension would enhance such dialogue.

                                              6
14.     The Project has received special attention and interest by national and
international media, and, importantly, by other donors. The Bank team has been
approached in the past by several bilateral cooperation agencies that expressed interest in
directly supporting or expanding Project activities, and strategic partners such as CARE
are actively mobilizing extra funds to continue activities after the current closing date.
Granting a one-year extension would allow for adequate dissemination of success stories
and would ultimately help countries attract extra funds towards critical sectors likely
impacted by climate change.
15.     The Project has supported cutting-edge technologies, such as the purchase and
installation of high altitude monitoring stations, sophisticated methods for satellite image
treatment, photogrammetry and application to glacier retreat studies. Some of these
results are being presented at prestigious international conferences, and the extension
would further allow consolidation of methodologies, dissemination of lessons and
knowledge sharing.


Main sources of delays and their status
16.    This Project has suffered delays for a number of reasons that were hard to predict
and sometimes difficult to resolve. Fortunately, most of them are solved and
implementation pace has accelerated significantly in the past months. Some of these
delays were:
   a. Lack of subsidiary agreement between Bolivia and SGCA prevented the Project
      from disbursing to that country, and forced SGCA to coordinate and issue an
      Andean Directive. This created a remarkable delay in activities, which could not
      start until November 2010. This problem has been completely solved.
   b. One of the two pilot projects in Ecuador was targeting a new water supply system
      that EPMAPS, the Quito water utility, was going to build. Land tenure issues
      caused EPMAPS to drop the project after a long period. An alternative was
      proposed, focused on mainstreaming climate change considerations into another
      water supply system that EPMAPS was already procuring with other resources.
      Unfortunately, works were bid out two times, and both times no suitable
      contractor was found. A third collaboration alternative between the Project and
      EPMAPS had to be sought, with the corresponding loss of time. Feasible
      activities have now been identified after a significant coordination and outreach
      effort with different institutions in Ecuador, and several are in the procurement
      phase.
   c. In July 2010, an amount of US$450,000 was additionally added to the Project,
      bringing the GEF Grant from US$7,490,000 to the current US$7,940,000. While
      this has benefited the Project, it has created more procurement processes and
      coordination efforts. An extension of the Project would thus partly cover these
      new needs.
   d. The Project PIU consists of four people: a regional coordinator, a procurement
      specialist, a financial specialist, and an administrator/assistant. In January 2011
      the procurement specialist resigned, and difficulties were experienced to identify
      and hire a replacement. This fact happened only in mid-October 2011, and

                                             7
          impacted the speed and efficiency of activities in a critical moment. The new
          procurement specialist has extensive experience working with Bank projects, and
          has shown high efficiency in his tasks. Additionally, the regional coordinator and
          the project assistant both resigned in July 2011 to pursue assignments at the
          Peruvian Government, and thus, for several months the PIU had only one
          member. A new assistant was hired in October 2011, but to date, the selection
          process to ensure a well-experienced regional coordinator has not yielded positive
          results. The regional coordinator is less critical at this point in time, since most
          Project activities are already agreed on and are being procured or implemented,
          and the work load is on the other two specialists. However, the regional
          coordinator was a key figure to lead the newly created regional component. If the
          on-going selection process for the regional coordinator, already at the evaluation
          phase, fails, a more technical coordinator will be sought instead, with the specific
          tasks of implementing the regional component.
     e. As a positive side effect, the absence of PIU staff for long periods of time has
        generated savings in the project management component, which are thus available
        for use during a Project extension.


    C. PROPOSED CHANGES
17.   First: A one-year extension of the closing date of GEF TF091712, bringing it to
September 30, 2013.
18.     Second: Correction of an error in the amounts and parts of the Project to be
financed under Category 2, introduced when the Project was restructured in August 25,
2011. To correct this error, and following the specific request sent by SGCA on March
20, 2012, the amounts allocated to Bolivia and Ecuador in the Disbursement Table must
be swapped (reflected in the Table below). The Grant Agreement is amended to reflect
this change.


Table 1. Revised Disbursement Table.


          Category of Expenditure                                    Allocation           % of Financing
         Current            Revised                               Current    Revised      Current Revised
1. Goods, consultants’         1. Goods, consultants’
services, workshops and        services, workshops and
non-consultants’ services      non-consultants’ services
                                                                  325,087     325,087      100%    100%
under Part 1 of the project.   under Part 1 of the project.
2. (a) Works, goods,           2. (a) Works, goods,
consultants’ services,         consultants’ services,
workshops and non-             Workshops and Non-
consultants’ services under    consultants’ Services under
                                                                  1,907,127   1,816,807    100%    100%
Part 2 (a) of the project.     Part 2 (a) (i) and Part 2
                               (b) (i) of the Project.
2. (b) Works, goods,           2. (b) Works, goods,
consultants’ services,         consultants’ services,
workshops and non-             Workshops and Non-
consultants’ services under    consultants’ Services under
                                                                  1,816,807   1,907,127    100%    100%
Part 2 (b) of the project.     Part 2 (a) (ii) and Part 2
                               (b) (ii) of the Project.

                                                              8
2. (c) Works, goods,          2. (c) Works, goods,
consultants’ services,        consultants’ services,
workshops and non-            Workshops and Non-
consultants’ services under   consultants’ Services under
                                                                2,090,414   2,090,414   100%   100%
Part 2 (c) of the project.    Part 2 (a) (iii) and Part 2
                              (b) (iii) of the Project.
3. Works, goods,              3. Works, goods,
consultants’ services,        consultants’ services,
workshops and non-            workshops and non-                350,565     350,565     100%   100%
consultants’ services under   consultants’ services under
Part 3 of the project.        Part 3* of the project.
4. Operating costs,           4. Operating costs,
workshops, goods,             workshops, goods,
consultants’ services, and    consultants’ services, and        700,000     700,000     100%   100%
non-consultants’ services     non-consultants’ services
under Part 4 of the project   under Part 4 of the project
5. Works, goods,              5. Works, goods,
consultants’ services,        consultants’ services,
workshops and non-            workshops and non-                750,000     750,000     100%   100%
consultants’ services under   consultants’ services under
Part 5 of the project.        Part 5 of the project.
                                                                7,940,000   7,940,000



   Safeguards
19.    The proposed restructuring does not trigger any additional safeguard policies.
Safeguard arrangements continue to be valid through the proposed extension period.
   Institutional arrangements
20.    The proposed restructuring does not introduce any changes to the institutional
arrangements.
   Financing
21.    The financing of the Project remains unchanged, with the required correction of
the disbursement table as shown above (Table 1). The financing plan and sources of
financing remain unmodified.
   Financial Management and Procurement
22.     The financial management and procurement arrangements for the Project are
unaltered. The SGCA is the solely responsible entity that manages the funds of the
Project and does all contracting under the Project. The financial management and
procurement performance of the Implementing Agency has been rated satisfactory.
   Closing date
23.   A one-year extension of the closing date of GEF TF091712, bringing it to
September 30, 2013.
   Implementation schedule
24.     The adjusted disbursement scheduled based on the 2012-2013 Annual Operational
Plan is presented below:




                                                            9
                                      Table 2. Revised disbursement schedule (US$M)
                                                                         2012                                                                                2013

                                  Accumulated March                                  Q2                                   Q4               Q1               Q2               Q3                   Total
                                                                                                       Q3
                                        2012

                                                  2.48                               1.21              1.05               0.78           0.54               1.16            0.72                  7.94



25.                                   The updated disbursement curve is shown in Figure 1.


Figure 1. Updated disbursement actuals and estimates.
                                  9

                                  8

                                  7
    Disbursements, US$ Millions




                                  6

                                  5

                                  4

                                  3

                                  2

                                  1

                                  0
                                       1-Nov-08


                                                   1-Apr-09


                                                              1-Sep-09


                                                                          1-Feb-10


                                                                                            1-Jul-10


                                                                                                          1-Dec-10


                                                                                                                           1-May-11


                                                                                                                                      1-Oct-11


                                                                                                                                                 1-Mar-12


                                                                                                                                                                 1-Aug-12


                                                                                                                                                                            1-Jan-13


                                                                                                                                                                                       1-Jun-13




      D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY
26.      The Project was restructured in August 25, 2011, through which the description of
activities to be implemented was updated, the results framework was adjusted, and
components were reorganized. The current restructuring only seeks a one-year extension
to ensure adequate Project implementation, with no other changes to the Project. As such,
the appraisal considerations included in the 2011 restructuring remain valid.
                 Risks
27.    The main additional risk perceived to date is closing the Project with insufficient
time to implement planned activities, most of which have been agreed with counterparts
and beneficiaries. Lack of implementation could create a difficult situation with
counterparts and communities.



                                                                                                                     10
                    Risk                                  Mitigation Measure
                                                One-year extension of Project closing
Lack of implementation due to not
                                                date. Intense Bank monitoring of the
extending the Project closing date: Many
                                                implementation pace. Rejection of any
activities are planned and in the
                                                proposed activity that has not been
procurement phase, beneficiaries are
                                                planned in the past and is not well
awaiting results. Not extending the Project
                                                advanced in its definition.
implies conflicts with beneficiaries and
participating countries.
                                                The new regional coordinator or technical
Incomplete implementation despite a one
                                                coordinator who will be hired through
year extension is granted: Difficulties with
                                                SGCA will have as a key responsibility
procurement processes and/or other sources
                                                to monitor Project implementation pace.
of delays could prevent the Project from
                                                Should activities extend beyond the
properly finalizing activities by September
2013.                                           closing date, the Bank team will assess
                                                the situation and look for alternatives in
                                                consultation with SGCA and the
                                                beneficiary countries.
                                                The savings generated by the almost 10
Not    enough      resources    in    Project
                                                months of absence of the procurement
management component to finance the PIU:
                                                specialist, 3 months absence of the
There is a ceiling of available resources for
                                                project assistant, and 8 (and likely more)
Project management, and a one-year
                                                months absence of the project coordinator
extension would require extending PIU’s
                                                provide resources to maintain the PIU for
contracts but does not increase the ceiling
                                                at least 8-9 extra months beyond the
for management.
                                                current closing date. It is expected that
                                                the PIU work load will be significantly
                                                reduced as activities approach their
                                                completion,      and    therefore    some
                                                alternative arrangements could be
                                                implemented when appropriate if funds
                                                are lacking (part-time engagement of
                                                specialists, programmed phasing out of
                                                staff, rely on SGCA’s own staff to
                                                undertake certain tasks, or others).




                                           11
