Documcnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10406-MAG Type: (PCR)                     ReportNo. 10406
PANTON, W./ X31680 / T9 032/ OEDD1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1249-MAG)
FEBRUARY 26, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



EXCHANGE RATKS
Units Malagasy Franc (FMG)
Year                   US$l equivalent
1982                       349.7
1983                       430.5
1984                       576.6
1985                       662.5
1986                       676.3
1987                     1,069.2
1988                     1,407.1
MEASUREMENTS ANp WEIGHTS
Metric Syatem
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASAC        -     Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
CSEP        -     P4blic sector Adjustment Credit (Cr6dit d'Ajustement
Structural du Secteur Public).
CcM         -     National Procurement Board (Comisesion Centrale do.
March40)
DZP         -     Department for Studies and Programming (Direction des
Etudes et de la Programmation)
DEFP        -     Department for Studies, Programming and Financing
(Direction des Etudes, de la Programmation et du
Financement, MPAEFW
DFP         -     Directorate for Finance and Personnel (Direction
FinanciOre et du Personnel, MPARA)
DP          -     Programming Directorate (Direction de la
Progranmation, MPARA)
FIFABE      -     Regional Development Authority for the Betsiboka
Valley (Comit6 d'Expansion Economique de la Plaine de
Marovoay)
FMG         -     Malagasy Franc (Franc Malgache)
FOFIFA      -     National Center for Applied Research for Rural
Development
IFAD        -     International Fund for Agricultural Development
IRRI        -     International Rice Research Institute
ISNAR       -     International Service for National Agricultural
Research
MDRRA       -     Ministry of Rural Development and Agrarian Reform
(Ministere du D6veloppement Rural et de la R6forme
Agraire)
MPAEF       -     Ministry of Livestock, Fisheries and Forests
(Minintere de la Production Animale, des Saux et des
For8ta)
MPARA       -     Minietry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian
Reform (Ministare de la Production Agricole et de la
RWforms Agraire)
M4RSTD      -     Ministry of Scientific and Technological Research for
Development (Ministbre de la Recherche Scientifique
et Technologique pour le D6veloppement)
PCR         -     Project Completion Report
PIP         -     Public Investment Program (Programme d'Investiseement
Publique)
PPF         -     Project Preparation Facility
SAMANGOXY   -     Regional Development Authority for the Lower Mangoky
Valley (Socift6 pour l'Am6nagement et la Mise en
valeur de la Vall6e du Bas Mangoky)
SCSR        -     Rice Sector Coordination Service (Service de
Coordination du Secteur Rizicole)
SDR         -     Rural Development Service (Service de Developpement
Rural)
SINPA       -     National Marketing Company for Agricultural Products
(SociLt6 d'Int6r6t National dea Produits Agricoles)
S0DEM40     -     Regional Development Authority for the Morondava
Region (socift6 de Developpement Economique pour la
RAgion de Moronda a)
SOMALAC     -     Regional Development Authority for the Lac Alaotra
Region (SociftG Malgache pour 1'Am6nagement du Lac
Alaotra)
FISCAL YEAR OF THE GOVERNMENT OF MADAGASCAR:
January 1 - December 31



THE WORLD BANK                 R om    UM ONL
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
g#ce of Directm-.Cetral
OperatinF    Evaluatiion
February 26, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Madagascar - Agricultural
Institutions Technical Assistance Proiect (Credit 1249-MAG)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Madagascar - Agricultural Institutions Technical Assistance
Program (Credit 1249-MAG)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II
of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been
made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipionnts only in the perfonnance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bankt authorization.



FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (ATIA I)
(CREDIT 1249-MAG)
Table of Contents
Preface .........................................   . . . . . ..... O.i
Evaluation Summary ............................................... iii
Part I: Project Review from IDA's Perspective
1.   Project Identity       .................... ........................ 1
2.   Project Background ................................... ...... . 1
3.   Project Objectives and Description          .      ..     ....... 3
4.   Project Design and Organization ................................ 4
5.   Project Implementation ......................................... 4
6.   Project Results  ....... ...... .    . .......                  5
7.   Financial  Results                  ............................................ 12
8.   Sustainability .    .     ...................................... . ... 12
9.   Bank Performance ........................................... 13
10.  Borrower Performance  . .................................... 13
11.  Consulting Services .     ............ .................    ....... 13
12. Documentation and Files   .       ....  .......................... 14
Part II: Project Review from Borrower's Perspective
A.   Comments from the Ministry for Livestock, Fisheries and
Forests .......................... 15
B.   Comments from the Ministry of Agricultural Production
and Agrarian Reform ........................ .......... .. ... 19
Part III: Statistical Information
Table 1:  Related IDA Credits           ............... 25
Table 2: Project Timetable                  .       .      ..... 26
Table 3:  Disbursements and Financing ...............               27
Table 4:  Status of Covenants ................. 29
Table 5:  Use of Bank Resources              .......... 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (ATIA I)
(CREDIT 1249-MAG)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Agricultural
Institutions Technical Assistance Project for which Credit 1249-MAG in the
amount of US$ 5.7 million was approved on February 23, 1982. The Credit was
closed on June 30, 1987, two years behind schedule; the last disbursement w&s
on January 26, 1988, at which time the undisbursed balance of US$ 0.05
million was canceled (1% of the credit). 1/
The Evaluation Summary, and Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by
the Agriculture Operations Division of the South-Central and Indian Ocean
Department, Africa Regional Office. A draft was sent to the Government on
June 7, 1989, and comments were received from the Ministry of Livestock,
Fisheries and Forestry, and the Ministry of Agricultural Production and
Agrarian Reform. These comments are presented in Part II.
This document is based on reports (in particular the Memorandum of the
President, the Credit Agreement, supervision reports and an OED Evaluation
Study 2/) and correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower.
1/    The completion of this PCR was delayed by more than four years
because a decision was made in FY 1989 to postpone writing the PCR
until the follow-on project, the Second Agricultural Institutions
Technical Assistance Project (ATIA II), was completed. This
decision was supported by the fact that the Operations Evaluations
Department had already commenced with an evaluation study of the
project in 1988. The decision was reversed in FY 1991 as a result
of completion delays in the second project.
2/    Operations Evaluation Department, "Evaluation Study of Free-
standing Technical Assistance in Support of Public Sector
Management in sub-Saharan Africa - Madagascar Agricultural
Institutions Technical Assistance Project (ATIA I), A Case Study,"
April 13, 1989.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (ATIA I)
(CREDIT 1249-MAG)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Backqround
1.1   Agriculture is the dominant sector of the Malagasy economy,
contributing at the time of project preparation about 40% of GDP and
accounting for 80% of export earnings. The growth of agricultural production
between 1970 and 1980 had been slow, with the average increase somewhat less
than the population growth rate of 2.8% per year. This performance largely
reflects the stagnation of rice and livestock production.
1.2   The reasons for the disappointing performance of the agricultural
sector were complex and there were many interrelated causes. Some of the
most critical related to policy, and institutional and managerial weaknesses.
Principal factors included:
(a)   absence of a national consensus and workable policy measures to
achieve sectoral objectives - .e-ially for the rice sub-sector,
where inappropriate policies -id .seriously affected production),
and the weakness of medium i    ong-term investment planning;
(b)   disruption of the Ministry of Rural Development and Agrarian
Reform's (MDRRA) tec.hnical services following the reorganization
measures of 1979;
(c)   dilution of responsibilities among numerous institutions, limited
coordination, and an absence of financial controls;
(d)   inflexible management structures and administrative procedures
imposed on public sector companies as well as shortages of
qualified technical staff; and
(e)   absence of links between research and extension services, leading
to disparity between on-going research programs and research
needs.
Obiectives and Desian
2.1   The main project objectives were to address a number of the fundamental
issues outlined above. Several studies were to be initiated as instruments
to resolve these issues, for preparing specific action plans for reform where
appropriate, and for developing the consensus for moving forward. In a
number of instances, project activities wers expected to go beyond the
option/consensus stage and would support the implementation of agreed reform
programs. These objectives would be achieved by (i) strengthening the
Ministry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform's (MPARA)
capabilities for investment planning and project preparation; (ii)
identifying action programs for achieving specific sector objectives,
particularly concerning rice production; (iii) redefining the roles of key
institutions responsibls for services to rice farmers and reforming them so
that they could execute their functions more effectively; (iv) improving
coordination among key agricultural institutions and sectoral programs; and
(v) strengthening the agricultural research effort.



- iv -
2.2   MPARA was to have primary responsibility for project implementation;
within MP..A, the Director of the Studies and Programming Department (DEP)
was to coordinate project activities and monitor all work in progress. The
Rice Sector Coordinating Service (SCSR) was made responsible for the
implementation of the short-term action plan for rice and related studies.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.1   Taken as a whole, project implementation has been remarkably
successful. Planned activities have been carried out (although sometimes in
modified form), and project objectives have been largely attained. At the
time of credit closing, sectoral planning was strong>r than it had been in
1981, performance of parastatals targeted for organ_.zation reform and
management strengthening had improved, and a considerable reorganization a-'
reorientation of programs was underway at MPARA, the Ministry of Lvestt- ':
Fisheries and Forestry (MPAEF), and the National Center for Applied Rese_r
for Rural Development (FOFIFA).
3.2   The project was to be implemented over two and a half years.  Mid-way
through the project; however, it became apparent that there were
administrative weaknesses that seriously hampered implementation. The
weaknesses consisted essentially of repeated delays in approving contracts
for consultant services, delays in submission of disbursement requests, and
failure to arrange for an audit. As a result of such delays, technical
assistance to FOFIFA and the Regional Development Authority for the Morondava
Region (SODEMO) needed to be corstinued beyond 1985 in order to achieve
project objectives.
3.3   There is no question that ATIA I helped set in motion a process of
Profound policy change. Its most clear-cut achievement was the
liberalization of pricing and marketing of rice as a direct consequence of
the sub-sector analysis. The Rice Study was convincing enough to persuade a
number of influential officials that liberalization was the course to take.
By 1985, there was enough confidence of the beneficial effects of
liberalization to allow further steps. 'Rice millers emerged to compete with
parastatals, and once-skeptical farmers responded eagerly to higher prices.
One Bank staff member who visited the primary rice production zones in 1986
found farmers very positive about price liberalization and planning to invest
in new equipment. Moreover, liberalization of rice marketing was followed by
similar measures in other areas.
3.4   A second important component was parastatal management.  Here too the
initial impact of the project was fairly rapid improvement, which provided an
impetus for further change. The restructured Regional Development Authority
for the Lac Alaotra Region (SOMALAC) became the implementing agency for the
Bank-financed Lac Alaotra Irrigation Project. The Regional Development
Authority for the Betsiboka Valley (FIFABE) started implementing a similar
rehabilitation project with German aid. Presently, both institutions are
undergoing a further phase of restructuring and privatization now that their
development mandates are completed. This illustrates the need for
institutions to evolve, and institution building actions to evolve also. For
the Regional Development  Authority for the Lower Mangoky Valley (SAMANGOKY),
the project was able to reduce its staff from over 900 to less than 300
subsequent to the audit. However, these measures proved inadequate to
restore the institution's ability to provide services. Fundamental problems
were a lack of underlying financial profitability of the irrigation scheme
and a lack of cooperation among farmers and between farmers and the SAMANGOKY
project authority. SAMANGOKY is presently in the process of being closed.
The same conditions prevailed at SODEMO, which was closed in 1990.
3.5   Institution building in MPARA and MPAEF did not lend itself to easy
solutions. New management techniques have been introduced; some have taken



root, rothers not. Solutions in some areas revealed serious problems in other
aruae   Within MPARA the results of institution building have been mixed,
qomet'w. es transitory.
3.6   In information management and planninq for the rice sector major
progress was achieved and this was institutionalized with the creation within
MPARA of a Food Security Department in 1986. This Department performed well
during 1986-1989 in monitoring markets and in managing the buffer stock, one
of the more successful Government activities of the decade. However, now
that rice markets have been privatized, the raison d'Atre of the Department
can be questioned. Its monitoring functions could be performed more
efficiently if they were reintegrated within the Planning Department. It is
not clear that t.se Department can or should take on a major new role in food
security and institution interventions. This is another case where
institution building needs to evolve over time.
3.7   Important advances within MPARA have undoubtedly been obtained in
resource management. Investment programming, budgeting, and personnel
management have all become more effective. They need, however, constant
attention and improvement.
3.8   The project created the impetus for the development of an operational
program: the National Agricultural Research Program (underway since 1990),
the Agricultural Extension Pilot Project (1989) which will lead to a National
Agricultural Extension Project (1993), the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
(underway since 1985), the rehabilitation and reorganizatis-n of the Lac
Alaotra ;-rigation scheme under an IDA financed project (from 1983). In
additioa many elements of the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (1986)
wove pre ared under or made possible by ATIA I.
Sustainability
4.1   Overall, gains within the ministries are fragile--they remain highly
dependent on external encouragement and support. It is fo : this reason that
the Bank agreed to finance a follow-on project: ATIA II. This project's
main objective is to build on the achievements of the first project and to
continue strengthening the capabilities of all ministries involved in
agriculture (MPARA, MPAEF and Ministry of Scientific and Technological
Research for Development - MRSTD); in particular to create a greater
independence and responsibility of MPARA and MPAEF in developing their own
systems.
Findings and Lessons Learned
5.1   The project has, through both its successes and its failures, taught a
number of important lessons:
(a)   First, etudies of the rice sub-sector kind are often ignored, but
the study was good enough and timely enough to be used as a
catalyst to bring about a major policy reform. The rice crisis,
the receptivity and astuteness of the Rural Development Minister,
the willingness of decision-makers to be convinced by good
analysis, the readiness of producers and merchants to respond to
price signals: all of these conditions permitted the study to
have a decisive impact. Of the four, only the existence of the
crisis was knowable in advance. The lesson is simply this and no
more. If certain key actors are receptive, technical assistance
is capable of providing a seminal study that starts a process of
policy reform.



- vi -
(b)   Second, using technical assistance as a tool for institutional
development is a risky and fragile undertaking. Consultants who
are able to adapt to the cultural environment, understand the
needs of the institution, and teach use%l techniques con
cont;.ibute to institutional development. Still, their
contribution is ephemeral and cannot be sustainad unless
counterparts accept and make the contribution of the consultant
their own. Even when they desire to do this, they can be quickly
thwarted by unreceptive higher authority, by reorganizations and
transfers, or by changing circumstances.
The only sustainable contribution is one that is adopted by
counterparts as their own and then allowed to flourish and be
made useful. At the conclusion of ATIA I, some contributions had
reached this point at MPARA (financial management techniques,
program budgeting, investment programming, rice sector surveys
and analysis). By 1991, the contributions to the rice sector
analysis and program budgeting had also come to fruition. At
MPAEF, however, little gain was evident. At FOFIFA the gains
were adequate to allow the start-up of the National Research
Program.
(C)   Third, management and supervision of a relatively small but
complex TA project like ATIA I have been extremely difficult.
There were three principal actors (the Borrower, the Bank and tf.e
Consultant), each with different views of what was urgent and
what was important. The consultant firm may have an important
presence of five or six people, while the Bank may be absent for
long periods. Decisions are made and paths taken whose
consequences are apparent only later.
If there is no committee or unit with general oversight, as there
was not for ATIA I, coordination is lost and the project becomes
a myriad of activities some partially and others totally
independent of each other. The only unifying force is the
periodic Bank supervision mission. No matter how talented and
energetic the mission, it is largely a fire fighter and a problem
solver. Once it leaves there is no pressure to enforce
solutions. The project tends to become what individual
consultants and individual government units think it should be.
The lesson from ATIA I is that for all its successes, it should
have had an oversight committee to give it a sense of direction.
d)    Fourth, effective 4nternal management is necessary for a Ministry
of Rural Development, Agriculture or Livestock. But it is not
sufficient. What is also needed is (a) an ability to deliver
essential services to its clients and (b) an external environment
that will permit it to function effectively. If civil service
regulations make it impossible to send ministry staff into the
field to conduct routine business or if the Ministry of Finance
refuses to accept the products of improved management at the
technical ministry, then these constraints will eliminate the
positive impact of the project.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (ATIA I)
(CREDIT 1249-MAG)
PART I: Proiect Review from IDA's Perspective
1.  Project Identity
Name:             Agricultural Institutions Technical Assistance
Project
Credit Number:    Cr. 1249-MAG
RVP Unit:          Africa
Department:        South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Country           Madagascar
Sector:           Agriculture
Subsector:         Institution Building
2. Proiect Background
2.1   Agriculture is the dominant sector of the Malagasy economy,
contributing at the time of project preparation about 40% of GDP and
accounting for 80% of export earnings. The growth of agricultural production
between 1970 and 1980 had been slow, with the average increase somewhat less
than the population growth rate of 2.8% a year. This performance largely
reflects the stagnation of rice and livestock production.
2.2   The reasons for the disappointing performance of the agricultural
sector were complex and there were many interrelated causes. Some of the
most critical related to policy, and to institutional and managerial
weaknesses. Principal factors included:
(a)   absence of a national consensus and workable policy measures to
achieve sectoral objectives (especially for the rice sub-sector,
where inappropriate policies had seriously affected production),
and the weakness of medium and long-term investment planning;
(b)   disruption of the Ministry of Rural Development and Agrarian
Reform's (MDRRA) technical services following the reorganization
measures of 1979;
(c)   dilution of responsibilities among numerous institutions, limited
coordination, and an absence of financial controls;
(d)   inflexible management structures and administrative procedures
imposed on public sector companies as well as shortages of
qualified technical staff; and
(e)   absence of links between research and extension services, leading
to disparity between on-going research programs and research
needs.
2.3   The following sections provide more detail on the situation prior to
ATIA I implementation.



-2-
The Rice Sub-Sector
2.4   Rice is the main staple in Madagascar.  Paddy production, which had
increased in excess of 4% per annum during the 1960's, had increased by lees
than 0.5% per annum during the 1970's. A substantial public investment
program in rice production scnemes had failed to yield results. Meanwhile-
the growing irrelevancy of the National Agricultural Research Institute
(FOFIFA) had cut Madagaecar off from international advances in rice
production technology. As a result, Madagascar - previously a rice
exporter - needed to import 350,000 tons of rice in 1982. Private trades in
inputs had been suppressed by Government, while failing to provide them
itself.  In 1981, the Government held a .egal monopoly over paddy collection
and rice distribution in deficit areas    'he country; producer and retail
prices were set by Government at leve. c'dt subsidized the urban consumer at
the expense of the farmer. In 1982, wLt}, effective state control over rice
marketing, the G-ivernm%nt reaffirmed its monopoly and mandated stiff
penalties for illegal trade in rice. Changes were considered essential, both
in policy and in institution:il arrangements, but reform was seriously impeded
by the exceptionally poor quality of data, particularly on marketing.
MPARA Orcanizational Analysis
2.5   The Malagasy Government appointed an energetic Lsrfhnician as Minister
of MDRRA at the beginning of 1982. At that time, the Ministry was still
suffering from the effects of the 1978-79 decentralization, when many of the
best civil servants had been transferred to provincial ser%ces or left the
Ministry. One of the first actions undertaken by the new Minister was to
revamp the Ministry. It was subsequently renamed Ministry for Agricultural
Production and Agrarian Reform (MPARA).
2.6   Personnel administration was an area of particular weakness.  The
ministry had inadequate personnel recordb. It is therefore not surprtsing
that MPARA had neither a policy for staff development nor a training
division. Most of its staff had received some technical training but lacked
knowledge of management techniques aad systems.  The Bank's Sector Me.orandum
of June 1983 found that there were "no higher level staff in the Ministry
trained in accounting or financial management." In fact, there were few
adequately trained personnel in technical specialties at any level of the
Ministry. At the same time there was an excess of lower level staff on
renewable contract.
Agricultural Investment Planning
2.7   M"RA's planning department was small and poorly equipped.  It had
little L.fluence on investment decisions, and as a result the agricultural
sector was burdened with a number of projects that had been poorly planned
and '*adequately reviewed.  The Ministry's portfolio of projects had grown
rapi.' in the 1970s and early 1980s as the number of donors multiplied.  The
exact number of projects was not known; their current financial operations
and future financial burden for the state were largely not known either.
parastatal Management
2.8   The parastatals suffered from severe financial mismanagement.
The 1983 Sector Memorandum noted that "budgeting is virtually an unknown art,
except for the annual investment budget exercise which has become largely
meaningless..." Three major rice-producing parastatals were selected for
audit under ATIA I. These were the Regional Development Authority for the
Lower Mangoky Valley (SAMANGOKY), which was responsible for the
administration of a US$12 million IDA credit; the Regional Development
Authority for the Lac Alaotra Region (SOMALAC), covering an irrigated zone



-3-
where the Bank had provided a US$5 million loan in the early 19709; and the
Regional Development Authority for the Betsiboka Valley (FIFABE), for whom
German aid was anticipated.  These particular parastatals "were once highly
effective inatitutions," according to the President's Report of May 1982, but
their "performance [had] deteriorated under an accretion of functions and the
weight of Government policies." By 1982 they were in poor condition. The
Sector Memorandum remarked, for example, that "SAMANGOKY had been brought to
the verge of bankruptcy by bad decisions based on inadequate financial
appraisals."
FOFIFA
2.9   French agricultural research institutions left Madagascar in 1974.  The
branches of the French institutes were then nationalized and regrouped in the
National Center for Applied Research for Rural Development (FOFIFA). This
parastatal's shortcomings had become increasingly manifest as connections
with the international agricultural research centers and links with national
extension programs were allowed to slip away.  In 1980 the Bank published a
study on agricultural research which concluded that the national research
structure was in a state of collapse. For at least a decade prior to ATIA
there had been no varietal improvement for any crop, including rice, despite
the development of successful new varieties by the International Rice
Research Institute (IRRI) in the Philippines.
3. Proiect Obiectives and Description
3.1   The main project objectives were to address a number of the fundamental
issues ,utlined above.  Several studies were to be initiated as instruments
for resolving these issues and for preparing action plans for reform as well
as for developing the consensus for moving forward. In a number of instances
project activities were expected to go beyond the option/consensus stage and
would support the implementation of agreed upon reform programs, notably in:
(i) strengthening MPARA's capabilities for investment planning and project
preparation; (ii) identifying action prngrams for achieving specific sector
objectives, particularly concerning rice production; (iii) reaefining the
roles of the key institutions responsible for services to rice farmers and
reforming them so that they could execute their functions more effectively;
(iv) improving coordination among the key agricultural institutions and
sectoral programs; and (v) strengthening the agricultural research effort.
3.2   Technical ascistance (290 person-months) was to be provided for two and
one-half years. There were to be the following outputs:
(a)   three activitiee for the rice sub-sector: a study of input
distribution, production and marketing; an action plan; and the
creation of a rice coordinat.ng unit;
(b)   an organizational analysis leading to improved management of
MPARA;
(c)   a three-year investment plan for the agricultural sector;
(d)   financial and management audits for selected parastatals;
(e)   management and operational support for the national agricultural
research institution, FOFIFA; and
(f)   project preparation studies.



- 4-
4.    Proiect Design and Oraanization
4.1   Faced with the combination of institutional incapacity and
counterproductive policies, the project's designers thought first of
improving the supply of services to the rice sub-sector, where Bank-supported
projects were doing poorly. However, even an agricultural services project
could not avoid addressing the fundamental institutional and managerl.1
problems. As originally conceived, the project would have had the
improvement of the institutional environment among its objectives. To the
designers, this meant rethinking the missions and responsibilities of various
institutions as well as improving management. Yet they were thinking in very
modest terms with regard to technical assistance. The original cost of the
project was estimated at US$15 million, of which only US$300,000 to
US$500,000 was set aside for the institutional component.
4.2   In the course of two subsequent Bank missions to Madagascar, there was
a considerable change in project content. The President of Madagascar had
taken a personal interest in the project and it became apparent that the
Government was willing to take a more practical, technocratic approach.
There would be greater readiness to follow recommendations resulting from
good analysis. Thus, Bank missions decided to focus more or technical
support within the framework of a smaller project. The project's name was
changed to Agricultural Institutions Technical Assistance Project (ATIA).
The cost was reduced to US$5 million, principally for consultant services.
Emphasis was placed on studies, on diagnosis and on support for parastatals.
The underlying institutional problems of the sector as a whole had now become
the target.
4.3   MPARA was to have primary responsibility for project implementation;
within MPARA, the Director of the Studies and Programming Department (DEP)
was to coordinate project activities and monitor all work in progress. The
Rice Sectoi Coordinating Service (SCSR) was made responsible for the
implementation of the short-term action plan for rice and related studies.
5.  Proiect Implementation
Credit Effectivenese and Proiect Start-up
5.1   ATIA I moved quickly into its implementation stage under PPF funding of
US$l million and the rapid selection of a consulting firm to begin work on
MDRRA and the parastatals. The Credit was declared effective on December 16,
1982, about four months later than expected due to some minor administrative
delays in processing the required legal documents.
Im3lementation Schedule
5.2   The project was to be implemented over two and a half years.  Mid-way
through the project, however, it became apparent that there were
administrative weaknesses that seriously hampered implementation. The
weaknesses consisted essentially of repeated delays in approving contracts
for consultant services, delays in submission of disbursement requests, and
failure to arrange for an audit. As a result of such delays, assistance to
FOFIFA and SODEMO needed to continue beyond 1985 in order to achieve project
objectives. All other project activities were completed by the end of 1985.
The credit closed on June 30, 1987, after a two-year extension.
Proiect Costs and Financinc
5.3   No detailed cost estimates are available.  An OED Evaluation



Study 3/ stated that project costs had stayed within the appraisal estimate
of SDR 6.1 million. All the same, a significant shift in allocations between
components had taken place. The most significant shift was from the training
component to outside consultants. Outside consultants received SDR 2.8
million rather than the SDR 1.5 million appraisal estimate and training got
SDR 193,000 rather than the SDR 530,000 appraisal estimate. The increase in
consulting services was to a large extent the result of the unforeseen
creation of the Ministry of Livestock, Fisheries and Forests (MPAEF).
Training costs were much less than expected because MPARA and MPAEF failed to
establish a coherent staff training program. Appraised and actual project
costs and financing are shown in Table 3.C of Part III.
Disbursements
5.4   Disbursements lagged significantly behind appraisal estimates
throughout project implementation. The number of implementing agencies and
cumbersome procurement procedures for equipment and consulting services
further complicated the issue. The Credit's last disbursement was on January
26, 1988, at which time the undisbursed balance of US$ 0.05 million was
canceled (1% of the credit). Planned and actual disbursements are shown in
Table 3 of Part III.
Procurement
5.5   Approval of contracts for consultant's service were routinely delayed
by periods up to six manths because of a growing reluctance within the
National Procurement Board (CCM) to award contracts to foreign consulting
firms. On three occasionb, did MPARA have to ask the President to overrule
decisions of the CCM in order to hire the preferred consultant firm.
5.6   Computerization of MPARA was seriously delayed by governmental policy
on computer procurement. The chairman of the governmental computer committee
had to sign an authorization letter for each piece of computer equipment
allowed into the country. The issue seemed to be resolved by the end of the
supervision mission in November 1984, when it appeared that international
competitive bidding to supply computers would be allowed. It was not until
January 1988, however, that computer imports were liberalized and other makes
than the one approved by Government could be procured by government offices
without special exemptions.4/
5.7   IDA supervision missions consistently followed-up on procurement
issues, but were unable to markedly expedite matters.
6.    Project Results
The Rice Sub-Sector
6.1   The rice sub-sector study began in September 1982, just prior to the
creation of a new division in MPARA, the Rice Sector Coordination Service
(SCSR). At the end of the first phase of its study, a preliminary report was
presented by the consulting company in February 1983, which led directly to a
3/    Operations Evaluation Department, "MADAGASCAR - Agricultural
Institutions Technical Assistance Proiect (ATIA I. Cr. 1249-MAG).
A Case Studv," April 13, 1989.
4/    Although the USAID mission was exceptionally authorized by the
terms of a grant agreement to import IBM computers for use at
FOFIFA.



series of measures taken by the Government in May and June 1983 to remove
controls over rice marketing in all but the two major surplus areas.
6.2   The consultants had conducted urban consumption surveys, analyzed
farming systems, studied marketing channels and monitored marketing reforms
in all six provinces. Members of the team submitted a draft of their second
phase report in November 1983.  This dealz with measures to be taken when
rice demand exceeded supply, with the reorganization of the National
Marketing Company for Agricultural Products (SINPA) and with a system for
continuzed monitoring and analysis of the sub-sector.
6.3   There were intense discussions on the report with officials of MPARA in
August 1984, by which time the split-up of MPARA into two ministries had
occurred (MPARA and the newly created MPAEF). As a result of these
discussions, the report's recommendations were fully understood and supported
within MPARA. The final version, disseminated in October 1984, was discussed
at an inter-ministerial level. This process led to the creation of an inter-
ministerial committee to formulate an action plan covering pricing, imports
and marketing of rice.
6.4   The consultants were supposed to provide further assistance for
training in August 1984 under an amendment to their second contract, but
implementation was postponed because of delays in Government approval. Three
training sessions were entrusted to an agro-business management institute in
Paris by sub-contract and were conducted from mid-February to mid-April 1985.
The topics treated were the basic principles of micro-economics, economic
analysis of projects, and marketing and price analysis. A U.S. consulting
firm trained staff of SCSR in market monitoring, household consumption
surveys and data analysis.
6.5   Under the third contract, the consultants conducted seminars on
microeconomic theory in early 1985 and assisted SCSR in assessing the impact
of the 1983 rice reforms. Data gathering on -narket prices and urban
consumption patterns by MPARA had become routine by 1985.
6.6   As the first phase of the rice study was being completed, SINPA
virtually collapsed. It was unable to pay its employees in April and May
1983. This development was the immediate reason of the Government's rapid
move to liberalize rice marketing. At the end of April the Minister of Rural
Development announced to a consultative group of donors that the Government
had adopted a new policy which would permit free marketing of local rice and
the sale of imported rice at prices reflecting long-term world market trends.
A Decree and a Ministerial Order published in May and June put the new policy
into effect. The state ,nonopoly was replaced by free competition between
private traders and public enterprises engaged in the trade, except in the
SOMALAC and FIFABE project areas 5/. The establishment of indicative
prices was intended to ensure reasonable prices, but these were never
effective.
6.7   By the end of 1984 it was agreed that this component had made a
substantial impact. Not only had the consultants' preliminary report helped
to convince top officials to decontrol the rice pricing and marketing system.
It had also led to the creation of an inter-ministerial committee to prepare
an action plan for the subsector, which was considered as perhaps the most
significant development, since lack of coordination in the sector had been a
major weakness of government policy.
5/    The exceptions were significant because these two projects were
providing 40% of marketed rice.



6.8   Further measures were taken in 1985, helped by pressure from the Bank
and other donors, who gave assurances that food aid would be available in
case of need. While liberalization was deliberately undercut at many points
by government officials and cthers, there is evidence that the moves were
successful in generating a supply response. This supply response allowed
Madagascar to stop an accelerating increase in rice imports. Imports fell
from 350,000 tons in 1982 to 60,000 tons in 1990, by which time Government
had ceased official imports. The Bank supported Government during the whole
of this period, up to 1986 under ATIA I, subsequently under the Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 1691-MAG), with policy and technical advise.
MPARA Strenathenina
6.9 MPARA hired a French consulting firm in late 1982 to conduct a
diagnostic study of the ministry's organization, identifying problems and
recommending measures to resolve these problems. The consultants were in
Madagascar from May to July and submitted a report in September 1983. The
division of MPARA into two ministries (MPARA and MPAEF) occurred during the
consultants' stay. They included both in their report.
6.10 Consultants worked with the two staff departments that were created in
the 1983 reorganization: Programs, and Finance and Personnel 6/. They
focused on four management systems:
Sector programming and project monitoring and evaluation
Finance and budget
Personnel and training
*     Information
6.11 The five consultants assigned to these tasks arrived in July 1984 and
remained for one year. They were joir.ed by personnel from two local sub-
contractors, RINDRA and Fivoarana.
6.12 Ministry officials participated fully with the consultants in the
diagnostic study. A steering committee of senior officials from both MPARA
and MPAEF provided general direction to the consultants. The study was
submitted in September 1983 and Ministry officials generally agreed with the
consultants' findings (for example the overstaffing situation in regard to
unskilled personnel, the lack of effective information and communication) and
some of the recommendations had already been implemented (e.g., personnel
units in both m.nistries).
6.13 A second contract was awarded to the consulting firm for the purpose of
implementing the recommendations of its diagnostic study. The next phase
involved implementation of recommendations. The consultants spent a year
from mid-1984 to mid-1985 at the task. since the ministry's performance
could be improved on many fronts, the perceptions of the consultants and of
ministry staff sometimes diverged on the matter of what needs were most
urgent. The responsiveness of outside consultants to the perceived needs of
ministry staff was occasionally questioned as time passed.
6/    During project implementation, MPARA was divided into six
departments, two staff departments and four line or technical
departments (in French: "Direction"). The departments were sub-
divided into services which in turn were sub-divided into
divisions. The four line departments had branch offices in each
of the six faritany (provinces). Staff departments (Programs and
Finance and Personnel) received the bulk of ATIA I's support.



- 8 -
6.14 By March 1985, activities focused on personnel management, budgets,
sub-sector analysis methodology and project monitoring. Computerized systems
were being developed by consultants, but few computers were available on
which ministry personnel could be trained. The project procured four micro-
computers for MPARA in 1985.
6.15 In the area of personnel management, detailed personnel surveys were
carried out to identify training program priorities and lay the basis for
future personnel policies.
6.16 To strengthen MPARA's capability in performing sub-sectoral analysis,
data bases were developed to provide essential inputs and staff was trained
in the use of these data for analysis purposes.
6.17   A system was designed to assist MPAR2  in project monitoring, however,
by the end of the project, the system had not yet been fully implemented due
to a shortage of qualified personnel and equipment.
6.18 Considerable effort was devoted to the development of program
budgeting, even though use of the technique had not been foreseen by the
project's designers. The consultants found that their Malagasy counterparts
were very receptive to the idea because they wanted to gain better control
over the ministry's activities. For a time the program budgeting activity
proceeded without obstacle, but it later became apparent that the Ministry of
Finance wanted only traditional budget presentations. Program budgeting was
destined to remain strictly an internal exercise for the life of ATIA I, and
additional efforts had to be devoted to the traditional budget on which
Finance insisted. The new budgeting system had, however, enabled the
Ministry to reduce the amount of time needed to prepare the annual budget.
MPAEF Strengthenina
6.19 The creation of MPAEF had not been foreseen when ATIA I was designed.
The existence of the new ministry obliged ATIA to duplicate much of its
managerial, financial and personnel work.
6.20 The consulting firm, which had been contracted to do the investment
planning exercise in MPARA in November 1982, was chosen to provide technical
assistance to MPAEF, but start-up was delayed by six months in a dispute over
the contract award. The technical assistance program covered a 13-month
period from May 1984 to June 1985. The initial team had four members with
specialties in economics and policy, personnel, and planning and finance.
RINDRA, a local firm, was selected to participate as a sub-contractor but as
late as November 1984, arrangements were still under review by MPAEF.
6.21 In the beginning, much emphasis was placed on organizational issues,
which in retrospect was excessive. In particular, substantial effort was put
into the definition of a new organizational structure while comparatively
little attention was given to the change process and to the need to involve
staff in the changes about to be introduced. Consequently, application of
the niew structure affected work processes and required a significant period
of adjuBtment. Overall, project results have been tenuous at best.
6.22 A personnel database was developed, after a survey of all staff
throughout the country. By project closing, the system was not yet
effectively used.
6.23 The project produced a strategy for each of the MPAEF sub-sectors
(livestock, fisheries and forestry). These strategies were based on an in-
depth review of each of the sub-sectors, and produced a valuable database and
policy analysis tool. The further development of the system was, however,
constrained by difficulties in managing and updating the database. In



- 9 -
addition, staff lacked sufficient economic training to interpret the data and
use many of the analytic tools in the system.
6.24 A project monitoring system was developed, but not implemented due to a
lack of computer equipment and because of a severe fragmentation of
information within the Ministry. The system was designed to monitor the
technical and economic performance of projects and was developed in
conjunction with the budget monitoring system.
Agricultural Investment Plannina
6.25 The investment planning exercise at MPARA began in November 1982. The
consultants and a team of 15 Malagasy officials developed an Interim
Investment Program consisting of 60 projects. A draft report was prepared in
ten months but its presentation was delayed another two months because of the
split up of MPARA in mid-1983. The original group of consultants was
considered by the Minister to have done an excellent job. They trained
Malagasy counterparts in the process, but this was destined to be a one-time
effort, and the staff that gained good experience from the exercise were soon
dispersed within the ministry.
6.26 A year later a French consultant arrived to work with the Program
Departments of MPARA and MPAEF from mid-1984 to mid-1985 on methods for an
annual revision of what came to be called the Public Investment Program
(PIP). The draft three-year investment plan of November 1983 contained
detailed dossiers on 60 projects, which were for the most part descriptive,
not analytical and weak on economic analysis. Even so, the exercise had been
quite useful. Most importantly, it had served as a training vehicle for 15
ministry staff. In addition, the two ministries now had a reasonably
complete picture of their portfolios, which was not clear to anyone before.
Developing the plan revealed the almost complete lack of sectoral and sub-
sectoral strategies. The investment program consisted of a series of free-
standing projects rather than sets of projects designed to implement
strategies. It also became clear how little grasp the ministries had of
project financial flows and future funding requirements, both from government
budgets and from donors.
Parastatal Manaaement
6.27 The consultant firm started its audits of FIFABE, SAMANGOKY and SOMALAC
in August 1981. Audits of these parastatals produced financial and
organizational analyses that led to the implementation of improved financial
and organizational systems, under the financing of other donors (Germany for
FIFABE and France for SOMALAC). Substantial improvements were achieved in
the cases of SOMALAC and FIFABE.
6.28 Technical assistance to a fourth parastatal, SODEMO, had not been
explicitly envisaged, although the Credit Agreement did provide for
management audits of parastatals to be selected. The audits of the initial
three parastatals prompted Government to attack management problems in other
parastatals on its own, and MPARA began implementing a general reform program
for parastatals under its authority. In this context it requested the Bank
to provide technical assistance for the reorganization and reorientation of
SODEMO. A Bank supervision mission in May 1983 was agreeable to the idea but
made it conditional on the Government's release of funds for SODEMO's multi-
year work program. Provision of technical assistance was delayed by the slow
and at first only partial release of these funds. A management expert and a
training specialist were finally provided to SODEMO for a two-year period
starting September 1984. The management expert performed a useful service in
revealing to the Government the extent of the financial crisis at SODEMO.
There were enormous losses, overstaffing, and salary arrears of 9-12 months.



- 10 -
6.29 As a result of the audits a training program was established for
general managers and financial directors of selected parastatals, starting in
early 1984. A local institution, the Centre Dour la Formation des Cadres,
located south of the capital at Antsirab6, was the contractor for this
component. Some 58 individuals representing 24 parastatals and the
monitoring divisions of MPAEF and MPARA attended needs-assessment workshops
and then attended the seminars. The judgement of participants in the
training program was that it had been useful and relevant despite the
inadequacy of physical facilities. The sessions revealed to ministry staff
that they needed to define more precisely the respective roles of the
ministry and of parastatal management. This led to efforts to clarify
ministerial policies.
Strenathening FOFIFA
6.30  At the Bank's suggestion, the Government asked the International
Service for National Agricultural Research (ISNAR) to conduct an in-depth
review of FOFIFA's management and organization. This was done in January-
February 1983. In essence, ISNAR found that FOFIFA was excessively
compartmentalized, unresponsive to national research needs, inappropriately
staffed, burdened with an unwieldy system of field stations, poorly managed,
and inadequately funded. ISNAR rwcommended sweeping organizational and
managerial changes, which were accepted by the Minister of Rural Development
and quickly turned into proposals by ministry staff. The Bank was unwilling,
however, to approve their implementation until some fundamental decisions
were made about FOFIFA's role as a national research organization
(particularly on the scope of activities and the required financing and
organizational structures).
6.31 The project's initial focip was on the reorganization of FOFIFA along
lines suggested by the ISNAR resort, but the Bank supervision mission of May
1983 considered it premature to reorganize without having resolved issues of
research strategy, program priorities and program content. In October 1983 a
new Ministry of Scientific and Technical Research for Development (MRSTD) was
created and FOFIFA was placed under the aegis of this ministry.
6.32  A Bank supervision mission in October 1983 continued to emphasize the
need for defining research objectives and priority programs before
reorganizing FOFIFA as the ISNAR study had suggested. The mission would not
agree to finance technical assistance until FOFIFA had a functioning Board of
Directors, a Managing Director and a Scientific Committee. In addition, the
mission insisted that FOFIFA, which had issued no financial statement since
1979, had to have an effective accounting and internal control system.
Technical assistance was finally provided with the hiring of an agricultural
research programmer and a financial director on two-year contracts. The
former arrived in September 1984, but the latter's contract was delayed until
March 1985. The late starting dates of these contracts deferred the
completion date of the FOFIFA component until March 1987. With joint
financing from USA-ID, seminars on farming systems research were conducted in
1985.
6.33 The choice of the research programming consultant was not fortuitous.
ISNAR recommended several qualified individuals, but FOFIFA passed over
several to pick someone who was not as well qualified. The consultant stayed
four years at FOFIFA, working for both the first and second projects, but is
considered to have contributed little to improved research programming. Bank
supervision missions had failed to properly intervene in the selection
process.
6.34 It was not until November 1984 that a supervision mission reached
agreement with FOFIFA and MRSTD on procurement of computer, office and
laboratory equipment, and supplies for the former. It was also agreed that a



- 11 -
laboratory equipment specialist would inventory existing FOFIFA equipment to
see what needed repair or replacement.
6.35 Management improvements were slow to materialize. FOFIFA had, since
1979, been unable to pass an audit. It was not until 1986 that the agency's
accounts could be certified by auditors. There were other delays. FOFIFA's
Board was supposed to appoint a Director of Administration and Finance to
replace the management consultant, but the position was not filled until
early 1987, just as ATIA I support for FOFIFA was ending. Support to FOFIFA
was continued under the follow-up project.
Agricultural Extension
6.36 One component of ATIA I not explicitly planned was for technical
assistance in agricultural extension. ATIA I provided to MPARA an adviser
who was hired as an individual rather than through a consulting firm. This
arrangement caused initial difficulty in finding a method to pay for the
services.
6.37 When the consultant arrived in September 1984, expecting to be a
Training & Visit (T&V) System advisor within the existing IFAD-supported
Highland Rice Project (Ln 116-MAG), she discovered that there had been a
misunderstanding. The zones where she was to work were not part of the IFAD-
supported project, and there was no operating budget. Further, it became
evident that the Director of the Extension Department and the Minister had
conflicting expectations. The former intended to use the presence of an
expatriate adviser as the justification for receiving increased resources,
while the latter w3nted to start a T&V pilot activity without any additional
budgetary resources. It was agreed that the consultant would be assigned the
responsibility to design a pilot T&V effort in Antananarivo province. She
was also to begin training staff in T&V methods for the 1985/86 agricultural
year, but it was agreed that no additional budgetary resources were to be
used. Bank staff did agree that the project would purchase mopeds and
bicycles for extension staff.
6.38 Work in the two T&V pilot zones in the first year consisted of sharply
cutting from 125 to 35 the number of extension agents and of reducing their
data collection duties to allow them to concentrate on extension. This
improved their morale. As a result of her activities, it was agreed that the
pilot project area would be expanded, and eventually, these activities led to
the Agricultural Extension Pilot Project (Cr. 2150-MAG), which was approved
by the Board in May 1990.
Proiect Preparation
6.39 Two contracts were financed from the Credit for the purpose of
improving MPARA's project preparation. Rather than training MPARA staff to
do a better job of appraising projects, the approach was to hire outside
firms to carry out feasibility and engineering studies, because it was felt
to be a more efficient use of available resources given budgetary constraints
and the skills mix within the Ministry. One such contract was awarded to a
consulting firm, which worked with MPARA staff on a system to inventory
medium-scale irrigation schemes. Work under the contract was completed in
early 1984. A second contract was awarded to a combined foreign/local group
to conduct studies and prepare bid documents for rehabilitation work on three
irrigated perimeters. The work on the irrigation schemes culminated in the
formulation of the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1589-MAG).



- 12 -
Training
6.40 Malagasy officials benefitted from training outside of Madagascar under
ATIA I sponsorship, but there was considerably less of it than originally
planned. At the end of 1985, when 81% of the Credit had been disbursed, only
SDR 58,700 or 11% of the programmed amount had been spent on training. The
training that was done tended to be ad hoc, used more as a supplementary
incentive than as part of a systematic program to meet the most urgent needs
of institutions and individuals. It was nonetheless thought to have been of
good quality and to have been entrusted to good institutions.
7.    Financial Results
7.1   No rates of return were calculated, because a technical assistance
project is exempted from this requirement.
8.    Sustainability
8.1   Taken as a whole, project implementation has been remarkably
successful. Planned activities have been carried out (although sometimes in
modified form), and project objectives have been largely attained. Sectoral
planning has become stronger than it was in 1981, performance of parastatals
targeted for organization reform and management strengthening was improving,
and considerable reorganization and reorientations of programs were started
at MPARA, MPAEF, and FOFIFA.
8.2   There is no question that ATIA I helped set in motion a process of
profound policy change. Its most clear-cut achievement was the
liberalization of pricing and marketing of rice as a direct consequence of
the sub-sector analysis. The Rice Study was convincing enough to persuade a
number of influential officials that liberalization was the course to take.
By 1985, there was enough confidence of the beneficial effects of
liberalization to allow further steps. Rice millers emerged to compete with
parastatals, and once-skeptical farmers responded to higher prices. One Bank
staff member who visited the primary rice production zones in 1986 found
farmers ecstatic about prices and planning to invest in new equipment. What
is more, liberalizing controls over rice marketing were followed by similar
measures in other domains.
8.3   A second important component was parastatal management.  Here too the
initial impact of the project was fairly rapid improvement, which provided an
impetus for further change. In fact, the parastatal component was important
in carrying development agencies through a transition period, during which
they implemented important projects. Their jobs are now done and it is up to
farmers, with the support of government provided agricultural services, to
take responsibility for management and maintenance of the irrigation schemes.
All four parastatals included in the project now fit into Government's policy
of transferring commercial activities to the private sector and for closing
down non-viable activities.
8.4   Overall, gains within MPARA, MPAEF and FOFIFA were, however, fragile--
they remained highly dependent on external encouragement and support. It was
for this reason that the Bank agreed to finance a follow-on project: ATIA
II. This project's main objective is to build on the achievements of the
first project and to continue strengthening the capabilities of all
Ministries involved in agriculture (MPARA, MPAEF and MRSTD); in particular to
create a greater independence and responsibility of MPARA and MPAEF in
developing their own systems.



- 13 -
9.    Bank Performance
9.1   The project was closely supervised from Washington in its initial
years. During the first eight supervision miseions (through 1985), there was
considerable staff continuity, which was broken after 1985. Soon after the
reorganization took effect, in 1987, the resident mission took over
supervision responsibility.
9.2   Initially all project activities came under the aegis of the Rural
Development Ministry (MDPRA later MPARA), even though the link was somewhat
tenuous in the case of the rice producing parastatals. Once MPARA split into
two parts, however, and FOFIFA was placed under MRSTD, there were three
distinct ministerial entities involved. It should be noted that on the
Malagasy side there was no coordinatina unit. committee or individual.
Supervision missions dealt with each of the four major components shown above
as a separate entity. This approach had two advantages. First it prevented
delay in one component from damaging another. Second, it allowed supervision
staff to learn more about project implementation by being able to work at
lower levels in ministries. But the approach had the distinct disadvantage
that there was no coordination of components on the Malagasy side; there was
no higher authority to pressure laggard units to hasten project
implementation; and it required a considerably larger effort on the part of
Bank staff than otherwise would have been needed.
9.3   Bank supervision missions failed to take a firm stand in some
procurement issues (e.g. selection of the consultant for FOFIFA) and rarely
went beyond noting procurement problems in Aide Memoires and supervision
reports; the procurement of computer equipment was especially affected.
10.   Borrower Performance
10.1 Commitment on the part of the Government was high; officials had been
receptive to consultant analysis and recommendations, and were willing to
implement a number of policy reforms and organizational changes as a result.
10.2 Project implementation experience showed the constraints affecting
performance facing civil service agencies in Madagascar. Heavy
administrative controls, shortage of mid-level professionals, overstaffing at
lower levels, inadequate operating oudgets, and low salaries are the
principal problems. However, frequent reorganizations and high staff
turnover have also been characteristic of the institutional environment.
11.   Consulting Services
11.1 When the project was being prepared, it was known that a large amount
of expatriate consulting services would be needed. Prior to this project,
there had been strong opposition from Malagasy authorities to the use of
expatriate consulting services; it was therefore a major accomplishment that
this project was accepted by the Borrower. The delays in approving
consulting contracts that ensued during project implementation was the result
of bureaucratic procedures and continued opposition to the use of expatriate
consultants within the National Procurement Board
11.2 With few exceptions (see also 6.33), the perfornance of the consultants
has been good. The active involvement of supervision missions in the work
planning and output of the consultants has been very beneficial.



- 14 -
12.   Documentation and Files
12.1 The PCR is in part based on an OED evaluation study of the project 7/
and in part on an independent review of project files at headquarters and in
the field. All information was readily available, with the exception of
project costs, consulting services and training. No information could be
obtained on the actual number of consultant staff monthz and cost of these
services, and on the cost and amount of training provided under the project.
7/    Operations Evaluation Department, "Evaluation Study of Free-
standing Technical Assistance in Support of Public Sector
Management in sub-Saharan Africa - Madagascar Agricultural
Institutions Technical Assistance Project (ATIA I), A Case Study,"
April 13, 1989.



- 15-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (ATIA I)
(CREDIT 1249-MAG)
PART II: Proiect Review from Borrower's Perspective
A. Comments from the Ministry for Livestock. Fisheries and Forests
on the Draft Proiect Completion Report
1.    General Comments
1.1   The reminder of the status of the aa-icultural sector prior to the ATIA
project is needed so as to put the analyt.'. (f the various aspects in its
proper context, but in doing this there w_s 'o need to dwell on certain
unfavorable points. The Government's effo_L.s to rehabilitate the national
economy were, in any case, also hampere-d by external factors: debt service,
deteriorating primary commodity pricet, the fall in the dollar, etc.
1.2   As a whole, there is an obvious imbalance in the manner in which the
evaluation was conducted. On the one hand, the report dwells on certain
rather insignificant details, while on the other it glosses over some
important aspects of the project and even bases its comments on
unsubstantiated assertions.
1.3   It is true that the ATIA project was conceived and initiated under the
former Ministry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform (MPARA), but
to base the evaluation too much on the results obtained in that Ministry and
on what took its place risks giving a false idea of the project as a whole,
inasmuch as the latter is part of general Government policy.
1.4   A candid evaluation of the strengths and weaknesses of the project
should not go beyond what is permissible by highlighting differences among
the country's top leaders, such as the conflicts between the Minister for
Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform and the Director of the
Agricultural Extension Department or between the Chairman of the Board of the
Regional Development Authority for the Morondava Region (SODEMO) and that
company's Manag'ng Director.
1.5   The evaluation attributes the delays in contract approval and
organization of loan audits to cumbersome administrative controls and even to
the inadequate implementation capacity of Government staff. However, this
problem should be viewed not ae a mere procedural issue but in terms of the
very foundation and philosophy of the legislation currently in effect. The
fact that the public auditors were overwhelmed with work should not have
automatically prompted the selection of private firms. A precedent is
quickly established and it is not always possible to control its scope when
it is extended to other areas. Similarly, the use of the credit is governed
by the general regulations for the management of public firances because it
is money borrowed by the Government. It was therefore a matter of finding a
middle path without either totally rejecting the regulations in effect or
excessively delaying project implementation. These solutions were hard to
find and the decisions hard to make. Lack of implementation capacity, which
relate to technology and resources, should not be confused with a lack of
implementation capability attributable to current legislation.
1.6   Along the same lines, the presentation of draft budgets according to
the program budgeting system presuppcses an in-depth reform of the law on
public finance management. This was a decision that could not be speeded up.
This is why the Ministry of Finance did not immediately follow MPARA's lead



- 16 -
in this direction, even though the system offered good results in technical
terms.
1.7   Generally speaking, the overall organization of a project is mutually
agreed upon by Government and Bar.k representatives. If there was no
provision for a coordination committee for the ATIA I project, this oversight
cannot be blamed on the Malagasy leaders alone. Furthermore, while the
evaluation report might regard as beneficial the approach adopted by Bank
supervision missions of dealing with the various implemienting ag-ncies
separately, the Malagasy leaders tend, on the contrary, to think that this
approach accentuated the project's lack of organization, in that the missions
consulted staff who had only a limited idea about the project, seeing it only
from the aspects in which they were directly involved. Therefore their
reactions could not always be constructive because they were not fully
conversant with the general policy and philosophy behind the project.
2.    Comments on Certain Specific Points Made in the Report
Plannina of Agricultural Investments
2.1   No institutional arrangements had been made prior to the start-up of
the project in November 1982. The staff who were assigned to the ICTAD 8/
office to carry out this project came from different departments and services
of MPARA and there was no provision for them to form a permanent unit within
the Ministry. It was therafore quite normal fcr them to return to their
original posts on completion of the project.  A similar group can be brought
together, however, according to need and field of specialization, for the
short-term evaluation of certain project3. This was done in the case of the
evaluation of the Continental Fisheries and Fish Farming Extension Project
with UNDP/FAO and also for the Vocational Forestry Training Project in
Fianarantsoa with French assistance and in Morondava with Swiss assistance.
And it is done every year for the establishment and updating of the Public
Investment Program (PIP). The experience gained from project evaluation and
seczoral programming is maintained and always applied.
Manacement of MPAEF
2.2   On reading the evaluation report it is hard to see the grounds for tne
negative things said concerning MPAEF. "Open conflicts" and "openly hostile"
are astonishing expressions and furthermore are quite contrary to the actual
situation. In 1984 MPAEF was finding its way, taking stock of the past and
studying its priorities. This called for the preparation of various
documents and the undertaking of various analyses, tasks that were entrusted
to Malagasy specialists. All this was extra work in addition to the project
itself. Had there been better knowledge of the situation and greater
understanding, the consultants would have been r  e patient towards their
Malagasy counterparts and would have involved tt..:m more fully in the project.
In this way, they could have participated as real counterparts, ready to
continue the work after the consultants left. This would also have enabled
the consultants to avoid working in isolation.
2.3   The forestry and livestock sectors, while represented at the department
level in the former MDDRA, were not given the same support as the
agriculture, sensu strictu, and irrigation sectors. The fisheries sector was
only a small division within the livestock department. The forestry and
livestock projects financed at that time by the Bank did not have a
significant impact on these sectors as a whole. The current development of
the Malagasy economy fully justifies the institutional reorganization adopted
R/    Exact meaning of abbreviation not available.



by MPAEF in 1985. The fisheries aector is growing in importance and shrimp
is now the country's third biggest export.
2.4   Since the team of consultants was not all that united itself, it was
ineffective in its role as motivator and catalyst. This role is crucial,
however, to the success of a technical asaist'nce project.
2.5   The report claims, without providing the slightest proof, that:
"elsewhere, the beneficial effects of progress made earlier at M'AEF have
been lost, and this institution is, if anything, worse off than when it was
part of the combined MDRRA Ministry in 1981."
2.6 Without getting bogged down in fruitless argument, some clarifications
should help to present a more accurate picture.
*     The Ministry has, since 1984, been introducirg the
computerization of personnel managerant. This project has never
been abandoned and is atill being implemented, although the
results are not yet fully satisfactory.
*     The Ministry has, since 1985, formulated its development policy,
which has been reviewed and updated as part of the Public Sector
Adjustment Credit.
*     The Ministry has, since 1986, adopted the principle of program
estimates, which consists in linking budget execution to the
implementation c' specific programs, according to the priorities
established and within the budget envelope allocated.
Reason: regardless of whether or not the preparation and
presentation of the budget is based on a clearly-defined policy
and a clear priority ranking, the final allocation of resou-ces
to a sector was and still is made in an arbitrary manner. rhe
Ministry tried to rationalize, at least in terms of budget
execution, the use and management of its funds and to link loans
and programs.
*     In the eyes of the consultants and perhaps also of the Bank such
a system has no value because it did not follow their ideas.
Everything evolves, but it is not possible to change everything
overnight. MPAEF has now adopted the program budgeting system
and is currently preparing a training program that is based on
the evaluation of what has been done in MPARA, in order to cut
costs in a reasonable fashion.
*     The Ministry has, since 1985, regularly monitored the execution
of the financing. In addition to the customary statements
requested by the Ministry of Finance, an execution statement of
the financing from the general budget and the de-velopment budget,
and external financing has been prepared and analyzed each
quarter. Administrative guidelines have been put in place in
each authorization office for this monitoring. A collection of
regulations and circulars on the matter of public finance has
been compiled and distributed to all those in charge of
management.
*     In the area of farmer assistance, the Ministry has prepared
executive guides for every ministry employee at every level and
operating guides for all the crops in the sector for which that
person is responsible.



- 18 -
In the area of training, much progress has been made:
*     three applied agricultural science and technology schools have
been reopened to train middle-level managers for the Government
and private farms;
*     several refresher courses have been organized locally for
secretarial and accounting personnel and also for the benefit of
technical staff in various fields: data processing, economic
studies, financial management and project analysis.
*     a number of training courses were also organized abroad for
technical staff in the same fields.
Lessons Learned from the ATIA I Proiect
2.7   The second paragraph of this section speaks objectively about the risk
and fragility of using technical assistance as a tool for institutional
development, but the conclusion drawn from this is not based on any objective
analysis or indeed any kind of analysis at all, where MPAEF is concerned.
*     A coordination system is certainly essential in any complex
technical assistance project involving several agencies or several
components, but to ensure that it is effective, it is vital that all the
parties involved adopt it together and follow it.
*     A Ministry involved in training and rural development must be
efficiently managed but will still be ineffective if institutional changes do
not mesh with the overall environment. And this was perhaps the biggest
failing of the ATIA I project: to have tried to ignore this environment or
to force it to conform too quickly to the new principles adopted. This
complex universe is made up of culture, tradition and political philosophies.
And it is the most difficult, the slowest tc change, but to understand it and
adapt to it is the key to success.
3.    Recommendations
3.1   In light of these comments, some recommendations are put forward here
for the drafting of the final report.
(i)   The status of the agricultural sector prior to the ATIA project
should be briefly reviewed, without dwelling fruitlessly on certain
unfortunate aspects, and this should be linked with the external
constraints that have hampered the Government's efforts to rehabilitate
the Madagascar's economy.
(ii) The analysis of the results achieved and the overall situation of
MPAEF should be reviewed in a more objective manner, as an element in
an integrated and concerted Government policy.
(iii) With respect to the project as a whole, the impact of the
external environment should be examined in much greater depth and in a
far more objective manner, and the assessment of the results achieved
altered accordingly.



- 19 -
B.  Comments from the Ministry of Aaricultural Production
and Aqrarian Reforms on the Draft Prolect Completion Report
1.    Rice Subsector
1.1   Achievements
The study on the rice subsector began in Septsmber 1982 and was carried
out in three phases:
-  Phase 1:  Diagnostic study based on the collz-tion oif data, findings
of existing studies and other information on the sector, thoair analysis
and the formulation of policy options, in particular as regards prices
and marketing, with a view to offering sufficient incentives to rice
growers.
This phase, which ended in February 1983, enabled the Government
to formulate a new policy centered on the liberalization of trade in
paddy and its derivatives, except in the reserved SOMALAC and FIFABE
zones. The new provisions became effective in June 1983.
- Phase 2: In-depth study on the marketing policy approach adopted by
the Government and determination of the practical means for its
implementation.
- Phase 3: Technical assistance and training of higher-level
personnel of the SCR and additional study on the restructuring of the
public rice marketing system.
Computer hardware was provided during phases 2 and 3 of the study and
SCR personnel trained in its use by the study team.
1.2   Evaluation
The study made it possible to overhaul the national rice marketing
system, which went from a highly State-controlled system without incentives
to orne that was open to market forces and where competition among purchasers
was to increase producer prices.
The following positive impacts were noted:
1. As regards production
The price and marketing policy is a key factor in the production
incentive system. Since 1983, the rate of growth in rice production
has been good.
2. As regards the balance of payments
Imports consequently fell frcm 351,000 tons in 1982 to 162,000 tons in
1986. The savings in foreign exchange caused by that drop had a
positive impact on the balance of payments.
3. As regards budget resources
The elimination of large consumer subsidies means that the resources
thus freed can be allocated to investments in production and to
increase the general State budget.



- 20 -
4. As regards institutions
(a) The liberaliLation of rice trade enabled public enterprises
operating in the sector to practice their own trade policy, which
improved the financial situation for some of them. The case of SINPA
is very significant in that regard.
(b) The project helped strengthen the country's capacity for analysis
and formulation of agricultural economic policy. The training programs
given on site or abroad during phase 3 involved microeconomics,
economic analysis of projects, international trade, agriculture and
food policy, market systems, agricultural price analysis and data
proceBsing applied to rural development.
1.3   Conclusion
The rice component of the ATIA I project unquestionably had very
positive effects both from the national and sectoral standpoints and as
regards the Ministry of Agriculture and its agencies. This is because the
decision-makers immediately capitalized on the results of the various phases
of the study by taking appropriate measures. Lastly, the accomplishments
were consolidated through the training of national staff, who learned how to
carry out the same type of studies.
2.    Reorganization of MPARA:  personnel manaaement
2.1   Achievements
The objectives of ATIA I were:
- to carry out a survey of personnel;
- to establish a computerized personnel database;
- to draft a procedures manual;
-  to formulate a training program for MPARA personnel;
-  to organize the Personnel Office.
With a view to establishing a human resources management system on the
one hand and increasing efficiency on the other, complementary action was
planned in the form of the establishment of a skills aad job classification
system and an improvement in the monitoring and management procedures for
temporary staff.
The consulting firm, with the active participation of Government
personnel, carried out the works under two contracts.
The personnel survey was completed in March 1985 and involved some
4,500 staff of all types. Immediately afterwards, the first computerized
database was established using KMan software.
The Personnel Office was organized in early 1986, with the definition
of job descriptions for the Systems Unit, Studies Division and Payroll.
During the same year a training program for MPARA personnel was formulated,
reflecting the findings of a survey of Ministry officials.
The job skills and description classification took until early 1987,
with coverage of about 65%. The procedure for monitoring temporary staff
began in 1987.



- 21 -
2.2   Evaluation
The survey and establishment of the database facil'.tated control of
staffing levels and the existence of the human resources entity.
Administrative career management was considerably improved as regards
both quality and quantity to the extent that the preparatory works can be
anticipated owing to the use of the database.
There has also been an improvement in the processing of pay and family
allowances as well as other compensation-related operations.
Although the benefits of the assistance are tangible, problems have
nevertheless persisted:
- The deficiency of information flows and disparity of data processing
procedures at both the central and decentralized levels, which hampers
computerized file management;
- The personnel monitoring timetable is not always respected;
- The discussions on the analysis of skills and job descriptions were
not always comprehensive and greater cooperation with the departments
and decentralized offices would have ensured better results.
2.3   Conclusion
In terms of personnel management, the results of ATIA I are as a whole
positive. It made it possible to lay the bases for sound management and help
integrate the human resource component into the Ministry's management system.
3.    Reorganization of .4PARA:  finance and budaet
3.1   Achievements
The project aimed to improve MPARA's financial and budget management
system. To that end, three types of action were carried out, namely
technical assistance, training and capital investments.
- Technical assistance: The consultants formulated computerized
systems and introduced them for the first time. The budget execution
monitoring system was computerized using existing data taken from
public accounting ledgers. The notion of program budget was introduced
and developed to provide better control of the Ministry's
progranmming/budgeting cycle.
- Training: Six higher-level staff from the Finance and Personnel
Department were sent for training in public finance and computer
science.
- Canital Investments: Acquisition of computer hardware and vehicles.
3.2   Evaluation
The project facilitated the establishment of a sound management tool
that was a major step forward. Nevertheless, probably owing to a desire for
perfection, details received inordinate attention, whereas the reliability of
data was highly relative and the data collection system not efficient.
3.3   Conclusion
Two points should be stressed:



- 22 -
- The project objective was achieved overall in that the financial
management of the Agricultural Ministry was vastly improved.
- The project brought out certain problems that were dealt with under
ATIA II.
4.    Planning of agricultural investments
4.1   Achievements
- Training of higher-level staff in project selection methodology and
project technical, financial and organizational evaluation;
- Training of one higher-level staff in the use of the microcomputer
(end of 1986);
- Study and submission of projects classified by subsector and
priority;
- Acquisition of a vehicle for official travel.
4.2   Evaluation
Strengths:
- The list of projects was used to establish a long-term investment
program (six years);
- Formulation of project selection criteria;
- Point of departure for the establishment of a programming system.
Weaknesses:
- Insufficient time allocated for training and for the teams to
complete the works, in particular the field surveys;
- Insufficient equipment.
4.3   Conclusion
The project enabled the Office to improve its actions associated with
the Ministry's programs, projects arid activities.
5.    Management of narastatal enterprises
5.1   Achievements
Four public enterprises -- SAMANGOKY, FIFABE, SOMALAC and SODEMO --
under MPARA were included in the project. All four were development
companies.
SAMANGOKY:
Two reports on the financial position and internal control were
prepared.
FIFABE:
Seven reports relating to technical, legal and organizational analyses
of the entity were drafted and subsequently supplemented by a financial audit
of a loan from the German Government through the German Development Bank.



- 23 -
SOMALAC:
Some 10 reports covered technical, financial and organizational aspects
and led to recommendations for the establishment of more efficient
structures.
SODEMO:
The project made it possible to finance the services of a technical
assistant with expertise in business management.
More than 600 management training sessions for administrators and
directors and for financial officers were organized under the auspices of a
local agency.
5.2   Evaluation
For the first three enterprises, the studies were used to formulate
rehabilitation programs; in this respect at least the project results were
very positive.
Technical assistance did not produce satisfactory results owing to
reasons "external" to the project.
5.3   Conclusion
The project enabled the enterprises to formulate rehabilitation
programs and to bring new vitality to their development mission, based on a
maximum of decision making inputs.
6.    Acricultural extension
6.1   Achievements
The "training and visit" system was tested in the two pilot areas in
the Antananarivo agricultural extension district (CIRVA), namely Ambatolampy
and Ankazondandy. The main activity under the ATIA I was the training of
field staff in the new system as the means needed for implementation were
obtained only at the end of 1984 and early 1985 for the automobile.
In light of the experience acquired in these two pilot areas, it was
initially decided to prepare the necessary items (survey records) for the
preparation of the study on agricultural extension planned under ATIA II and
to begin a study on what should be done before the study, which was to
culminate in an agricultural extension master plan and a national
agricultural extension plan.
6.2   Evaluation
The experience in the two pilot areas made it possible to customize an
extension system based on group contact that was suited to Madagascar's
socioeconomic environment and to break away from using an off-the-shelf
product as initially planned, i.e. a system based on contact and follower
farmers.
In addition, during implementation of ATIA I, the field staff in the
two pilot extension districts were able to acquire training in the
microplanning of activities and work organization.
The weaknesses would include a delay in providing the transportation
means needed for smooth operation. In addition to the extension districts,
the Provincial Agricultural Extension Office and the Agricultural Extension



- 24 -
Department did not have the transportation means that would have enabled them
to provide support to the field staff.
6.3   Conclusion
overall, the project's agricultural extension component did not achieve
its objective because no specific action could be taken vis-a-vis the small
farmers. However, the pilot phase provided the bases for improving the
approach used in the rural areas and especially for the preparation of the
National Agricultural Extension Program for ATIA II.



- 25 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (ATIA I)
(CREDIT 1249-MAG)
PART III: Statistical Information
Table 1: Related IDA Credits
Credit Title                                               Year of                        USS           Status
Approval                     (million)
Agricultural Credit Project                                09/1980                        11.50         Closed
(Cr. 1064-MAG)                                                                                          (12/31/86)
Second Mangoro Forestry Project                            06/1981                       2000           (06c//d
(Cr. 1161-MAG)                                                                                          (06t30/87)
Second Village Livestock and Rural                         02/1982                        1500          11osed
Development Project (Cr. 1211-MAG)                                                                      (12t31/S8)
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit                      05/1986                       20.W           Closed
(Cr. 1691-MAG)                                                                                          (06/30/90)
Lac Alaotra Rice Intensification Project                   03/1983                        18.00         Clo( d
(Cr. 1337-MAG)                                                                                          (03/31/91)
Cotton Development Project                                 12/1983                                      (/39Closed
(Cr. 1433-MAG)                                                                                          (06t30/91)
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project                          04/1985                        12.00         Ongoing
(Cr. 1589-MAG)
Second Agricultural Institution Technical                  06/1986                        10.00         Ongoing
Assistance Project (Cr. 1709-MAG)
Second Agricultural Credit                                 05/1987                        10.00         Ongoing
(Cr. 1804-MAG)
Forestry Management and Protection Credit                 02/1988                         700           Ongoing
(Cr. 1878-MAG)
National Agricultural Research Project                     06/1989                       24.00          Ongoing
(Cr. 2042-MAG)
Environment Project                                       04/1990                        26.00          Ongoing
(Cr. 2125-MAG)
Agricultural Extension Pilot Project                       05/1990                        3.99          Ongoing
(Cr. 2150-MAG)



- 26 -
Table 2: roject Timetable
Original                                     Actual
Preparation                                                                               1980/1981
Appraisal Mission                                                                         July 1981
President's Report                                                                        April 27, 1982
Negotiations                                                                              April 1982
IDA Board Approval                                                                        May 18, 1982
-,edit Signature                                                                        May 28, 1982
Credit Effectiveness                        August 26, 1982                               December 16, 1982
Credit Closing                              June 30, 1985                                June 30, 1987
Last Disbursement                           December 31, 1985                            January 26, 1988



- 27 -
Table 3: Disbursements and Financing
A. Estimated and Actual Disbursements of Credit 1249-MAG
(SDR '000)
Fisca]   Quarter Ending           Appraisal Estimae                           Actual                    Actual as % of
Year                               _ _                                                                     Credit
Quarterly        Cumulative          Quarterly           Cumulative
1983       XMI 82             900                900               853                   853                16.4
III 83                                                 155                 1,008               19.4
VI 83                                                  189                1,197                23.0
1984        IX 83                                                  297                 1,494                28.7
XII 83            900              1,800.              148                 1,642                31.6
11184                                                  435                2,077                39.9
VIU4                                                   62                 2,139                41.1
.985        IX 84                                                  434                 2,573                49.5
XII 84           1,800             3,600               347                 2,920                56.2
III 85                                                 514                3,434                66.0
VI 85           1,600             5,200               355                 3,789                72.9
1986        IX 85                                                  273                 4,062                78.1
XIM 85                                                  68                 4,130                79.4
III 86                                                 164                4,294                82.6
VI 86                                                  117                4,411                84.8
1987        IX 86                                                   33                 4,444                85.5
XMI 86                                                 131                 4,575                88.0
111 87                                                 47                 4,622                88.9
VI 87                                                  17                 4,639                89.2
1988        IX 87                                                  177                 4,816                92.6
Xal 87                                                 152                 4,968               95.5
11188                                                  188                5,157                99.2
Cancellation                                                                   43                  0.8



- 28 -
B. Disbursements by Category of Cr. 1249-MAG
(SDR '000) j/
Category                                                                    Actual                                         Estimate
1982      1983       1984        1985       1986     1987      1988      Total
1. Equipmeat                            --         67.8      114.3      248.8       95.6      74.3    169.1       770.1      990.0
2. Consultant's Services for DEP,        _        507.9      873.8      930.7      288.0    220.6        2.8    2,823.8    1,500.0
SAMANGOKY, SOMALAC, FIFABE,
MPARA, AND FOFIFA
3. Consultant's Services for the Planning         187.8      266.0       20.2        --       27.5      16.2      517.7      510.0
of Rice Production and Marketing
4. Training                              .         24.8       24.2        10.9      61.9      70.8       -        192.5      530.0
5. Refunding of Project Preparation    853.0       --               -          -          -        -             853.0       890.0
Advance
6. Unallocated                           -          -          -          --        --         -                   -         780.0
Total                                853.0      788.3     1,278.3    1,210.6    445.5    393.2    188.1    5,157.0    5,200.0
(in USS '000)                       (1,158.0)  (1,070.2)  (1,735.4)   (1,643.5)   (604. 8)   (533.8)   (255.4)  (7,059.6)
C. Project Financing a/
Source                           Original                   Actual            Actual as % of Estimated
(thousands)               (thousands)
IDA                         5,200        5,700        5,157         7,001             99.2%
Government                    912        1,000          120 _/        163              13.2%
6,112       6,700        5,270         7,164             86.2%
1/ Files lack information on disbursements expressed in US dollars.
2/ Exchange rate for original financing column taken at time of negotiations, for actual
financing at time of disbursement.
3/ Incomplete estimate.



- 29 -
Table 4: Status of Covenants
Section No.    Description                                         Status
3.04 (b) (v)    Preparation of mid-term Project review by          Condition met.
Borrower by June 30, 1983.
3.04 (d)      Preparation of completion report by Borrower by      Not complied with; Borrower provided Part 11 of new style
December 31, 1985.                                   PCR.
3.05 (a)      Submission of draft agricultural investment plan by  Condition met with delays (February 1984, final version).
February 1, 1983.
3.05 (b)      Submission of proposals for strengthening planning   Condition met with delays.
capability of DEP by February 1, 1983.
3.06 (a)      Submission of short-term action for rice sector by   Condition met. Short-term action plan submitted February
February 1, 1983.                                    1983.
3.06 (b)      Submission of results of studies on rice imports,    Conditions met. Rice studies were consolidated into two phases
distribution systems, inputs, etc. by May I, 1983.   with agreement of IDA. First phase (Nov. 1982-April 1984)
looked at production systems, consumption patterns, marketing
flows and made recommendations on short-term action plan and
Submission of results of studies on rice marketing and rice   pricing, marketing, import policy. Second phase (Aug. 84-July
3.06 (e)      marketing institutions by June 1, 1983.              85) focussed on strengthening rice marketing institutions and
supporting initiatives begun under first phase.
3.07          Submission of proposals for strengthening SOMALAC's  Condition met.
and SAMANGOKY's management by July 15, 1982.
3.08          Submission of findings of studies on MPARA and       Condition met.
Regional Developntent Authorities organizations and of
proposed reorganization measures by April 1, 1983.
3.09          Submission of program to strengthen FOFIFA management  Condition met with delays.
and research activities by March 31, 1983.
3.10          Creation of Rice Coordinating Unit by August 31, 1982.  Condition met.
3.11          Submission of training proposals to IDA for approval.  Condition met.
3.12          Submission of list of agricultural parastatals to be audited    Condition met with delays.
by December 31, 1982.
4.01          Maintenance separate project accounts, audited by    Condition met with significant delays.
independent auditors, and submission certified financial
statements no later than six months after fiscal year ends
(MPARA).
4.02          Maintenance separate project accounts, audited by    No longer applicable to SOMALAC and SAMANOOKY (audits
independent auditors, and submission certified financial  covered under these projects, see 3.07 above). For FOFIFA
stements no later than four months after fiscal year ends    not met until 1987.
(autonomous agencies; SOMALAC, SAMANGOKY,
FOFIFA).



Table 5: Use of IDA Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Stage of Project ifcle      FY81      FY82     FY83      FY84      FY85     FY86      FY87     FY88         Total
Preparation                 46.1                                                                            46.1
Appraisal                             20.2                                                                   20.2
Negotiations                           6.1                                                                   6.1
Supervision                  _         3.3      27.4      28.5     21.1      7.7       2.7      0.6         91.3
46.1     29.6      27.4      28.5     21.1      7.7       2.7      0.6         163.7
w



B. Supervision Mission Information
Supervision    Month/    Number of   Days in           Specialization       Performance                  Type of
Mission       Year        Persons      Field          Represented           Ranking       Trend        Problem
1          10/82          2           1 1    Economists (2)                 1            1
2          06/83          2            5      Economist                     1            2             M
Public Administration
3          11/83          3           14      Economists (2)                I            I             P
Public Administration
4          03/84          2           15      Economist                     I            1             M
Public Adm. Spoc.                  _
5          07/84          2           3       Economists (2)                2            1             P,O
6           11/84         3            7      Economist                     2            1             M,O
Public Administration
Extension/Research
7          03/85          3                   Economist                     2            1             M,O
Public Administration
Extension/Research
8          05186          1           20      Economist                     2                         NA
9          12/86          2           14      Economist                     I                         NA
Extension/Research
F = Financial
M =Managerial
T = Technical
P = Political
0 = Procurement
NA = Not Available



