Document of                  FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3151-MAG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
April 27, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
December 1981                February 1982
Unit           =   Malagasy Franc FMG       =     Malagasy Franc (FMG)
US$1.00        =   FMG 271.73               =     FMG 300.87
FMG 1,000      =   US$3.701                 =     US$3.32
FMG 1,000,000 =   US$3,701                  =     US$3,324
(The cost estimates at appraisal are based on US$1 = FMG 275)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 hectare (ha)                -    2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)              =    0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)           0.39 square mile
1 kilogram (kg)               -    2.20 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)            -    2.204 pounds



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND GLOSSARY
CCCE          =   Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
DGDR          =   National Directorate for Rural Development
DDR           =   Directorate for Rural Development
DEP           =   Department for Studies and Programming
EDF           =   European Development Fund
FAC               Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FAO           =   Food and Agriculture Organization
FIFABE            Regional Development Authority for the Betsiboka Valley
FOFIFA        =   National Center for Applied Research on Rural Development
IFAD          =   International Fund for Agricultural Development
IRRI          =   International Rice Research Institute
KFW           =   Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
MPARA             Ministry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform
SAMANGOKY         Regional Development Authority for Lower Mangoky Valley
SDR               Rural Development Service
SINPA         =  National Marketing Company for Agricultural Products
SOMALAC       2   Regional Development Authority for the Lac Alaotra Region
UNDP          =   United Nations Development Program
ZDR           =   Rural Development Zone
PPF           =  Project Preparation Facility
ICTAD         =   Institut de Coordination des Techniques Appliquees au
Developpement
Fokonolona Institutions
Fokontany   village level local government
Firaissam-pokonolona = second tier local government (former canton)
Fivondronana-pokonolona = third tier local government (former sub-prefecture)
Faritany = fourth tier local government (former province)
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






MADAGASCAR
AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Beneficiary:       Ministry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform
(MPARA)
Amount:            SDR 5.2 million (US$5.7 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard
Project
Description:  a)  Objectives:  (i) To assist the Government through technical
assistance in identifying action programs to rehabilitate
specific aspects of the agricultural sector, and (ii) to
initiate a process of long-term agricultural reform through
institution building and a redefinition of sector investment
programs and policies.
b) Main Project Components: (i) preparation of a 3 year
investment plan for the agriculture sector; (ii) project
preparation studies; (iii) preparation of a short-term
action plan for the rice sub-sector and support for the
central rice planning unit; (iv) management audits and
management improvement programs for selected parastatals
with key responsibilities for rice production; (v) studies
of rice marketing in Madagascar including a review of the
operations of SINPA; (vi) organizational analysis and
management improvement programs for MPARA and the Rural
Development Service of Antananarivo and (vii) management and
operational support for the agriculture research institute.
c) Benefits: The expected improvements in sector management
and institution building would contribute to a more
efficient use of domestic and external resources by key
agricultural institutions, identification of priority
projects, and improved Government support services to the
farmers.  As a result of these improvements, the Government
would be better able to manage the short-term effects of the
current economic crisis and to initiate a process of a
long-term recovery program in the agriculture sector.
d) Risks: Major project risks include possible delays in
recruiting the technical specialists required under the pro-
ject and the Government's commitment to implementing the
consultants' recommendations and introducing the necessary
reforms in regard to parastatal reorganization and staffing,
pricing and cost recovery. However, steps are being taken
to expedite the recruitment procedures and the Borrower will
be made aware that future lending to the agricultural sector
would be predicated on appropriate action on issues
identified through the project.



(ii)
-US$ 000 --------_____
Local       Foreign         TOTAL
Project Components:
A. Strengthening of Sector Planning
and Project Preparation
Investment Planning                            80.0         240.0          320.0
Project Preparation                           210.0         610.0          820.0
Coordination of rice planning                 110.0         140.0.         250.0
Subtotal A                               400.0         990.0        1,390.0
B. Improvement of Parastatal Management
Regional Development Authorities               510.0      1,040.0        1,550.0
Rice Marketing Services                       180.0         320.0          500.0
Complementary Studies                          70.0          80.0          150.0
Subtotal B                               760.0       1,440.0        2,200.0
C. Government Support Services
to Agriculture
Studies of the Organization of MPARA          285.0         615.0          900.0
Agricultural Research                         275.0         725.0        1,000.0
Subtotal C                               560.0       1,340.0        1,900.0
Total Base Costs                       1,720.0       3,770.0        5,490.0
D. Contingencies
Physical                                    140.0         160.0          300.0
Price                                       240.0         670.0          910.0
Total Project Costs                    2,100.0       4,600.0        6,700.0
US$'000
Local    Foreign   Total   Percentage
Financing Plan
IDA Credit                             1,100.0  4,600.0  5,700.0       85%
Government                             1,000.0       -    1,000.0      15%
Total                             2,100.0  4,600.0  6,700.0    100%
Estimated                                                   US$ '000
Disbursements:          IDA FY            1982      1983     1984      1985
Annual            1,000    1,000    2,000    1,700
Cumulative        1,000    2,000    4,000    5,700
Rate of Return                not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:                 No Staff Appraisal Report was prepared
Map: IBRD 13654R



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed develop-
ment credit to the Democratic Republic of Madagascar for the equivalent of SDR
5.2 million (US$5.7 million) on standard IDA terms to help finance an
Agricultural Institutions Technical Assistance project to be implemented by the
Ministry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A report entitled "Madagascar - Economic Memorandum" dated November 3,
1981 has been distributed to the Executive Directors. An economic mission
visited Madagascar in March/April 1982 and an updating Economic Memorandum is in
course of preparation. Country data sheets are provided in Annex I to this
report.
3.       Madagascar, with a population of 8.7 million and a per capita GNP of
about US$290 in 1979, is among the poorest countries in the world. It is a
sparsely populated country (about 14 persons per square kilometer) with less
than 20 percent of the population living in urban areas. Although generally
well endowed with natural resources and a variety of soils, there are consider-
able regional variations in ecology and climate. The central plateau, the most
economically advanced region, has a subtropical to temperate climate, the south
is the poorest region with an arid climate and infertile soils, the eastern
region has a tropical climate and although rich agriculturally, crops are
frequently devastated by cyclones. Agriculture accounts for about 35 percent of
GDP; about 85 percent of the national labor force is engaged in agricultural
activity, and agricultural products account for about 80 percent of the
country's export earnings.
4.       Madagascar's development over the past decade has been disappointing.
With a population growth around 2.8 percent per annum, real per capita GDP has
decreased by about 1.5 percent per annum; in 1980 per capita real income was
probably about 14 percent below its 1970 level. Even with sluggish and erratic
development, Madagascar's policies until 1978 had been characterized by cautious
and conservative public finance and balance of payments management. In 1979 and
1980 Government undertook a very large program of public investment with a
marked shift to dependence on external sources for its financing. Investment
outlays (in volume terms) increased by about 13 percent per annum between 1978
and 1980 and the share of investment in GDP which had been around 14 percent
since the early 1970s rose to around 21 percent in 1979 and 1980. The increased
investment thrust and its attendant import needs coincided with almost stagnant



-2-
export earnings and a deterioration in terms of trade, so that Madagascar's
balance of payments position deteriorated very sharply in 1979 and 1980.
General Government and state enterprises accounted for virtually all of the
increased investment expenditures so that the budget expenditures and the
overall budget deficits increased dramatically in 1979 and 1980.
5.       Overall output growth has continued to be very erratic over recent
years. Real GDP increased by about 10 percent in 1979, increased by less than 1
percent in 1980 and decreased by about 9 per cent in 1981. The short-lived
spurt of growth in 1979 was due to increased activities associated with the
investment boom and to improved weather conditions benefiting agricultural
production but already in 1980 agricultural and manufacturing production were
adversely affected by inadequate supplies of necessary inputs and raw materials
which became much more accute in 1981.
6.       Agricultural output grew on average by about 1 percent between 1977 and
1980, thus continuing the very sluggish development which has characterized
Madagascar's agriculture since the early 1970s. Output in 1978 was seriously
affected by the prolonged drought conditions which had prevailed since 1976 and
declined by about 6.5 percent. With improved weather conditions in 1979 output
increased by about 7 percent but in 1980 is estimated to have grown by only
about 2.5 percent and preliminary indications are that output in 1981 is likely
to show virtually no expansion. Production of rice, the principal staple food,
has virtually stagnated over recent years; production in 1979 was about 5 per-
cent below its 1977 level. Domestic production has failed to keep pace with
domestic needs, especially to satisfy the growing urban population, and imports
of rice have grown rapidly from about 60,000 tons in 1975 to about 250,000 tons
in 1980. Production of coffee, Madagascar's major export commodity, which had
risen steadily during the first half of the 1970s, declined sharply in 1976 and
1977, mainly due to unfavorable weather, and then increased moderately in 1978
and 1979. Production in 1979, about 81,000 tons, was still somewhat below its
mid-1970s level. Production of cloves, Madagascar's second most important
foreign exchange earner, is subject to a four to five year production cycle; the
peak production reached in 1979 showed only a modest increase over the previous
level in 1974. Vanilla production dropped sharply between 1977 and 1979 due to
the combined effects of poor maintenance, prolonged unfavorable weather condi-
tions and competition from synthetic substitutes in international markets.
7.       Growth of manufacturing output has continued to be slow and erratic;
real value added in the sector increased by about 13 percent in 1979, decreased
by about 3 percent in 1980 and decreased by about 25 per cent in 1981. Food
processing (including beverages) and textile production are the dominant
activities, accounting respectively for about 35 percent and 21 percent of the
sector's value added. Output of food and beverage industries grew on average by
about 2 percent per annum over the 1977-80 period. Textile production, which
increased by about 9 percent in 1979, decreased by about 5 percent in 1980, in
which year production was affected by reduced raw material supplies and by
machinery maintenance problems. The only industries which have shown a regular
growth of output over recent years were cement, tobacco, leather goods (mainly
shoes) and paper products. The combined share of these industries in total
manufacturing value added in 1979 was just over 15 percent. The manufacturing



-3-
sector has been generally operating at a low level of capacity utilisation over
recent years. With increasing scarcities of imported raw materials and spare
parts in 1980 and 1981, the dislocations to production have become increasingly
severe.
8.       Madagascar's fiscal situation has deteriorated dramatically since 1978,
due to sharply rising current expenditures and increased Government spending on
capital investment. The current budget surplus, which used to be substantial,
turned to a deficit as revenues failed to keep pace with the growth of expendi-
tures. Furthermore, as Government intensified its efforts to raise investment
levels and stimulate the economy, public investment expenditure rose from 16
billion FMG in 1977 to 105 billion FMG ($497 million) in 1980. Outlays on the
consumer subsidy for rice increased from about 4 billion FMG in 1975 to nearly
12 billion FMG ($57 million) in 1980. The overall Treasury deficit increased
from about 4.5 percent of GDP in 1978 to about 18.5 percent in 1980. While
borrowing from external sources was greatly expanded in both 1979 and 1980, the
budget deficits were financed primarily by borrowing from the Central Bank,
which provided about two thirds of the financing of the 1980 deficit.
Preliminary estimates for 1981 indicate that government expenditures (current
and capital) were substantially cut back and that the overall deficit in 1981
was equivalent to about 14.5 per cent of GDP.
9.       Monetary and credit developments over recent years largely reflect the
Government's deficit financing needs. Domestic credit increased from about 126
billion FMG ($536 million) at end of 1977 to about 329 billion FMG ($1,460
million) at end 1980. Most of this expansion was accounted for by Government
borrowing from the Central Bank, whose share of domestic credit rose from about
23 percent in 1977 to about 55 percent in 1980. Despite a significant reduction
in net foreign assets, money supply grew by over 20 percent per annum during the
1977-1980 period. Available price information for Madagascar is fragmentary.
There is a wide-ranging system of controlled prices which appears to have become
inoperative with most goods selling at prices well above control levels. A
price index for low income families shows an acceleration of price increases to
about 18 percent in 1980 compared to about 14 percent in 1979 and an annual
average increase of about 4.5 percent from 1975 to 1978.
10.      Madagascar's balance of payments position deteriorated dramatically
over the 1977-80 period. The current account deficit, which had averaged around
FMG 8 billion ($33 million) from 1975 to 1977, rapidly increased to about FMG
109 billion ($515 million) in 1980, i.e., from less than 2 percent of GDP to
around 16 percent of GDP. From 1977 to 1980 the import bill virtually doubled
while export earnings increased by only around 3 percent. The overall balance
which had been in surplus by about FMG 3 billion in 1977 was in deficit by about
FMG 59 billion in 1980. Transactions with the rest of the world have been
financed by a total exhaustion of reserves, an unprecedented increase in foreign
borrowing and by incurring substantial arrears on external payments obligat-
ions. The increased import bill has been the most striking feature of recent
balance of payments developments. Average import prices increased substantially
(over 40 percent) during the 1977-80 period and import volume showed approxima-
tely the same proportionate increase. While nearly all categories of imports



-4-
increased, imports of capital goods grew at a particularly rapid rate and
accounted for approximately half of the increase in the import bill between 1977
and 1980. The very modest growth in export earnings between 1977 and 1980
reflected continued inertia in export volume and fairly stationary world prices
for Madagascar's principal exports. Export growth continued to be sluggish in
1981 but a significant cut back in imports reduced the current account deficit
to the equivalent of about 11 per cent of GDP.
11.      The development of the Malagasy economy has been constrained over many
years by a number of basic weaknesses, e.g. low productivity in agriculture,
slow growth in major primary exports and inadequate domestic savings. The sharp
deterioration in Madagascar's economic and financial situation in 1979 and 1980
reflects these continuing problems. The significant shifts in government policy
through a greater openness to external finance and, also in pushing vigorously
for a higher level of investment have been accompanied by continued sluggish
export performance and deterioration in the terms of trade. The import bill has
been swollen not only by imports of capital goods but also by a growing import
of consumer goods, especially rice, for which domestic production and distribu-
tion weaknesses are a serious problem. The country is well endowed with natural
resources and the administrative cadres are relatively well trained. A more
effective use of these resources will depend, however, on a lasting correction
of the serious imbalances which exist on both balance of payments and government
budget accounts.
12.      In June 1980 the Government concluded a stand-by agreement with the IMF
which aimed to restore balance of payments and budgetary equilibrium. Some of
the individual policy measures in this program were implemented, e.g. measures
to increase government revenues, but efforts to limit government expenditures
were not successful and the program was suspended. A new stand-by agreement was
concluded in April 1981. This provided SDR 109 million (US$130 million) to be
drawn up to end June 1982. The stand-by agreement placed limits on public
expenditure, government borrowing from the Central Bank and new external borrow-
ing, and entailed a reduction in external payments arrears. Implementation of
the stand-by proceeded successfully up to July 1981, but unanticipated short-
falls in export earnings, due in large measure to weak world coffee prices and a
smaller than anticipated inflow of new capital from international commercial
banks, made it impossible for Madagascar to adhere to the stand-by performance
conditions in the following months. Further drawings under the stand-by have
been suspended but negotiations with the IMF are continuing to explore ways in
which, through supplementary actions on the part of the Madagascar authorities,
a new stand-by agreement could be concluded.
13.      These stabilization measures need to be complemented by measures to
enhance the long-term viability of the economy. A Plan for the period 1981-86
was prepared. The Plan envisages a much more vigorous effort in export
expansion and an action program for greater self sufficiency in food production
and supply of raw materials. Administrative steps have already been taken to
strengthen regional economic planning and the operations of government
enterprises. Priority is to be attached to a rehabilitation and greater
utilization of the existing capital stock with limited new investment largely
concentrated in production sectors. Government has made substantial progress in



-5-
preparing a public investment program for the 1982-86 period which would be a
key element in implementing policies of economic recovery and reform.
Madagascar has formally requested non-project assistance from the World Bank and
discussions have been initiated to identify a program of structural adjustment
and policy reform which such assistance might appropriately support.
14.      With the shift in government policy to a greater reliance on foreign
financing, Madagascar's external public debt has increased substantially over
recent years. Total external debt (outstanding and disbursed) at end 1980
amounted to about $1,035 million, compared to about $245 million at end 1977.
There has been a greater diversification in sources of external financing but
average terms have hardened significantly. Consequently, the debt service ratio
has risen from around 4 per cent in 1977 to about 12 per cent in 1980 and is
likely to be around 30 per cent in 1981. Madagascar now faces a rising debt
servicing burden in the next few years. A Paris Club meeting took place between
April 29-30, 1981, as a result of which Madagascar obtained debt rescheduling of
about $36 million covering the period January 1, 1981 to June 30, 1982. In view
of these developments improved debt management by the Government is an essential
component of our dialogue with Madagascar.
15.      The World Bank group has provided about 45 percent of the concessionary
assistance which Madagascar received between 1975 and 1979. Over the same
period, however, around 40 percent of external public borrowing has been from
non-concessionary sources. Increased external financing on a concessionary
basis will be required to support the Government's economic restructuring and
development efforts and to ensure a continued capacity to service external
debt. Given Madagascar's poverty and current resource constraints, IDA should
continue to contribute to local cost financing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MADAGASCAR
16.      IDA credits to Madagascar amount to US$315.95 million, and Bank loans
total US$32.58 million. Since 1975, about 50 percent of Bank Group lending has
been for transport, 12 percent for electric power, 21 percent for agriculture,
10 percent for industry, technical assistance, water and petroleum, and 7
percent for education. IFC's first investment was in 1977 for the expansion of
a textile mill. In 1980 IFC made a $1.25 million loan for the Bata shoe
manufacturing company in Antananarivo, and other projects are under
preparation.  Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits
and IFC investments as of March 31, 1982, as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
17.      Bank Group assistance to Madagascar has been concentrated on the key
areas of infrastructure (including urban and social infrastructure), agricul-
ture and energy. We have begun to lend to the industrial sector with a first
US$5 million DFC credit to the Industrial Development Bank of Madagascar (BNI).
In infrastructure, four projects have been for the construction of all-weather
highway links between the island's different regions and a fifth project for
road maintenance. There have been projects for improving Madagascar's main port
of Toamasina, and to support the railway's modernization efforts. Urban



6-
infrastructure development includes a first water supply and sanitation project
for the capital city of Antananarivo for which a $20.5 million credit was signed
in May 1980. In the social sector, education has been the major recipient of
Bank assistance with two credits totaling $18.8 million. In addition, studies
for urban development financed by the UNDP with the Bank as Executing Agency
have led to preparation of a project for urban development. A credit of SDR 9.4
million for an accounting and audit project was signed in June 1981.
18.      Bank Group lending for agriculture consists of three livestock
development projects, three irrigation projects, two forestry projects and an
agricultural credit project. A $2.3 million technical assistance credit to
prepare projects in the Plain of Antananarivo area was signed in January, 1981.
We expect agriculture to continue to absorb a large share of Bank Group\ lending,
in line with Government strategy to expand agricultural production. A project
to assist the rehabilitation of rice production in the Lake Alaotra area has
been appraised. Further rural development and crop production projects are
being prepared.
19.      Energy projects have also received growing Bank-Group attention:  IDA
is financing part of the cost of the large Andekaleka hydroelectric project, for
which there is also substantial bilateral assistance. A $12.5 million credit
for petroleum exploration is supporting the Government's efforts to develop a
domestic supply of hydrocarbons and to improve planning of the energy sector. A
second petroleum exploration project is under preparation, including financing
of a feasibility study for heavy oil exploitation.
20.      In the past, problems have arisen in the execution of several
projects. The main problems encountered included delays, cost overruns,
deficiencies in management and inadequate financial performance of project
agencies. The Morondava irrigation project of June 1972 had to be substantially
reduced, and the Government and the Association have agreed on a plan of action
to deal with the management and financial problems affecting the project. The
first Village Livestock project was delayed by institutional problems. The
credit was renegotiated in 1977, since when implementation has been
satisfactory. On the other hand, the first Mangoro Forestry project was very
effectively executed and cost estimates were in line with forecasts. The road
construction component of the fourth highway project is nearly completed and the
maintenance studies have been completed, although there was a delay in the start
of the highway maintenance training program. The Government has now agreed that
training consultants be employed, and construction of the training facilities
has begun. Construction under the fifth highway project is ready to start.
21.      Since the start of our program in Madagascar, four projects, all of
which included technical assistance, have been completed and audited by the
Operations Evaluation Department. The Audit Report No 1622 of December 1976 on
the Lac Alaotra project concluded that the project was generally successful.
However, the Impact Evaluation Report No 3600 of August 1981 concluded that
earlier assessments of project performance had probably been overoptimistic, and
that the actual economic rate of return was probably negative. The Audit Report
No 1559 of April 1977 on the Beef Cattle Development Project concluded that the
Project had contributed little to Madagascar. Lessons learnt from the
experience of these two projects are being applied in the design and
imnplementation of new projects for the areas concerned.



-7-
22.      The Audit Report No 2143 of July 1978 concluded that the Third Highway
project was well justified and had a good rate of return despite substantial
cost overruns. Report No 2299 of December 1978 concluded that the physical
objectives of the Tamatave Port Project were satisfactorily achieved but pointed
out that the institutional objective was not accomplished during project
implementation because of inadequacies in the staffing of the port authority.
With the exception of the port project, the technical assistance components of
all sour projects were executed satisfactorily.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR IN MADAGASCAR
General
23.      Agriculture is the dominant sector of the Malagasy economy, contribut-
ing about 40 percent of GDP and accounting for about 80 percent of export
earnings. About 85 percent of the population live in rural areas and support
themselves directly or indirectly through agricultural activities. Madagascar's
agriculture sector is diverse, and a wide range of crops are produced. Rice is
the staple food crop and is grown throughout Madagascar; cattle husbandry is
equally basic to the rural economy. Cultivation of the major export crops --
coffee, cloves, vanilla, and pepper -- is concentrated in the north and along
the tropical east coast. Sugarcane and cotton, the principal industrial crops,
are grown in the west and northwest of the island. Manioc, beans, and potatoes
are other important foodcrops. Although some large-scale mechanized schemes
have been established for rice and cotton cultivation, small-scale traditional
farming is the mainstay of the agricultural economy.
24.      The growth of Madagascar's agricultural production between 1970 and
1980 has been slow, with the average rate of increase somewhat less than the
population growth rate of 2.8 percent a year. This performance largely reflects
the low growth rate of rice production and the stagnation of livestock product-
ion. Paddy production has levelled off at about 2 million tons per year, and,
once a net exporter of rice, Madagascar can no longer satisfy its domestic
requirements. The causes of this important change are complex and include: (1)
the breakdown in delivery of services to farmers (particularly distribution of
inputs and extension advice); (2) inefficient marketing arrangements; (3)
inadequate price incentives; and (4) limited research on new crop varieties.
Livestock production is also stagnating for many of the same reasons. The
national cattle herd is estimated at about 10 million head.  With increasing
domestic demand, a larger proportion of meat products are being consumed locally
and meat exports to traditional markets have declined over the past decade and
are well below their potential. Although production of coffee, cloves, and
vanilla increased in 1979, production levels are still below those achieved in
the mid-1970s and export performance has been poor. Despite these serious
problems, potential for agricultural development in Madagascar is considerable,
and sector growth could be achieved through expansion of cultivated area and
intensification of production.
25.      Production trends in the rice sub-sector have a tremendous impact on
overall sectoral performance because rice is grown on about 50 percent of
permanently cultivated land in Madagascar (about 1.1 million ha). Of land under



rice, family rice fields represent 70-80 percent of the total area; the
remaining 20-30 percent represents organized irrigation schemes developed or
supported by the Government. The large irrigation schemes supply a high
proportion of Madagascar's marketed rice production, as rice produced on family
farms is primarily consumed by farmers themselves. Paddy collection and rice
distribution to deficit areas have been a Government monopoly since 1972,
although in practice a significant proportion is still marketed through private
channels. Paddy collection is the primary responsibility of local Government
authorities, who in turn sell the paddy to public sector marketing companies.
Shipments of rice to deficit areas or to storage facilities are directed by
several ministries at the central level; decisions on rice imports also involve
several ministries. The Government currently fixes prices of paddy and rice at
the producer and retail levels, as well as the margins for marketing,
processing, and wholesale transactions. Current price levels involve a
significant-direct subsidy to consumers and result in losses to the marketing
companies. It is Government policy that the marketing companies be reimbursed
for the direct losses resulting from the consumer subsidy, but payments are
typically delayed and cover only a small portion of actual losses incurred.
Madagascar now imports significant quantities of rice to meet the growing
deficit in domestic production. The volume of rice imports reached a level of
210,000 tons in 1979 and accounted for about 9 percent of the value of total
merchandise imports; an estimated 250,000 tons were imported in 1980.
26.      Planning of agricultural investments in Madagascar has traditionally
been an ad hoc exercise reponding to short-term crises and opportunities. It
has not been based on a systematic analysis of on-going investment programs,
sectoral priorities, and managerial absorptive capacity. In many respects,
planning has been constrained by the relative paucity of well-prepared projects,
and in their absence, the Government has tended to rush in with poorly
conceived, grandiose investment programs whose costs have greatly exceeded
potential benefits. In the past few years, the Government has recognized the
importance of addressing investment needs in the agricultural sector in a more
systematic way, and to this end, has prepared a policy paper on agriculture
which sets out its broad sector objectives. These include: (a) attainment of
self-sufficiency in food supply; (b) increased production of cash
crops and beef for export; (c) expansion of basic industries to process locally
produced agricultural raw materials; and (d) increasing rural employment.
Establishment of a rational pricing system and development of infrastructure and
marketing are identified as the principal instruments for achieving these
goals. The Government is now engaged in translating these broad objectives into
a short-term investment strategy which complements on-going programs (para. 35).
Institutional Framework
27.      The activities of a number of institutions affect the performance of
the agricultural sector. These institutions include the fokonolona institutions
(local governments), the Ministry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform
(MPARA), the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, the Ministry of Supply,
Transport and Tourism, and a number of parastatal institutions.



-9-
28.      Since 1972, the Malagasy Government has undertaken a major
reorganization of local administration and government. This reform involves the
establishment of representative institutions at four territorial levels, and its
objective is to create a decentralized system of local government which
incorporates traditional institutions and practices. The hierarchy of
fokonolona institutions comprises the fokontany, which coincides roughly with
the traditional village unit (about 11,400 units in all), the
firaissam-pokonolona at the former canton level (about 1,250), the
fivondronan-pokonolona at the former sub-prefecture level (about 100), and six
faritany, at the former province level. The reform has been implemented
gradually and many details of the new system are still being considered by the
Government. However, these new entities are assuming important
responsibilities, notably for agricultural credit, marketing of rice and other
agricultural products and for planning ard implementation of small-scale
development projects. The Ministries of the Interior and of Information and
Ideology have pri.aary responsibility LO supporting the fokonolona instituticns.
29.      The MPARA is the central institution in the agricultural sector.  Its
jurisdiction covers the basic farmer extension services, plant protection,
veterinary services, irrigation systems, fisheries, and forestry. It is also
responsible for agricultural planning, control of semi-autonomous regional
authorities and most parastatal agencies, and land reform. Up to 1979, the
ministry had four major operating departments which functioned autonomously and
were organized separately at the regional level. In 1979, a far-reaching
reorganization of the MPARA was introduced, with the objective of providing
better support to local governments, agricultural parastatals, and cooperatives
through decentralization of services. At the central level, the new structure
consists of the Minister's office, the Secretary General's office, and two
departments: (i) the Department of Rural Development which assures supervision
of MPARA's technical services and (ii) the Department of Studies and Planning
which is responsible for collection of statistics, project preparation and
supervision of agricultural parastatals. At the regional level, MPARA's
services were to be organized along the following lines: one Directorate for
Rural Development (DDR) was to be established in each faritany with headquarters
in the faritany capital city; each DDR was to comprise one Rural Development
Service (SDR) per fivondronana (100) and one Rural Development Zone (ZDR) per
firaisana (1,250). The extension services were to be reorganized into multi-
disciplinary teams.
30.      In practice, the reorganization of the ministry has proceeded slowly
and the new structure is not yet fully in place. At present, reorganization at
the central level is complete and the six DDRs have been established (see Chart
1). However, due to staffing and financial constraints it has not been possible
to establish SDRs and ZDRs as initially planned; instead, about 20 SDRs have
been created at the former prefecture level, a level which no longer exists
under the fokonolona system. Further, many positions are still vacant and are
likely to remain so, as the Ministry of Finance has placed tight restrictions on
the hiring of new staff. Steps have been taken to establish a multidisciplinary
extension service in some SDRs, but training programs to support this reorganiz-
ation have not yet been implemented. The decentralization of MPARA services has
brought about a number of problems. The functional line of authority between
the central technical services of the MPARA and field staff has been blurred as



- 10 -
the latter are now organized under the Director of the DDR. Reporting
mechanisms have been another source of confusion, since the DDR Director is
responsible to both the head of the faritany and to MPARA headquarters. Funding
mechanisms at the regional level are also unclear, although a decentralized
budget procedure administered by MPARA is in place.
31.      Parastatals.  The Government uses publicly-owned and mixed capital
companies extensively to accomplish its objectives in the agricultural sector.
These parastatal institutions have been chosen as instruments of Government
policy because it was assumed that they would be more efficient than the regular
civil service and that they would assure protection of the public interest in
key sectors of the economy. However, the performance of many of these
enterprises has been disappointing and has been characterized by low
productivity and sizeable financial deficits requiring large Government
subsidies. The causes of this weak performance are many and include inadequate
management structures, shortage of qualified staff, undercapitalization,
Government pricing and cost recovery policies, and the unrealistic targets and
responsibilities assigned to these institutions by the Government. About 65
parastatals are currently involved in agriculture-related activities, of which 8
are regional development authorities; 19 are engaged in direct production for
the local or export markets; 19 are agro-industries; 10 are marketing companies;
and 9 are service organizations. About 10 semi-autonomous institutions also
operate in the agriculture sector. The semi-autonomous institutions perform
many of the same functions as parastatals and have a separate budget and
independent bank accounts, but their staff are considered part of MPARA's staff.
32.      Agricultural Research.  The central institution responsible for agri-
cultural research in Madagascar is the National Center for Applied Research on
Rural Development (FOFIFA). FOFIFA was established in 1974 to centralize in a
single national organization agricultural research activities previously con-
ducted by a number of research institutes. Initially under the jurisdiction of
MPARA, FOFIFA was placed under the supervision of the Ministry of Higher
Education and Scientific Research between 1977-1981 which complicated effective
working relationships between researchers and agricultural staff. To correct
the situation, Government transferred the research function back to MPARA in
January 1982. FOFIFA is a public sector enterprise and is governed by a
management committee composed of representatives from all interested ministries;
a general manager assures day-to-day operations (see Chart 2). FOFIFA has a
technical staff of about 1,000 but few have a degree or previous research
experience. FOFIFA's activities are financed partially through national budget
allocations and partially through contractual arrangements with ministries or
private agencies for specific services rendered. Funds are also raised from the
sales of vaccines, veterinary products, and agricultural produce. Due to severe
shortages of qualified staff, equipment and funds, FOFIFA has been forced to
limit its research program to the principal food and cash crops. Other
constraints affecting the quality of the research effort include the absence of
effective working relations between researchers and field staff and the lack of
contact with international research organizations.



- II -
Causes of Poor Performance in Agriculture
33.      As noted in paragraph 24 above, the reasons for the disappointing
performance of the agricultural sector are complex and there are many
interrelated causes.  Some of the most critical relate to policy, institutional
and managerial weaknesses and have been central to the stagnation and decline
witnessed in recent years. Principal factors include:
(a) absence of a national consensus and workable policy measures to
achieve sectoral objectives, and the weakness of medium and
long-term investment planning;
(b) disruption of MPARA's technical services following the
reorganization measures of 1979;
(c) dilution of responsibilities among numerous institutions, limited
coordination, and an absence of financial controls;
(d) inflexible management structures and administrative procedures
imposed on public sector companies as well as shortages of
qualified technical staff;
(e) absence of links between research and extension services, leading
to disparity between on-going research programs and research
needs; and
(f) inefficient agricultural marketing system and unreliable input
supply.
34.      Government policy shortcomings in the areas of pricing, marketing and
cost recovery have played a major part in the poor performance of the sector.
In an attempt to limit inflation and the cost of living to the urban poor, the
Government has endeavoured to control producer and retail prices of key
agricultural commodities, often below the cost of producing and marketing them.
At the same time, the Government has entrusted marketing of key foodstuffs and
essential commodities to public sector and mixed capital companies in an attempt
to reduce the costs of marketing. However, the marketing system introduced has
not operated efficiently, regional shortages occur frequently, and marketing
costs are high. The financial costs of these marketing and pricing arrangements
have reached alarming proportions: outlays on consumer rice subsidy are
estimated at nearly 10 billion FMG (US$47 million equivalent) in 1979 and about
12 billion FMG (US$56 million equivalent) in 1980. Furthermore, public sector
companies involved in the production and marketing of agricultural commodities
find themselves in a chronic state of financial crisis, as losses resulting from
the controlled price environment are not promptly (and sometimes never)
reimbursed. These losses are compounded by the absence of a clear framework and
mechanisms for cost recovery from beneficiaries for a number of services.
Operation and maintenance costs for irrigation schemes are, in particular, a
heavy burden on the Government budget.



- 12 -
Government Agricultural Strategy
35.      The Government has undertaken a number of planning exercises in the
past decade designed to define long-term development programs, and is currently
engaged in a renewed effort to develop short-term strategies. As stated in its
Agriculture Policy Paper (para. 26), the Government's long-term goals for agri-
culture include: (a) attainment of self-sufficiency in food supply; (b)
increased production of cash crops and beef for export; (c) expansion of basic
industries to process locally produced agricultural raw materials; and (d)
increasing rural employment. The Government is currently grappling with a
number of critical problems facing the agricultural sector, and decisions taken
will determine the future direction of the country's agricultural strategy. In
the immediate future, the Government's attention is focussed on developing a
short-term strategy to deal with the current agriculture crisis. The financial
crisis provoked by the decline in rice production and in agricultural exports
has prompted the Government to reexamine some of its basic policy options and
institutional choices of recent years, and to consider reforms in these areas.
The Government recently raised the retail price of sugar, beef and cooking oil,
and is considering scaling down its role in the marketing system. One essential
ingredient of the Government's new agricultural strategy is to strengthen and
streamline the institutional framework for policy formulation and effective pro-
ject implementation. To this end, the Government has requested IDA's assistance
in financing a technical assistance project designed principally to focus on
institutional and managerial bottlenecks constraining rice production and marke-
ting and other sectoral activities. The project is conceived as a first step in
a broader program designed to address the critical issues affecting the agricul-
ture sector as a whole.
Bilateral and Multilateral Support for Agriculture
36.      Bilateral and other multilateral donors are active in supporting agri-
cultural programs in Madagascar. At present, the activities of other aid
agencies consist of a range of development projects and input supply programs,
all of which complement the institutional and managerial focus of this technical
assistance project. The principal programs are as follows: UNDP/FAO are
currently assisting MPARA with the preparation of seed production and fertilizer
supply programs. UNDP/FAO also assisted the Government in early 1981 with the
importation of 170 tons of improved IRRI rice seeds for rapid dissemination.
The International Fund for Agriculture Development (IFAD) has prepared a Rice
Highlands Project in Fianarantsoa and Antananarivo regions to be financed by
that organization which was appraised in March 1982 by Bank staff. The European
Development Fund (EDF) is supporting a rehabilitation program of small-scale
irrigation schemes, mainly in the central highlands. The French Fonds
d'Assistance et de Cooperation (FAC) is financing technical assistance for the
cotton subsector and has expressed interest in financing technical assistance
for rice production. The French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(CCCE) has agreed to finance the rehabilitation of cotton ginneries and is
currently appraising projects for assistance to a sugar refinery and a coffee
project. The African Development Bank is presently coordinating an effort to
prepare a food strategy program for Madagascar. The ADB, USAID, the FED and the
FAC will be providing technical assistance in preparing a national food plan



- 13 -
over a 12-month period.  Activities financed under this effort would be closely
coordinated with the IDA-financed Agricultural Institutions Technical Assistance
project. In addition to these programs, many small operations are being
supported by a number of bilateral aid agencies, including the Federal Republic
of Germany, North Korea, Norway, the Soviet Union and Switzerland.
Bank Group Support for Agriculture
37.      The Bank has supported nine projects in the agriculture sector, six of
which are under implementation:  the Morondava Irrigation and Rural Development
Project (US$15.3 million); the First Village Livestock and Rural Development
Project (US$9.6 million); the Mangoky Agricultural Development Project (US$12.0
million); the Agricultural Credit Project (US$11.5 million); the Plain of
Antananarivo Technical Assistance Project (US$2.3 million); and the Second
Mangoro Forestry Project (US$20.0 million). A Second Village Livestock Project
was signed on April 15, 1982, and a Second Lake Alaotra Project has been
appraised; several other projects are under preparation in the irrigation and
crop production subsectors.  Bank staff have also maintained a sector dialogue
with Government officials on key issues affecting agricultural performance.
These have included agricultural pricing, marketing arrangements, parastatal
performance, cost recovery, research operations, and sectoral planning. This
dialogue has been an important complement to the Bank Group's lending
operations, and will continue to be an effective mechanism for agreeing on
sectoral priorities and defining future courses of action.
38.      Experience with project implementation has been mixed, and problems
encountered in on-going projects have included delays in execution, cost over-
runs, and deficiencies in management, institution building and policies. In
particular, the choice of institutional structure for project management, its
relations with existing Government services, staffing policies, financial
management, and management accountability have, at one time or another, either
delayed project start-up or greatly complicated project implementation. For
example, the Morondava Irrigation Project, signed in 1973, suffered from a
combination of technical, managerial, and policy problems. In addition to subs-
tantial cost overruns which necessitated a reduction in project scope, project
performance was adversely affected by the unclear role assigned to the
implementing agency (SODEMO), weak management, overstaffing, and lack of
accounts and audits. Controlled prices and lack of a clear cost recovery policy
compounded these problems and led to serious financial losses on SODEMO's oper-
ations. The Government has prepared an action plan to address SODEMO's manage-
ment problems, and implementation of the plan is being closely monitored by the
Government and IDA. Under the First Village Livestock Project signed in 1974,
institutional problems were responsible for substantial delays in project
implementation. These included clarifying relations between the executing
agency, (FAFIFAMA), and Government support services, modifying the legal status
of FAFIFAMA, and expanding the agency's role in the area of marketing and
processing. After initial delays, however, FAFIFAMA has developed into a
satisfactory institution with technically competent and dedicated management.
Similarly, the project agency for the First Mangoro Forestry project, known as
FANALAMANGA, has established a strong record, with execution of components ahead
of schedule and in line with appraisal cost estimates. In spite of these



- 14 -
success stories, most projects are being adversely affected by the worsening
economic conditions in Madagascar and particularly by shortages of foreign
exchange. The Government has begun to take steps to improve the situation, but
serious problems still remain.
39.      Two agriculture projects financed by the Bank Group have been completed
and audited by the Operations Evaluation Department. The audit report No 1622
of December 17, 1976 on the Lake Alaotra project concluded that the project was
generally quite successful but pointed out that shortcomings in implementation,
notably the failure to levy adequate water charges, were masked by a fortuitous
rise in the price of project rice production. Subsequent to project completion,
the performance of the project implementation agency (SOMALAC) has deteriorated
considerably as evidenced by low production yields and poor maintenance of
irrigation infrastructure. The Impact Evaluation Report No 3600 of August 20,
1981 concluded that few, if any, of the project objectives had been realized and
that the actual rate of return was probably negative. A project for rehabilita-
tion and reinforcement of agriculture and extension services in the Lake Alaotra
area has recently been appraised; its principal objectives are to (i) rationa-
lize the management of extension services in this rice producing area, (ii)
rehabilitate existing infrastructure, and (iii) strengthen SOMALAC's manage-
ment. The audit report No 1559 of April 11, 1977 on the Beef Cattle Development
Project concluded that the project had encountered a host of problems, the most
important of which included: (a) project design poorly suited to local condi-
tions, (b) neglect of land tenure and socio-economic issues, and (c) differences
of approach between the Bank and Government. While these deficiencies substan-
tially reduced the project's anticipated impact, the experience made a positive
contribution through a rethinking of cattle development projects in Madagascar
and a reorientation of Bank Group subsector lending to focus on the traditional
extensive system.
40.      As these descriptions of experience with both on-going and completed
projects have indicated, the most critical difficulties in agriculture project
implementation in Madagascar have stemmed from policy, institutional and
managerial problems. Consequently, the Technical Assistance project has been
designed with these difficulties in mind and is conceived as a first step in a
broader program of institutional reform. The removal of key institutional
constraints and introduction of policy reforms will lay the basis for improved
sectoral performance in the long run.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
41.      A project to support the strengthening of key institutions in the agri-
culture sector, with a special emphasis on rice, has been discussed by IDA staff
and Government officials over the past two years. An identification mission
visited Madagascar in November/December 1980 and a preparation mission pursued
their work in March 1981. The Government formally requested IDA's assistance
for this project in March 1981, and in May 1981 employed a consulting firm to
prepare detailed proposals for a key project component. The project was



- 15 -
appraised during June/July 1981; at appraisal it was decided to limit the
project to technical assistance for strengthening key agricultural institutions
and to pursue pilot rural road improvement and input supply programs through
other lending operations. Project start-up activities began in August 1981 with
technical assistance from the French consulting firm, Institut de Coordination
des Techniques Appliquees au Dgveloppement (ICTAD) (para. 53). A Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) advance of up to US$1.0 million was approved in
September 1981 to finance start-up of key project activities. Negotiations were
held in Washington D.C. from April 5 to April 8, 1982; the Malagasy delegation
was led by Mr. Aubert Randriatavy, Director of the Department of Studies and
Programming of the Ministry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform and
included Mr. Yves Ramelison, Adviser to the Minister of Agricultural Production
and Agrarian Reform. No Staff Appraisal Report was prepared for the project.
Project Objectives
42.      The project would address a number of fundamental issues facing the
agricultural sector in Madagascar. The studies to be initiated are instruments
for identifying options to resolve these issues, for preparing specific action
plans for reform where appropriate, and for developing the consensus necessary
for moving forward; in a number of instances, project activities would go beyond
the option/consensus stage and would support the implementation of agreed-upon
reform programs. These objectives would be achieved by (i) strengthening
MPARA's capabilities for investment planning and project preparation; (ii)
identifying action programs for achieving specific sector objectives,
particularly concerning rice production; (iii) redefining the roles of the key
institutions responsible for services to rice farmers and reforming them so that
they can execute their functions more effectively; (iv) improving coordination
among the key agricultural institutions and sectoral programs; and (v)
strengthening the agricultural research effort. The project would lay the basis
for increased agricultural production by assisting the Government to take action
on key sectoral issues such as pricing, parastatal management, cost recovery,
and marketing arrangements. Although initial efforts would focus on the
institutions and policies essential for increasing rice production and improving
its marketing, the project is conceived as a first step in a longer term program
of institutional support to the agricultural sector as a whole.
43.      Project assistance to the Government would be divided into three broad
categories: (a) strengthening of agricultural investment planning and project
preparation capability; (b) parastatal management, and (c) improvement in
Government support services to agriculture. The technical assistance would
cover a period of two and one half years and would address the following
specific areas: (i) preparation of a three-year investment plan for the
agriculture sector; (ii) project preparation studies; (iii) preparation of a
short-term action plan for the rice sub-sector and support to a central rice
coordination unit; (iv) financial and management audits and management
improvement programs for selected parastatals with key responsibilities for rice
production; (v) studies of rice marketing and input distribution systems in
Madagascar, with particular reference to the national marketing company for
agricultural products (SINPA); (vi) organizational analysis of the Ministry of
Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform and the rural development service of



- 16 -
Antananarivo and implementation of reorganization programs; and (vii) management
and operational support for the agricultural research institute, FOFIFA. The
project would include approximately 290 staff-months of consultant services to
the Ministry and other Government institutions. A central focus would be to
assist these institutions in reassessing organizational and management problems
and in designing detailed reform programs, including training. A detailed
description of project components is given below.
Detailed Features
(a) Strengthening Planning and Project Preparation
44.            Investment Planning.  Planning of agricultural investments and
preparation of projects within MPARA are the responsibility of the Department of
Studies and Programming (DEP); DEP is also responsible for collecting
agricultural statistics and supervising the operations of most parastatals under
MPARA's jurisdiction. MPARA's planning efforts are currently constrained by the
absence of a clearly defined system and procedures for short term investment
planning and by the lack of effective coordination between resource allocation
efforts at the sectoral level and the national planning exercise. These
difficulties have been compounded by the absence of criteria for establishing
national priorities among competing investments and inadequate information
available to planners on likely budgetary allocations.
45.          Under the project, technical assistance, staff training, and logis-
tical support would be provided to DEP to reinforce its planning capabilities
and to prepare a three-year investment plan covering the period 1984-86.
Technical support would consist of a six-month consulting assignment by a
specialist in investment planning supplemented by intermittent consulting servi-
ces totalling about 12 staff-months to assist the overall planning effort and to
address specific operational problems. The consultants would provide assistance
to the DEP in preparing a document presenting a three-year public investment
program for the agricultural sector, based on a thorough inventory of on-going
and planned investments; this would provide the basis for the definition of
investment priorities and for strengthening links between planning and budgeting
exercises at the sector level. As part of this planning effort the consultants
would also review with DEP staff the organization of the department, procedures,
and staff training needs with a view to preparing specific proposals for
strengthening the department.
46.           The short-term planning effort would be closely coordinated with a
national investment planning exercise under the General Directorate for Planning
of the Office of the President, and the sectoral exercise would specifically
support the definition of a structural adjustment program at the national
level. The Government would submit an interim agricultural investment plan to
IDA for review and comment by February 1, 1983 and a final version of the plan
by May 1, 1983 (Section 3.05(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Recommendations for measures to strengthen DEP's planning capability would be
submitted to IDA for review and comment no later than February 1, 1983 (Section
3.05 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 17 -
47.    Project Preparation.  The Gover-nment of Madagascar has recognized that
development of the agricultural sector has been constrained by a paucity of
well-prepared and carefully evaluated project proposals. This lack of proposals
is the result of a marked slow-down in systematic preparation work, beginning in
1972. The reorganization of the ministry, staff turnover, and budgetary and
logistical constraints of the last two years have compounded the effects of this
earlier neglect. Recognizing that a more effective project preparation mecha-
nism was needed, MPARA has since 1979 actively promoted the creation of local
consulcing firms capable of assisting DEP with its workload, and has relied on a
combination of local and foreign consulting firms to prepare projects. Never-
theless, a substantial backlog of project proposals has accumulated and needs to
be examined. Therefore, to assist DEP with its project preparation workload, 60
staff-months of consultant services would be provided under the project to carry
out studies on project proposals meriting serious consideration. Priority would
be given to projects which maximize the return on existing investments and which
improve the management of current operations. A tentative list of projects was
discussed during negotiations and a final list will be submitted to the
Association for review and approval. Terms of reference for the project prepar-
ation studies will be agreed upon during project implementation.
48.      Coordination of Rice Planning.  In response to the critical problems
resulting from the stagnation of rice production, coordination of rice develop-
ment activities will form an important component of this project. Governmental
responsibility for promoting paddy production, processing and marketing is
currently shared among a number of ministries, regional authorities, development
agencies, and public sector companies. In such a fluid situation, it has proved
virtually impossible to coordinate investments for rice development, identify
production shortfalls, accurately estimate import requirements, and manage the
distribution of rice for consumption. To address the need for a coherent and
coordinated approach to the problems currently facing the rice sub-sector, the
Government has agreed that a rice coordinating unit with sufficient authority to
carry out its mandate should be established not later than August 31, 1982 to
provide a clear focus for planning of and follow-up on rice development
activities (Section 3.10 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The Unit
would be placed under the Ministry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian
Reform and would report directly to the Minister; it would be staffed with a
small number of professionals. Liaison with other key ministries concerned
(Industry and Commerce, Supply and Transport, and Finance and Planning), would
be assured through designated staff of these ministries. This would not be an
operating unit. It would have a planning and follow-up function and would focus
on the following major areas; (i) general environment, concerning issues of land
rights, input supply policies, technical questions; (ii) production, involving
issues of extension services and parastatal management; and (iii) marketing and
pricing, involving issues of distributing local production, import requirements,
consumer and producer prices, and marketing. The unit's terms of reference were
discussed during negotiations and are being finalized. The establishment of the
unit is expected by July 31, 1982.
49.      To support the work of this unit, the project would provide technical
assistance to (a) help prepare a short-term action plan designed to stimulate
rice production, processing, and marketing, and (b) review procedures for



- 18 -
managing rice imports and input distribution, and propose improvements. A rice
marketing study would examine rice production, consumption and marketing, and
the operations of key marleting companies, in particular SINPA. A total of 15
staff-months of consulting services would be provided for this component to
complement the efforts of the Government rice coordinating unit. Both local and
foreign experts would be utilized in carrying out these functions.
Disbursements for this component would be contingent upon creation of the Rice
Coordinating Unit (Schedule 1, para. 4(ii) to the draft Development Credit
Agreement). The Government would submit to the Association for comment a short
term plan to increase rice production and to improve rice processing and
tuarketing by February 1, 1983 and the findings and recommendations of the
studies to review the procedures for managing rice imports and input for rice
production by May 1, 1983, and the rice marketing system, including SINPA'S
operations (Section 3.06 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The terms
of reference for the rice marketing study were reviewed during negotiations.
(b) Parastatal Management
50.      Madagascar's agricultural sector is characterized by a large number of
parastatal companies, many of which are experiencing serious financial and
management problems as noted in paragraphs 31 and 38 above. The Government has
recognized that there is an urgent need to analyze the underlying causes of
poorperformance in these institutions and to formulate policies and programs to
correct the situation. The Government is particularly concerned about the
performance of the parastatals whose activities are central to the processing
and marketing of rice, the main staple foodcrop on the island, as the current
stagnation of production combined with marketing bottlenecks is placing a heavy
burden on the national budget through increasing imports of rice and consumer
subsidies. A key objective of the proposed project is therefore to analyze
in-depth the problems of selected parastatals and to design individualized
action plans for resolving their problems. These company-specific actions will
necessitate a review by Government of the policy framework affecting the
operations of parastatal companies, most notably pricing, cost recovery,
marketing, financial autonomy and staffing.
51.      Regional Development Authorities.  The project includes a series of
measures designed to support improvement of management of three of Madagascar's
most important regional development authorities, SAMANGOKY, SOMALAC, and FIFABE.
These three development authorities play a key role in rice production,
processing, and marketing, and perform a wide range of functions including (i)
management and maintenance of the irrigation schemes, (ii) provision of
extension services to farmers, (iii) distribution of inputs, (iv) collection and
marketing of crops produced on their schemes, and (v) in some cases, crop
processing. SAMANGOKY, SOMALAC and FIFABE were selected for in-depth analysis
because these development authorities manage irrigation schemes which produce a
major share of marketed rice output in Madagascar, and their performance has a
significant impact on consumption patterns and import requirements throughout
the country. SAMANGOKY manages about 6,000 ha in the lower Mangoky valley
(Toliary faritany), SOMALAC manages about 30,000 ha in the Lake Alaotra region,
while FIFABE manages about 38,000 ha in the lower Betsiboka valley south of
Mahajanga. Together, these schemes produce about 120,000 tons of rice annually



- 19 -
and contribute about 40 percent of total marketed rice in Madagascar.
52.      A second reason for selecting these three companies for in-depth
analysis is that they were once highly effective institutions whose performance
has deteriorated under an accretion of functions and the weight of Government
policies. Rehabilitation measures must therefore be designed with a clear
understanding of the specific management problems facing each authority and
incorporate individualized action plans which address their particular
situation. In the cases of SOMALAC and FIFABE, the management programs to be
carried out under the project are linked to separate lending operations being
considered by IDA and KFW, respectively. IDA and KFW support for these rehabi-
litation projects has been made contingent upon a review of SOMALAC's and
FIFABE's financial and management problems and an immediate and effective
Government action program to address their operational constraints. IDA is
currently supporting the Mangoky Agricultural Development Project (Cr.
881-MAG). SAMANGOKY is the implementing project agency and the review of
managerial and financial procedures proposed for SAMANGOKY would also increase
its effectiveness in carrying out the Mangoky project.
53.       The project has provided for financial audits of SAMANGOKY, SOMALAC,
and FIFABE and management audits of SOMALAC and FIFABE. With support under the
PPF (paras. 41 and 62) the Government signed a contract with a consulting firm,
Institut de Coordination des Techniques Appliquees au Developpement (ICTAD) and
work has been completed on these audits. Summary financial statements as of
July 31, 1981, have been prepared for the three authorities; internal control
procedures have been analyzed and improvements proposed, and simplified
accounting systems have been put in place. The information systems available to
the three development authorities have also been evaluated and a proposal for
hardware and software investments has been formulated. Detailed analyses of key
factors affecting the performance of SOMALAC and FIFABE have also been
conducted, and an action plan has been prepared covering (a) a redefinition of
role and functions; (b) appropriate management structure and operating
procedures; (c) financial rehabilitation plan; (d) staffing; and (e) training
program for staff. Implementation has already begun on some of these
recommendations.
54.       The project would provide for the implementation of management
improvement programs for SOMALAC and SMAANGOKY based on the recommendations
prepared by ICTAD (para. 53). Implementation of management reform proposals for
FIFABE would be financed under a KFW-supported rehabilitation project (para.
52). Project cost estimates include provisions for training, acquisition of
office equipment, and limited logistical support for SOMALAC and SAMANGOKY.
Implementation of broader development programs which are expected to emerge
(such as irrigation system extensions) would be carried out under other lending
operations outlined in paragraph 52 above. A total of 110 staff-months of
consulting services would be provided for the preparation of action plans and
implementation of the management improvement programs (this includes the
activities financed under the PPF). Local and foreign consultants with
expertise in management, accounting, agronomy, irrigation systems and research
would be used. The Government has agreed that detailed recommendations for
strengthening SOMALAC's and SAMANGOKY's management to be financed under the



- 20 -
project would be submitted to IDA for approval by July 15, 1982 (Section 3.07 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
55.      Rice Marketing Services.  Paddy collection and rice distribution  are a
state monopoly and are carried out by public sector marketing companies assisted
by development authorities, state farms and local government authorities. The
marketing system has functioned poorly for a number of reasons including the
lack of accountability between local collectors and the national marketing
companies, inadequate credit at the local level for paddy purchases, the poor
state of the roads and transport fleet and chronic financial losses absorbed by
the marketing companies because of controlled prices and direct consumer sub-
sidies. The Societe d'Inter8t National des Produits agricoles (SINPA), as the
sole collector and distributor of rice between 1973 and 1977 and the largest at
the national level since that time, has experienced serious problems since its
inception. The problems have resulted not only from weak management, shortage
of qualified staff and inadequate financial procedures, but also from the
enormity of the task assigned to it, that is, establishing a Government monopoly
with little preparation and information in a controlled price environment. As
marketing bottlenecks are a contributing factor to the growing rice imports of
recent years, a careful review of the organization of marketing services in
general and of SINPA's operations in particular, is urgently needed. Funds
would be provided under the project for a systematic review of rice production,
consumption and marketing flows nationwide, combined with a data collection
exercise; this information would provide the basis for an analysis of options
for rice marketing policies and development programs. If the rice marketing
study concludes that a role for state marketing companies exists, an analysis of
key marketing institutions (including SINPA) would be carried out to identify
how to reorient and redefine the functions of these companies within the new
policy framework. A total of 40 staff-months would be provided for these
studies. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government
would by June 1, 1983, submit to IDA for comment the findings and recommend-
ations resulting from the review of the rice marketing system (Section 3.06 (c)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The terms of reference for the
proposed review were discussed during negotiations.
56.      Complementary Studies.  Funds would also be provided under the project
for management audits of a limited number of parastatals active in the agricul-
ture sector. A tentative list of parastatals to be studied was discussed during
negotiations and the final list will be proposed by the Director of DEP and
approved by IDA by December 31, 1982 (Section 3.12 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). The studies would include inter alia a redefinition of
functions, organizational structure, operational procedures, audit and staff
training of the institutions selected. The results of the studies would be
submitted to the Association for review (Section 3.04(b)(iii) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). A total of 12 staff-months would be provided.
Timing of the audits would be determined during project implementation.
(c) Government Support Services to Agriculture
57.       Organization of MPARA and Rural Development Services.  The decentral-
ization of MPARA services initiated in 1979 has encountered a number of diffi-



- 21 -
culties resulting from the lack of preparation and rapidity with which the
changes were introduced (see paras 29 and 30). Other problems have arisen
because of the complex institutional issues posed by decentralization and
reorganization of extension services (see para. 29 above). In order to provide
an opportunity to address key issues arising from the reorganization of MPARA
services, the project would support (i) systematic review and evaluation of the
current organizational arrangements of the Ministry of Agricultural Production
and (ii) in-depth analysis of the organizational structure and operational
procedures of the SDR of Antananarivo. These organizational analyses would
result in the identification of options for reorganization, management
improvement programs, and staff training for central headquarters and field
staff. Implementation of reform programs, training and provision of office
supplies and equipment would also be financed by the project. A total of 24
staff-months would be required for the organizational review of MPARA and the
SDR of Antananarivo and preparation of reorganization and training proposals.
Agreement was obtained at negotiations that the Government would submit to IDA
for review and comment the findings of the studies, and for review and approval
the measures to reorganize the MPARA by April 1, 1983 (Section 3.08 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
58.      Agricultural Research.  Madagascar had an effective agricultural
research network, developed over many decades, and it still has an impressive
infrastructure of research stations and facilities. However, following the
reorganization of research services in 1974, links between research activities
and agricultural development programs have deteriorated severely, research
infrastructure has declined, and contacts with the international research
community have virtually ceased. Many of these problems were aggravated by the
transfer of responsibilities for agricultural research to the Ministry of Higher
Education and Scientific Research. The Government recognizes that there is an
urgent need to revitalize agricultural research to provide the basis for
long-term development and has transferred the agriculture research institute,
FOFIFA, back to MPARA. This transfer should assist in reestablishing links
between research and field staff and in ensuring an operational focus to
research work. To strengthen the agricultural research effort, the project
would provide funds for a program of short-term assistance for research.
Principal activities under this program could include: (a) assembling available
research materials on rice activities and making them accessible to research and
extension workers, (b) improving management procedures and undertaking
short-term training programs at FOFIFA, and (c) running small agricultural
machinery trials and limited trials for new seed varieties. A total of 12
staff-months of consulting services would be provided for these activities.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Government would submit to the
Association for its approval a program to strengthen the management of FOFIFA
and a detailed research program for FOFIFA by March 31, 1983 (Section 3.09 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
59.       Training.  A central objective of the project would be the development
of effective institutions for the agricultural sector and a critical element
will clearly be training of staff involved, both in management skills and in
specific subject areas such as accounting, project analysis, research, extension
work. All of the management support programs have an implicit training element



- 22 -
attached to them because the consultants would work closely with staff of
affected institutions in redefining the objectives and structures of key
institutions and in preparing clear and comprehensive management development
programs. This work would itself have a training function. Under the review of
SOMALAC, SAMANGOKY and FIFABE (para. 53), the consultants have made particular
efforts to structure their work to involve local staff both through
collaborative work and through seminars and other exchanges. During this
diagnostic phase, some additional training would be organized in specialized
fields, notably management training for key staff, training at international
research institutes, and visits to other countries where similar development
activities are underway.  Following the diagnostic phase, it is expected that
comprehensive training programs would form part of management reform plans for
each institution, and costs of short-term training programs are included in the
project under each component. Programs would include in-house training courses
supplemented by short overseas courses on subjects of direct operational
relevance; investments would include direct training costs, including training
materials, audio-visual equipment, overseas training costs, and costs of
trainers to run in-house courses or seminars. Assurances wereobtained at
negotiations that prior to the carrying out of any training under the project,
detailed proposals for training courses would be submitted to IDA for comment
and approval (Section 3.11, draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Implementation
60.      MPARA would have primary responsibility for project implementation;
within MPARA, the Director of the Studies and Programming Department (DEP) would
coordinate project activities and monitor all work in progress. MPARA would
cause SOMALAC, SAMANGOKY and FOFIFA to carry out their respective management
improvement programs. The rice coordinating unit (para. 48) would implement the
short-term action plan for rice and related studies. With the exception of a
limited number of fellowships and study trips (para. 59) which would be
administered directly by MPARA, it is expected that project services would be
provided by consulting firms or individual consultants under direct contracts
with the MPARA. The contract already signed with consultants ICTAD for the
parastatal management audits (para. 53) is an example of the type of
administrative arrangements that would cover other components. Salient features
include cooperation between foreign and local consulting firms, full involvement
of staff of the institutions concerned with the review process, a clearly
grouped phasing of work to allow periodic reviews and decisions by Government
officials on options and continuous training of staff through participation in
work and seminars.  The project consultants' experience and qualifications,
terms and conditions of employment would be submitted to the Association for
approval (para. 63). The Director of DEP would prepare a report on the
execution of the project by June 30, 1983 which would be discussed with the
Association during a mid-term project review (Section 3.04 (b)(v), draft
Development Credit Agreement). The project would be implemented over a period
of two and one-half years and is expected to be completed by December 31, 1984;
a project implementation schedule is summarized in Chart 3.
Project Costs



- 23 -
61.      Total project costs are estimated at US$6.7 million equivalent
inclusive of a negligible amount of taxes, of which US$4.6 million are foreign
exchange costs. Project costs are calculated on the basis of December 1981
prices and include physical contingencies of 15 percent on all costs except
consultants' fees. Price contingencies were calculated on a cumulative basis,
at 15 percent for local costs and for foreign exchange costs 8.5 percent fop,
1982, 7.5 percent for 1983, and 7.5 percent for 1984. The average staff-month
services has been estimated at about US$12,000 equivalent including salary,
overhead, subsistence and travel. Equipment, supplies and other minor items to
be acquired under the project have been estimated at about US$1.3 million;
training costs have been estimated at about US$0.9 million. A detailed project
costs table is presented in the credit and project summary at the beginning of
this report.
Financing Plan
62.      The proposed IDA credit would finance US$4.6 million in foreign
exchange and US$1.1 million equivalent in local costs, representing about 85
percent of total project costs. The Government would contribute the remaining
US$1.0 million in local costs or 15 percent of total project costs. On
September 10, 1981, an advance of up to US$1.0 million was approved under the
Project Preparation Facility to launch project activities. This advance will be
repaid to the Association out of the IDA credit upon effectiveness (Section 2.02
(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement
63.      Selection of technical experts and consultants required under the
project would be in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to
the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines on the use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency" published in August
1981. All terms of reference, qualifications, experience, terms and conditions
of employment of consultants; selection procedures and contracts for technical
experts would be subject to IDA's prior approval (Section 3.02 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). Furthermore, the terms of reference for each
study approved by IDA would specify that interim reports prepared by consultants
and drafts of the final reports would be submitted to the Association for review
and comment (Section 3.04 (b) (iii) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
The Borrower will decide whether to invite proposals from a short list of firms
or to request a proposal from a single firm of its choice. In both instances,
however, IDA would approve the firms invited and, subsequently, the contract. A
tentative list of the expert services required is provided in Annex IV to this
report. Technical assistance is expected to be provided by both local and
foreign consulting firms, working together in consortia or independently.
During negotiations, government procedures for recruitment of specialists were
reviewed. Although previous experience in Madagascar indicates that consultant
selection procedures are normally lengthy, provisions exist for exceptions to
these procedures and selection can be handled much more quickly. Because of the
small size of individual purchases, procurement of equipment, materials and
vehicles would follow local competitive bidding procedures which are acceptable
to the Association.



- 24 -
Disbursement
64.      The proceeds of the IDA  credit would be disbursed over two and one
half years against 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 50 percent of local
expenditures. All disbursements would be fully documented. The closing date of
the IDA credit would be June 30, 1985.
Project Accounts, Audit and Reporting
65.      Separate accounts would be maintained for all project activities.
Project accounts for all agricultural institutions covered by the project
would be audited each year by independent auditors acceptable to the Association
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied
(Sections 4.01 (b) (i) and 4.02 (b) (i) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). It is expected that most expenditure would be made under clearly
defined contractual arrangements. A certified copy of all project accounts and
financial statements as well as the auditor's report would be submitted to the
Association within four months of the close of each fiscal year (Sections 4.01
(b)(ii) and 4.02 (b) (ii) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The
Borrower would prepare and submit to the Association a final report on the
execution of the project no later than six months after the completion of the
project (Section 3.04 (d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Justification and Risks
66.      The proposed project is designed to address the critical institutional
and managerial problems which are a fundamental cause of the poor performance of
Madagascar's agriculture sector. The technical assistance provided under the
project would enable the Government to focus on (a) strengthening MPARA's
investment planning and project preparation capability; (b) assuring coherence
of policy and action programs designed to stimulate rice production, processing
and marketing; and (c) improving the management and operations of selected para-
statals, agricultural research, and a reorganization study of MPARA, including a
review of the rural development service of Antananarivo. While the benefits of
the technical assistance are not directly quantifiable, the expected
improvements in sector management and institution building will strengthen
sectoral performance. In particular, project activities will contribute to
preparation of priority projects, a more systematic policy review, more
efficient utilization of domestic and external resources by key agricultural
institutions, and improved Government support services to agriculture, including
stronger links between research and extension. These sectoral improvements will
assist the Government both in the management of the short-term effects of the
current agriculture crisis and in laying the basis for a long-term recovery
program.
67.      The potential risks to successful project implementation involve delays
in recruiting consulting firms and difficulties in following through with
consultant recommendations. Past experience indicates that there is a risk that
bureaucratic procedures may impede prompt recruitment of technical assistance
personnel. However, the Government has moved quickly to recruit a consulting



- 25 -
firm to start-up project preparatory activities under PPF, which indicates the
high priority Government attaches to the project. During credit negotiations,
ways of streamlining procedures for hiring consultants were discussed. A second
risk to the project involves the degree of Government commitment to implementing
the consultants' recommendations under the project and to introducing the
necessary reforms in sensitive areas such as agricultural produce pricing,
marketing arrangements, cost recovery and parastatal staffing. The Government
has reiterated its interest in acting on these key sectoral issues as a means of
removing current production and marketing constraints and relieving budgetary
pressures. The Borrower has been made aware that future investments in the
agriculture sector will have to take into account the Government's willingness
to implement project recommendations and to resolve key sectoral issues.
Part V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic Republic
of Madagascar and the Association, and the Recommendations of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Special conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of Annex III to this
Report.
69.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 27, 1982



-26-                                          ANNEX I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
MADAGASCAR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MADAGASCAR                        REFERENCE SROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE AGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                             - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             581.0                                     MOST RECENT            LOW INCOMCE             MIDDLE INCOKE
AGRICULTURAL     369.3                   1960  Lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                      130.0       190.0      290.0  k              238.3                    794.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)          40.4         72.5      93.8                   70.5                    707.5
IOPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)      5474.0       6785.0    8480.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)    10.6          14.1       17.9                  17.5                     27.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                            15.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                             45.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                      2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                            9.3         11.6      14.4                  27.7                      55.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         15.0         18.0      22.3                  73.7                     130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                             41.6         42.8      43.6                   44.8                     46.0
15-64 YRS.                             55.2         53.9      53.1                  52.4                      51.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                       3.2          3.3       3.3                    2.9                      2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  1.8          2.1       2.5/e                 2.6                       2.8
URBAN                                  4.9          5.0       5.1                   6.5                       5.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         46.6         45.2      45.7                  46.9                      46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         27.0         21.7       18.0                  19.3                     15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  3.0          3.0        3.2                   3.1                      3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)            ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)        ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)              89.0        102.0      96.0                  89.5                      89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                      106.0        108.0     115.0                  90.2                      92.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              60.0         60.0      60.0                  52.7                      52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           18.0         17.0      15.0                  17.8                      16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         41.0         31.3      25.4                   27.3                     20.2
HEALTH
LIFE ERPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)        37.2         42.5      46.9                  45.8                      50.8
INFANT MORTALITY BATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                  ..       177.0/c       ..
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    . .       11.0      26.0                  23.9                      27.4
URBAN                                   *-         67.0      76.0                  55.0                      74.3
RURAL                                   ..          1.0      16.0                  18.5                      12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..           ..         ..                  26.2
URBAN                                   ..         88.0         ..                 63.5
RURAL                                   ..           ..       9.0                  20.3
POPLLATION PER PHYSICIAN              8901.1      10172.4   10242.3               31911.8                   13844.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         3105.0       3353.9    3470.2                3674.9                    2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                469.0        354.4     402.3                1238.8                    1028.4
URBAN                                115.0        214.8     239.4                 272.8                     423.0
RURAL                                761.0        475.3     517.9                1745.2                    3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..           ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                   ..          5.8       4.7
URBAN                                   ..          5.3        5.0
RURAL                                               5.9       4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                                          ..                 ..
URBAN                                   ..           ..
RURAL                                   ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                   ..          5.0
URBAN                                   ..           ..
RURAL                                    ..          ..



- 27-                                          ANNEX I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
MADAGASCAR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MADAGASCAR                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVET AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)_
MOST RECENT             LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                 52.0         88.0       94.0                   56.4                      73.7
MALE                   58.0         95.0     100.0                   70.7                      96.8
FEMALE                45.0          81.0      87.0                   50.1                      79.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                    4.0         11.0       12.0                  10.0                       16.2
MALE                   5.0          13.0      14.0                   13.6                      25.3
FEMALE                 3.0          9.0       10.0                    6.6                      14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)   9.0             9.0         ..                    8.0                       5.3
PUPIL-TEAChER RATIO
PRIMARY                              70.0        65.0       55.0                   46.5                       36.2
SECONDARY                           24.0          20.0        ..                   25.5                      23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)            ..         39.0       50.0                  25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           4.0          6.8        7.1                    2.9                      32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          15.0          79.7     127.0                   32.8                      69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..         0.5         1.5                   1.9                       8.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THiOUSAND POPULATION                    8.0          7.8        9.0                   2.8                       20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  U.5             0.7        0.4                    1.2                       0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       3046.1       3619.9    4321.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    46.9         46.1       45.4                   34.1                      36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                92.8         90.0      87.4                   80.0                       56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   2.0           3.0       3.9                    8.6                      17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  55.6         53.4       51.0                  41.7                       37.2
MALE                                   60.7         58.8       56.6                  54.3                       47.1
FEMALE                                 50.9         48.2      45.5                   29.2                      27.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 0.8          0.9        0.9                    1.2                       1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   41.0/d
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  60.17.                        .
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.27 
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.O7i
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..     150.0                  136.0                     381.2
RURAL                                  ..           ..      86.0                   84.5                     156.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      135.0                   99.1                     334.3
RURAL                                  ..          ..       86.0                   61.2                     137.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..          ..       50.0                   39.7
RURAL                                  ..           ..      50.0                   68.8
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1965-66;  /d Population;  /e Recent population growth estimate is 2.8X for 1975-79.
A  The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates to be shown
in the 1981 World Bank Atlas are $350 (at 1978-80 prices) and 8714.0
thousands.
May, 1981



- 28 -                                                                                         AMbEX I
P.as 3
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Note:  Although the data are doaco fowsccegneal   ugdte   otetotsew    o                                   cihe,i   hudas  he toted that they  ay cot be inter-
nathonlly coparabl  becaue o5 te lac  of standerdie   dectitioae  sad oulcep   uedby dIffteo oott rie l  coll                      the dat.-   The data see  tone-...
thelees. usful to decorihe ordeog of magoitudd, indica.e oreode, end cha. taoteiee -eoai. aajIo diff ..reocee between  cdouties.
ofhe aut-ec  count1 IeI ynfrCa.e  Supu(i2ortes)ru  wee'fdl Inciset Soth. tictoe end t"lb" East' is oo-e Ihecus  of s-tronger.
maoit   f  h  ouoitis)  Iogeu thasdt  foe1 that inienr   Diets....        thepcoverag   of  onohtries  Afotg- th.d       udI dped  on.the eta..  .fhi icyofdata
etd~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~I: tantuioIato    ohh   onle    rraa  o   vegso   n   o  cttcaohr   These, averages are oly  sfl  incoeporh.-nog   thevleo
one irdI_c'horletatIeeSaaooghthe_ II oo-y end.refleretreygroups.
IntlADOA(tbr.eecep.h.)                                                                   Fyulalot  er htytil Nd -  otol, upar,  rd rral     Pipluiln  (ttal
d    del- on   sufc  area- -ompIin ladread toIeoid.  waer.                                             rbn  ed_ntl  do dnd y  _ier napc_P me toahor of- hoftlhd
agodtoutur-    stimate        t~  of .g..nutiY area owedt   temoretyo   emn oeuphet   uli   r   rcr   aerindoaittd   optlao   r
hewEPOi 00011k (jSII -00    r   ayi   aimnse  correc.Itimake  p             tn,cl-             dilrr  oeo             Included.  tuna0howytie  honovi,   Ocld h         eoLtb'
teehot OPNtiOtTDIN 0th 0-011  -l  kituch-nonsum dnO     of  roealit llererg   (oral.             t.iclipoy rta   oo   opci   acusbt-yloyli5otlheia
Totl Prultio. dd-bet  thosoIa)   Asof'ulyi' Shi  15f.iod  979lyOIt
a970cgIllutt7 lea;.                                                                                                ....9,sd199dta.b oueodfo   tnisclpupss
Pcoasgln i  yea  111 -Currnt  opuatio   prjeniatsarebasd 00INN            be  of peron patid  too lto lld unb,I so1d.ote  occupied- cannesloia-
ieri l , and female lfe -Icqei-taocy        -nh  pisget.;'E,9.           dI 77.yar.Tepae            ovatos dSp      II  g    iheetiiyt  ilodg  turner  aspatsng
maesfrfdolt   at   lohosteelresasmngdolsg                                                         Ad.itotal,- uobsti,an  Bura  Tdesliogsrefspsntiihsly.
feenil my eccor ding to cocose level sod- hpest.featilydplanyieg.p-ofoofeors.
sod fertility  trendsJ,foe1pro96ens1o70purposes.                                   Adfuts  foolmotPaio
Ottroo  rplatm-oa  ttinryppuaio    heeisf gothsoi                                                    etao  coo    btnl,mlesd  eat-ooetoa,-ae-n1fml
th telaeetl lvI of  not t. tat. .yrdoto            at, s  setge atttder thuit  adusedto   -di-d                                     - lengths of prmay eduaion; i flardI
ofwma   mlae  isl dooart,I ll           The sttinryppuato.se   sea                                    ounrie  with uniocslenainealeampeoe   f    eo
est"Imatd   o   h   at   ftepoetdcaatnsiea   h    auaioa  n   oeppl   r  beoAs or ebote thefofficial schoo   age.
ic  heyer    111,so  th  net  ofdelin   o  fe-J-oity-at  torpln-..o.n   col     oa,ml  and female - Cbe                                              pan d a  sbve .......
mat..   ..to              .   d I- thII ttlt    d level,iteducationIrequ ire   t   et  ot  erso  appove  ptay tstruottan;
ejee-has best resfobsd              "    tt.    Pi.  -   ht 1-usually-of iitO  7yaso   g;  oesodnsOuee   t   esal
Ptr  a     t ..  Ndye I popuerto I eP eSuag kI   oas tl  il.. hactyreel of pacnicua  snew11~llmoit                       rno   fssodl          -  ftttt1ona-  llto_Itun1on
lento f-91,  1971.sd.  195  date_.    dt.IAdul.td linarcorets fnesf(-L tasedti(beteoa   adIls
__plano    tt19 i, lqPD  and, 1t79 d-afe.                                                      militaryh  vebiotlas..       tth.p'-
Coas lashtos (ar  bmssel -Au_hi_        doth  perf thlitYd  aft.  mdid-ee gtil gpginmes feh    noaae   meuat l - Alltype  ofhredivee  foe n6d1
hrstmal reroueis   sta   if 1        abI    eaise  prasset ega-tiamiftto fee-                     eatsP    c int dtteidat feed       oenpss  a   wehfwaethsic
tilts  nana; usu lip  ire-pst ewr age  andle  is. iNeb,  97 0. egg 1079.   mssoagrleba-t-had  lieegsisg
Fmir Pthmina-  tunsoIllthrs   t.Annua  dsbausedof f-tlitgua  nieba  at  gonpe....                TOgtissfertasadIedio)-f  tota                                 tn  bewadoast das
at  i  .b-...o   yeis   na.tsptso   ainl     ai   lsigpega.gnelpulcpenosg                                                                feaait   secude a...  se    5resrc
Femur t!ic.ning-i-es  cTh.i fecideYa)- Fhossagt                        f   anidtieasessad  speryes  rai                          I       tieecha   o  T    t Ieas. is a Pans,
EotLAtbttLfhITkDt                                                                                     tai ha-q-I   i.-.   10    -.t.  da ily   i  ind appa _ts of leas  tauty  _a  asse ti...1I.
edmtoftoad Production0 Il ear 7Cent. iNNtI-Ol-t so   a   ah    nul                                Cem ionacat:,l Atmss               aia  e   sr-gsda ithe sPmter. atP.d
pedoiso  Il fod oLIMad-teC   Prtaduoti b ata-        a f esad -Itad t1udd                      Itiassi  duete  fbapea. isaludieg  tdistisa   oAen-n  lse
tea1 era  woldad.tiAggregate- productmo  sach.oatep. Is besdy. as                p-            t       .I Fit%                           i--.dl.(b                  I.   l    i.
energ .sqaRaat.e   s --tead supplie -Ara..iabla t Is toanee  patbaein                        owosr0-p  igppoeisaalaes ltatmslvrssonnsae
Clodsisssgth   ime- -d by FAD based as  thhialgio                  ...ad   fa   ofma  ant-         Iflatg asl psaategs  t  hta pabm   ferns   iota                     h-.sd  NT   data
napd  sad.~ beln  oaIdac Ig wrmata   apcsr,  aywihs  aga detussy (escaman  -  ae   ac   i   lig    nasatm.maoair
Caude  sest diteihanio ath. papdlAni.e, sad  alth iep   ith  perosan fa  easesWI at                 a     .d satiotap.I ethc   ad ga.a Iteenseagae  steal ofbs  facng    ..di.
householdlarch   I-l-t5I.1-t,tend INS date.                                             NPf ead  050 dana
oati     pl  af f.ad pat da-y..Na  spgip .f.fi.d is  a tda  share,  Is97ttinid  rates acs  iapaa  as.. ma.  eesIadfmaeis                                                 acsa
qateasans far ni  causnels establebad  by NIA  peewds twe sain's                 paosaaegasat steal  sale sa  Psasla   etaletiofat all  ges reepsIi_=ly
a-lloecew   i  rm,n   oalp_              si   e ~ d day sa-  P  rmso...;.edINl.lPi   ad17 data."_  ..   .ji   . Things acet based1  p                 am 1         b5,0ds ps tp ti  Fate
gamlenasa  en'veag  fee the  ted, pep dbyPt.g  oa th-Tird                             Lowemiti.spedInl  Nutia -   h.t.  ad popalatianuedTVac  15 aid g ffsa   ts
rived feet asimals and pulses 1w gesecblpertday;d.-td-95, 1070 aedI1957.data.                                                              ItCOt  d...TidN...id
?OAN         ITONtdCssiA   Ilcalrgn    arhwad       nulAeb   e   huadi                                eogaeo   rvt bIncI (bth Is..  foasosa tied) -I                  aevd   yoh
ag   oapIAper,t  oipldts in 1rh                    00 ag   gall for mass   ..elpingtat               5 perlsee  richet   P   aco,paet   10 p-rees..d   poarse-bt 00pfat
tied dta deived 11frot      lf   tbls  1960, dodiNSi. sad..1970  data                               of Ilti t ha .Iboda.i     h   ..,La 14                     .fi
atbirth; _iOi  107 a,..ed       ,-gh 19591dat5,sad. l   97   .-T.  abmalEd be intbs....adain   nans-lsi ab1soaati-we.                                                     li.
laPneaellngg   er haId    Annual deaths offiosoae under us5 505f                                   satIated  Absolune Parapet   .bIncg    .ludi ol  ercct)-arg                  droa
ad  dga pert iou ble hoe  lionbe        .    -.i  p..i.Abaclase p.v.rty icc .70 lana  is1 that ttalvl  ee   hchasa
qbsr atit  ....pl   (Inal af e. sd  eme... all,   moth..m.nale di ctab  ta- sets-                  uffardalt..  pt t-Lb,fI     .f-isf-ly .t9Il
matrsc sthantfoa  pyranotb..d boeahole ltlipetag .. sd. fetit.-y  e .tliePa-ae f                   altirhpuatg  iofm t        ere1   isbo  f es-ihir 19 t    r7age- pine capta
pecnanhfter  apateppltie.I:mubnaesatbi                                                         esnl  ew    tterarp.ihnlnli   acvdPm    h   ua
foeaam    ihapa ..a.      ntmr  ta   i  ma.tatne  bra   a  em    byh                        srlthdlam                  for h    igh r c st o  lio   t.isrhmae.
family' seanso needs.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f~I l,0
pannetnage  of their  sepactors Papfaims.tnctsdipat map issladsD, 
far    pl iwn     oldlaa    V.   ..X             ifnd iey .b-                        1               t~t   ..   V             i                    1           INtl       -I 
Paplaima. Ia f!oIfien -ooFapofanitcbdividd by tSDmArp-d at  racista   p-thysi-1    1..df l-o   1   S.I..   i.,
-d,aie   e   tasa   Prs  t         wpwl;ti7 s dl  da byo          lls of pratiging                                      f-_t_1  ....
maleisd ,   l   gadat  Iea             thsas,  d pret  .. ue . ad byesOistsnthse.ThdEdt,tDp-                        d_;tS-          i.f          t-  o.15.d6Il



- 29 -
Amnex I
Page 4
MADAGASCAR - E0DNCMIC INDICAIORS
GRDSS NATIONAL PRODiUCr IN 1979                           ANNUAL RATE OF GRDWTH 1/
US$ Mn.          %              1975-79
GNP at Market Prices              2,768.0          100.00             1.5
Gross Domestic Investment           619.1           22.4              4.6
Gross Domestic Saving               281.6           10.2            -17.5
Current Account Balance            -434.8          -15.7              -
Exports of Goods, NFS               482.3           17.4             -7.3
Imports of Goods, NFS               819.9           29.6              5.4
OUMPUr IABOUR FORCE AND
PRODUCTITY IN 1979
Value added 2/           Labour Force 3/        VA Per Worker
US$ Mln.        %        US$ Mln       %          US$ XMn      %
Agriculture                         961.4           34.2       3.79      88.8        253.7       38.5
Industry                            551.0           19.6       0.19       4.4      2,900.0     440.2
Services                          1,134.8          40.3        0.29       6.8      3,913.1     594.0
Unallocated                         165.9 4/         5.9
Total                             2,813.1          100.0       4.27     100.0        658.8    100.0
GOVERNFEN FINANCE
Central Goverment
FMG Bln          %of GDP
1979     1980          1979    1977-79
Current Receipts           114.1    126.3           19.1      20.1
Current Expenditures       131.8   148.8            21.6      20.5
Qarrent Deficit            -17.7    -22.5           -2.5      -0.4
Capital Expenditures        55.0    105.7            9.6       6.1
Foreign financing (net)     30.9     42.3            5.2       2.8
MDNEY, CREDIT and PRICES
1976         1977          1978           1979          1980
(Million FMG Outstanding at the End of the Period)
Mbney and Quasi Mbney                100.2        122.0        143.0           180.6         207.8
Bank Credit to public sector         19.5          29.0         49.9           100.5         186.0
Bank Credit to state enterprises
and private sector                 82.2         95.8         100.7           120.6        139.2
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Mbney and Quasi Mbney as % of GDP    23.7          26.5         29.8.           30.1           -
GDP Price Deflator (1978 = 100)      88.1          93.7        100.0.8         112.9           -
Annual percentage dcanges in
GDP Price Deflator                   11.4           6.4          6.7            12.9           -
Bank Credit to public sectort        58.5          48.7         72.1           100.4         85.1
Bank Credit to State enterprises
and private sector                4.8          16.5          5.1            19.8          15.4
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing durirg the
period covered.
1/ Based on 1978 prices seeries
2/ At market prices
3/ Total labour force
4/ Import duties
February 4, 1982



- 30 -
Annex I
Page 5
MADAGASCAR - TRADE PAYMENT  AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                  MECHANDISE EXFORTS (AVERASE 1976-79)
1978   1979   1980 1/                                US$ mln.     %
(US$ Million
Coffee                         i56.1       44.8
Vanilla                         27.1        7.8
Cloves                          46.2       13.2
Meat and meat products           9.8        2.8
Exports of Goods, f.o.b.     405.5  411.8  420.7    Fish and shellfish                15.6       4.5
Imports of Goods, f.o.b.     404.2  674.1  723.1    Sugar                             7.3        2.1
Resource Balance               1.3 -262.3  302.4    Petroleum products                11.2       3.2
Chromite                        10.7        3.1
Services (net)              -144.4 -248.2 -286.8    Other comnodities                64.7       18.5
Freight and insurance        -81.1 -137.7 -144.3           Total                     348.7     100.0
Others                       -54.4  -87.9 -102.7
Investment income             -8.9  -22.6  -39.8    rEXRNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1979
Transfers (net)               60.7  70.0  72.9                                     US$ Mln.
Private                        8.4    7.0    7.1
Public                        52.3   63.0   65.8    Public Debt, incl. guaranteed    1.035
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Current account balance      -82.4 -440.5 -516.3    Total Outstanding & Disbursed    1.035
Direct foreign investment     -6.2   -6.6   -6.6    DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980 4/
Net MLT borrowing:            22.6  145.2  199.2
Disbursenents               27.5  154.2    -
Amortization                -4.9   -9.0    -       Public Debt, incl. guaranteed   12.4
Other capital (net)2/         59.0   95.9  100.3    Non-Guaranteed Private Debt        -
Change in reserves             7.1  206.0  223.4    Total outstanding & Disbursed   12.4
(increase  -)
IBRD/IDA LENDING, March 31, 1982)
MEMD ITEMS                                                                  US$ million
SDR allocation                 -      4.7    4.7                           IBRD    IDA
Foreign assets (net)3/        64.0    -      -
Outstandinig &
Disbursed           30.92 167.01.
RATE OF EXCHANSE     1978       1979       1980      Undisbursed                  143.39.
Outstanding incl.
US$1.00 = FMG       225.64     212.72    211.30        Undisbursed         30.92 310.40
FM    1 = US$         0.0044     0.0047      .0047
_/ Provisional estimates from the Central Bank of
Madagascar.
2/ Includes SDR allocations, state and private
short-tenn capital, and errors and omissions.
3/ Net foreign assets of the banking system.
4/ Debt service payments as % of exports of goods
and services.
February 4, 1982



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1982) 1/
Loan or
Credit
Number    Year   Borrower    Purpose                  Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Eight Credits and Five Loans
have been fully disbursed                             32.58   79.55       --
CR  506-MAG  1974   Madagascar  Village Livestock                  9.60      2.72
CR  641-MAG  1976   Madagascar  Highways IV                       22.00     10.32
CR  663-MAG  1976   Madagascar  Education II                      14.00 2/   5.98
CR  817-MAG  1978   Madagascar  Andekaleka
Hydroelectric                43.00 3/  11.44
CR  881-MAG  1979   Madagascar  Mangoky - Agriculture             12.00      4.30
CR  903-MAG  1979   Madagascar  Railways II                       13.00      1.37
CR  938-MAG  1979   Madagascar  Highways V                        24.00     22.93
CR  977-MAG  1980   Madagascar  Industrial Bank - BNI              5.00      4.73
CR 1002-MAG  1980   Madagascar  Water/Sanitation                  20.50     20.37
CR 1016-MAG  1980   Madagascar  Petroleum Exploration             12.50     10.33
CR 1064-MAG  1981   Madagascar  Agriculture Credit                12.00      0.10
CR 1086-MAG  1981   Madagascar  Plain of Antananarivo T.A.         2.30      2.30
CR 1155-MAG  1981   Madagascar  Accounting and Audit 4/           11.50     11.50
CR 1161-MAG  1981   Madagascar  Forestry II 4/                    20.00     20.00
CR 1211-MAG  1982   Madagascar  Village Livestock II 4/           15.00     15.00
TOTAL                               32.58  315.95    143.39
of which has been repaid           1.66    5.55
TOTAL now outstanding               30.92  310.40
Amount sold
of which has been repaid
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA    30.92  310.40
TOTAL undisbursed                          143.39      143.39
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 1982)
Loan     Equity    Total
(US$ Million)
1977   Sotema - Textile Mill at Majunga       11.00      0.29       11.29
1980   Bata - Shoe Manufacturing in
Antananarivo                          1.25        -        1.25
12.54
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/ Including a Norwegian grant participation of US$7.0 million.
3/ Including a supplemental credit of US$10.0 million of 1980.
4/ Not yet effective.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
D. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1981 I/
Credit No 506-MAG:      Village Livestock and Rural Development Project:  US$9.6
million credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
June 17, 1975; Closing date: June 30, 1982.
The project encountered serious problems in the initial years and,
principally because of legal and organizational difficulties, little progress
was made. Following significant changes in institutional and management arran-
gements, the credit agreement was extensively amended; the Amended Agreement
became effective September 1, 1977.
The project's main situation is much improved. FAFIFAMA, the principal
project implementing agency, is now well-etablished, fully staffed and opera-
tional. Implementation of the project's most important component - the develop-
ment of veterinary and livestock services for village producers - is proceeding
well. Pasture improvement experiments are being undertaken. Schools and health
centers are being constructed, and the Ministry of Health is preparing a utiliz-
ation plan for the health centers. The development of water points and road im-
provement continue satisfactorily. Cooperation with fokonolona institutions in
all aspects of FAFIFAMA's work is good. In the middle west, OMBY continues to
provide services to villages surrounding the ranches established under the IBRD-
financed Beef Cattle Development Project. The pilot program and cattle share
fattening programs have begun, but action is limited to construction of some
buildings. Financing and administration arrangements have been worked out. The
study of cattle marketing and meat prices has been completed and submitted to
government for review. To assist the Government in financing emergency imports
of veterinary products, the Association has agreed to reallocate credit funds
and to extend the closing date by six months to June 30, 1982. A second phase
livestock project was approved by the Board in February 1982.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors about the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered and the action taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
Credit No 641-MAG:      Fourth Highway Project; US$22.0 million credit of June
23, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: August 19, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project assists the Government in the construction of two major
roads with a view of reducing transport costs and providing access to areas with
a high agricultural potential. It also includes training and strengthening of
the country's road maintenance administration. Project implementation is
satisfactory. However, start of the training program for personnel in the
Ministry of Public Works on highway maintenance has been delayed due to lack of
training facilities. Bids for construction of these facilities were received
and the contract has been awarded to the lowest bidder, SARD. Construction
works have started. Part of consultant's team (Louis Berger) has already
arrived and training has already started, although at a reduced scale at the
existing training facilities.
Credit No 663-MAG:      Second Education Project; US$14.0 million of December 10,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
The project is designed to assist the Government in decentralizing the
educational system and to improve the quality of basic education. It includes
five Regional Education Centres and vehicles for school inspectorate, one
Teaching Materials Production Centre and funds for textbook development, techni-
cal assistance and fellowships. Norway took a 50 percent participation in the
project under an agreement signed on December 16, 1977.
Architectural design work on all project institutions is now complete.
Detailed operational planning for the Teaching Materials Production Centre is
being carried out. The two key technical advisors for this Centre, provided by
the Organization for Rehabilitation through Training have been in Madagascar
since September 1977. The second phase of the ORT program is under active
preparation. Architectural work has generally been well executed although this
has taken much longer than expected. Construction of one of the project's
regional education centers is now completed and the remaining four centers are
also nearing completion.  The teaching aid production center is expected to be
completed within six months. Progress has also been made with respect to the
software components of the project including the completion of evaluation of the
educational system, decentralization of education administration and a sector
survey. The credit closing date has been postponed to December 31, 1982 to
allow additional time for project completion.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Credit No 817-MAG:      Andekaleka Hydroelectric Project; US$43.0 million credit
of June 19, 1978 (including a Supplementary Credit of
US$10 million of May 8, 1980); Date of Effectiveness:
May 30, 1979; Closing Date:  December 31, 1983.
The project would meet the growth in electricity demand until 1992 in
the Antananarivo area and provide for strengthening of JIRAMA, concrete divers-
ion dam and an intake structure; a 4-km tunnel, underground power house, tail-
race and access tunnels; two turbines and two generators; electrical and
mechanical equipment; a transmission line to Antananarivo; engineering services;
preliminary investigation and design for a storage reservoir; and technical
assistance and training for JIRAMA staff.
Contracts have been awarded for the civil works and all major equipment
and supplies. The civil works were temporarily halted last year by contractor
Skanska due to a lack of supplies caused by the unreliability of the railways.
A co-lender's meeting held on May 4, 1981 adopted a remedial action plan. The
project is expected to be completed in July 1982.
Credit No 881-MAG:      Mangoky Agricultural Development Project; US$12.0 million
credit of May 17, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: March 11,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project supports the development of about 3,700 ha for production
of rice and cotton, to be farmed by about 3,200 families. It will complete an
irrigation system serving about 10,000 ha in the Lower Mangoky Valley which has
been under development since the early 1960s. These investments are based on a
long-term master plan for the region which aims ultimately to bring about
100,000 ha of land into production. The project will be implemented over a
five-year period amd will comprise: development of irrigation and drainage
networks, and road infrastructure for 3,300 ha including production of concrete
canal segments; improvement of water supply for about 400 ha of traditional rice
fields; consultant services for design and supervision; applied agricultural
research; social infrastructure; training and project preparation for agricul-
ture and rural development projects. IFAD is financing about 25 percent of the
total project cost.
Project implementation has been seriously delayed due to problems with
(i) supply of equipment and spare parts, (ii) foreign exchange allocations, and
(iii) financial management of SAMANGOKY. These factors have had a negative
impact on the progress of civil works, in particular, the manufacture of con-
crete canal elements. Agricultural production has also been low because of poor
management of the irrigation scheme. To address these difficulties, the joint
IDA Credit and IFAD loan agreement have been amended to permit disbursement for
foreign exchange expenditures of spare parts, inputs, etc., which must be
imported. A financial audit has been conducted under the PPF for the Agricul-
tural Institutions Technical Assistance Project which has clarified SAMANGOKY's
financial situation and resulted in the introduction of improved accounting



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
practices; IDA staff are currently pursuing a dialogue with the Government on
implementation of a plan to redress SAMANGOKY's financial situation. Technical
assistance is also envisaged to provide technical support for reinforcing
agricultural production.
Credit No 938-MAG:      Fifth Highway Project; US$24.0 million credit of July 30,
1979; Date of Effectiveness:  March 17, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983.
The project will help prevent further deterioration of the paved high-
way network, thus reducing transport cost and avoiding early and costly recons-
truction works. It would also increase the maintenance capacity of the Ministry
of Public Works and provide for an all-weather road connection between the
regional district of Antomboka and the capital, Antananarivo. Co-financing is
provided by a European Economic Community Special Action Account credit of US$10
million. Due to inefficiencies of the highway administration progress so far
has been slow, implementation is already about 2 years behind schedule.
However, the contract for construction of bridges and approaches has been
awarded and physical execution of the project is now getting underway. High
bids for this contract have resulted in a cost overrun of US$6 million.
Credit No 903-MAG:      Second Railway Project; US$13.0 million credit of June
25, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
The objectives of the project are to help the Malagasy railway company
renew and modernize its facilities, improve the reliability and efficiency of
its operations and improve its financial management-and accounting methods. The
French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique provided US$20.5 million in
co-financing.
The railway has been experiencing major difficulties for some time, due
to: i) fuel problems; ii) Government intervention in Railway operations; iii)
increased derailments; iv) deteriorating financial situation; and most recently,
v) Government dismissal of the Director General and the Technical Director of
the railway company.
A recovery program including short-term technical assistance for the
railway has been adopted, following discussions with Malagasy officials. The
government has been informed of the urgent need to improve the finances and
financial management of the railway if IDA is to continue providing assistance.
The project funds are almost fully disbursed.
Credit No 977-MAG:      Bankin'ny Indostria (BNI) Project; US$5.0 million credit
of May 8, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: February 24,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project supports Madagascar's industrial sector and BNI's crucial



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
development role by providing BNI with part of its foreign exchange requirements
to finance projects in the artisanal/small-scale and medium-scale enterprise
sectors and by strengthening BNI itself through technical assistance. To date
about US$4.0 million of the credit has been committed for medium- and
large-scale enterprises. However, the pace of commitment of funds for small
scale enterprises is slower, owing to the low ceiling (US$55,000) set for
eligibility under this category.
Credit No 1002-MAG:    Antananarivo Water and Sanitation Project; US$20.5
million Credit of May 8, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:
December 17, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The project will increase access to treated water for the Antananarivo
urban population and improve sanitation conditions. Detailed designs of the
water supply works has been completed and tender documents have been issued.
Detailed design of the sanitation component is expected to be completed by the
May 1982. Construction work on the water supply component will commence as soon
as bid eyaluation is completed and the contract awarded.
Credit No 1016-MAG:    Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project; US$12.5 million
Credit of May 8, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: August 20,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project will support the Government's efforts to develop a domestic
supply of hydrocarbons and improve planning of the energy sector. Implementa-
tion of the project is progressing satisfactorily. Geological and legal consul-
tants were employed to assist the Government in preparing data with a view to
promoting exploration by interested oil companies. Bids from oil companies to
undertake exploration have now been received and two exploration contracts have
been signed with Mobil and Occidental Petroleum corporations. Other studies and
technical assistance provided in the project are proceeding satisfactorily,
including preparation of a second project to study the feasibility of exploiting
the Tsimiroro heavy oil deposits.
Credit No 1065-MAG:    National Bank for Rural Development -(BTM) Project;
US$11.5 million Credit of January 7, 1981; Date of
Effectiveness: August 17, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
The project supports the extension of seasonal, medium-term, and
long-term credit to smallholders through the National Bank for Rural Development
(BTM) for the purchase of improved seeds, pesticides, insecticides, fertilizers,
and small farm equipment. Due to poor repayment records on many loans extended
under the collective guarantee credit scheme (FMR) BTM has suspended the FMR
scheme in many regions. This action has resulted in a significant drop in
lending activity. Consequently, BTM has been able to use only a small amount of
Project funds as it has only marginally exceeded the base period level necessary



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
to qualify for reimbursement from the IDA Credit. In addition, due to the
scarcity of foreign exchange, few inputs are available in Madagascar. To help
remedy the current situation, BTM has proposed that part of the Credit be used
to finance fertilizer imports destined for smallholders in selected rice growing
areas. These fertilizers would provide farmers with inputs and would support
lending operations directed to individuals rather than through cooperatives.
The details of this proposal are currently being finalized by BTM management and
should be presented to the Bank for consideration shortly.
Credit No 1086-MAG:    Plain of Antananarivo (Technical Assistance) Project;
US$2.3 million Credit of January 30, 1981; Date of Effec-
tiveness:  October 16, 1981; Closing Date:  December 31,
1983.
The project supports the Government's efforts to institute a
multisectoral approach to an integrated flood control and development program
for the Plain of Antananarivo area; it would also contribute to strengthening
the coordinating role of the Directorate General of Planning of the Ministry of
Finance in the development of the Plain of Antananarivo. This would be achieved
through pre-investment studies to define options for flood control programs and
to provide Government with elements for decision-making. A contract has been
awarded and work began in early 1982.
Credit No 1155-MAG:    Audit and Accounting Project; US$11.5 million Credit of
June 11, 1981; Expected Date of Effectiveness: June 15,
1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1988.
The project includes measures to develop a suitable legislative frame-
work for the accounting and auditing sector and aims to increse the level of
expertise in these professions through training. Consultants have been retained
to start the design of the training programs. Government legislation providing
for the creation of the training center has been enacted.
Credit No 1161-MAG:    Second Mangoro Forestry Project, US$20.0 million Credit
of October 29, 1981; Expected Date of Effectiveness:
July 1, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1987.
The project will continue the reforestation program begun under the
first project, and will assist the Government's efforts to establish a forestry
industrial complex in the Mangoro Valley. Recent studies have shown that forest
yields will be lower than previously estimated, and studies are currently under
way to determine the most appropriate industrial development for the wood
resources available. The credit is not yet effective, and the deadline for
effectiveness has been extended to July 1, 1982.
Credit No 1211-MAG:   Second Village Livestock Project; US$15.0 million credit
of April 15, 1982; Expected Date of Effectiveness:
August 15, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1987
The Project would support the Government's effort.s to increase beef



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
production and to improve the productivity of the sector through animal health
programs, the provision of veterinary inputs, technical assistance and
research. In Mahajanga province, basic animal health programs would be
continued and extended, and a pilot animal production program, supported by
rural road and water supply components, would be implemented. Veterinary
supplies and equipment for producing vaccines would be imported; and management           4r
assistance and training for key institutions in the livestock sector would be
included.



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
MADAGASCAR
AGRICULTURE INSTITUTIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events:
(a)  Time taken to prepare project         one year
(b)  Project prepared by:                  Government and Consultants
(c)  Initial discussions with IDA:         November 1980
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:        July 1981
(e)  Negotiations:                         April 1982
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:         September 1982
Section II - Special Implementation Action:
None
Section III - Special Conditions of the Project:
(i)  The Government would submit an interim agricultural invest-
ment plan to IDA for review and comment by February 1, 1983
and a final version of the plan by May 1, 1983 (para. 46);
(ii)  The Government would submit to IDA for comment by February 1,
1983 a short-term action plan to increase rice production and
improve rice processing and marketing (para. 49);
(iii)  The Government would submit to IDA for its comments the find-
ings and recommendations of the studies to review Government
procedures for managing rice imports and input distribution
for rice production by May 1, 1983 (para. 49);



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(iv)   The Government would submit to IDA for comment the findings
and recommendations resulting from the review of SINPA's
operations and of the rice marketing system by June 1, 1983
(para. 55).
Condition of Disbursement
A condition of disbursement for expenditures made in connect-
ion with (a) the preparation of a short-term plan to increase
rice production and improve rice processing and marketing,
(b) studies for managing rice imports and input distribution,
and (c) analysis of rice marketing operations would be that a
rice coordinating unit be created (para. 48).



- 41 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 3
Tentative List of Expert Services
Needed Under Technical Assistance Project
A.        Strengthening, Planning and Project Preparation
A total of 93 staff-months of technical assistance would be provided
for this component broken down into three main areas of activity: (a) invest-
ment planning: 18 staff-months; (b) project preparation: 60 staff-months; and
(c) coordination of rice development activities: 15 staff-months. These would
be further broken down as follows:
(a)   Investment Planning:  6 staff-months of a specialist in invest-
ment planning to prepare a 3-year investment plan (1984-86) for the agriculture
sector; 6 staff-months of a specialist in investment planning to review planning
systems and procedures in DEP, to propose improvements and staff training pro-
grams, and to. provide periodic supervision of such improvement programs; and 6
staff-months of investment specialists to assist with the annual budget exercise
and to address specific operational problems as needed. All specialists engaged
should have formal training in economics with experience in planning work,
preferably in sub-Sahara Africa.
(b)   Project Preparation:  60 staff-months of consulting services.
Consultants would have expertise in the following fields: agricultural econo-
mics, agronomy, animal husbandry, irrigation systems, operational research.
(c) Rice Coordination: 3 staff-months for preparation of an action
plan for rice development activities; 12 staff-months of consulting services to
examine rice import procedures and systems for distributing rice and production
inputs and to propose improvements. Specialists should have background in
management fields as well as appropriate specialization (e.g. marketing, food
planning) and experience in sub-Saharan Africa.
B.        Parastatal Management
A total of 162 staff-months of technical assistance would be provided
for this component broken down into the following key activities: (a) financial
and management audits, preparation of management improvement programs for
SOMALAC, SAMANGOKY, and FIFABE, and supervision of management improvement
programs once in place: 110 staff-months; (b) study of the rice marketing system
in Madagascar: 40 staff-months; and (c) management audits of a limited number
of agricultural parastatals, to be selected after experience with the first
management audits: 12 staff-months.
(a)   With assistance under the PPF, a contract for about 65 staff-
months was signed for the financial and management audits and preparation of
improvement programs for SOMALAC, SAMANGOKY, and FIFABE. The consultant team
assembled for this work has been an interdisciplinary one, composed of both



- 42 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 3
expatriate and Malagasy experts. The fields of expertise represented in the
team have included: management, accounting, economics, agronomy, irrigation
systems, civil engineering, socio-ethnology, law, and organizational psycho-
logy.  It is expected that experts in these fields would also be responsib.e for
monitoring the implemientation of the management improvement programs proposed
under the project.  Specialists in organizing in-house training programs and          
seminars would also be needed.
(b)   Rice Marketing:  40 staff-months of technical assistance would
be required to study the rice production, consumption, and marketing
arrangements in Madagascar to identify physical constraints and government
policies which impede efficient marketing, and to make recommendations which
would put the marketing system on a sound operational basis. Should there
continue to be a role for state marketing companies, indepth analyses of key
institutions (particularly SINPA) would be conducted. An interdisciplinary team
of experts would be assembled for these studies composed of both expatriate and
Malagasy experts. The fields of expertise represented in the team would
include:  management, accounting, economics, marketing, and transport.
(c)   Management Audits of Selected Agriculture Parastatals:  12
staff-months of consulting services. Consultants would have expertise in the
following fields: management and accounting.
C.        Government Services
A total of 36 staff-months of technical assistance would be provided
for this component, broken down into two main areas: (a) organizational
analysis of HPARA and the SDR of Antananarivo and implementation of
reorganization and management strengthening programs: 24 staff-months; and (b)
strengthening management and operations of FOFIFA: 12 staff-months.
(a)   Organization Study of MPARA:  14 staff-months of technical
assistance would be provided to study the organizational structure and
operational procedures of MPARA and to propose alternative organizational
arrangements. Ten staff-months of technical assistance would be provided to
study the organizational and operational constraints to the effective
performance of the SDR of Antananarivo and to propose a redefinition of SDR
functions and alternative organizational formulas corresponding to the new
definition of responsibilities. An interdisciplinary team of consultants would
be assembled composed of both expatriate and Malagasy experts. Expertise in the
following fields would be represented: public administration, management and
finance, extension, and training.
(b)   Strengthening FOFIFA:  6 staff-months of technical assistance
would be provided to reconstruct a collection of Malagasy rice research



- 43 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 3
materials; 6 staff-months of technical assistance to prepare a management
improvement program for FOFIFA, including training, and to monitor its
implementation. Consultants should have qualifications and appropriate
experience in agricultural research, preferably in Africa, but would also
require a sound background in management and administration.



- 44 -
Chart 1
MADAGASCAR
AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Ministry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform
Minister     r
Cabinet
I     Secretar  General
Administration            Legislation                                External RelationsOPS
and Finance              and Claims                                  Documentation              Services
711~~~~~~~li
Director General of                                             Director of Studies
Rural Development                                                and Programming
and Agrarian Reform                                              a
Directors of    1                      Agricultural
-   Agrarian Reform                  Faritany Rural                       Statistics
Development
Departments (6)
1                    ~~~Support to             Regional
Crop Production                                                   Management              Development
Fivondronana                      of Enterprises           Authorities
Rural Development                                           and Parastatals
Services (18)
Irrigation       IProgramming
I Imgation  l                             g      and Finance
l   ____|[ Local Extension
Services for the
Water and Forestry            Firaisam-pokontany                   Studies and
Water and Forestry[  or the Fokontany                              Laboratories
Education and
Animal Production                                                  Agricultural
Training
Agricultural
Industrialization
Agricultural
Equipment
World Bank-23897



-45-                                                                    Chart 2
MADAGASCAR
AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FOFIFA
(National Center for Applied Research on Rural Development)
Management Committee
Manager
Scientific Committee      Research Department        Research Department        Research Department        Research Department        Financial and Admin-
in Agronomy          in Forestry and Fisheries     in Zootechny and         in Technology, Agri-         istration Service
Veterinary Science        cultural Mechaniza-     -Accounting Service
tion, Hydraulics and    - Documentation Service
Conservation Matters
(Department Director)     1. Agronomy Division         1. Forestry Division     1. Pathology Division      1 Agricultural
2. Genetic Division         2. Soil Division         2. Parasitology Division      Technology Division
3. Pedology Division        3. Fishery Division      3. Livestock Division      2. Agricultural
4 Phytopatho-               4. Technology            4. Animal Nutrition           Mechanization
logy Division               Division                 Division                   Division
|Standing Committee         5. Entomology Division                                                           3. Agricultural
Hydraulics
Division
4. Conservation
Matters Division
14 Regional                                                                      A Number of
Research                 10 Research                2 Research              Research Stations
Stations                   Stations                   Stations       I      wil be Established
and Centers
World Bank-23898



-46-
Chart 3
MADAGASCAR
AGRICULTURE INSTITUTIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1981                           1%82                                 1983                                   1984                          1985
J|J JAS  0; NJ D  J|F|           MPA M|AMJ0  JNJA  s  O|N|D  JI FIM|A|M|J| J0A|                  J | F M I ,MI  |J I A  S I0IN   i   I F M  AIMJIJI
Planning and Project Preparation
-  Recruitment of Consjltants
- 3-Yea lnvestm,ent Plan
-  Stnenghehing Planning Procad|res
-  PMjemt         t Prerparatio  Studies
Rice Plannig Unit
- Short-Term Plan
-  Studient 
- Study of Rice Marketing
Perastatal Management
-  Recruitment of Consultants
- Financial Audits
ISOMALAC. SAMANGOKY, FIFABE)
- Management Audics (SOMALAC, FIPABE)
- Management Improvement Program
lSOMALAC, SAMANGOKY)
- Other Mananement Audits
Government Services
- Recruitmento0fConsultants
-  Organization Study MPARA 
- Organization Study StDR
- Management Improvement Programs
iMPARA and SDR)
Reasearch Program 
- Re-rinment of Consultants
- Organization Study FOFIFA
- Management Improvement Program FOPFIFA
- Implementaftion Research Programn
IDA
Apptraisal
Negotiations 
Board Approval[                                                                  0
Effectiveness0
Closing                                                                                                                      L                                                               _______
LApril 8, 1982                                                                                                                                                                              World Bank-23621



IBRD 13654R
4'                                   A!                              A'                              ge~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00~  JANUARY 1979
MADAGASCAR                                                                 b
AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
NOSSI-BE
Major IBRD Proiocts              PFovd RoOdts                                 He-yoew
MAJOR CROPS                       AHWooth.r P4adt
Von~Ila-                          Nor*persnrnnt Road$
4-   J         Pepper irs.4   v 1
C CLoves                        +      Arot
Cotton                  -         1sohyefs (m per year)              A
Poa D. Ccp              FfitonBons dries                                                                              ntOi0h0
NOTE; Rice and CUoe are diwribut*4 oe   ev;                                                                                       P
o     50    %go    120    200    250
0         so         10
MItOS  Soolalo    -  M ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Mopi                     nova ~~~~~~~~~~~~16.-
Mozambique                                                                                                            Loc Alootro Projet
Ranching Pr'oj.ct              Anso
Ch en ne                                                                                                                 ndian
~,jO  i~Z;~o~;  ~  ~     MonoroF(orstry
~Qffl4r                                                                    :        % ----  M 
Mangoky Project   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~Prec
mbe                                          O n        Ocon
-b.rdy
M t A;cry4aky  f]anarF 0                  n |o
: f                45                             4                                48 0              At/arr -   731 1~~~B



