DOCUMENS      DIT NUMBER 1249 MAG
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Institutions Technical
Assistance Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1249 MAG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   A     2                   , 1982, between
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF      GASCAR (hereinafter called the Bor-
rower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the Gene:al Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepa-
ration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters dated July 28, 1981 and September 10,
1981 between the Borrower and the Association;
(b) "MPARA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agricultural
Production and Agrarian Reform;
(c) "DEP" means the Department for Studies and Planning
within the Borrower's Ministry of Agricultural Production and
Agrarian Reform;
(d) "SAMANGOKY" means Societe      pour  l'Am9nagement et
la Mise en Valeur de la Vallee du Bas Mangoky;
(e) "SOMALAC" means Societg Malgache pour l'Amenagemeat
du Lac Alaotra;
(f) "FIFABE" means Comite d'Expansion Economique de la
Plaine de Marovoay;


﻿- 2 -
(g) "FOFIFA" means Centre National de Recherche Appliguge
pour le DSveloppement Rural;
(h) "S-D-R" means Service de Dfveloppement Rural within the
Borrower's Ministry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian
Reform;
(i) "Coordinating Unit" means the unit to be created by the
Borrower pursuant to Section 3.10 of this Agreement; and
(j) "SINPA" means Socifit& d'Int6r8t Nationale des Produits
Agricoles.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to five million two hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 5,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
Cnd pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amovnt of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985 or
such later date as the Association shall establish.    The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreeient to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency. specified in this
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies
as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant
to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1 commencing September 1, 1992, and ending March 1,
2032, each installment to and including the installment payable
on March 1, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2,09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A,
C.1, C.2, C.5 and D of the Project through DEP and Part B of the


﻿-4-
Project through the Coordinating Unit with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative
and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall cause SOMALAC to carry out Part
C.3 of the Project, SAMANGOKY to carry out Part C.4 of the
Project and FOFIFA to carry out Part E of the Project and shall
cause SOMALAC, SANANGOKY and FOFIFA to do so with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative
and financial practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds needed for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
Parts A, B, C.2, C.5 and D of the Project, in order to assist
SOMALAC to carry out Part C.3 of the Project, in order to assist
SAMANGOKY to carry out Part C.4 of the Project and in order to
assist FOFIFA to carry out Part E of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ or shall cause SOMALAC, SAMANGOKY and FOFIFA to
employ consultants whose selection, qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association, in accordance with the principles and procedures
described in the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" pub-
lished by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the
purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports and contract documents for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.


﻿-5-
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents;
(iii) shall furnish to the Association all interim reports pre-
pared by consultants under the Project; (iv) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds; and (v) by June 30, 1983
or such other date as the Association may agree prepare through
DEP a iLd-Lerm Project review to be discussed by the Borrower and
the Association.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded
and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such Lcope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.05. (a) In carrying out Part A.1 of the Project the
Borrower shall:
(i) by February 1, 1983 or by such other date as the
Association may agree submit an interim investment
plan to the Association for its comments; and


﻿-6-
(ii) by May 1, 1983 or by such other date as the
Association may agree submit the final version
of the investment plan to the Association.
(b) By February 1, 1983 or by such other date as the
Association may agree the Borrower shall, in carrying out Part A.2
of the Project, submit to the Association recommendations for
measures to be undertaken to strengthen DEP's planning capability.
Section 3.06. (a) By February 1, 1983 or by such other date
as the Association may agree the Borrower shall, in carrying out
Part B.1 of the Project, submit to the Association for its com-
ments a short-term plan to increase rice production and to improve
rice processing and marketing.
(b) By May 1, 1983 or by such other date as the Associa-
tion may agree the Borrower shall submit to the Association
for its comments the findings and recommendations of the studies
to be carried out under Part B.2 of the Project.
(c) By-June 1, 1983 or by such other date as the Associa-
tion may agree the Borrower shall submit to the Association for
its comments the findings and recommendations of the studies to be
carried out under Part B.3 of the Project.
Section 3.07. By July 15, 1982 or by such other date as
the Association may agree the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association for its approval detailed recommendations for the
strengthening of SOMALAC's and SAMANGOKY's management to be
carried out under Parts C.3 and C.4 of the Project.
Section 3.08. By April 1, 1983 or by such other date as
the Associrtion may agree the Borrower shall submit to the
Association: (i) the findings of the studies to be carried out
under Parts D.1 and D.4 of the Project for its review and com-
ments; and (ii) the measures to be carried out under Part D.2
of the Project for its approval.
Section 3.09. By March 31, 1983 or by such other date as
the Association may agree the Borrower shall submit to the Asso-
ciation for its approval a program to strengthen the management
of FOFIFA and a detailed research program for FOFIFA.
Section 3.10. By August 31, 1982 or by such other date
as the Association may agree the Borrower shall establish and


﻿-7-
thereafter maintain a Coordinating Unit for the planning of rice
production and marketing with sufficient authority to carry out
its mandate.
Section 3.11. Prior t. the carrying out of any training under
such Parts of the Project as cited below in this Section the
Borrower shall submit to the Association for its approval detailed
proposals for training to be carried out under Parts A.3, C.2 and
D.3 of the Project and shall cause FOFIFA to submit detailed
proposals for training to be carried out under Part E.3 of the
Project.
Section 3.12. By December 31, 1982 or by such other date as
the Association may agree the Borrower shall submit to the Asso-
ciation for its approval a list of companies to be audited under
Part C.5 of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the carrying out of Parts A, B, C.1, C.2, C.5, ana D of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsi-
ble for carrying out of such Parts of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section, for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year
as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning such accounts and the audit thereof
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause SAMANGOKY, SOMALAC
and FOFIFA to maintain separate accounts and records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate


﻿-8-
accounting practices: (i) the operations and financial condition
of SAMANGOKY, SOMALAC and FOFIFA; and (ii) their respective
operations and expenditures in respect of the carrying out of
Parts C.3, C.4 and E of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause SAMANGOKY, SOMALAC and FOFIFA:
(i) to have their accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscam year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistenly applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) to furnish to the Association
as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of their
financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) to furnish to the Association such other information con-
cerning the accounts and financial statements of SAMANGOKY,
SOMALAC and FOFIFA and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time ta time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date /0 4   ,/   D /92, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Sectio  12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minist4re aupr4s de la Pr6sidence de
la R6publique chargA des Finances of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministare aupres de la Prfsidence
chargg des Finances
Antananarivo
Madagascar


﻿9
Cable address:                         Telex:
MINFIN                                22339
Antananarivo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                              440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                      248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, act!ng through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
By      ALR"/)k                       -x-;
Authorized Representati e
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regicnal Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Equipment under                  990,000     100% of foreign
Parts A through E                            expenditures
of the Project                               and 50% of local
expenditures
(2) Consultants' services          1,500,000     100% of foreign
under Parts A, C,                            expenditures
D and E of the                               and 50% of local
Project                                     expenditures
(3) Consultants' services            510,000     100% of foreign
under Part B of                              expenditures
the Project                                 and 50% of local
expenditures
(4) Training under Parts             530,000     100% of foreign
A.3, C.2, D.3 and E.3                       expenditures
of the Project                               and 50% of local
expenditures
(5) Refunding of Project             890,000     Amount due
Preparation Advance
(6) Unallocated                      780,000
TOTAL          5,200,000


﻿- 11 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Asseciation may, by notice to the
- Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made: (i) for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (ii) for
expenditures under Category 3 of the table in paragraph 1 above
until the Borrower shall have established the Coordinating Unit
pursuant to Section 3.10 of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.


﻿- 12 -
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of aAPy item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Management Assistance for DEP
1.   Preparation of a three year investment plan covering
the years 1984-86;
2.   Strengthening of DEP's planning capability; and
3.   Training of DEP's staff.
Part B:   Technical Assistance for the Planning of Rice
Production and Marketing
1.   Preparation of a short-term plan to increase rice
production and to improve the processing and market-
ing of rice;
2.   Studies to review the Borrower's procedures for managing
rice imports and input distribution for rice production;
and
3.   A study to review the Borrower's rice marketing system,
including the review of SINPA's operations.
Part C:   Management Assistance for SAMANGOKY, SONALAC
and FIFABE and other selected companies
1.   Financial audits of SAMANGOKY, SOMALAC, and FIFABE and
management audits of SOMALAC and FIFABE;
2.   Training of the staff of SAMANGOKY, SOMALAC and FIFABE;
3.   Strengthening of SOMALAC's management;
4.   Strengthening of SAMANGOKY's management; and
5.    Management audits of selected companies.
Part D:   Studies pertaining to the Organization of MPARA
1.   Studies to evaluate the organizational structure
and operational procedures of MPARA, including


﻿- 14 -
the identification of immediate measures to be under-
taken to reorganize MPARA;
2.   Implementation of the measures identified in the
carrying out of Part D.1 of the Project;
3.   Training of MPARA's staff; and
4.   A study to review the organizational structure, the
operational procedures and the resources available to
the S-D-R of Antananarivo.
Part E:   Technical Assistance to FOFIFA
1.   Preparation of a program to reorganize FOFIFA and
implementation of such program;
2.   Preparation of a detailed research program and implemen-
tation thereof; and
3.   Training of FOFIFA's staff.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1984.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.   Except as provided in paragraph 2 of this Schedule, goods
shall be procured after competitive bidding advertised locally
under contracts awarded in accordance with the Borrower's regular
procurement procedures which shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
2.   With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $10,000 or less goods may be procured through prudent
local shopping.
3.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $30,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before they are issued to
the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other inform-
ation as the Association shall reasonably-request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.


﻿- 16 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
4.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
5.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting- an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Associatitin.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  ah      day of
198   (
FOR SECRETARY


