FILE     COPY                          RESTRICTED
Report No. P-365
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON THE
INDUS BASIN DEVELOPMENT FUND (SUPPLEMENTAL) AGREEMENT
March 23, 1964



;
i
I
l
l
I



REPORT AiND RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT
TO TIIE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON THE
INDUS BASIN DEVELOPMCNT FUND (SUPPLEMENTAL) AGREEYENT
1.        The Indus daters Treaty 1960 was signed on September 19, 1960,
and marked the end of a long-standing and critical dispute between India
and Pakistan regarding the use of the waters of the Indus river and its
five tributaries. Under this Treaty Pakistan was to have the use of the
waters of the Indus and the two western tributaries, the Jhelum and Chenab,
and India the use of the three eastern tributaries, the Ravi, Beas and
Sutlej. This division of waters under the Treaty necessitated the
construction of works to transfer water from the Indus, Jhelum and Chenab,
to meet irrigation uses in Pakistan hitherto met by water from the three
eastern tributaries. The effect of the transfer will be eventually to
release the whole flow of these tributaries for irrigation development in
India. The system of canals and reservoirs to be constructed were however
to provide substantial irrigation development and develop important hydro-
electric potential in Pakistan.
2.        In order to provide funds for this vast undertaking, simultaneously
with the signing of the Treaty, an international agreement known as "The
Indus Basin Development Fund Agreement, 196G"I was executed which established
a Fund with an amount of $895 million equivalent and of which the Bank was
to act as Administrator. This amount included the equivalent of $174 million
to be provided by India under the Treaty and a Loan of $80 million from the
Bank. The parties to the Agreement were Australia, Canada, Germany, New
Zealand, Pakistan, the United Kingdom, the United States and the Bank. This
Fund was estimated to be sufficient to cover the total cost of the program
of works to be constructed in Pakistan, both foreign exchange and local
expenditures.
3.        As time went on it became increasingly clear that the tentative
estimates were low and that the real cost of the project would far exceed the
resources of the Fund. Negotiations for an increase in the resources of the
Fund and agreement on the works to be built, have taken place over a period
of years. However, it proved difficult to get a meeting of the minds because
the total cost of the program in Pakistan, which Pakistan wished to complete,
was now estimated to cost not less than twice the amount available to the
Fund for this purpose and the Contributing Governments were not willing to
subscribe additional amounts to the extent required.



4.        In September of last year I obtained from the Contributing Govern-
ments an assurance of additional subscriptions to the Fund which with a new
Bank Loan of $58.54 million would total $315 million.  This assurance was,
however, contingent on a satisfactory resolution of outstanding problems.
In November I went to Pakistan to try to workl out a settlement with
President Ayub.
5.        As T advised you at a meeting of the Executive Directors on
November 26 a2ter my return from Pakistan, I was able to secure an agreer;ent
with President Ayub which wras embodied in a Memorandum of Understanding, a
copy of which is attached (No. 1).
6.        After the Contributing Governments had approved the Memorandum of
Understanding, its substance was incorporated in a draft Supplemental Agree-
ment of The Indus Basin Development Fund Agreement, 196C.
7.        The basis of the settlement set out in the draft Supplemental
Agreement is as follows:  Firstly, in Section 1.01 Pakistan accepts the
arrangernent set forth in the draft Supplemental Agreement as a full and
complete discharge of all obligations, whether legal or moral, expressed or
implied, of the other Parties under the 1960 Agreement. Secondly the
priorities of the Indus Basin Development Fund have now been delineated.
The Fund as augmented should now have sufficient monies to carry out the
program of works, including the Study, described in Section 4.01. Any
foreign exchange remaining would be disbursed as needed in accordance with
procedures to be agreed upon between Pakistan and the Bank for the foreign
exchange cost of the Tarbela project or of some other development project or
projects in the water and power sector of West Pakistan as provided in
Section 4.02.
8.        The draft Supplemental Agreement was first agreed between the Bank
and the Government of Pakistan. Thereafter it was circulated to the
Contributing Governments. Germany, New Zealand and the United States have
already advised the Bank that their Governments will sign the Supplemental
Agreement as now drafted and I am expecting favorable replies shortly from
Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom. Copies of both The Indus Basin
Development Fund Agreement, 1960, and the draft Supplemental Agreement are
attached (Nos. 2 and 3). There is also attached an Indus Location map (No. 1h).
9.        As you will note from Section 2.C1 of the draft Supplemental Agree-
ment, the amount called for from the Bank is US$ 58,5h0,0O0. Under
Section 2.0h of the Supplemental Agreement, it is possible for this amount
to be made available in the form of a Bank Loan or an International Development
Association Credit or both.  At a later date I propose to present to the
Executive Directors my recommendations on this matter.



10.       In the meantime, I recommend that the Execui,ive Directors
authorise the execution ia the name and on behalf of The Bank of the Indus
Basin Developrent Fund (Supplemental) Agreement in the form attached and
that the Executive Directors adopt a Resolution to that effect in the form
attached (No. 5).
Washington, D.C.                                      George D. Woods
March 23, 1964                                          President



I
.



.                        I               ,                                                                                                I
.                         I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            i
i
i
ii
i
i
i
i
i
i
i
I
i
I
I
I1
ii
I
t
i
t



