Document of                       IFLE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3343-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
PHILIPPINE NATIONAL OIL COMPANY
TO BE GUARANTEED BY THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
COAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
May 27, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Peso (P 100 centavos)
? 1.00          = US$0.123
US$1.00        = P 8.1
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADB     -  Asian Development Bank
BED     -  Bureau of Energy Development
GNP     -  Gross National Product
ICB     -  International Competitive Bidding
NCA     -  National Coal Authority
NPC     -  National Power Corporation
ODA     -  Official Development Assistance
PNOC    -  Philippine National Oil Company
PNOC-CC -  Philippine National Oil Company - Coal Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January 1 to December 31
PNOC      : January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
COAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Philippine National Oil Company (PNOC)
Guarantor:         Republic of the Philippines
Beneficiary:       PNOC-Coal Corporation (PNOC-CC)
Amount:            $17.0 million (including capitalized front-end fee)
Terms:             Repayable over 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with
interest at 11.60% p.a.
Onlending Terms:  The proceeds. of the loan (exclusive of front end fee) would
be passed on by PNOC to PNOC-CC as an equity contribution.
PNOC would bear the foreign exchange risk, and pay the 1.5%
front end fee and the 0.75% commitment charge on the
undisbursed balance of the loan.
Project
Description:    The proposed project would be the Bank's first lending
operation in support of the Government's efforts to reduce
its dependence on imported oil through the development
of domestic energy resources. The project's objectives
would be: (a) to provide geological data for two coal-
bearing areas with development potential, and thus
contribute to the expansion of domestic coal supply;
(b) to contribute to the acceleration of the development of
coal supply through detailed exploration in a known coal
field; and (c) to strengthen the technical capability of
PNOC-CC in its coal operations. The project would consist
of regional coal exploration in Samar and Eastern Mindanao,
to locate and evaluate coal occurrences which might be
amenable to mining by open pit methods; detailed coal
exploration in the Lalat area of South Western Mindanao, to
assess the economic viability of a prospective coal area,
previously identified; and the provision of technical
assistance to PNOC-CC in coal geology and mining
engineering.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without IFC authorization. 



- ii -
The short-term benefit of the proposed project would be
the possible advancement to production stage of one
previously identified coal deposit through the completion
of exploration to the prefeasibility stage. The long-term
benefits would be the generation of a reliable coal data
base for Samar and Eastern Mindanao - two areas with good
potential for the development of open-pit coal mines - the
stimulation of private sector activity in the coal sector
through the basic geological knowledge acquired through
the project, and the transfer of exploration and
engineering technology to the staff of the agencies
responsible for coal operations, which would serve to                         a
assure the better development of Philippine coal resources
in the future.
The main project risks would be associated with (i) the
possibility of not locating technically and economically
viable deposits in the project areas; and (ii) activist
groups operating particularly in the Samar region. To
address the first, the project would be implemented in
phases, each phase to be undertaken only after a careful
appraisal of the results of the preceding phase. As to
the second, the risk is considered acceptable, as similar
exploration and mining activities are already being
carried out in the Samar area without problems.



- iii-
Cost Estimates
Local   Foreign   Total
…-- ($ million) ----
A.  Regional Exploration
1.  Consultant Services                0.21      1.34      1.55
2.  Drilling Equipment                  -        3.37      3.37
3.  Operational Drilling Expenses   2.67         2.78      5.45
4.  Field Equipment                    0.05       1.58     1.63
5.  Field Logistics                     1.21     0.14      1.35
6.  Borehole Logging Contract            -       0.50      0.50
7.  Ancillary Services                 0.42      0.43      0.85
Subtotal Regional Exploration  4.56    10.14    14.70
B.  Detailed Exploration                    0.85      1.65      2.50
C.  Technical Assistance                    0.25      1.60      1.85
Base Cost                            5.66    13.39    19.05
Physical Contingencies               0.57      1.34      1.91
Price Contingencies                  1.30      2.48      3.78
Total Project Cost                   7.53    17.21    24.74
Front End Fee on Bank Loan            -        0.25      0.25
Total                             7.53    17.46    24.99
Financing Plan
IBRD                                        -     17.0       17.0
Government/PNOC                            7.5      0.5       8.0
Total                              7.5    17.5        25.0
Disbursements:
Bank FY:             FY83      FY84     FY85    FY86
Annual               2.0       9.2      3.7      2.1
Cumulative           2.0       11.2    14.9    17.0
Economic Rate
of Return        Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal
Report           No separate report.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE PHILIPPINE NATIONAL OIL COMPANY TO BE GUARANTEED
BY THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A COAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Philippine National Oil Company (PNOC), to be guaranteed by the Rep-
bulic of the Philippines, for the equivalent of $17.0 million to help
finance a coal exploration project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including 5 years of grace, with interest at 11.60% per annum.  The proceeds
of the loan (exclusive of front end fee) would be passed on by PNOC to
PNOC-CC as an equity contribution. PNOC would bear the foreign exchange
risk and pay the 1.5% front-end fee and the 0.75% commitment charge on the
undisbursed balance of the loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        An economic report, entitled "The Philippines:  Domestic and
External Resources for Development" (No. 2674-PH), was distributed to the
Executive Directors under SecM79-822, dated November 16, 1979. A special
report, "Aspects of Poverty in the Philippines: A Review and Assessment"
(No. 2984-PH), was distributed to the Executive Directors on December 1,
1980 under SecM80-919. An economic mission visited the Philippines in
September 1981 and is now preparing its report./2 Country data are given in
Annex 1.
Performance in the 1970s
3.        During the 1970s, economic performance improved considerably,
raising the trend GNP growth rate to 6% at the end of the decade. The ratio
of fixed investment to GNP rose from 16% to 25% during this period. Half of
this increase was in the public sector; the ratio of public fixed investment
to GNP rose from 1.5% to 6.5% during the decade, reflecting substantially
expanded revenues and improved implementation capacity. Export growth was
accelerated, particularly in nontraditional manufactures, while growth in
/1 This section is substantially the same as that contained in the
President's Report for the Third Small and Medium Industries Development
Project which was distributed to the Executive Directors, under R82-161
on May 14, 1982.
/2 Expected to be distributed to the Executive Directors in May, 1982.



- 2 -
imports of oil and consumer goods was restrained. Overall, expansion in
agricultural production was quite rapid, and rice deficits were eliminated
in the second half of the decade. Population growth slowed in the 1970s.
However, the economy still has a number of structural problems. Most
importantly, the efficiency of investment has been low, particularly in
manufacturing industry producing for the domestic market; industrial
employment has not expanded rapidly enough; and poverty is still widespread.
4.        The economy's structural problems are reflected in its balance of
payments. Improvements achieved in the early 1970s were more than offset
by a sharp deterioration of the Philippines' terms of trade since 1975,
stemming trom the oil price increases, accelerated international inflation,
and depressed prices for major export commodities. Consequently, the
Philippines has had to rely heavily on foreign borrowings to finance the
imports needed to maintain growth and investment levels. To hold the
external deficit at a sustainable level in the coming years, additional
structural adjustments in the balance of payments will have to be achieved,
primarily through reduced dependence on imported oil, increased efficiency
of investment, and improved performance of the industrial sector.
Development Strategy
5.        The Government's Development Plan for 1978-82 has as objectives
the rapid expansion of productive employment; improvements in economic,
social and regional equity; and provision for the basic needs of the popu-
lation. The agricultural strategy emphasizes food production, crop diver-
sification, and stronger linkages with processing industries. The indus-
trial strategy calls for promotion of export industries, development of
small- and medium-scale industries, regional dispersion of industrial
growth, increased efficiency of investment, and selected large-scale pro-
jects. The Plan includes social development targets in education, housing,
health, and family planning. In addition, the Plan outlines development
strategies for each of the country's 13 regions. A recently completed Food
and Nutrition Plan, which complements the Development Plan, aims at elimin-
ating malnutrition by 1990 through increased food production and nutrition
programs.
6.        The Development Plan elaborates the policy directions pursued by
the Government in recent years and is broadly in line with the Bank's
assessment of the country's development priorities. In view of changes in
the international economy, the Government has, in 1980, adjusted the Plan
and revised the growth targets downwards. A Development Plan for 1983-87
is now under preparation.
Macro Issues for the 1980s
7.        As noted above, the Philippines faces several fundamental long-
standing development problems which will need increased attention during the
198Us. The four most important of these are reduction of population growth,
poverty alleviation, employment generation, and increased efficiency of
investment.



- 3 -
8.        Population Growth.  The Philippines has achieved an impressive
reduction in population growth from 3% in 1970 to about 2.4% in 1980./1
Nevertheless, rapid population growth is still straining available land
resources, aggravating already serious employment and poverty problems, and
burdening the public budget with a high growth in demand for basic public
services. Further reduction of population growth is, therefore, vital for
the country's development. The Philippines has an active family planning
program which has expanded rapidly during the 1970s. However, participation
in the family planning program is still low by East Asian standards, and the
number of new acceptors has reached a plateau as the program has faced the
increasingly difficult problem of extending into rural areas.
9.        Poverty Alleviation.  Despite satisfactory economic growth during
the 1970s, the incidence of poverty remains high at 40-45%. Income distri-
bution continues to be very skewed, and a small elite is conspicuously
wealthy. Regional disparities remain pronounced, with the incidence of
poverty reaching 60-70% in the least developed regions. Large numbers of
people, especially in the rural areas, which account for about 80% of the
poor, still suffer from malnutrition and lack safe water, basic education
and health facilities. An increasingly unfavorable man/land ratio, the
resulting expansion of cultivation into marginal lands, limited employment
opportunities in the industrial sector, and the sharp deterioration in the
external terms of trade have put downward pressure on real incomes.
Although the Government instituted several programs during the 1970s that
should directly improve the lives of the poor, most of these were imple-
mented on a large scale only toward the end of the decade, and will require
several years to achieve a marked impact. Key steps needed to alleviate
poverty will be the development of rainfed agriculture, more balanced
regional development, rapid expansion of manufacturing employment, continued
improvement in basic public services, and further reduction of population
growth.
10.       Employment Generation.  Growth of productive employment, partic-
ularly in the industrial sector, has lagged behind the rapid expansion of
the labor force, and considerable underemployment exists. During the 1970s,
the agriculture and service sectors had to absorb an excessively high
proportion of new entrants to the labor force. Manufacturing employment
stagnated in the first half of the decade, and picked up only slightly
thereafter as laborintensive export production grew. Overseas employment,
especially in the Middle East, increased rapidly, providing a temporary
income opportunity. As the absorptive capacity of the agricultural sector
is limited, employment generation in manufacturing will have to increase
considerably in the 1980s.
11.       Efficiency of Investment.  While private and public investment
rose sharply during the last decade and have reached reasonable levels, the
/1 This figure is based on a more recent survey than the data in Annex I.



- 4 -
accompanying expansion of the economy's real output has been relatively low.
In addition, the low rate of industrial job creation indicates that, on
average, investment has not been labor-intensive enough. The low efficiency
and low labor-intensity of investment have been caused by the distortive
effects of past trade, industrial, and financial policies on the allocation
of capital. In view of tight resource constraints to be faced in the 1980s,
the efficiency and labor-intensity of investment will be critical determin-
ants of future growth in output and employment.
Sectoral Issues
12.       The Philippines  macro-economic performance reflects achievements
and problems at the sectoral level. The more important of these are
summarized below for the agricultural, industrial, and energy sectors.
13.       Agriculture and Rural Development.  Although there has been con-
siderable variation among subsectors, the trend growth rate of the agricul-
ture, fishery, and forestry sector was about 5% during the 1970s, which is
quite high by international standards. The Philippines, once a chronic
importer of rice, began to export modest quantities in 1977, and rice self-
sufficiency appears assured for the 1980s. Production of fish and non-
traditional export crops, such as bananas and coffee, has also expanded
rapidly. However, the development of rainfed agriculture, which is of
critical importance for raising the incomes of the rural poor, has lagged
behind. Technologies to increase yields of corn have been developed only
recently, while multiple cropping systems are still at an early stage of
development. Productivity in the important coconut export sector remains
low because the recently introduced program to replace overage trees has not
yet attained rapid progress. Furthermore, population pressure on the arable
land is steadily increasing, and soil erosion in hilly areas that have been
logged over or settled is a serious problem.
14.       The Government has provided substantial support for rural develop-
ment. Agricultural production has benefitted from the introduction of high-
yielding varieties, improved credit, extension, and irrigation programs.
Rural infrastructure programs in water supply, electrification and health
services have also been expanded significantly. An agrarian reform of rice
and corn land, instituted in 1972, is well advanced.
15.       While these programs have achieved considerable improvements, the
gains have been uneven among regions, crops, and farming systems. Difficult
issues remain to be addressed if the living conditions of the rural poor are
to be improved. Solutions to the interrelated problems of low incomes and
poor soils in marginal settlements will require the development of tree
cropping and mixed farming technologies, resolution of land tenure ques-
tions, and substantial upgrading of the administrative capability of the
agencies concerned. Steps are also needed to reduce poverty among subsis-
tence fishermen, coconut farmers, and sugar cane workers.



16.       Industry.  Although industrial and trade policies were improved in
the early 1970s, manufacturing industry grew only at about the same rate as
GDP, and its growth pattern remained unsatisfactory during the decade.
Excessive protection and artificially low cost of capital have led to low
efficiency of investment and stagnation of manufacturing employment in
industries producing for the domestic market. The introduction of export
promotion measures in the early 1970s led to extremely rapid growth in
exports of nontraditional manufactures, which rose from about $50 million in
1970 to $2.1 billion in 1980. Nontraditional manufactures now account for
over one-third of the country's total exports. However, the export expan-
sion has been concentrated on a few items, and backward linkages with the
rest of the economy have been limited due to the high cost and low quality
of domestic inputs. Consequently, nontraditional manufactulring export
industries have developed as an outward-looking enclave in an otherwise
heavily protected economy.
17.       The objectives of the Government's industrial policy are to accel-
erate growth of output and employment, sustain the high growth of manufac-
tured exports, reduce import dependence of domestic industry, improve the
efficiency of investment, and promote industrial development outside the
Manila area. Since industries producing for the domestic market still
account for more than 80% of manufacturing investment, output, and employ-
ment, restructuring of home industries as well as continued export expansion
are needed to achieve these objectives. In 1979, the Government initiated a
series of fundamental policy reforms designed to improve the performance of
the industrial sector.   The first phase of the reform program, which is
currently being implemented, focuses on reducing protection through tariff
reform and liberalization of import licensing as well as strengthening
export promotion. The Government is preparing a second phase of reforms
that will address shortcomings in the industrial incentives and promotion
system.
18.       Energy.  Another sector critical for the success of the
Philippines' structural adjustment effort is the energy sector. Since the
1973-74 oil price increase, the Philippines has made a considerable effort
to reduce its dependency on imported oil. The Government has not only
passed on oil price increases to consumers, but has also increased taxes
and levies on oil products with the result that domestic oil prices are
considerably above import parity. These price increases, combined with
direct conservation measures, resulted in a reduction of commercial energy
consumption in 1980 and 1981. Steps to increase and diversify domestic
energy supply have also continued and include the development of hydro-
electric, geothermal, coal, and nuclear energy.  Limited domestic petroleum
production also began in 1979. However, due to the long gestation period of
energy projects, domestic energy production still constituted only 17% of
total commercial energy consumption in 1980. In response to the "second oil
crisis", the Government is accelerating its program for domestic energy
production, but further taxing and pricing initiatives will also be needed
to restrain demand.



Domestic Resource Mobilization and Allocation
19.       Domestic Savings and the Financial Sector.  During the 1970s,
gross national savings expanded considerably, reaching 22.5% of GNP and
financing about 80% of total investment. However, the savings ratio needs
to rise by another 2-3% of GNP in order to maintain investment levels while
simultaneously limiting the current account deficit and the country-s
reliance on foreign savings. In addition, interest rates and other finan-
cial incentives affecting the labor-intensity and efficiency of investment,
the flexibility and competitiveness of the financial system, and the
maturity of lending all needed to be increased. Hence, in 1980-81 the
Government introduced a comprehensive set of financial reforms. Interest
rates are being substantially decontrolled, and revised monetary, fiscal,
and rediscount policies are being introduced. Legislation to encourage
multipurpose banking has also been adopted to reduce the present excessive
specialization and fragmentation of the financial system and to increase
competition.
20.       Public Finance.  During the 1970s, the Government raised the over-
all level of public expenditures by 5% of GNP and increased the shares going
to economic services and investment. At the end of the decade, total
government expenditures had reached 18% of GNP, with public investment
equalling 6.5% of GNP. The expansion of public expenditures has made
possible improvements in basic infrastructure, particularly in transporta-
tion, power and irrigation, as well as expanded programs in urban develop-
ment, health and family planning. At present, the size of the public
investment program is appropriate, and its composition is, with a few
exceptions, broadly consistent with the country-s development priorities.
21.       In the last few years, however, public investment has been cons-
trained by the availability of resources, outdated contracting regulations
and rigid budget execution procedures which were introduced in anticipation
of a tight revenue situation. Problems were particularly acute during the
period of high inflation in 1979 and 1980, and they caused the Government
actually to underspend its capital budget. As resource constraints are
likely to remain tight during the 1980s, further strengthening of investment
programming and budgeting procedures will be needed to concentrate resources
on the highest priority projects.
22.       The rapid expansion of public expenditures has been made possible
by a program of systematic tax reform. The proportion of revenue coming
from domestic taxes has been raised through increases in indirect taxes and
improved collection, thus reducing dependence on cyclically volatile taxes
on international trade. The tax ratio was raised by three percentage points
to 13.3% of GNP during the decade, but has remained about constant in the
last few years. Continuation of a strong revenue effort, both by the
Government and government corporations, will be necessary to finance further
expansion in infrastructure and social services. Further tax reforms are



- 7 -
needed to raise the elasticity of the revenue system, to improve its equity
by increasing the proportion of revenue coming from direct taxes, and to
eliminate remaining distortions in economic incentives.
Balance of Payments Adjustment and External Capital Requirements
23.       The 1979-80 oil price increase has considerably tightened the
longterm balance of payments constraints for the Philippines. The share of
oil in total merchandise imports increased from 12% in the early 1970s to
29% in 1980. The current account deficit widened to $2.1 billion in 1980,
equivalent to 5.8% of GNP. If growth and investment rates are to be main-
tained, accelerated structural adjustments in the economy and the balance of
payments have become essential to hold the external deficit at a sustainable
level. Considerable reforms have already been introduced with respect to
trade, industrial, and financial policies (see paras. 17 and 19), and
improvements are under consideration in energy policy. Additional policy
measures will be needed in these areas as well as resource mobilization and
investment programming. Implementation of necessary adjustment measures
should make it possible to sustain economic growth at 6.0-6.5%, mainly
through improved performance of the industrial sector. However, policy
measures will require a number of years to effect the needed structural
improvement in the balance of payments. The current account deficit,
therefore, is expected to remain in the range of $2.0-2.5 billion annually
during the first half of the 1980s, while declining in relative terms to
about 4% of GNP by the mid-1980s.
24.       The Philippines raised its external borrowing sharply to finance
the balance of payments deficits incurred after the 1973-74 oil price
increase. During the second half of the 1970s, net disbursements from
medium- and longterm loans doubled to $1.2 billion in 1980 and the debt
service ratio stood at 20% in 1981. Substantial additional foreign capital
will be needed during the period of adjustment to the 1979-80 oil price
increase, and net disbursements from medium- and long-term loans will have
to double again in the next five years. If the Philippines can sustain the
strong export performance of the recent past, the debt service ratio would
remain at about 20%.
25.       Official sources are expected to provide about 43% of the
Philippines' gross external capital in the early 1980s. The last
Consultative Group Meeting, held in January 1981, agreed that it would be
reasonable for the Philippines to seek official development assistance (ODA)
of about $1.2 billion during 1981, a slight increase over the ODA
commitments it received in 1980.
26.       As noted above, progress has been made in domestic resource
mobilization. However, because the deterioration in the terms of trade has
increased the Philippines' external financing requirements, and many
projects planned for ODA have low foreign exchange costs, the necessary
resource transfer can be achieved only through some financing of local costs
of projects and non-project lending.



- 8 -
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS /1
27.       As of March 31, 1982 the Philippines had received 78 Bank loans
(of which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $2,967.55 million and
six IDA credits amounting to $122.2 million. IFC investments totalled
$143.8 million. The share of the Bank Group in total debt disbursed and
outstanding is currently about 11%, and its share in total debt service is
about 8%.  These ratios are expected to be about 18% and 12%, respectively,
by 1985. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans, and IFC
investments as of March 31, 1982 as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
28.       The volume of World Bank lending to the Philippines has increased
substantially from an average of about $90 million per year in FY71-75 to an
average of $420 million in FY77-81. Although the Bank has financed projects
in virtually all sectors of the economy, particular emphasis has been given
to agriculture, which has accounted for more than one-third of total Bank/
IDA lending. Another fifth of Bank lending has been for the transportation
sector. Lending for power, industry, and social sectors followed in
declining order of size. The sectoral allocation of Bank lending remained
fairly stable throughout the 1970s. Pronounced changes took place only
within infrastructure as lending for transportation and power declined in
the second half of the 1970s, while lending for water supply and urban
development was initiated during this period.
29.       Within sectors, however, considerable changes have taken place in
Bank lending. In agriculture, lending initially focused on expanding the
irrigation system, credit programs, and other services to support rice
production. More recently, efforts have been made to diversify agricultural
production through loans for treecrops, livestock, and fisheries, and to
assist low-income areas through integrated rural development projects. In
the industrial and financial sectors, the Bank initially concentrated on
strengthening individual development finance institutions and on providing
for the credit needs of small and medium industries. In the last two years,
however, industrial and financial lending has been broadened to support the
implementation of needed policy reforms. A structural adjustment loan was
made in September 1980 in support of trade and industrial reforms.
Improvements in financial sector policies were the basis for the May 1981
Industrial Finance Loan, which also introduced a new institutional concept
to broaden the reach of Bank lending by channelling loans through an "apex"
unit in the Central Bank.
/1 This section is substantially the same as that contained in the
President's Report for the Third Small and Medium Industries Development
Project, which was distributed to the Executive Directors under R82-161
on May 14, 1982.



- 9 -
30.       While overall implementation of Bank-financed projects in the
Philippines has been satisfactory, disbursements have been slower than anti-
cipated. Disbursement performance is somewhat below the average for the
region and has shown a slowly deteriorating trend over the past few years.
Implementation problems increased in the late 1970s, reflecting in part,
administrative problems caused by high inflation and tight budget
constraints (para. 21). They also result from the changes in the scope of
the Bank's lending operations: a substantial increase in the number of
projects, new areas of lending, an emphasis on institution-building, and
efforts to reach specific target groups and deprived regions have all made
implementation a more demanding task than in the past.  The first project
implementation review was held in May 1980, at which time, among other
issues, the relatively poor disbursement performance was discussed. Steps
were subsequently taken to correct some of the administrative problems which
were discussed with the Government during the review. A second review, held
in February 1982, provided a useful follow-up and exchange of views on
problems still being experienced in project implementation. During the
February review, the Government and the Bank agreed that similar reviews
would be held in future on a regular basis.
31.       The Bank's future lending program has been designed to assist in
achieving the major objectives of the Government-s Development Plan (para.
5). Particular emphasis is being given to supporting poverty alleviation
efforts and to bringing about needed structural adjustments in the economy.
Economic and sector work is being closely integrated with lending opera-
tions. Future project, sector, and structural adjustment loans will be
designed to address the wide variety of technical, institutional, and policy
issues facing the Philippines. Additional structural adjustment loans are
planned to support further reforms in trade, industry, and other key policy
areas. In sectoral terms, agriculture and rural development will continue
to account for the largest share of lending, with emphasis on food produc-
tion and programs to increase the incomes of the rural poor and rehabilitate
existing cash crops. Substantial assistance will be given to industry
through further subsector loans aimed at restructuring or developing speci-
fic subsectors; through increased financial and technical assistance to
small and medium industries, particularly outside the Metro-Manila area; and
through continued industrial finance projects utilizing the recently intro-
duced "apex" concept. Increased effort is also planned over the next
several years to develop domestic energy resources and to strengthen the
institutions responsible for developing and managing energy supplies. The
Bank's support for projects in education, health, family planning, water
supply, and urban development will aim at improving basic services and
supporting employment creation, particularly in less advanced areas of the
country.
32.       This is the seventh loan to the Philippines to be presented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year. Loans for petroleum exploration
promotion, geothermal exploration, and rural water supply have been appraised
and are scheduled for Board presentation in the coming months.



- 10 -
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Sources and Prospects
33.       In 1980, the Philippines depended on imported oil for 84% of its
commercial energy supplies. Such heavy dependence required the country,
during that year, to spend 40% of its merchandise export earnings on oil.
The main objective of the Government is to reduce this high dependence on
imported oil and thereby lighten the burden on the country's balance of
payments by (a) limiting the growth of demand for oil-derived forms of
energy and (b) developing domestic energy sources that can substitute for
imported energy. The country has relatively favorable domestic energy
resources which include geothermal, hydroelectricity potential, biomass and
coal, in addition to its (probably modest) oil resources.
34.       The geothermal resources of the Philippines are associated with
its volcanic geology. Known and potential sites are widely distributed
throughout the country, and the potential of sites under development is
presently estimated to be capable of providing 1,800 MW of electrical gener-
ating capacity. The Government has a target to establish steam reserves
equivalent to 3,900 MW by 1986, which will put the Philippines among the
world's two or three leading producers of geothermal electricity. However,
this target is ambitious and unlikely to be achieved during the next five
years. The areas with the largest goethermal resources are in the Visayas
(Leyte and Negros) and Luzon. The development of the largest of these
resources, on Leyte, depends on the plan for interconnecting the trans-
mission systems of the Visayas with other parts of the country where the
main consumption centers are located (primarily Luzon), and on the
Government's policy to decentralize industry, for which Leyte is an attrac-
tive location. It is envisaged that the generating capacity based on
geothermal would be increased from the 1980 level of 440 MW to over 900 MW
by the late 1980s.
35.       The economically-usable hydroelectricity potential of the
Philippines is currently estimated at over 7,000 MW, of which only 900 MW
(13%) is at present developed. These resources are concentrated on the
islands of Luzon and Mindanao. Luzon has seasonal rainfall and a
mountainous terrain, limiting its hydro opportunities to the construction of
storage dams whose reservoirs, in almost all cases, would have to serve the
needs of irrigation as well as power generation, and limiting its
utilization to peak or intermediate loads. In Mindanao, on the other hand,
a high annual rainfall is well distributed through the year, permitting the
construction of cheaper run-of-river generating plants.  Current plans for
hydroelectricity development call for an expansion from the existing 900 MW
to about 4,000 MW by the late 1980s. However, the Bank feels that
this is an over-optimistic program, and has recommended a more moderate
expansion to about 2,300 MW over the same period.



- 11 -
36.       The country has a large and varied amount of biomass materials for
the production of alcohol, and diesel-oil substitutes from palm oils. The
existence of a large and well established sugar industry has encouraged the
Government to mount a program for alcohol production to partly displace
gasoline requirements. The Philippine National Alcohol Commission, estab-
lished in 1980, is currently sponsoring a limited experimental program in
the island of Negros, to supply 9 million litres of alcohol annually, which
is intended to substitute for about 10% of the gasoline consumption of the
province of Negros Occidental.
37.        Prior to 1979, the country's crude oil requirements were met
entirely from imports. An important element of the Government's petroleum
supply policy, therefore, has been to encourage domestic oil exploration and
production by both public and private oil companies. During the 1970s, the
Government actively encouraged exploration activities, concentrating off-
shore and particularly on the reefs near Palawan, where the first commercial
discoveries were made. With the bringing into production of the first com-
mercial field (Nido), domestic production during 1980 accounted for about 5%
of the total crude oil consumption of nearly 80 million barrels. Prelimin-
ary estimates have set the ultimate recoverable reserves in the 250-350 mil-
lion barrels range.
38.       Total coal reserves in the Philippines have been reported at 1.2
billion tons. Due to limited exploration, however, proven coal reserves
stand at only 175 million tons. Coal occurrences in the Philippines are
widely scattered throughout the islands, but about 60% of the proven
reserves are concentrated in two fields, one in northern Luzon and another
in Semirara Island. In addition, promising discoveries not yet included in
the proven category have recently been made in Surigao and Samar. The coal
subsector development prospects are further discussed in paras. 44-47.
39.       Despite the rapid growth of commercial energy consumption over the
past two decades, per capita energy use in the Philippine is still only
about 30% that of countries at similar income levels, and only about 5% of
the average for industrialized countries. Before 1973, the growth rate of
commercial energy consumption was on average about 1.5 times the growth rate
of GDP.  Since 1973, the situation has changed substantially.  Commercial
energy consumption increased at only 4.8% annually during 1975-1979, and
showed a decline in 1980 and 1981 despite the continuing growth of GDP.
Industry and transportation are the major consumers, accounting for about
80% of commercial energy consumption in recent years. Since 1975, there
have been important changes in the sectoral pattern of energy use, with the
share of industry rising and that of transport declining. High gasoline
prices have restrained consumption growth in the transport sector; however,
despite a moderation of past trends, energy consumption in industry and
power generation has continued to grow at a fairly rapid rate.
Institutional Framework and Development Strategy
40.        A major response by the Government to the energy situation has
been to strengthen and consolidate the institutional framework for the



- 12 -
energy sector. The principal government agency for the sector is the
Ministry of Energy, a central agency whose powers and responsibilities
include the formulation and implementation of policies, plans and programs
for the development of indigenous energy resources. The Ministry also
regulates and controls private sector involvement in the energy sector,
including the granting of service contracts for the exploration and
development of oil, gas, geothermal and coal.
41.       Line responsibility in the Ministry of Energy is vested in two
major bureaus, (a) the Bureau of Energy Development (BED), which is respon-
sible for the development of indigenous energy resources (oil, gas, coal,
geothermal and nonconventional) and for the regulation of local and foreign
firms involved in this field; and (b) the Bureau of Energy Utilization (BEU)
which is responsible for regulating the importing, refining, marketing and
distribution of petroleum products, as well as the preparation and implemen-
tation of energy conservation programs and utilization standards. The
Ministry of Energy also exercises control over the following other agencies:
(a) the National Coal Authority (NCA), created in September 1980 as a cen-
tral government entity with both regulatory and executive powers to effect
an integrated system of coal procurement, distribution and marketing and to
regulate all downstream coal activities such as pricing, procurement,
import/export, transport/storage, marketing and utilization; (b) the
Philippine Atomic Energy Commission, responsible for the planning and
regulation of the country-s nuclear energy program; and (c) a quasi-judicial
Board of Energy whose primary responsibility is to regulate petroleum pro-
duct prices and retail tariffs for electric power distributed by private
utilities. Closely linked to the Ministry for policy guidance but not
formally responsible to it are the two large government corporations on
whose performance much of the energy program depends: the National Power
Corporation (NPC) and the Philippine National Oil Company (PNOC); the
Minister of Energy is chairman of their respective boards. At present, two
wholly-owned subsidiaries of PNOC are active in the coal sector: (i) PNOC
Coal Corporation (PNOC-CC), is responsible for coal exploration and develop-
ment, and it is envisaged that it will also become involved in production
and market development; and (ii) Malangas Coal Corporation, which operates
an underground coal mine in Mindanao, developed with ADB assistance.
42.       The Government has made a significant effort to reduce its
dependence on imported oil since the 1973/74 oil price increase through both
conservation and the development of domestic energy resources. Whereas
increases in domestic oil production were originally seen as most important
for balance of payments relief, earlier projections of oil production
capacity have been overly optimistic, and the Government recognizes that
more attention will now have to be given to developing other indigenous
energy resources. In May 1980, the Bank undertook, jointly with the Asian
Development Bank (ADB), an energy sector survey at the Government-s request
to provide an independent analysis of the country's energy situation;/l the
/1 Philippines, Energy Sector Survey, February 1982, Report No. 3199a-PH.



- 13 -
study's conclusions concurred with the Government's emphasis on restraining
demand and on developing indigenous energy resources, particularly geo-
thermal and coal, although they considered government targets to be too
ambitious. While maintaining its basic policies and objectives, i.e. to
reduce oil dependency by diversifying indigenous sources of supply and to
manage energy demand by establishing appropriate pricing policies and
conservation measures, the Government has drawn up a revised program
(1981-1986), which proposes specific steps to meet these objectives.
43.       The program for oil and gas includes the intensification of
exploration efforts. The electric power program is aimed at modifying the
structure of primary sources for electricity generation with a higher par-
ticipation of hydro, geothermal and coal. The geothermal program intends to
step up the number of wells to be drilled in support of the electric power
expansion program. The Government is also initiating policies, strategies
and experimental projects on solar energy, wind energy, bioconversion to
fuels, and alcohol for motive power. The coal development program (para.
44) has been revised to intensify exploration and development of coal fields
with open pit mining potential. The Government has also made extensive use
of pricing mechanisms to regulate energy demand. As an oil importing
country, the Philippines has not only adjusted the domestic prices of petro-
leum products to cover changing world prices; it has gone further and
imposed selective taxes to further discourage consumption, leading to prices
well above import parity, but, in some cases, producing distortions which do
not reflect the relative scarcity of different petroleum products. NCA
(para. 41) has established a pricing policy for coal with a floor price
based on the largest contract for domestic supplies, and a ceiling price
linked to the import parity price of coal/l allowing producers and consumers
to negotiate freely within this range. Both pricing policies are found to
be broadly satisfactory.
Goal Development Prospects
44.       The country's coal development program has been revised by the
Government in order to speed up production and consumption and increase the
share of coal in commercial energy consumption from its current level of 1%
/1 The floor price, currently set at $54 per ton delivered (for
5,600 kcal/kg coal), has been based on the contract to supply an NPC
power plant at Batangas from Semirara. The current ceiling price for a
similar coal can be estimated at $75-80 per ton delivered to consumers.
However, the ceiling price for the cement industry has been maintained
at the level established in a presidential decree regulating the
conversion from oil to coal, i.e. 65% of fuel-oil price on equivalent
calorific value basis or $97 per ton (for 5,600 kcal/kg). Having two
levels of the ceiling price is a potential source of problems, and the
Bank would raise this issue as part of the general discussions on
energy pricing, in the context of a proposed second structural adjust-
ment loan (para. 48).



- 14 -
to about 20% by 1986. This growth implies an increase in coal consumption
from 0.4 million tons in 1981 to 6.9 million tons (standardized for a
calorific value of 5,600 kcal/kg) in 1986. The Government has singled out
three primary targets for market development: power generation; the cement
companies, which have been instructed to convert to coal, and other indus-
trial users, notably the steel industry and sugar refineries. Within this
policy, the Government has established tax incentives and a pricing struc-
ture for energy products (para. 43) to induce users to convert from oil to
coal. While these measures are considered sound, the growth of coal con-
sumption is likely to be slower than projected.
45.        In order to promote coal production, the Government introduced,
through the Coal Development Act of 1976, a scheme of coal service con-
tracts, to induce the private sector (local and foreign) to play a more
active role in the coal industry. Under this scheme, while the State retains
absolute ownership of the resource, a company receives from the Ministry of
Energy the exclusive rights to explore and develop a coal field not larger
than 150 sq km in a defined coal region. The company is contractually com-
mitted to carry out an exploration work program and to spend a minimum
amount during a two-year period, which can be extended for a third year.
This exploration program leads to a service contract when coal is proved to
exist in commercially mineable quantities. At this stage, a company holding
a service contract has the obligation to develop a coal mine. The contract
can be terminated by the Ministry of Energy if a company fails to carry out
the agreed work program for exploration, or to develop a mine, in which case
the coal field reverts to the Ministry of Energy and a service contract can
be let to a new company. Once a mine reaches production, the company is
charged with a payment to the Government, which ranges from 2% to 4% of gross
coal sales, depending on the extent of Filipino participation in the owner-
ship of the company, with the lower range reflecting more Filipino participa-
tion. Additionally, companies are entitled to certain fiscal incentives.
The new system had a slow start, with only 38 service contracts being let in
the first three years, mainly with existing small-scale producers and mostly
in Cebu. During the last two years, however, the larger private local
mining companies have become interested in coal; and in that time, 10
additional service contracts have been let, giving an important impetus to
previous exploration activities.
46.        At present, NCA estimates that domestic coal production will reach
about 3.7 million tons/i by 1986, from its present level of 350,000 tons a
year.  Although this forecast is considered realistic, it relies heavily on
the new open pit mine at Semirara which is expected to come on stream in late
1982, and which would account for 60% of estimated production in 1986. The
/1 This tonnage is referred to a standard coal of 5,600 kcal/kg (10,000
Btu/lb). As the average heating value of domestic coals can be esti-
mated at 80-85% of this figure, the actual tonnage should be increased
accordingly.



- 15 -
rest of the production increase would mostly come from a moderate expan-
sion of the small-scale underground producers in Cebu, and from two new
underground mines which PNOC is developing in Mindanao, one of which started
production in 1981 and the other of which is in the planning phase. It
should be noted that the forecast domestic production will not be able to
satisfy projected demand (para. 44), and a deficit of about 3 mil'lion tons
of coal will occur by 1986, which will need to be covered by imports. To
reduce this deficit, NCA has already signed two long-term contracts with
Australian producers for a total of 700,000 tons per year. In addition, NCA
has launched a program for the distribution of coal throughout the islands,
including the provision of port facilities, vessels for maritime movement
and transport, blending and distribution terminals, and truck and rail
facilities for inland delivery to end users. Tenders for equipment for the
distribution terminals and orders for the first vessels were placed in
January 1982.
47.       The Government recognizes that, in order to bridge the projected
gap between demand and domestic supply, it needs to accelerate the pace of
coal exploration and development. One of the major inhibiting factors for
the development of the coal industry in the Philippines has been the
scarcity of basic geological information which has limited the interest of
the private sector in allocating financial resources to coal exploration due
to the high risks involved. The proposed coal exploration project addresses
this issue by financing a basic geological survey in two regions where coal-
bearing areas with open pit mining potential have been discovered in the last
two years, and where potential exists for additional mineable deposits. It
is expected that the geological information obtained through the project
will stimulate private sector participation in coal development (para. 66).
48.       Bank Strategy in the Sector.  Previous Bank lending in the energy
sector has focused exclusively on the power subsector (through seven loans
for power generation and transmission and one loan for rural electrifica-
tion). However, consistent with the recommendations of the joint Bank/ADB
Energy Sector Survey (para. 42) the Bank now seeks to support a broader
range of initiatives in the sector, including the exploration for and devel-
opment of indigenous resources, the provision of supporting infrastructure,
the strengthening of new and existing institutions, and the formulation of
policies to restrain energy demand. Bank lending for coal exploration would
be an important component of this strategy. There has been no previous
experience with Bank projects in this energy subsector or with this borrower
from which to draw conclusions, as this is the first project of its kind to
be financed by the Bank. ADB has to date financed one coal exploitation
project in the Philippines, and is considering financing a second. However,
ADB has not been and does not plan to become involved in coal exploration.
IFC has not yet been involved in the coal sector in the Philippines. The
Bank also plans to provide assistance for accelerating the development of
geothermal, hydro, nonconventional energy sources and possibly oil and gas
as well as continuing financing of the Government's rural electrification
program. The Bank currently expects to provide a combination of project and
subsector loans, as well as elements in structural adjustment lending, to
address the policy and institutional issues in the sector. Energy policy



- 16 -
issues will be a focus of a proposed second structural adjustment loan, now
being appraised. This combination of approaches would allow the Bank to
focus on the detailed technical and programming issues required in
individual subsectors and, at the same time, to monitor policy issues
affecting the overall energy sector.
49.        As an integral part of this approach, in addition to the proposed
coal exploration project, the Government has requested Bank assistance for
two further exploration projects which are at advanced stages of processing:
(a) a petroleum exploration promotion project which includes an evaluation
of the petroleum potential of the country's geological basins to be carried
out by the Government, and an exploration program to be carried out by PNOC in
three prospective land areas, including seismic surveys and, if warranted,
drilling of exploration wells; and (b) a geothermal exploration project,
which would include the drilling of 24 wells in Luzon and Negros, aimed at
discovering additional geothermal resources. In order to further stimulate
private sector participation in coal production, the Government has also
indicated its interest in principle in Bank support for a future project to
provide financing to the private sector for carrying out detailed coal
exploration leading to feasibility studies.  The Government has agreed to
carry out a study, by December 31, 1983, to evaluate the potential financing
needs of the sector and to define possible schemes to channel financial
resources to coal exploration as part of the initial preparation activities
for such a project (Section 3.04 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
50.        The joint World Bank/Asian Development Bank Energy Sector Survey
(para. 42) concluded that the coal deposits in the country were not well
defined, and the need to upgrade the current information on the indigenous
coal resource potential is becoming increasingly urgent. While there are
numerous coal showings recognized throughout the Philippines, it appears
that coal deposition has taken place in widely dispersed, small, narrow,
structural and depositional basins. Furthermore, because the Philippine
coals were deposited along the margin of an unstable shelf, the strata have
been folded and faulted, and the shapes and positions of the basins have
changed many times during geological time. As a result, the type, texture,
and composition of the coal-bearing sedimentary rocks vary greatly both
laterally and vertically. The coal rank (i.e. the quality of coal) is also
more variable than that of coal beds in many other parts of the world.  This
complex geological background has been a deterrent to the development of
coal production, even with an expanding market, as exploration in such a
geological framework is both technically difficult and expensive.
51.        Little detailed geological mapping and investigatory field work
of coal has been undertaken in the Philippines. There are no comprehensive
geological maps for the coal regions showing boreholes, shafts, test pits,



- 17 -
etc. The absence of a firm data base of relatively up-to-date geological
maps is a major inhibiting factor in evaluating the Philippines' coal
resource and utilization potential. Accordingly, the Government considers
the updating of the geological data for the country's coal-bearing areas a
matter of high priority. Because all the coal-bearing areas have not been
identified, and the extent of the known basins is not fully defined, the
work necessary to carry out a nationwide mapping and drilling exercise would
require a time-frame well beyond the Government's present six-year (1981-86)
Energy Program horizon. Consequently, the Government has decided that
priority should be given, at this stage, to concentrating on the geological
evaluation of a few regions where coal-bearing areas with open pit mining
potential are known to exist, and where there is good potential for
additional mineable deposits. At the same time, detailed exploration is
also to be intensified in areas already recognized as having promising
mining potential. This is a sound approach, since the development of open
pit mines is both less costly and quicker than that of underground mines and
could therefore increase coal production more expeditiously. New
underground mines will only be considered for those deposits where the
geological conditions and coal qualities could be expected to lead to
financially and economically viable projects.
52.       The proposed project was prepared by the Ministry of Energy and
PNOC, and was appraised in January, 1982. Negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C. from May 10 to 14, 1982, with a Philippine negotiating team
led by The Honorable Eduardo Z. Romualdez, Philippine Ambassador to the United
States. There will be no separate Staff Appraisal Report. Special
conditions are listed in Section III of Annex III of this report.
Project Objectives
53.       The proposed project would be the Bank's first lending operation
in support of the Government's efforts to reduce its dependence on imported
oil through the development of domestic energy resources. The project's
objectives would be: (a) to provide the Government with geological data
for two coal-bearing areas with development potential, and thus contribute
to the expansion of domestic coal supply within the shortest possible time-
frame through private sector development of promising coal fields; (b) to
contribute to the acceleration of the development of coal supply through
detailed exploration of a known coal field; and (c) to strengthen the
technical capabilities of PNOC-CC in its coal operations.
Project Description.
54.       The project would consist of three components: regional coal explor-
ation in Samar and eastern Hlindanao, detailed coal exploration in the Lalat
area of southwestern Mindanao and technical assistance to PNOC-CC. The
regional exploration in Samar and eastern MIindanao would aim to locate coal
deposits which might be amenable to mining by open-pit methods. In both
these regions the geological structure is relatively simple and the coal to



- 18 -
waste-rock ratios in the sedimentary sequence are probably favorable for
open-pit development. The detailed exploration of Lalat is aimed at
establishing measured coal reserves in a previously identified prospective
coal area. The geological data base would be developed to enable
preliminary mine design and the preparation of prefeasibility studies. The
technical assistance to PNOC-CC is designed to strengthen the technical
capabilities of this rapidly expanding entity in all aspects of coal
exploration, mine development and mine operation.
55.       The regional exploration component would be carried out in three
sequential phases. This would ensure that the proposed studies and explor-
atory work were carried out only after previous results had been evaluated
and the desirability of proceeding further had been established. The first
phase would consist of gathering and interpreting all available geological
information, photogeological studies and geological fieldwork. Existing
geological data would be compiled from numerous sources. Most of the data
are historical in nature as recent coal activity has been very limited,
particularly in Samar. The incorporation of the available data on geology
and coal resources into a new photogeological interpretation of the areas
under investigation would enable the identification of priority areas;
certain nonprospective areas could be recognized and rejected at an early
stage. The geological fieldwork is aimed at ascertaining the stratigraphy
and structure of known coal areas and the extension of the investigation
into new areas based on this information. The fieldwork would consist of
geological traversing, the measurement of the stratigraphic section in
coal-bearing sediments, the determination of the geological structure, the
opening-up, describing, measuring and sampling of coal seams, and the com-
pletion of a preliminary geological evaluation of all areas of coal-bearing
sediments. The evaluation of the geological maps prepared during this phase
would permit the selection of areas which warranted a reconnaissance drill-
ing program based on the assessed potential of the area for mine develop-
ment. The second phase would consist of the drilling of initial test holes
in the areas selected in the first phase, to verify the stratigraphy and
structure of the coal-bearing sediments as suggested by the initial mapping
program. Additionally, valuable information would be obtained on coal
quality based on the analysis of unweathered coal samples recovered from the
drill-holes. Data would also be obtained on the physical characteristics of
the associated rock strata which would be important for any mine development
study. In the third phase, those areas which, following the reconnaissance
drilling, showed good potential, would be further evaluated and a more
detailed exploration of one or more selected areas in each of eastern
Mindanao and Samar would follow. These areas would then be further investi-
gated in order to allow preparation of a prefeasibility study. This third
phase would consist not only of drilling but also of additional geological
mapping, topographic mapping, test-pitting, bulk sampling, and possibly
seismic surveys. The prefeasibility study to be undertaken as a part of
this phase would determine the conceptual mining scheme and order of
magnitude costs for any coal production from the identified area.
56.       The transition from one phase to another would be monitored as
follows:



- 19 -
(a) the transition from the preliminary exploratory work of the first
phase to the initial drilling of the second phase would be closely
monitored through a regular system of reporting which would require
progress reports to be submitted to the Bank on a regular basis;
and
(b) the transition from the reconnaissance drilling of the second
phase to the detailed exploration of the third phase, a step
requiring significant additional expenditures and therefore loan
disbursements, would only be initiated following agreement with
the Bank on the economic potential of a deposit (Part A, para.
2(b) of Schedule 2 to the draft Loan Agreement). Approval by the
Bank of each location for the planned third phase activities would
be a condition of disbursement for this portion of the project
(para. 4(b) of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement).
It should be noted that the above phases, while being distinct activities,
are not totally sequential and some overlap of the activities of the differ-
ent phases will occur, i.e. initial fieldwork in some areas will overlap
with reconnaissance drilling in other areas, and the same situation could
also arise with detailed drilling.
57.        Given the nature of exploration work, it is impossible to estimate
the number of reconnaissance boreholes that would be required under the
second phase (para. 55) and whether any areas would be selected for detailed
evaluation. It is conceivable that after the first or second phase it could
be decided not to pursue the exploration activities in a given region. In
this case, provision would be made to redefine the scope of the regional
exploration work, including the possibility of selecting a new region, to be
approved by the Bank (Schedule 2, Part A, para. 2(c) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
58.        The detailed exploration component of the project is designed to
carry forward the exploration in the previously identified prospective coal
area of Lalat. This area has been under exploration for some time and the
stage has now been reached at which a detailed drilling program is required
in order to obtain the necessary data for an underground mine prefeasibility
study. This project component would consist of the completion of drilling
and other exploratory works and the subsequent prefeasibility study.
59.        Technical Assistance Programs.  PNOC-CC is currently expanding
both the scope and scale of its activities (para. 41). In view of the large
investments it is currently making in coal exploration and mine planning, it
is desirable that a comprehensive technical assistance program be developed
to ensure that the investment decisions that are made are founded on a sound
technical basis. To this end, a technical assistance program is included
in the project to advise the company on its exploratory and mining



- 20 -
operations. In particular, attention would be directed to the planning and
execution of exploratory programs, mine feasibility studies, mine
development and production programs and environmental and safety
considerations.
60.       One of the objectives of the proposed project is to provide BED with
the geological information to be obtained through the regional geological
survey in Samar and Eastern Mindanao. However, BED's capacity for organizing
and maintaining adequate records on the geological information to be generated
by the project needs strengthening. At present, the Government is discussing
with the Federal Republic of Germany a technical assistance program to BED,
satisfactory to the Bank, to be implemented by the Bundesanstalt fur
Geowissenchaften und Rohstoffe (BGR), which will cover, inter alia, the design
and implementation of a system for organizing and maintaining the geological
information handled by BED. Technical assistance arrangements with BGR, or
similarly acceptable arrangements,would be finalized by December 31, 1983
(Section 3.03 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Project Implementation
61.       The proposed project would be implemented by the Philippine
National Oil Company (PNOC) through its wholly-owned subsidiary, PNOC Coal
Corporation (PNOC-CC). PNOC was created at the outset of the energy crisis
in 1973, as a fully-owned government corporation with the objective of
providing and maintaining an adequate supply of oil and petroleum products,
and regulating all aspects related to the production, distribution and sale
of crude oil and petroleum products.  It has a large number of subsidiaries
engaged in the refining, distribution and transportation of crude oil and
petroleum products, with two of these subsidiaries exclusively dedicated to
oil exploration. In 1976, PNOC's charter was amended to allow it to develop
energy resources other than petroleum. Several subsidiaries were then
created to undertake the exploration and development of coal, geothermal and
uranium resources.
62.       In 1981, PNOC's total revenues amounted to $2.8 billion equiva-
lent, generating a net income (after taxes) of $44 million. Total assets
were $2.1 billion, and the long-term debt to equity ratio was 26:74,
reflecting the sound financial position of the company. PNOC has played an
important role as the coal arm of the Government, carrying out detailed
exploration in several areas of the Philippines, and opening two underground
mines.
63.       PNOC-CC was created in October 1980, with an initial capital
equivalent to $25 million. During its first year of existence, PNOC-CC has
mainly been consolidating its organization with effective support from its
parent company. PNOC-CC is currently responsible for exploration and



- 21 -
feasibility studies for its new underground coal prospect at Bislig
(Mindanao), where ADB assistance is envisaged. It is also involved in
exploration activities in Zamboanga, Negros Occidental, Bohol and Cebu, and
is presently planning to increase its involvement in coal, including
activities such as coal marketing. As yet, little is known of PNOC-CC's
financial status. However, in view of its planned expansion into production
and market development (para. 41) the Bank would monitor its financial
position closely.  To ensure its financial soundness, PNOC-CC would maintain
a debt to equity ratio of 60.40, and a current ratio of not less than 1.3
(Sections 4.03 and 4.04 of the draft Project Agreement).
64.       PNOC-CC has a good management team, a core group of geologists and
mining engineers specialized in coal, and the logistic support of PNOC and
its other subsidiaries. For the purposes of the proposed project, and
consistent with PNOC's normal practices, a Project Unit has been established
within PNOC-CC (which will be maintained throughout the execution of the
project), headed by a Project Manager, with qualifications acceptable to the
Bank, reporting directly to PNOC-CC's General Manager, and with staffing and
functions satisfactory to the Bank (Section 2.01(b) of the draft Project
Agreement). The Project Unit would be organized into three exploration
groups, one for each of the two regions (Samar and eastern Mindanao) and one
for the Lalat field. The preparation of preliminary mine designs and
prefeasibility studies would be carried out by PNOC-CC's Mining Engineering
Department in cooperation with a team of consultants (para. 65).
65.       PNOC-CC's personnel, while technically qualified, are relatively
inexperienced in the coal sector. They have limited exploration experience
and little exposure to feasibility studies and the subsequent implementation
of mine development production.  For these reasons, the PNOC-CC staff would
be strengthened by internationally-recruited geology and mining consultants
with qualifications and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank
(Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement). The terms of reference for the
consultants would cover both the services related to the specific
exploration projects (paras. 55-58) and the general technical assistance
(para. 59). The consultants would report to the Project Manager and would
be responsible for assisting in planning and supervising the execution of
the exploratory program and for advising PNOC-CC on its overall technical
operations. A total of approximately 270 man-months of consultant time would
be required, of which 150 man-months would be for exploration, and 120
man-months for general technical assistance.  Consultant personnel would
consist of a project leader, field geologists, a mining engineer and
miscellaneous coal specialists, such as coal quality experts, ventilation
specialists, etc. on an intermittent basis. The execution of a contract for
consultant services, acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition of loan
effectiveness (Section 7.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 22 -
66.       The Ministry of Energy, through the Bureau of Energy Development
(BED), would grant exploration permits to PNOC-CC to carry out the regional
survey under Exploration Agreements, acceptable to the Bank, the execution
of which would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Sections 3.02(a) of the
draft Guarantee Agreement and 7.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). As part
of this arrangement, BED would give PNOC-CC an option to retain not more than
two areas explored under the project to carry out, through a service contract,
further detailed exploration and subsequent mine development (Section 3.02(a)
of the draft Guarantee Agreement). Other areas, with the corresponding
geological information obtained, would revert to BED and be opened up to
service contracts. The geological information obtained through the proposed
project is expected to assist in attracting private sector and foreign
interest in carrying out detailed exploration and development in already
identified prospective coal areas. The prospective coal areas identified
through the proposed project would be offered by the Government to private
or other duly qualified companies under contracts consistent with the Coal
Development Act (para. 45) (Section 3.02(c) of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
The detailed exploration of the Lalat coal field would be carried out under
existing Coal Operating Agreement between BED and PNOC-CC.
Project Costs and Financing
67.       The total financing requirements of the proposed project are
estimated at $25.0 million (including the capitalized front-end fee), of
which $17.5 million would be in foreign exchange. The average cost of the
highly specialized foreign consultancy services, including per diem and
reimbursable costs, is estimated at $13,300 per man-month. The cost
estimates for the project are based on January 1982 prices, and include 10%
for physical contingencies. Price contingencies are based on annual
inflation rates of 10% for 1982 and 8% for subsequent years for local costs,
and 8% for 1982 and 1983, 7.5% for 1984 and 7% for 1985 for foreign
expenditures.
68.       The proposed Bank loan of $17.0 million would cover about 97% of
the estimated foreign exchange component of the project,/I including the
capitalized front-end fee of $251,232. The Bank loan would be made to PNOC
with the Government's guarantee. The loan would be for 20 years, including
five years of grace, at 11.6% p.a. PNOC would pass on the Bank loan (exclu-
sive of front-end fee) to PNOC-CC as an equity contribution. The balance of
project expenditures, estimated at $8.0 million, would also be financed by
PNOC in the form of equity. PNOC would provide PNOC-CC with the necessary
local funds, and with any additional financing which may be required to cover
/1 Some foreign exchange costs, estimated at $500,000 (mainly fuel
for drill rigs and similar expenditures) would not be financed by the
Bank.



- 23 -
any possible cost overruns, both in local or foreign currency, for timely
completion of the project (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
PNOC and PNOC-CC would be required to submit to the Bank financial
statements, audited by an auditor acceptable to the Bank, not later than
four months after the end of their fiscal years (Section 5.02 of the draft
Loan Agreement and Section 4.02 of the draft Project Agreement). PNOC-CC
would maintain a special project account to record expenditures made under
the proposed project (Section 4.01 of the draft Project Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
69.       With the few exceptions noted below, procurement of equipment and
services to be financed under the loan would be on the basis of
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines. ICB procedures would apply to the following prin-
cipal packages;  drilling rigs, including spares, and drilling accessories
such as core barrels, bulldozers, large trucks and seismic services. The
cost of these items is estimated at $11.0 million. For smaller packages
($300,000 and less) up to a total not exceeding $1.2 million, limited
international tendering would be used.
70.        Disbursements from the Bank loan would be made against the
following items: (i) 100% of foreign exchange expenditures or 100% of the
ex-factory cost (net of taxes) of locally manufactured goods; and (ii) 100%
of the foreign exchange cost of consultant services. The proposed loan is
expected to be fully disbursed by the end of FY86. It should be noted that
this schedule is dependent upon decisions made with regard to the staged
implementation of the project referred to in para. 55.
Environmental Issues
71.        The project does not itself raise significant environmental issues,
as disturbances of the surface, such as drill-sites, test pits, etc., will
be minor. The prefeasibility studies that form part of the project will,
however, include a preliminary assessment of the environmental impact of any
proposed coal mining projects, particularly open pit mines.
Benefits and Risks
72.       The project is an important further step toward broadening the
energy supply base in the Philippines and thus increasing the production of
coal both in the short and long-run, and substituting for imported coal and
oil.  In the short-term, one deposit, already identified, would be explored
to a stage at which prefeasibility studies could be done, thus advancing the
possible production dates for this deposit.  In addition, two of the coal
fields expected to be identified by the regional exploration projects would
be advanced to the prefeasibility study stage. The major long-term



- 24 -
benefit is the generation of a reliable geological data base with special
emphasis on coal for Samar and eastern Mindanao - two areas which are
believed to have the highest potential for the development of open-pit coal
mines. The basic geological knowledge acquired for Samar and eastern
Mindanao would allow the Government to stimulate the activity of the private
sector in these areas and, at the same time, provide the necessary background
for the Government to invite bids for future coal operating contracts which
are reasonable and fair to all parties concerned. In addition, during the
execution of the project, the personnel of BED and PNOC would benefit from
the transfer of exploration and engineering technology through on-the-job
training by consultants to be financed under the project (para. 65). This
increase in the technical ability of the personnel would strengthen the
respective institutions so as to assure the better development of the coal
resources of the Philippines in the future.
73.       There is a risk, normally associated with this kind of operation,
that the exploration activities under the project would not result in the
location of economically and technically viable coal deposits in the project
areas. In this event, the project provides for the redefinition of the
scope of the regional exploration component to allow for exploration in
alternative areas. To minimize the risk of ill-advised expenditures, the
various phases of the regional exploration component of the project would
only be undertaken following a careful appraisal of the results of the
preceding phases. Through this approach, a minimum amount of funds would be
exposed at any one time in the more risky part of the project.
74.       An additional potential risk could be posed by anti-Government
activist groups in the Samar region where about 50% of the project
activities would be carried out. We understand that the U.N. Revolving Fund
for Natural Resources Exploration withdrew its expatriate staff from a
mineral exploration project in Samar last summer because of security prob-
lems, and is currently in the process of negotiating a termination of its
project agreement with the Government. However, at the time of project
appraisal in January 1982 exploration and mining activities were reportedly
being conducted in Samar without any problems. For this reason, and because
of the development potential of the area, it was decided that the risk was
acceptable. Should, in the worst case, the need arise to cease work in this
area, the regional exploration work could continue in another region of the
Philippines to be selected in consultation with the Bank (Schedule 2, Part A
para. 2(c) to the draft Loan Agreement).



- 25 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
75.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and PNOC, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines and the Bank,
the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and PNOC-CC and the Report of
the Committee provided for in Article III, Section IV(iii) of the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed separately. In addition to
the special conditions of the project listed in Section III of Annex III,
the following are conditions of effectiveness:
(i)   the employment of consultants, acceptable to the Bank, by PNOC-CC
(Section 7.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement);
(ii)  the execution of Exploration Agreements, acceptable to the Bank,
between the Government and PNOC-CC, required by the latter for
carrying out the regional exploration component of the project
(Section 7.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
76.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
77.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 27, 1982,



-26-                                              ANNl I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PHILIPPINES                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA ES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ.  M.)                                                             - HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-a
TOTAL            300.0                                  MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
ahUkLULTUBAL      90.8               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
CSP PER CAPITA (US))                  15U.0       240.0      600.0                 1136.1                  1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGhAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      159.1       292.9      355.9                 1150.6                 1324.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULAT1ON, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 27372.0      36852.0   46748.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 30.3         32.9       35.8                  40.8                    64.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR ZUO (MILLIONS)                        75.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         125.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        91.2       122.3      155.8                 373.1                    34.3
PER SQ. K10. AGRICULTURAL LAND    360.0       472.0      502.6                2382.8                    94.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
U-14 YRS.                          44.6        45.5      44.3                   39.8                    40.7
15-64 YRS.                          52.4        51.6      52.6                   56.7                    55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.0         2.9        3.1                   3.5                     4.0
POPULATIoN GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.7         3.0        2.6                   2.3                     2.4
URBAN                               3.8         3.8        3.6                   3.8                     3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      45.7        39.2       34.4                  29.7                    31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      15.6        10.8        8.2                    7.5                    8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.3         2.8        2.3                    1.9                    2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..       191.7      650.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRlED WOMEN)    ..          2.0       37.0                  44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          102.0       101.0      114.0                 123.7                   108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREAENTS)                    97.0       102.5     107.7                  112.6                   107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           45.0        50.0       53.0                  62.5                    65.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        17.0        20.0      21.0                   19.7                    34.0
ChILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      15.6         9.6        6.3                   4.8                     7.6
HEALT5
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    51.0         57.3       61.6                  64.0                    64.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            98.0        80.0       65.0                  50.2                    70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TUTAL                                ..        36.0       43.0                  45.9                    65.7
URBAN           '                    ..          ..      66.0                   68.0                    79.7
RURAL                                ..          ..       33.0                  34.4                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXChETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
UF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        57.0       59.0                  53.4                    59.9
URBAN                                ..          ..      76.0                   71.0                    75.7
RURAL                                ..          ..      44.0                   42.4                    30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               ..          ..    2758.2                 4428.7                  1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..      3840.0    3115.3                 2229.7                  1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1134.1       821.8     558.0                  588.5                   471.2
bRBAN                             536.2       392.7         ..                 579.6                   558.0
RUKAL                                ..          ..         ..                1138.5
AUDISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        30.0         ..                  36.7
ROUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.8         5.9         ..                     . -
URBAN                                ..         6.2
RURAL                                ..         5.8
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..         2.3
URBAN                                ..         2.1
RURAL                                ..         2.4
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              16.5        23.2      36.0
URBAN                                ..        60.4      82.0
RUihAL                               ..         6.8       10.0



AIINEX I
- 27 -                                        Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PHILIPPINES                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEgAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE lb          ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCAI ION
ADJUSTED rNROLLMENT RATIOS
PKLMARY:     TOTAL                  95.0        114.0     105.0                   99.8                     101.7
MALE                  98.0        115.0      102.0                  100.6                    103.0
FEMALE                93.0        113.0     107.0                    98.8                    101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  26.0        50.0       56.0                   53.5                      35.3
MALE                  28.0         59.0      65.0                    58.4                     34.9
FEMALE                25.0         42.0      47.0                    48.6                     35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  15.0             ..      34.0                    21.1                     30.1
PUPIL-TEAChER RATIO
PRIMARY                             3b.0         29.0      31.0                   34.2                      29.6
SECONDARY                           27.0        33.0       36.0                    31.7                     15.7
ADULT LlTERACY RATE (PERCENT)         71.9         82.6      88.4                    86.5                     80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PEK THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0         7.6        8.9                   12.7                      42.6
RADIO RECkIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          21.9        46.6       43.5                  174.1                     215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.4         10.9      19.1                   50.6                      89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   17.0         13.6      21.2                   106.8                     62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.6             ..       7.6                     4.3                      3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    10893.2        13478.1   16608.5
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    34.4        33.1       32.3                   37.4                      22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               61.0         53.0      46.7                    50.2                     35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  15.2        16.0       16.9                   21.9                      23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 39.8         36.6      35.5                   40.2                      31.8
MALE                                  52.1         48.6      47.6                    49.8                     49.0
FEMALE                                27.4         24.4      23.2                   31.1                      14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.2          1.3       1.3                     1.1                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..        25.1
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          54.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          5.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEhOLDS       ..         14.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     260.0/c
RURAL                                 ..           ..     195.07                 193.7                    187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     266.0/c                    ..                   513.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..     200.07T                234.3                    362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVEKTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      32.0/c
RURAL                                 ..          ..       41.07T                 32.2.
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among che indicators depends on availability of data and is not unlform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1980.
Revised
June, 1981



ANNE I
-28 -                                                                         Page 3 of 5
DEINItITIONS OP SOCIAL E21BICATOBI
Notee; Although the dotter. draw   fros str...:   geosall  judgsd the moe   -h.l.-brttt  sat  hetul    tekud also  be oot.d that they -sy sot be itote-
nanionuilyctperalsb .b-        of o,hs lack of ersoderdMe  daftattios sed  -onopte used by differen    ontriss it colleting  the data.  The date are, 5
t=     ..e., usfu1ltodeetib   orde.o          sosds, iodioa..etr..ode, otd rtaa      -et       otein a3lt  diffeoseree bernet.. cutrie..
Th   eeeoegops are  (1) the seas oootoy groop: oif the ebject Country cud (21 5 country group tith  e .. m higher  --sre. i-cm   thee ohs otuntry group
ofth  eheo  cunr   (oopifr  Caitlhupls  l  tpot.s  grop share "Middl  income North Africa and Mtiddl.s-1 fast   lh.as. b-ouua  of srne
socio-outuralafftitces)    to oh.  eferenc   gr-p data the ..ertge  are -Popoetio weight d eriohutic ostsfor sack tndio-to  ad ehoe  coly whet
Itoro   of tecutie iag ophas:a-ufor that indicator.                         tS  th  -oerge of .. cotries am-    ohs  oIceor  daede on the sos bilah lt  of data
so   sntuifore.  _ation  catbe      .sro te In rlting  --erga  of on. idctrto soother.  These a-ergee  at  only usflicomptri.gohvclu   of
14t51 Alk(hose   eq1 _    a.)                                                                       Poo1aiooder   ospialdedi-roti , eb, cod rural-Ppuein   crl
Total- Tohal  urfeeerf -icapisogland are . cd  lolpodeatar           . _luc bso. end  -or   indd                            b    ie _repoi-r eubhe  of hoPitel beds
fatolturul - fetimt  o   giclorlaeaoedtmotrl  orpru-o vilable in pobic. ad private ge.ro -1ed apseilited hospite1 and  e-
for  rops  pasorse  eaket and kirohec gerd.a  or tolefallow; 1970 date.                      habiliteaion r-t-s    foPita1.ls  r  ..tabliahant. pemnnl -eff.,
GNP PER CAPITA  illS$) - liNyPeronetcatse oro    ak ppolice,t cat-..dial tar I-a no                                           oua .' tune1koeptais  hotuo,i_nrlyd hath
colered by ease   -ovrlo- aechd asCodBn    d.(9779bss;U6,ad.dos   etr   o   esntlyeefdb       hsca  (but by A
191,   so. d 1979 date.                                                                              me,dicul asitat  nupse Pmideife, et.)fhcf              ofrinptendt
Einily COBSSUPTIOB Pit CAPITA  -        -Iuua  c.oouptiot of co _arela  energy  ce,elproe   re   optl Mti                                  in d       tt.1 pf-oipal)g.erl        p la
ant ligoics  perlum    aurige  n   ydo,nooIndgohemlele                                                t  rural  oepitlloaorrrlhsilsndaal   and mepterein
rociy   i    klgr1    ofca   qonlo  prcpca   Si  1971hyad lONretrac.l.  hpcilbs  hospitals are.d WtiO.s  only  ndpjttotal
deta.                                                               Admissions net Oneniral~~~~~~~.  Bed - Tote1 numbot of  aasi te cc c  di.cherpee
PPUpIA.TION AND VITAL STATISTICSfl.h   i,J                                                                                  id byh  -btof d.
Total Pcpoletloo. tid-tear (tho...avds  - As  fi July 1; IS96i, 1971, sod 1979                              Si.          .. hl 090dll. 
dntok     .i.  Pl-toftti  ."oArersec hle  ofiloebi   oroepe   oebl)-rrl.ohr   t   ua 
IrbanPoruacinolq0reoc f  cob l)    Buoo o  or banec tne   popoldetno                              oshl          sit   iagopo   Indivduls ny   shae   iotlg  ddatir
sagc te; 160, 197,Isd 1979 der.                                                                the hk.u.ehold foreaieie  yop-ce...
Pornl,isci    toL nt  2000 - Curren  PoPo1atio   Projections ere base.d no 19t0                    bar o  pesn     lptrn  it  Illuban, erd corel coronet convnion-
itel  pp1 etnoby age and sn sod their soteited fertility.: rate.                                   elioge, repectively.   WellioSetclode   o-ppane   nroorsad
Projeotico per_ -er  for motalityl. res   oeprier  f thos _leel   teu                            unccopi.d parts.
log lifsepecoc   ebirth icocr.. .g  itor  conty's per -os pits.non                             ANestIlcrilnieeo  of dwlllnisil - intel. ucen   ndrca-
leos,  and femal f  lifr11  enpseis-o   etbI1ising  et 77.5 years.  The par-                     Covrieldwell. in           t ihtiriiy  in iigqorea5
atc fr Leroiirytoa,teanheos  hree lecele sasmiog decline  it                                of tal,buken  and rurl1 dwelliBareporvey
feo"tiry aco  ig  c incm   le-s  and pas  f_erly plann.i.g perEocm Incey
Ouh cutyis iher asine    n  ofths  nie  ocin"...n. c.f eEaDry                               OUCATION
end fertility irsod   fo  tol oi       o pones                                                Adlusned itol...   n L d    .P   -i.lRatios
Stirroonrr Ponru1sio -irascuttionsryycplaitoher  Is no growth since                                Prar   choI.ot,ml sod feml    C1                   5  ttl  sl   a  fasl
the bIrth rats ie equal no Bk. death rate, sod also          ..8 ob ctrntc..rsos.                  erlieo  of all 'ga  at the primarlve   epronie  of"                 I reeprtir
saina  onstat.  Ths is  chievdol,     fe,eoiiyss    eln   to,primry schol-asspopulaions:; norm1iy iecussctld                                              rsnged6-I
the rplacannleve  of  nit  et rprouto   rae      -oe  ac  aSeeetobyas  o  adjusted  for different 1-lhtb   of p-ter   duste;foe
of wmen  epless tesifenuely.The  iatioarypopoenio  cit  ascoun.tries with unisos......                       io   stro- laso-   ma-y seccd 100 Pnroett
esomtetd': oncsbeso   h    rjca    hrceirc    fteppio                                               ic   oePuplsar .belto   hv   he official sohonl eS..
in the yea  2100. sod the rers of decline of tarot] by rare t. rpae                              sec.dar  schel - toa,  ae  n  fte-   auede   hve   eodary
mart ls...I                                                                                        sdn...ritns        sc l   aqust fourllf     year!sof oppovd primary  iaenrt_.tin;
tsar stationary pnou1ation          is .reahed - The yea  thee  tctrotary popolerior                 provides genera. -    ostnnl  norcs                  loatn   erciw   fat -P"pi
else has b.s. reabed.                                                                              o-1u1y of 12 to 17 years of a ga; co-r-p-edseconrsars g..e.l..
PPooIttior D-siry                                                                                       anied
Par  K.   a       id-year population 0r ....... kIIImrsr (hI0 hecteres) orcatalnrlanioetof  scndr) --Ncttoa  iestuin
Pera.k.arclua  land - Cnputed a-ahov-  for  gncoooallad                                              etYor asds,prtea-te   f scndr  intuia.te-
ony  19.., 1971 and 1976 data... tf-nmabstei..                                                                          riao   n  eeoadsrv y         oa   tdosa ldi
PopJjolai  Ana~ i _rtars iplArotr)_-Children  (0-14 yere), working-ege  (15-                            primary end secondary lsve    diridd  hy nubars of teachers is the
64 years), and -stir-d  (65 years and oa)a  pe.toetgse of mid-year popo-                             onospodn   lvls.
e,tion; 196i. I171. ad '1979 1dot.                                                                 Adult littaracvrste  iraros-) - i,ii.rstcadn1te  (skls to esed aed wit.)
Ptrullaicn iowkrts_          acsr bne    -           1ana  growh rate  of total aid-                    asprc...tteS. of total ado1t popu1rino age  15 y.c.. s.ad   st
yerpoplerionfor 1906,1907,ad 19O-79.
Potnatno  Grot -     ate  9'toecet-n          - A-sul groWh ltare  of orket popo-                CONeSUNPTION
Intones Hot 195D-6I. 1960-71, end 197D-79.                                                       P.ssn.-        Casfotthued panlacot  - Pac...ger crep   -pmyris  sNor-
CrdeCith Bane (Per thousan d) - A--I l hoc biotbh  per ohb.osa.d of sid-ps..                     car s-       I lsthtihtparos   -lueemulnos  hearses s,ad
'poplation   1961,  91   e  1979 dais                                                              al m      vhcls
Crude DeahBas(t       rAonr) -       1dea  deathe per thootads of mid-pear                         Rai lnirt   t    ha          4n purulcainni - All types of re..niwere foe reim
poultin;19. 1971. ned  1979 deec.                                                           brearaeeto gasosi pblic pe  thoueand of  popletica; arlIsaa
ZrsstsrdetinBaa-vres  ube  of daughter  a  ie    ill bear is                                         li=n-d           es  ncnti ss  etit years thn regis-tratio   af radio
her norma  rapruc-i- period if she aperisnossp-aan  ess-stif ic fan-                               asaeai   efet; dens for recat pats may not he tWrable slat
tilit   rtes; oeoaly five-year avenge   ndie  in 1960  1970  se A 197.me                                    ers   blse   litning.
FamiltyPleanIn   c-pAottors, AntuaI (thousands) - Annual . nuber ofaoposT   esnr      tthause  acano -"    rcivr  farbreedestno
of hirob- InIrro   darice  unde   spi-e  of retinal famIly pleaig progra.                          gs-rl public per tbouad popelselon;acdsnli                          TVnc .d .. teir...
Pemilylaunlu- Iser  ioercscufsrriedwe            P--Pre esanfarisd                         teoo--riesedtoe s_               csneteioof  e....weit,tf..e,.
ame   rfichidbrn sa (15-4A  year.) who use birhcnrldavire no                                      ewesta  Cir.onlato    trtosn    nnai                   h-Bhwteevrpt
al_l mried semn i            S.ag  stoop.                                                         oaiaof"ilgmreinrsrewpp".dafsd Asaprdia
publios,ion deted puimrily no   -edleg ge..r-1 act.Ift ia tensidard
FOO  ADil sMfITION                                                                                      to he "daily"  f it appar  an least fonr times a west,
I.dat oH Pood Poadurin  net Canine (1969-71-1200   - tede  of per ospits guAl                      Cicas  Annul Anrtad-eaprCiaprPn  - Base  on the  -.a-e  ef
prodution uf all fon.      osiia.Pr-d-cion ec1udes seed and feed end                               tihees sold duria  ibm Par  telu_        a   adisin   no drios-in  otas
is. on  aledar yea  beele.  Casoditisscowsr pomay goode  s.   eaaros-                             sad mebila units..
inta    f eupsr) which arc edible seA coesi lourite  (eS. cof    n
te -rmaided).  Ageaernnt    of  eahLat   s  oe   ntAN.5 ltiti
_.ioalaa',p prducerP pice wesha;16t 61   97    n  1979duo.-                                 Tene1 LaoWm     o    tonne          Econumleul   ectie P.rea-., ilalod s
Pa outis surey of olurin  noroatof omia          l-Computed fl tona_md farce  en  oewopd but  -noloding battaa ..a , stitats.  et,,
-Snry sqoivelet of net foodsple  available in con= ry pe-ait                                      aeingppltino   l  aps.                             L.enie    in-ar-n  -entrie et
per day.  A-ailable  opiecmts  domesic productin  Imports less                                   not te arble1960. 1970 and 1979 done ...tS f_
upr,anch,,g,, in er-N    Ear suPplies anolde  nima1 feed, seeds,                       Pssle  errn'    F- ale  "blafr..e..           pt      eg   f  oa .lbho  farn.
quuatirs  ned CA fond proceai.. L.And losese it distribuniun. Buqies                           IaiotraI            nt      ao  frns act, farmin, fernenry, htettig act
mane  ard  s.tamane  by PAP heand An physiogoa  nsd  for afulani                                 fishing as p-r-eneg  of tonal labor fn....; 1960, 1970. an  1979dan.t
vity Ind telh coeidsrngeni romtoalte a--ur, body weights, ega                                 Industry farenn   -Aae   or   nmnn,oetono,auutt
Andeo  disitb.utio   of papulation, and allowing 10 psr-a  Pot masse en    -                      i   ltiit.           eted ga   epeo rg   o   edlao Ire   90
ha_sehold  mI1; 1961-65, 1970, set 1977 data.                                                    197 0 and1979 da..
IF asn  eol  of pootenn (sram  Pen dey  - Pronmin content of per caPita                 Penntnu    as(ncal-nnel mae,ed Eaes -1                               irptima
an alpply offHood rueday..  at%spply of food is OsE1 taden  bets.  -                             itiot ty wnsserwr    sntl   al.adfsl   io    er
A00r tnn   for oil ro tis  easbisbs  by ItlA pr_id. ,fr aN-n                                      p-rrnrgs  of tota, male ant fat1  pop             ttninoH al!l age  r_pariwl,.y;
elomo   f61gas   fttlpoenper day an E2lga     of animal and                             1960, 1970. end 1979 dens.The  ar          oosda  tL.    priipone    ae
pulse protein, of which 10 gram  shod heanma  prten                    ..e .aun-                 reflactiugassasrunsea   h  pplte,ed                       tognn    et.
arts are 1lmo th- thoseof7  gime ofine  prnteio and 23 gra   of                                  fewsnias  ar   ro           tiatl  uro1
animalprotaim  a  an fvraa   o  the wrlId,_propo     by PAO in the Third                      PrnmoOssdnY bela  - Ratio of popueion umd-r 15 ond 63 at twe
Wsrld Pond Snoy; 1961-65, 1970 sod 1977 daalo  th, tonal 1blobrfre
Pero     ..n ra.1o steely fl eon   ngim   and onle  - Prenain   pply of fend As-
neat frmd       il   n   ossi   em    a   i; 1961.5, 1970 and 1977d.tdana                   IPC3X DIPTILIBUIITIt
Child (Asas  1-41 i.tneiae  baa (ra  t rhnsuti-""'ol death  par ehoead it                          F ---.se  of Private I-o   (both CA oak sa  kind) - tccsitd by  ioh-st
egs gr..ep1I-A  yars, ta obildre  in thie age ger-;  nt mast 1myloplg te-                             pew.-tririhat  1 par0       o   poota-  20 prat  at paaret 40 paromt
tries data derived from  1iff atblee; 1960, 1970 and 1979dan                                       of hanehad..
LiEn  banat  an SO nh  ware   -tAverage onbhs  at year  oH hOe. e-atiog                            Thu tEllosie1g ani-ete  ar  very spyonniat   oesre    f povety lemis,
ul bithf     160  17 aondiy   t   17tu A,         d h   fW --                     y.                atd shold he intsrpemtsd with cniderabla caution,
uoA. on hef  Cater  aroa.         foeltcn-n             l t,thanb'l  atrura  - h-                    eri 1aall  adq-ut  diet plon sewna -e-food raqeiats is sac
he_  fpepe(tnl  ura,en   ua) with  actbl eraea  at Wm                                               fttedabl.
-,e Pply  l l tue  tretd  nrfas eaters or ustraned btn unsanimand                            Es11tmte  selatw   Povenv tncain I-   NL-          at ogef.  - irks at~ repe  -
anat ta  s -    then Er  prarutad borakla, argesad euitury malls) Ce                               FadrLaiepoet   mI-t  lsvel is. n -eird et e-rag   Pee  "qine
perc_tapee o at . n it's.P-oiv   Ppopol-ione.  Is on neb- aa a pnblio                              p.sta   Onus   f the tan-ery    Orlba Istl in4 deivdf-s    t   ne
Hesatis orsuepoe.tI.leror t a   mars that 200  -aar  from s bata.-               h                 lavl.wth   doa    echpaoe        iigi   .ra  res
ratatard as being rul hl       ssale -       se  ef nut h-ua   to rura a11reasih.jZ::    -hg-    .   fl
reaasble             -ies   ed lol   hn  h   oisiaa1mtes ththelhemhold                           BimtdP tlaon el    elnsPyn,I.-sm  inte  fe-tnal-e
dawt hov  tw spa  s dipr-p-rtinnunn part of the day in  srn   thepae"
familpe sasenude
Aies  n  -Pcen  Die.--I itarnt ef rolto  -  oa,ur                d.a   rural
Brae e  pepl  (eta.  rba,  ad  url)  ared  y  nrenodisposa  As
prngaef theirl. rpotlv-  poua-mm    fl.ten  diepoa1 may I-aida
therala n   sad dispoal, t1th ne  ithout ersnet-, of bha                                                                              E-Jc.Otal  at Puile  Dats Biwsg
at_et-man     by -tens-hoe ept-  or abs use ef pit priviesA eat5liO                                                               goasaho  uAlpois  - atPrjeonie     DepwAt-e
Ca    _nll-niome.ay18
!okj pg,n FbT ioAm   - Papulaiun tilted by etam   ef p-aoiaing pkpet-
roa   islf1.    t  a m-dorl sohoa  an saiterety level
Petmutioo at Nasi.   Person- Pauluiti   dividd hy mtaut of p-atinIog
male at teAls g.4ata.uss  p-antol  -ars, at eaistan  ear..



ANNEX I
PaTe 4 of 5
PHILIPPINES - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                               Annual growth rates (X)
current prices)                      Actual                                     Proiected
Indicator                           1979           1976    1977    1978    1979    1980/a   1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1990
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product           28,854           7.1     6.2      5.9     5.9      4.7      5.8      6.3     6.3      6.3     7.1      8.3
Agriculture                     6,991           8.6     5.0     4.8      5.3      4.3      5.2      5.2     5.0     5.0      5.0      5.0
Industry                      10,174          10.0      7.7     6.4      6.7     5.8       6.5     7.2      7.5     7.5      8.5    10.0
Services                      11,689           3.7      5.7     6.3      5.5      5.0      5.6     6.2      6.0     6.0      7.0     8.5
Consumption                     21,860            4.3     5.2      4.6     4.8      4.2      5.4      5.2     4.9      5.1     5.8      7.0
Gross investment                  8,576           8.0     0.7    13.3      7.4      4.8      6.3      6.3     6.3      6.3     7.1      8.3
Exports of GNFS /b                5,528          19.9    17.6      1.6     7.4    11.3      10.2    10.7    11.2    10.6    10.8    10.5
Imports of GNFS                   7,110           1.3     5.3    13.2    10.3       5.2      6.6      6.7     6.5     6.6      6.8      7.2
Gross national savings            6,665         -2.0    11.3       8.3     7.7      3.1      -        -       -        -       -        -
PRICES
GDP deflator (1972 - 100)                       183.6   198.8   210.6   250.8    296.9       -       -        -       -        -       -
Exchange rate (US$1 -)                           7.45    7.41    7.38    7.39       7.52              -       -       -        -       -
Export price index (1978 - 100)                  92.6    95.8   100.0   124.6    140.3   149.9   160.0   170.5   183.3   195.7   258.7
Import price index (1978 - 100)                 91.6    94.2   100.0   117.4    142.2   157.0   170.8   185.2   197.1   210.6   289.3
Terms of trade index (1978 - 100)               101.1   101.7   100.0   106.1       98.7    95.5    93.7    92.6    93.0    92.9    89.4
Share of GDP at market prices (%)                      Average annual increase (x)
(at current prices) /c                                (at constant prices)
1960    1970    1975    1980    1985          1990  1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product            100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0           5.1       6.1        5.9        6.3       7.6
Agriculture                      28.1    27.8    29.0    26.8    25.0    22.0           4.3       4.3        4.8        5.0       5.0
Industry                        25.8    29.6    33.5    35.5    37.7    40.6            6.0       8.6        7.6       7.5        9.1
Services                        46.1    42.6    37.5    37.7    37.3    37.4            5.2       5.4        5.7       6.1        7.7
Consumption                     85.3    79.2    75.8    74.5    72.4    68.7            4.8       5.5        5.2       5.2        6.5
Gross investment                 16.3    21.5    31.0    30.1    29.2    30.5           8.2      11.5        6.5       6.8        7.6
Exports of GNFS                  10.8    19.4    18.5    19.4    24.7    27.5           5.8       3.2       10.0      10.7       10.0
Imports of GNFS                 10.6    19.7    25.3    24.0    26.2    25.4            6.8       6.8        8.0       6.6        6.9
Gross national savings          16.2    20.5    25.3    23.1    25.4    29.2            7.4       9.7        -         -          -
As % of GDP
1960      1970       1975      1980         Labor Force in 1978          Millions    (X)
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                            Agriculture                 7.4       44.4
Current revenues                          9.8        9.5      13.9       12.8           Industry                    2.7       16.2
Current expenditures                      9.6       10.9      12.3        9.6           Services                    5.6       33.0
Current surplus                           0.2      -1.4        1.6        4.1           Unemployed                  1.1        6.4
Capital expenditure                       2.3        1.9       3.2        3.2
Foreign financing                         -          0.1       0.3        1.5               Total Labor Force      16.8      100.0
1960-70          1970-75          1975-80         1980-85          1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (X)                                5.1              5.6              5.9              6.3              7.7
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (X)                     2.0              2.7              3.2              3.6              5.1
Annual energy consumption growth rate (X)                 7.4              6.2              4.2              4.7              4.6
ICOR                                                      4.5              4.7              4.6              4.5              4.1
Marginal savings rate                                   0.285            0.330             0.26             0.32             0.35
Import elasticity                                        1.33             1.12             1.20             1.05             0.90
/a Preliminary estimate.
7i Historical figures are official estimates based on 1972 weights. In relation to the composition of Philippine exports
in the late 1970s these estimates give undue weight to stable or declining exports of raw commodities such as copra,
sugar, and logs, and insufficient weight to rapidly growing exports such as nontraditional manufactures and coconut oil.
Bank staff estimates of export volume based on 1978 weights are shown on Attachment 3b.
/c Projected years of constant prices.
East Asia & Pacific Regional Office
Nloveer 1981



- 30 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(US$ million, at current Prices)
Actual                Est.               Projected
1977   1978    1979    1980    1981         1982    1983    1984       1985
Summary of Balance of Payments
Exports of goods and services               4,161   4,838   6,177   7,863   9,084  10,710  12,830  15,360  18,370
Of which:  exports of goods              3,151   3,425   4,602   5,788   6,518   7,890   9,630  11,710  14,220
Imports of goods and services               5,248   6,323   8,108  10,348  12,076  13,680  15,620  17,820  20,210
Of which:   imports of goods             3,915   4,732   6,142   7,727   8,810  10,050  11,510  13,170  15,100
Transfers (net)                               260      312      355      434      500      550      610      660      730
Current Account Balance                   -827  -1,173  -1,576  -2,051  -2,490  -2,420  -2,180  -1,800  -1,110
Direct investment (net)                       216      171       99       45      290      320      350      390      420
MLT loans (net)                               662      891   1,091   1,032   1,370   1,600   1,540   1,310            920
Official-source loans (net)                 332      333      449      375      851      940   1,050   1,120   1,150
Private-source loans (net)                  330      501      642      657      519      660      490       90    -230
Other capital (net) /a                        113       56    -193       593      455      300      300      300      300
Overall Balance lb                          164      -54    -579    -381    -375    -200            -      200      530
International reserves (end-year) /c   1,525   1,883   2,423   3,155
Reserve as months of imports                  3.5      3.6      3.6      3.7
External Capital and Debt
Gross Disbursements                         1,376   1,968   2,385   2,047
Concessional Loans                           88      120      183      178
Bilateral                                 62        56      113      101
IDA                                        2         1        3        2
Other multilateral                         24       63       67       75
Nonconcessional Loans                    1,287   1,848   2,202   1,869
Official export credits                  123       121      152        8
IBRD                                      99      160      204      221
Other multilateral                         30       47       81       83
Private sources                        1,035   1,520   1,765   1,557
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed           5,003   6,199   7,137   8,554
Official-source                        1,423   1,895   2,265   2,710
Private-source                         3,580   4,304   4,872   5,844
Undisbursed debt                         2,601   4,017   4,305   5,476
Debt Service
Total service payments                      762      910   1,028   1,259
Of which:  interest                      183      270      486       659
Payments as % of exports of goods
and services                            18.3    18.8    16.6       16.0
Average interest rate on new loans
Official-source                             7.5      5.5      5.5      6.9
Private-source (DRS)                       8.4       9.0    10.5    14.7
Average maturity of new loans
Official-source                            18.6    22.8    23.3    21.2
Private-source (DRS)                        9.0    10.2    11.1        9.9
/a  Short-term capital, monetization of gold, allocation of SDRs, and errors and omissions.
lb Equals change in net international reserves.
T7  Gross reserves of the Central Bank ('International reserves," IFS).
East Asia and Pacific Region
November 1981



ANNEX I1
Page 1 of 18 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of perch 31, 1982
Loan or
Credit                                                                     Amount (leas cancellatiora)
Number      FY    Borrower                Purpose                          Ban}      IDA  Undisbursed
Twenty-six Loans and three credits fully disbursed                         485.82  32.20
984-PH   1974  Rep. of the Philip.    Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation           9.50              0.16
998-PH   1974                            DBP I                             50.00              0.43
1034-PH   1974  National Power Corp.   Power                                61.00             0.51
1035-PH   1974  Rep. of the Philip.    Population                           25.00             7.83
1080-PH   1975  Rep. of the Philip.    Tarlac Irrigation                    17.00             2.87
1102-PH   1975                            Rural Development                 25.00             4.88
1154-PH   1976                            Magat Irrigation                  42.00             5.81
1190-PH   1976                            DBP II                            75.00             1.29
1224-T-PH 1976                            Education III                     24.73             2.23
1227-PH   1976                            Chico Irrigation                  50.00            25.80
1272-T-PH 1976                            Manila Urban                      10.00             2.99
1282-PH   1976                            Manila Urban                      22.00              6.58
1269-PH   1977                            Second Grain Processing           11.50             4.04
1353-PH   1977                            Third Highways                    95.00            44.98
1367-PH   1977                            Jalaur Irrigation                 15.00              5.55
1374-PH   1977                            Fourth Education                  25.00             6.64
1399-PH   1977 Central Bank of the        Fourth Rural Credit
Philippines                                                36.50            12.30
1414-PH   1977 Rep. of the Philip.        Nat. Irrig. Syst. Improvmt.    50.00               30.25
1415-PH   1977                            Provincial Cities Water Sup.   23.00                7.89
1421-PH   1977                            Rural Dev. Land Stlmt. II         15.00             6.93
1460-PH   1978 National Power Corp.    Seventh Power                        58.00            30.63
1506-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.        Smallholder Tree Farming           8.00             5.90
1514-PH   1978 Philip. National Bank   PDCP V                               30.00             5.15
1526-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.        Nat. Irrig. Syst. Improvmt. II 65.00               48.30
790-PH   1978                            Rural Infrastructure                     28.00    21.09
S.8-P11   1978                           Education                          2.00             0.88
1547-PH   1978 Nat. Electrif. Admin.   Rural Electrification                60.00             1.05
1555-PH   1978 Philip. National Bank   PISO                                 15.00              1.05
1567-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.        Magat II                         150.00            22.97
1572-PH   1978                            Industrial Investment III         80.00            25.20
1615-PH   1979                            Manila Water Supply II            88.00            78.14
1626-PH   1979                            National Extension                35.00            30.10
1639-PH   1979                            Magat River Multipurpose          21.00            14.22
1646-PH   1979                            Small Farmer Dev. (Land Bank)  16.50               10.12
1647-PH   1979                            Second Urban Development          32.00            21.65
1661-PH   1979                            Highways IV                      100.00            97.44
1710-PH   1979                            Water Supply II                   16.00            16.00
920-PH   1979                            Water Supply II                           22.00    19.17
1727-PH   1979                            Small & Medium Industry II        25.00             0.36
923-PH   1979                            Population II                            40.00    39.30
1772-PH   1980                            Samar Island Rural Devel.         27.00            23.92
1786-PH   1980                            Fisheries Trng. (Educ. VI)        38.00            37.31
1809-PH   1980                            Medium-Scale Irrigation           71.00            67.06
1814-PH   1980                            Manila Sewerage & Sanitation   63.00               57.18
1815-PH   1980                            Rainfed Agric. Dev. (Iloilo)   12.00              -11.21
1821-PH   1980                            Third Urban                       72.00            60.59
1855-PH   1980                            Third Ports                       67.00            65.11
1860-PH   1980                            Rural Roads Improvement           62.00            57.86
1890-PH   1981                            Watershed Management              38.00            36.48
1894-PH   1981                            Third Livestock & Fisheries    45.00               33.90
1903-PH   1981                            Structural Adjustment            200.00             3.96
1984-PH   1981  Central Bank of the    Industrial Finance (Apex)           150.00           149.88
Philippines
2030-PH   1981  Rep. of the Philip.    Elem. Educ. Sector Loan             100.00           100.00
2040-PH   1982  Rep. of the Philip.    Ag. Support Services                 45.00            44.97
2067-PH/a 1982  Rep. of the Philip.    Urban Engineering                     8.00             8.00
Total                                                               2,967.55 122.20 1,546.57
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                                            236.50
Total now outstanding                                               2,731.05 122.20
Amount sold                                             24.34
of which has been repaid
(third parties)                                       23.06           1.28   -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate adjustments)                              2,729.77 122.20
Total undisbursed                                                   1,346.55  79.56 1,426.11
/a Not yet effective.



- 32 -                    ANNEX II
page 2 of 18
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of March 31, 1982
Fiscal                                                         Amounts ($ million)
Year                      Company                            Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the           15.0      4.4    19.4
Philippines
1967          Manila Electric Company                          8.0      -        8.0
1967          Meralco Securities Corporation                   -        4.0     4.0
1970          Philippine Long Distance Telephone               3.7       .8      4.5
Company
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                      0.8      0.4      1.2
1970          Paper Industries Corporation of the               -       2.2     2.2
Philippines
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation                  6.2      2.1     8.3
1972          Marinduque Mining and Industrial                15.0      -      15.0
Corporation
1973          Victorias Chemical Corporation                   1.9      0.3     2.2
1974          Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation            1.5     -        1.5
1974/1979    Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.   1.6            0.6     2.2
1974          Republic Flour Mills Corporation                 1.2      -        1.2
1975          Philippine Polyamide Industrial                  7.0      -       7.0
Corporation
1976/1980    Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                        2.6     0.2      2.8
1977          Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                       2.3      1.2     3.5
1977          Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                       3.5     -        3.5
1978          Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.   2.1          -        2.1
1979          General Milling Corporation                      4.0      1.1     5.1
1980          PISO Leasing Corporation                         5.0     0.1      5.1
1980          Ventures in Industry and Business                -       0.3      0.3
Enterprises, Inc.
1980          Consolidated Industrial Gases, Inc.              4.5     -        4.5
1981          Loans to Seven Corp. for SMSE                   18.5       .7    19.2
1981          Philippine Assoc. Smelting & Refining Corp. -            5.0      5.0
1981          Davao Union Cement Corp.                        16.0     -       16.0
Total gross commitments                       120.4    23.4   143.8
Less sold, acquired by others,               53.5    12.6    66.1
repaid or cancelled
Total commitments now held by IFC              66.9    10.8    77.7
Total Undisbursed                              34.5      0.8    35.3



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 18
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
as of March 31, 1982
Agricultural Sector
Credit No. 472 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984    $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project was completed on December 31, 1981 and preparation of
the Completion Report is well under way. Work on the Canili and Diayo dams
and the transbasin canal was completed in 1975, about one year ahead of
schedule. However, difficulties in the award of construction contracts
delayed the start of improvement works in the Penaranda service areas which
were further hampered by severe typhoon damages in 1978 and 1980. Due to cost
increases, delays in construction and reduced cropping intensity resulting
from the overall shortage of water in the Upper Pampanga River Irrigation
System, the internal rate of return is expected to be considerably lower than
the appraisal estimate of 17%. The last consignments of O&M equipment are
being delivered.
Loan No. 1080 Tarlac Irrigation, $17.0 Million Loan of January 27, 1975,
Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is now about 90% complete. Full completion is expected
by December 1982, a two-year delay in the original schedule, caused mainly by
managerial problems and late preparation of the designs for the drainage
works. The closing date has already been extended by one and a half years to
June 30, 1982, and it is expected that the Government will request a further
extension to complete the project works. The area developed is likely to be
some 20% less than originally planned, mainly because of flooding from the
Chico, Camiling and Agno rivers. Costs are higher than anticipated, partly
due to the delays referred to above, and the economic rate of return is now
likely to be close to 10% compared with an appraisal estimate of 15%.
Loan No. 1102 Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Overall project execution is well advanced. The irrigation works
are substantially completed, except for two communal systems which are planned
for completion by the end of 1982. After initial delays in the award of
construction contracts for the roads component, progress in project execution
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-j4 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 18
has now improved with the mobilization of contractors on three national and
one provincial road contracts. Completion of the roads component is now
planned for mid-1983, about three years behind the appraisal schedule. The
closing date has therefore been extended to December 1983.
Loan No. 1154 Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness:  November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Civil works by local contract and force acount for rehabilitation
and new construction of canals, drains and access roads are progressing well,
and che project is over 90% complete. All contracts have now been awarded,
but some of the work has been postponed until the end of the rainy season.
The water management training is continuing satisfactorily. Due to earlier
delays in contract award, budgetary constraints and typhoon damage in 1980,
project completion is expected to be delayed by about two years over the
original schedule of June 30, 1982.
Loan No. 1227 Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976, Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Although the project was scheduled for completion in June 1980, it
is now only about 54% complete. Work started slowly due to late procurement
of equipment for force account work. Further delays were caused by: changes
in design which resulted in rebidding the three major contracts for the
diversion dam, the main canal and the river siphon; severe and repeated
typhoon damage; and problems of right-of-way acquisition. Work on the
diversion dam was suspended for over four months because of security problems
in the area. The project is now scheduled for completion in June 1984, a
four-year delay over the appraisal estimate, and the closing date has
therefore been extended to December 31, 1984. Towards the end of 1981, in
an effort to accelerate project implementation, the National Irrigation
Administration created a special task force, reorganized and strengthened the
project organization and brought in additional equipment and materials.
Loan No. 1269 Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan
of July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 4,
1976, Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
The loan is fully committed and the closing date is expected to be
met. The loan has disbursed rapidly since the end of 1980 after a slow
beginning which led to a two-year postponement of the closing date to June 30,
1983. The post-harvest study on grain losses is expected to be
completed in early 1982.



- 35 -                    ANNEX II
Page 5 of 18
Loan No. 1367 Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is about 85% complete. Remaining major construction
activities include the improvement of the Santa Barbara diversion dam by
contract, the repairs of the existing right bank of the Jalaur diversion dam,
and on-farm facilities, including some additional works by force account. The
National Irrigation Administration expects to complete all construction works
by the end of July 1982. The Government intends to use the anticipated
balance of $4 million for the detailed engineering of the Jalaur multipurpose
storage dam for Stage II of the project. A draft feasibility report is being
reviewed by the Bank.
Loan No. 1399  Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The escalation in fuel and machinery costs during 1978 and 1979,
accompanied by a sharp fall in sugar prices, substantially reduced the subloan
demand, particularly for four-wheel tractors, power tillers and light trucks.
Another major problem has been the growing arrears of several rural banks
resulting in many of them being ineligible for project lending. To compensate
for this, in November 1979, the project's scope was broadened to include new
categories of investments and new lending channels (private development
banks); however, their impact on the disbursement rate has been modest.
Effective January 1982, the institutional arrangements for project imple-
mentation have been further widened to include private investment corporations
to lend, on a selective basis, for project-supported investments. The lending
terms have also been suitably rationalized. As a result, the pace of subloan
commitments is expected to accelerate; however, the undisbursed balance of the
loan ($12.8 million) may not be fully utilized by the extended closing date of
December 31, 1982.
Loan No. 1414  National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project;
$50 Million Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
August 9, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Progress in project implementation has been slow due to shortage of
staff and design problems at the outset, which caused delays in the finaliza-
tion of designs and preparation of bidding and contract documents for the
Abulog diversion dam and drainage works in Leyte. Shortages of fuel and
construction materials, which initially caused major delays, were eventually
overcome. Implementation improved in 1979 as a result of better planning and
organization and less complicated contract procedures. However, project
execution was severely delayed in 1980 and 1981 due to inadequate and, in
certain cases, late release of counterpart funds. Corporate funds have now
been approved, and in part released, for the 1982 construction program. Final
project costs and benefits are expected to be in line with original estimates.
Project benefits may be lower than estimated due to inadequate water,
particularly in Region 1. The project is now expected to be completed in
December 1984, about three years behind the appraisal estimate.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 18
Loan No. 1421 Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
A Cabinet subcommittee has been appointed to examine proposals for a
public land management policy emerging from an interagency workshop held in
August 1981. Feasibility studies have been completed for two of the three
settlements proposed for a follow-on Bank-financed project. Satisfactory
progress is being made in land allocation and titling and project infra-
structure; however, some titling and infrastructure works are expected to
extend beyond the current loan closing date. A recent promising start has
been made on the credit program and this should gather momentum. Progress in
the agricultural development component has been promising, as reflected in the
adoption by settlers of improved techniques, in the extent of areas now under
cultivation, and in reported improved yields. The reforestation component of
the project has, however, been neglected. In view of the status of some
project components, the Government is expected to request an extension of the
loan closng date by twelve months, to December 31, 1983.
Loan No. 1506 Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project,
$80.0 Million Loan of January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
May 11, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Physical progress on the DBP tree farming component continues to be
satisfactcry, and area commitments have reached approximately 82% of the
project's target. The BFD pine plantation component at Abra has been
seriously affected by insect attack resulting in the need to reconsider plans
for development and to initiate work on pest control measures and the use of
alternative tree species. The PCARR forestry research program is progressing
well and the draft Wood Industries Development Study has been submitted to
the Ministry of Natural Resources. Disbursement continues to be behind
schedule, principally because of procurement difficulties over vehicles,
infrastructure and equipment.
Loan No. 1526 Second National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project:
$65 Million Loan of March 15, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
June 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Topographic surveys, planning and design for most of the project
works have been completed and construction is under way. Overall implementa-
tion progress is slow due to delays in finalizing the design for diversion
works and drainage systems in Regions 9 and 12, slow bureaucratic processes in
bidding and award of contracts, and inadequate and belated release of
counterpart funds in 1981. Corporate funds have now been approved for the
1982 construction season, and the project is expected to be completed in 1985.



- 37 -                      ANNEX II
Page 7 of 18
Credit No. 790 Rural Infrastructure; $28 Million Credit of April 21,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: July 21, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Construction of rural water supply systems and health stations is
proceeding satisfactorily with about 360 water wells and 53 health stations
now completed. The construction of San Jose Port is expected to be completed
by mid-1983, allowing for the repair of typhoon damages. Work has progressed
well at the port of Culasi, but completion is delayed due the continuing
settlement of the storage platform. Construction of Dumaguit port is behind
schedule, as is construction of the irrigation components which were held up
by inadequate support facilities, ineffective farmer organizations and failure
of farmers to collaborate with project staff. However, remedial measures have
now improved the situation and the service area has been increased to about
10,400 ha. About 35 km of roads have been constructed through force account,
construction contracts have been awarded for 300 km of roads and the detailed
design of the remaining roads is well under way. The total length of village
roads has been reduced from the appraisal estimate of 1,390 km to about 1,200
km. Project completion is now planned for December 1984, about two years
behind the appraisal schedule.
Loan No. 1567 Magat River Multipurpose Project - Stage II;
$150 Million Loan of May 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness;
August 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress is good. The first stage of river diversion has been
successfully achieved and excavation is substantially complete. Construction
of the main dam is making excellent progress. Concrete work for the spillway
started slowly and suffered from interruptions due to breakdown of the cranes,
but the contractor has made up for lost time and is once more nearly on sche-
dule. Work on resettlement of the population to be displaced by the reservoir
is excellent, with work on one of the three new villages nearly complete. The
project is expected to be completed on schedule.
Loan No. 1626 National Extension Project; $32.0 Million Loan of
December 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 26, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
After a slow start due to the reorganization within the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA), the project is being further delayed by management and
financial constraints. Implementation in the regions is now the
responsibility of the Regional Directors, and performance varies depending on
the motivation of the Director. The Minister of Agriculture has now been
requested to ensure that Regional Directors are fully conversant with the
Project's objectives. The influence of the Project Manager - the Director of
the Bureau of Agricultural Extension - has been reduced since his agency
become a staff bureau. A shortage of local funds during the latter half of
1981 affected progress detrimentally. Procurement problems persist, as it is
unlikely that the President's Office will allow the import of the full quota
of vehicles designated for the project because of their increased cost and
drain on limited fuel resources. MOA will request that surplus vehicle funds



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 18
be used for other purposes, including additional motorcycles and visual aid
materials, and increased travel and gasoline allowances for all field
technicians. This request is expected to be received by the end of June 1982
and will be reviewed at the next supervision scheduled later in the year.
Loan No. 1639-PH Magat River Multipurpose Project; Stage II Irrigation;
$21.0 Million Loan of January 26, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: April 25, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Implementation started early in 1980 and progress is generally
satisfactory. All major contracts have been awarded and some are ahead of
schedule. All construction equipment has been procured and delivered to site.
Completion is now expected by the end of 1984, eighteen months behind the
appraisal estimate. The major constraint is the overall shortage of local
funds which is being carefully considered by the Government.
Loan No. 1646 Small Farmer Development Project through the Land Bank of
the Philippines; $16.5 Million Loan of January 26, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness; April 25, 1979,
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The pace of sub-loan disbursements to small farmers continues to be
slow due to LBP's cautious approach to lending resulting from poor
collections under past sub-loans and to the delay in the reorganization of
field offices caused by belated government approval of LBP-s proposals. In
addition, there has been a backlog in loan withdrawals in respect of
disbursements to second priority (non-agrarian reform) beneficiaries. The
field office reorganization and and other institution development measures
are, however, expected to be carried out in near future. Procedural
difficulties which held up withdrawals under the infrastructure component have
also been resolved, and the line agencies have started sub-project
implementation. The disbursements under the infrastructure component are
expected to start in May 1982.   The loan is expected to be fully drawn by
December 31, 1983, an 18-month delay over the appraisal estimate of June 30,
1982.
Loan No. 1772 Samar Island Rural Development Project; $27.0 million
Loan of February 1, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:
May 21, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Bidding on road construction has been delayed due to political
disturbances on the island.  Port work is proceeding satisfactorily but the
irrigation program has been delayed due to withdrawal of one of the sites
because of technical objections by the settlers. Alternative sites are now
being reviewed by the Bank. The construction of village wells is progressing
satisfactorily, and a pump maintenance problem was corrected by providing
specialized service tools under the project. The formation of water users
associations, and the collection of water charges, have begun slowly but are
gaining momentum. The program of schistosomiasis control is proceeding on
schedule, as is the Catubig Valley development study.



- 39 -                       ANNEX II
Page 9 of 18
Loan No. 1809  Medium-Scale Irrigation; $71.0 million Loan of March 28,
1980.  Date of Effectiveness:  June 25, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The consultants engaged to develop the design of the dams have now
started compiling design and construction standards for irrigation structures
and facilities. However, detailed engineering design of the diversion dams
is behind schedule due to unavailability of drilling rigs to conduct sub-
surface investigations. Force account works have been started. Construction
contracts have been awarded for three of the 12 major contract works. Diffi-
cult working conditions in the project areas and inadequate communications
facilities have resulted in poor response to invitations for competitive
bidding from prospective contractors. This is likely to cause further delays
in the implementation schedule.
Loan No. 1815 Rainfed Agriculture (Iloilo); $12.0 million Loan of
March 28, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
In spite of the complexity of the project, the Ministry of Agri-
culture's project management is making fair progress. The multi-agency set-up
of this project requires close financial monitoring, which needs further
improvement. The 1981 wet season multiple cropping target of 6,000 ha under
the Kabsaka methodology has been achieved. For the success of the coming 1982
wet season target of 16,000 ha, much will depend on the effectiveness of the
farmers' training sessions, the selection of farmer leaders and the mobility
of the field staff. The mobility of the coordinating management staff has now
improved with the provision of new vehicles funded through the National
Extension Project. The project has not to date been able to purchase its own
vehicles due to restrictions imposed by the Presidential Office. Several
project components are seriously affected by the inadequacy or delay in the
allocation and/or release of local funds.
Loan No. 1890 Watershed Management and Erosion Control Project;
$38.0 Million Loan of August 4, 1980; Date of
Effectiveness: October 30, 1980, Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
In spite of funding restraints which affected project implementation
in 1981, the reforestation component achievement is close to target, and, with
the allocation of funds for 1982 now available, this progress should continue.
Road works are behind schedule, as vehicles and equipment procured under the
project have not yet been delivered, and the use of hired equipment has been
plagued with problems.  Project staffing levels proposed by NIA have been
reduced by 32%, and the proposed salary grades of key management personnel
have also been reduced. The Bank is monitoring this situation closely to
determine its possible effect on project implementation.  The contract for the
Magat Feasibility Study was signed in November 1981. The forest protection
pilot project is behind schedule due to the late release of funds in 1981.



-40-                         ANNEX II
Page 10 of 18
Loan No. 1894 Third Livestock and Fisheries Credit Project; $45.0 Million
Loan of August 4, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: November 5,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is progressing well and cumulative disbursements have
ben slightly ahead of schedule. Estimated commitments over the medium term
indicate that this trend should continue. In general, lending for fishponds
and hog production has exceeded appraisal estimates, while lending for
seagoing vessels and some types of cattle has lagged.  (Village level cattle
schemes have substantially surpassed appraisal estimates.) Studies being
carried out by the Bureau of Animal Industries should be under way shortly,
and institutional strengthening of the Development Bank of the Philippines
is currently in progress. The need for a study on fishing gear technology
to be handled by the Fishery Industry Development Council is being reviewed,
but a review of maritime regulations is expected to start shortly.
Loan No. 2040 Agricultural Support Services; $45.0 million Loan of August 25,
1981; Proposed Date of Effectiveness: November 10, 1981,
Closing Date: December 31, 1987
This loan was signed on August 25, 1981 and was declared effective
in November 1981. New agencies have been established, and existing agencies
organized to implement the 24 components of the project. Delays have been
encountered due to confusion over the designation of responsibilities
between the Central Office, the staff bureaus and the Regional Offices
following the 1980 reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture and non-
release of scheduled local start-up funds in 1981.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 1353      Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of January 12,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Overall, the project is about 65% complete and two and half years
behind schedule because of slow procurement, poor performance of many contrac-
tors, and inadequate planning for the use of local funds. The Ministry of
Public Highways was poorly managed. However, it was merged in 1981 with the
Ministry of Public Works and its operations are now improving. Further
efforts are, however, required to strengthen its management, and a short-term
action program was agreed in detail in 1981 with the Ministry of Public Works
and Highways (MPWH) in order to tighten the project implementation. MPWH
has adhered to the schedule of the action program, and works on national
and minor road contracts are now progressing satisfactorily.  The road
maintenance and restoration programs have been reduced in scope to establish
more realistic targets. Procurement of road maintenance equipment, tools
and other machinery has been completed. Consultants for supervision of
construction of roads and workshops are in place and the road and ferry
feasibility studies have been completed.  The technical assistance advisors
to MPWH completed their assignment in November 1979 and training advisors to
MPWH completed their work in March 1980. Overall, the project is likely to
be completed by mid-1983, the revised completion date.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 18
Loan No. 1661      Fourth Highway Project; $100 Million Loan of March 9,
1979 ; Date of Effectiveness: June 15, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After long initial delays caused mainly by slow procurement, the
implementation of this project has now started to progress more rapidly. MPWH
has adhered, with some minor delays, to the action program agreed upon in
May 1981, and has recently made significant progress by awarding nine of the
ten national road construction contracts. Nevertheless, the overall delay now
amounts to at least a year. The detailed engineering for construction of
workshops is well under way. Pilot maintenance programs for four regions have
started and procurement of maintenance equipment is under way.
Loan No. 1855      Third Ports Project; $67 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Proposed Date of Effectiveness: September 11, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Bids for almost all project components have been received and
evaluated. The soil consolidation work at the Port of Cebu is virtually
complete. Contracts for the main construction works at the ports of Iloilo,
Cebu and Zamboanga have been awarded and mobilization is under way. The
contract for the main construction work at the Port of Cagayan de Oro is still
under evaluation. Arrangements for construction supervision are still not
satisfactory and the Government is attempting to improve its field supervision
organization with the help of technical assistance consultants.
Loan No. 1860      Rural Roads Improvement Project; $62 Million Loan of
June 13, 1980; Proposed Date of Effectiveness: September 8,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Initial progress in preparing the 1981 rural roads program has been
slow due mainly to a delay in providing technical assistance services to the
implementing agency. Due to delays in preparing and reviewing detailed
engineering for rural roads, no construction contracts started in the 1981 dry
season, putting the project about nine months behind schedule. Recently, the
Ministry of Local Government has awarded contracts for the first year's
program packages, and the works are now starting. Contracts for improvement
of the national road in Occidental Mindoro have recently been awarded, and the
contractors are mobilizing. Consulting services for the technical assistance
component are now under way.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1224-T   Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The main component of the project, which is the development,
printing and distribution of 27 million primary and secondary textbooks and
teachers manuals in five subject areas, has made good progress. The project



- 42 -                      ANNEX II
Page 12 of 18
has met its goal of producing and distributing 84 titles to schools,
amounting to over 31 million copies. Over 56,000 teachers have been upgraded.
A delay in the completion of a central facility for the Textbook Secretariat,
resulting from change orders and price escalation, has caused a one-year delay
in project completion. Two hundred seventy thousand dollars of the loan was
cancelled in March 1982 due to misprocurement when a contract was not awarded
to the lowest bidder.
Loan No. 1374      Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of March 25,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Implementation of the project is now some 18 months behind schedule.
Rapid price escalation and high credit costs in the 1978-80 period resulted
in a slow-down in building activity, the rescinding of an important contract
and renegotiation of others, thus delaying implementation of the project's
other physical components and dependent educational objectives. The problem
is being resolved, and in the process EDPITAF has devolved implementation
responsibilities to recipient institutions. The closing date has now been
extended for two years to December 1983. Overall project utilization of
Technical Assistance Specialists is only 20%, while over 80% of Fellowship
time has been committed. Enrolments are about on target and other educational
developments at UPLB and VISCA are proceeding satisfactorily. There is some
tendency to proliferate fields of specialized study and the National Governing
Board of the PTC-RD system has not functioned as planned in reviewing
important changes in policies and programs.
Loan No. 1786 Fisheries Training Project; $38.0 Million Loan
of February 1, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:
May 19, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Overall physical implementation is behind schedule by about six
months mainly due to the transfer of detailed implementing responsibility from
EDPITAF to the respective project institutions, and to delays in Presidential
approval of civil works contracts (P 2.0 million each). Uncertainties over
where management responsibilities would lie are expected to cause further
delays. Seven of the 13 civil works contracts have now been awarded and
technical assistance is in progress. The Fellowship program is being
implemented on schedule, but the recruitment of consultants has been slow,
also affected by the transfer of implementing responsibility and the delay in
the release of the Obligation Authority for project funds to recipient
institutions. This release is expected shortly. The Bank has recommended
that an interministerial task force be created to review the management
difficulties and other issues which are hampering project implementation.
Loan No. 2030 Elementary Education Sector Loan; $100.0 Million Loan of
August 25, 1981; Proposed Date of Effectiveness:
November 10,1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This loan was declared effective in November 1981. The project has
made a good start, and project planning is proceeding well. The main



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 18
difficulties anticipated would arise from the Government's complicated
procurement, payment and accounting procedures. These difficulties should be
minimized by the transfer of expertise from EDPITAF to the Ministry of
Education, which is responsible for project implementation.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272-T   Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282       $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
On-site infrastructure is about 90% complete and 4,800 plot titles
have been awarded with another 4,000 scheduled by September 1982. Improved
water supply is delayed and now expected by last quarter 1982. The sewer
outfall should be completed by February 1983, the R.10 road in late 1983 and
the C.2 road by april 1984. The site will be turned over to the local
government shortly.
Loan No. 1415 Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $23 Million Loan of
May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 9, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Overall project implementation is about one year behind schedule.
Major contracts have been awarded; however, due to unforeseen delays in well
drilling and late deliveries of pipes, progress has been slow. All major
contracts have been let, and better progress is expected through 1982. Work
has started in four of the six project cities, and contractors are mobilizing
in the remaining two. The construction cost is expected to be close to
appraisal estimates; however, project completion is expected to be delayed by
about one year.
Loan No. 1615 Second Manila Water Supply Project; $88 Million Loan of
July 26, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project suffered a late start because of initial delays in
approvals of contracts in source development which delayed the construction
of the Bank-financed distribution system component. Nearly all the major
contracts have now been let and no further slippage is expected. However,
because of the high cost of money, many contractors have delayed mobilization
on their contracts. A water rate increase of E 0.25 plus a 10% waste water
disposal charge were implemented on July 1, 1981.
Loan No. 1647       Second Urban Development Project; $32.0 Million Loan
of January 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 26,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
In Manila, problems in funding contracts and poor coordination
between executing agencies, which caused considerable delays and cost over-
runs (50% over appraisal estimates), are now being resolved. Physical works



- 44 -                     ANNEX II
Page 14 of 18
are expected to be completed by early 1984, 15 months behind schedule.  In
the regional cities, after an initially slow start due to staffing and
political problems, work is underway on all sites and completion is expected
at the end of 1983.
Credit No. 920 Second Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $22 Million
Loan No. 1710   Credit and $16 Million Loan of June 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: November 30, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.
The 50 Water Districts required under the project have been formed.
Work is under way on the development of a financial planning and control
system, and consultants have started the preparation of a comprehensive
management assistance and training proposal. A new institution, the Rural
Water Supply Development Corporation, has been created, and is now preparing a
list of materials to be procured for rural water supply.
Loan No. 1814 Manila Sewerage and Sanitation Project: $63.0 million Loan of
March 28, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 10, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The project is proceeding well, with no major problems. Detailed
designs for the Tondo Pumping Station have been completed, and tenders for
sanitary sewers in Dagupan and Pandacan awarded. The organization for the
combined sewer program is in place; staffing and training plans are being
prepared; and equipment for the water quality monitoring program has been
approved for procurement.
Loan No. 1821 Third Urban Development Project; $72 Million Loan of
June 2, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 25, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Problems of funding and land acquisition have slowed the project.
Disbursements are now 60% of that projected at appraisal, and show an
improving trend.  The problem of land for sites and services is expected to
be resolved shortly and contracting is expected to start later this year.
Overall costs are stable. Progress on finalizing policies for ZIP, and
precise agreements with local governments have been slow, but are now about
to be implemented.  Preparation of the next phase of basic services programs
is progressing well.
Loan No. 2067  Urban Engineering Project; $80.0 Million Loan of
February 24, 1982; Date of Effectiveness: May 26, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30,1985
This loan was signed in February 1982 and is expected to be
effective in May 1982. Most of the consultants have been selected.



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 18
Power Sector
Loan No. 1034      Sixth Power; $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The Pantabangan generating plant was commissioned in April 1977, and
the transmission facilities are now expected to be completed by April 1982,
about four years behind schedule. The main delays in the execution of the
transmission system have been due to the slow pace of engineering design and
preparation of tender documents, and delays in procurement. The revised
project cost estimate is 53% higher than the appraisal estimate. The
closing date of the loan was postponed from June 30, 1981 to March 31,
1982 to allow additional time for payment of retention monies to
contractors.
Loan No. 1460      Seventh Power Project; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 6, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation is now two years behind schedule, mainly due
to delays in the construction of the load dispatching center. The revised
project cost is now estimated at $100 million (including additional works),
8% higher than the original estimate. Due to delays in procurement, and
because of additional works authorized by the Bank, the closing date of the
loan has been extended to December 1983. NPC has still been unable to meet
the 8% rate of return target provided in the Loan Agreement and the
Government has yet to provide specific assurances that appropriate action
will be taken to remedy this. This problem is being followed up by the
Bank.
Loan No. 1547      Rural Electrification; $60.0 Million Loan of May 10,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project is substantially complete, with about $1.2 million
uncommitted. These funds are to be used by NEA for the purchase of equipment
and materials for its 1982 program. NEA's lending to cooperatives for power
development has increased by over 50% in the last two years, and its financial
results and condition continue to be satisfactory according to unaudited
financial statements for 1981. However, NEA's collation of the financial
results of its client cooperatives shows that a number are in financial
difficulties. The Bank is monitoring the situation closely, and is pressing
NEA, as the regulatory agency, to take all necessary remedial steps through
rate increases improvements in management, or other appropriate measures.



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 18
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 1514      Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP);
$30 Million Loan of February 9, 1978; Date of
Effectiveness: June 23, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982
The loan is now fully committed and disbursements as of March 31,
1982, stood at $24.9 million. The project progress is satisfactory. The
closing date might be postponed by one year to allow for completion of
disbursements.
Loan No. 1555      Philippines Investments Systems Organization (PISO);
$15 Million Loan of May 8, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
May 12, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan is fully committed and disbursements ($13.9 million as of
March 31, 1982) are proceeding at a satisfactory rate.
Loan No. 1572      Third Industrial Investment Credit Project through the
Development Bank of the Philippines: $80 Million Loan
of June 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 15,
1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
DBP's SMI program is operating satisfactorily; the loan allocation
of $29.7 million for this component has been fully committed. However,
commitments under the loan for medium/large industry financing ($50 million)
and related disbursements are slower than anticipated at appraisal. The
closing date might be postponed by 18 months to allow for completion of
disbursements.
Loan No. 1727      Second Small and Medium Industries Development Project;
$25 Million Loan of June 27, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
November 9, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The IGLF component ($24.5 million) was fully disbursed by October
1981 and overall progress of the project is satisfactory. Disbursements
under the MASICAP component ($0.5 million) are slower than anticipated
because of the recent reorganization within the Ministry of Trade and
Industry. However, this component is expected to be completed before the
current closing date.
Loan No. 1984      Industrial Finance Project; $150 million Loan of May 28,
1981; Proposed Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Satisfactory progress has been made in achieving the main objectives
of the project. The Apex Development Finance Unit of the Central Bank has
been successful in meeting the institutional aspects of the project: the



- 47 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 18
commercial Loan Agreement for $100 million was signed on August 7, 1981 on
favorable terms); issues discussed during negotiations relating to individual
participating financial institutions (PFIs) are being dealt with; and
subsidiary loan agreements with individual PFIs are being negotiated and
finalized (after due consultation with the Bank). Commitments by the three
participating financial institutions (PFIs) have started and good progress is
also being made in identifying and appraising new PFIs. Progress made so far
is in line with expectations, except that the pace of commitments is slower
than anticipated at appraisal.
Structural Adjustment Lending
Loan No. 1903      Structural Adjustment Loan; $200.0 million Loan of
September 25, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: November 14,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Considerable progress has been made in implementing the Government's
industrial development program in support of which the loan was made. The
first stage of the Government's five year program of tariff reform and trade
liberalization became effective on January 1, 1981; the second stage of this
program became effective on January 1, 1982.  Studies are under way to review
and improve the Government's industrial incentives and promotion system; and
subsector development programs are under preparation to assist domestic
industries to adjust to the tariff reform and trade liberalization measures.
The two requirements for the release of the second tranche of the loan were
met by the Government in July 1981. The second tranche was subsequently
released and, with the exception of the $5 million technical assistance
component, the $200 million loan has been fully disbursed.
Population Sector
Loan No. 1035      Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
With the exception of some construction in Regions 6 and 9 and water
supplies to rural health units, the project has been substantially completed.
The balance of the loan is expected to be committed by mid-May of this year,
and all works and procurement completed by the closing date of December 31,
1982. This is, however, dependent upon the release of 1982 project funding
by the Budget Ministry. Project implementation is now being handled by the
Ministry of Health, whose performance is gradually improving following the
dissolution of the previous Project Management Service at the time of the
original closing date (December 31, 1979). A major cause for concern,
however, is the project accounting, of which very little has taken place.
This situation has been brought to the attention of the Minister of Health
and is being very closely supervised by Bank staff. All project-related
training activities and staff recruitment programs have been completed.



- 48 -
ANNEX II
Page 18 of 18
Information, education and communication activities are substantially com-
pleted, and management information services and technical assistance are
expected to be completed by September of this year.
Credit No. 923    Second Population Project; $40.0 Million Credit of
June 27, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 15, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The earlier slow pace of implementation is now improving with the
Ministry of Budget's advance release of funds to cover the carryover
activities of CY80 and those scheduled for 1981. The release of the 1982
project funds has been delayed, however, by the Ministry of the Budget.
All sites required for scheduled civil works have been acquired and surveyed,
arrangements for construction management and monitoring are being finalized
and the procedures designed to encourage community participation for Barangay
Health Station development under the first project are being applied to those
under the second project. Implementation of the Primary Health Care component
has attained notable momentum; however, activities in training, IEC and pro-
curement lag far behind the appraisal schedule. Greater decentralization of
the implementation responsibilities at regional, provincial and municipal
levels in recent months is expected to accelerate the pace of project
implementation.



- 49 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
COAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
41
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: 4 months.
(b) The agency which prepared the project: Ministry of Energy/PNOC
(c) First presentation to the Bank, and first Bank mission to consider
the project: September 1981
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: January 1982
(e) Completion of Negotiations: May 13, 1982
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness: September 1982
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special conditions
1.        Assurances have been obtained that:
(a) the Government would carry out, by December 31, 1983, a study to
evaluate the potential financing needs of the coal sector and to
define possible schemes to channel financial resources to coal
exploration (para. 49);
(b) the transition from phase two to phase three of the regional
exploration component would only be initiated following agreement
with the Bank of the economic potential of a deposit, and approval
by the Bank of each location for the planned third phase activities
of the regional development component would be a condition of
disbursement for this portion of the project (para. 56(b));
(c) in the event that, after the first or second phase of the regional
exploration component, it was decided not to pursue the exploration
activities in a given region, provision would be made to redefine
the scope of the component in a manner satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 57);



- 50 -
ANNEX III
page 2
(d) technical assistance arrangements for a geological information
system for BED would be finalized, in a form satisfactory to the Bank,
by December 31, 1983 (para. 60),
(e)  to maintain its financial soundness, PNOC-CC would maintain a debt
to equity ratio of 60:40, and a current ratio of not less than
1.3 (para. 63); and
(f) the Government would offer the prospective coal areas, identified
through the project, to companies in accordance with the Coal
Development Act (para. 66).
2.         Conditions of loan effectiveness include:
(a) the execution of a contract by PNOC-CC with consultants whose
qualifications, terms and conditions are acceptable to the Bank,
to assist with the execution of the project (para. 65); and
(b) the execution of Exploration Agreements, acceptable to the Bank,
between the Government and PNOC-CC, required by the latter for
carrying out the regional exploration component of the project
(para. 66).



IBRD 1622R
T 1?4'30'                                  1?5ff0O     -        0                   12530             0       ;       MAY 102
PHILIPPINES
COAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
SAMAR ISLAND
PHILIPPINE EEA A                                                                      REGIONAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
.'              0   SERVICE CONTRACT AREA (INITIAL EXPLORATION4 UNDOEAYt
II-       -   ~~ROAD$
-   RIVERS
PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES    -
.  -~         - - - *-    NTERNATIONAL    OUNMDARIE S
lI.   ETERS0      lb h            30      40      S tl
-12_30   Alt                                     _20
_Sotr-'V ooto   - 
~~~ 0  1  tXt  <iY    15~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~epi 
.p  S      <          ?2t                                         /        oirhrerQC ly Stooft
.                                                    ooLdon,o                 '''                     '"                    Q
9, !$iB  SE T-I,4a                                                                           el,0' ,ouffLXr9eSfitfwtrfwfrovafretf
MA fFP/HP!Cco
CHiNA    LI/ZOO    ~~SZA  /,
SOUH
,~t.4WAthA A O       1, §                    T
*~.UL  SEA       ), 
M,VOAHA'I
k    - x  "-~~~n~~2                                                           H thh reef/nih 0/ (ho report tO~~~~ Whic   H.k4tfonftof -he -hnn,hf&Ooooiot I
?/~~IAY3IA -                                                       Thin eta; han noon jeanorod he the WedOteoko Or;?? eOoOtO/ooir he 010 gOitt'OOtehOO~~~~~~~~~~~~~th
'  CE/StIES                                                           oennsooenno~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wn onff io -0 to , rmV on Ph- pen  .0 WoirhI or-   t
$54                                                             ohIheOth any jtnt]~~~~~~~nr0nt or rho= fv   -W.o s tat    wd-a y ?er/t  or o   nrcthttO
tk /0   On   I                                                                       nnt/grf hoof 000 hoorJh7e






IBRD 16229
121030                                     12-30'                                           MAY 1W2
PHILI PPINES
COAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
NORTHEAST MINDANAO
/ N D               A N A       SURIGA
.OJ T:                                   REGIONAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
S E A            \         7", |                        0 \   . 9  SERVICE CONTRACTAREA (ITITIALEXPLORATIONUNDERWAY)
A    SERVICE CONTRACT AREA IFEASIBELITY STUDY UNDERWAY)
/             AZ ", ,t'.',,  .'.','   DETAILED EXPLORATION PROJECTF LALAT)
77 a  9   +  ;  /ROADS
/    ~ ~~~    ~RIVERS
x,S. i     :      '?  // ,</ ~   / 7' t't-   PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
97     /r, $     '         t          - - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                           0
AGUSAN          /7/   ,        5 'I. §  
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS 7 02 ,,7, ,  
MiSAMIS         /   DEL                                                    L        D10 20  0 40  0  07080
I    MIS                                                                  MILES
ORIEUKD NTAL    \ N   NORTE _                    S                                  0     10   20      0    40      0
o                        /              D   US RA       7 E                                                                  :
Ck ll~~~~~k 
BUKI.          N                                                                    P /   H    Z  P P   I EE
w               S  D J V~~~~D A  G/J A 0                                                 l 
cx                                              N r A 3 4 T    0            --'=--- S EA
/7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~173
70                                                                                    70-  SEA~~~DVA  7/ 
/                       DEL /A                         7/,       -x-db.SE
x.  ~~~~~~~~~             NORTE                 /    ,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U  1 lwd
DE                                              .~~~ ~ bhb  AP~
I H                                                               iwf" ft P. a/
S U R                                      MALAYSIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~P/IPPN
C   0 T A B A T 0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~1/0  E
12q\30'                           126-~~30`          0'                         N4   N



