Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  03/26/2010 
Report No.:  AC5283
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Benin 
Project ID:  P120052 
Project Name:  Emergency Support to Enhance Food Security (ESEFS) 
Task Team Leader:  Jane C. Hopkins 
Estimated Appraisal Date: November 9, 
2009 
Estimated Board Date: April 16, 2010 
Managing Unit:  AFTAR 
Lending Instrument:  Emergency Recovery 
Loan 
Sector:  Crops (60%);Irrigation and drainage (40%) 
Theme:  Global food crisis response (100%) 
SPF Amount (US$m): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
0.00 
 
Global Food Crisis Response Program 
9.61
9.61 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [X] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [X] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
The overall objective is the same as the EFSSP -- to increase domestic production of food 
crops (mainly maize and rice) in target areas.  This will mitigate the short-term impact of 
increasing prices on households and expand food crop farmers access to agricultural 
inputs in the medium and long term.  This development objective will be achieved by: (i) 
expanding the access of food crop producers to fertilizer and improved seeds and (ii) 
expanding the access of food crop producers to small scale irrigation infrastructure.   
 
3. Project Description 
The Grant will be implemented through three components: (i) Delivery of agricultural 
inputs; (ii) Promotion of small scale irrigation infrastructure; and (iii) Support for project 
coordination, monitoring and evaluation.  
 
Component 1: Delivery of agricultural inputs (EUR 2.42 million)  
 
This component aims at delivering 3,275 tons of fertilizer and 545 tons of improved 
seeds to about 15,500 producers (12,000 producers of maize and 3,500 producers of rice) 
during the 2010 cropping season. The fertilizer will be subsidized at about 40 percent of 
the market price, using the same delivery and cost recovery mechanisms used for the 
Page  2
successful implementation of the EFSSP.  The distribution of the improved seeds will be 
financed by the Government as a parallel activity.  This component will also insure the 
incremental costs associated with the provision of technical advisory services to 
beneficiaries on the proper use of the provided inputs.  In addition the project will support 
a
pilot (during the 2011 cropping season) of the market-based input delivery mechanism 
being developed under the EFSSP.  
 
Component 2: Promotion of small scale irrigation infrastructure (EUR 3.48 million).  
 
Through this component, the Grant will help increase the access of cereal producers to 
irrigation services, in order to intensify food production. In 2008 and 2009, the 
Government#s PUASA Management Unit successfully developed about 5,000 hectares of 
small scale irrigation infrastructure, using simple techniques that are easily 
implementable by beneficiaries and local entrepreneurs. This grant will help expand these 
activities, using the same procedures, by targeting an additional 2,000 hectares of small 
scale irrigation perimeters in the Couffo, Mono and Niger valleys, and about 1,000 
hectares in the lowlands of the hill region.In addition, it will support the construction of 
post-harvest infrastructure, specifically 35 storehouses and 70 drying areas, in these same 
regions to decrease post-harvest losses that are often reach 35 percent of production.  
 
Component 3: Support for project coordination, monitoring and evaluation (EUR 0.34 
million).  
 
This component will provide institutional support to strengthen the PUASA 
Management Unit (PMU), in carrying out its coordination, fiduciary and M&E 
responsibilities.  The monitoring and evaluation activities will include an analysis of 
national food crop (maize, rice, cassava and yam) market price trends over the 2008-11 
time period.  In addition, the Grant will support training, acquisition of equipment, office 
supplies and other incremental operational costs.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
Priority for small-scale irigation infrastructure will be given to producers in the valleys of 
the main rivers (Mono, Kouffo, and Niger) and in the swamps of the Hills region, which 
would ensure increased production through better irrigation.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Abdoul-Wahab Seyni (AFTCS) 
Mr Africa Eshogba Olojoba (AFTEN) 
 
Page  3
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
X
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
X
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
From an environmental and social safeguard standpoint, the proposed project is a 
Category B project.  This suggests that environmental and social impacts of the project, 
for the most part, will be minimal, site-specific and manageable to an accepted level. The 
proposed grant will include (i) provision of fertilizer, improved seed and extension 
services, (ii) development of small scale irrigation infrastructure, and (iii) construction of 
small post-harvest drying and storage facilities adjacent to the irrigate plots.  This 
emergency operation triggers three World Bank safeguard policies: the Environmental 
Assessment policy (OP/BP 4.01), the Pest Management policy (OP/BP 4.09), and the 
Projects on International Waterways policy (OP/BP7.50). The Involuntary Resettlement 
policy (OP/BP 4.12) is not triggered since the development of the small scale irrigation 
infrastructure is confined to plots currently being cultivated for which there is clear land 
tenure.  In addition, in the course of the project implementation, there will be no 
restriction to sources of livelihood or access to sources of livelihood.  
 
The Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) prepared for the 
EFSSP is being updated to take into account the small scale irrigation activities and post-
harvest infrastructure proposed under this grant and appropriate elements will be 
incorporated in the Project Implementation Manual. The ESMF provides guidelines and 
procedures for environmental and social screening, designed to help avoid, mitigate or 
minimize impacts resulting from unbalanced use of agrochemicals. Close attention is paid 
to safe storage and handling of fertilizers, as part of the safeguard review. The ESMF 
includes a chapter dealing with Pesticide Management issues. This chapter addresses the 
selection, safe use, storage and disposal of pesticides and their package materials in order 
to avoid health impacts on farmers and their families and avoid impacts on the 
environment.  
 
As required under OP7.50, the Niger River Basin Authority was notified of the 
proposed project. Their response, stating their non-objection to the proposed project, was 
received on February 4, 2010. The revised ESMF will provide guidelines for assessing 
Page  4
and mitigating any potential impacts on the flood and stream flows to the downstream 
water resources and aquatic systems.  As an exception to the general Bank policy of 
disclosure before appraisal, as authorized under OP/BP 8.00, the updated ESMF will be 
publicly disclosed in Benin and at World Bank's Infoshop within 60 days of project 
effectiveness.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
There is no major indirect and/or long-term impact due to anticipated activities in the 
project area.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
N/A   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
The risks associated with pesticide and fertilizer use may be mitigated through proper 
instruction of beneficiaries on how to safely use such inputs, the increased quantities of 
pesticides that will be needed, and how to mitigate potential harmful effects, and to this 
end a section of the 
ESMF will discuss these aspects. The CERPA (Centres Régionaux de 
Promotion Agricole) and CECPA (Centres Communaux de Promotion Agricole), the 
regional and local extension agencies of the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and 
Fisheries (MALF), as well as the producer organizations have a good experience in 
implementing such safeguard measures in the cotton sector. The risks associated with the 
development of small scale irrigation infrastructures in the swamps are estimated to be 
minimal, site-specific and manageable.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The safeguard instrument will be updated following a broad-based consultation 
framework involving the CERPA and CECPA, the DGR (Direction du Génie Rural or 
Directorate for Rural Engineering) of MALF, as well as the producer organizations in the 
targeted areas. The new ESMF will include measures to mitigate potential environmental 
and social impacts of small scale irrigation infrastructures; and will be prepared in full 
compliance with national and Bank safeguard policies. Prior to in-country and InfoShop 
disclosures, a workshop will be held with relevant stakeholders to share study findings 
and incorporate the views of the participants, as well as a way to foster their ownership of 
project safeguards implementation.  
 
The preparation of the ESMF will be completed no later than 60 days after 
effectiveness. The ESMF will then be disclosed in-country and at Bank InfoShop upon 
approval by the SMU and the National Environmental Agency (Agence Beninoise pour 
l'environnement, ABE).   
 
Page  5
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 No 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
06/15/2010 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
06/30/2010 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
06/30/2010 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 No 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
06/15/2010 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
06/30/2010 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
06/30/2010 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
The project is being prepared under OP 8.00 and disclosure of safeguards instruments is 
not a condition for project appraisal. Safeguards documents will be disclosed within 60 
days of effectiveness.   
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
No 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP 4.09 - Pest Management 
 
Does the EA adequately address the pest management issues? 
Yes 
Is a separate PMP required? 
No 
Page  6
If yes, has the PMP been reviewed and approved by a safeguards specialist or 
SM?  Are PMP requirements included in project design?  If yes, does the 
project team include a Pest Management Specialist? 
N/A 
OP 7.50 - Projects on International Waterways 
 
Have the other riparians been notified of the project? 
Yes 
If the project falls under one of the exceptions to the notification 
requirement, has this been cleared with the Legal Department, and the memo 
to the RVP prepared and sent? 
N/A 
Has the RVP approved such an exception? 
N/A 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
No 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
No 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Ms Jane C. Hopkins 
03/26/2010 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Africa Eshogba Olojoba 
03/26/2010 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr Abdoul-Wahab Seyni 
03/26/2010 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Ms Karen Mcconnell Brooks 
03/26/2010 
Comments:  The RSA has reviewed and cleared this EPP-ISDS for disclosure on March 26, 2010. 
The SMU has agreed to accept transfer of safeguard responsibilities. 
