 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14639

                 ICR Review
                 Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                      Date Posted: 06/09/2015

              Country: Nicaragua
            Project ID: P056018                                                   Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Land Administration          Project Costs (US$M):                     48.5                54.2

  L/C Number:             C3665                      Loan/Credit (US$M):                      42.6                48.0
      Sector Board:       Agriculture and Rural      Cofinancing (US$M):
                          Development
          Cofinanciers:                              Board Approval Date :                                   06/18/2002
                                                             Closing Date:              12/31/2007           04/30/2013
         Sector(s):       Central government administration (44%); Sub-national government administration (36%);
                          Other social services (15%); General agriculture fishing and forestry sector (3%); Law and
                          justice (2%)
         Theme(s):        Other rural development (25% - P); Personal and property rights (25% - P); Land
                          administration and management (24% - P); Biodiversity (13% - S); Indigenous peoples (13%
                          - S)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
John R. Heath             J. W. Van Holst         Christopher David         IEGPS1
                          Pellekaan               Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

The two objectives were described in the Development Credit Agreement as: “(a) to develop the legal,
institutional, technical and participatory framework for the administration of property rights in the Republic
of Nicaragua’s territory; and (b) to demonstrate the feasibility of a systematic land rights regularization
program.”


b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

1. Policy and Legal Reforms
ORIGINAL COST (Estimated, US$0.6 million; Actual, US$0.1 million).
ADDITIONAL FINANCING: (None).
To strengthen the country’s land policy and legal frameworks through: the development of a national land
policy framework; the development of laws related to indigenous peoples’ land rights in the Caribbean
region; the modernization of cadastre and property registry systems; and the technological integration of
cadastre and registry.

2. Institutional Strengthening and Decentralization
ORIGINAL FINANCING (Estimated, US$13.8 million; Actual, US$16.5 million).
ADDITIONAL FINANCING: (Estimated, US$3.6 million; Actual, US$3.2 million).
To improve national institutional capacity by: establishing the National Directorate of Land and Agrarian
Reform; implementing a new organizational model for cadastre and regularization; increasing efficiency
in land administration services; and promoting coordination between land sector institutions. The
additional financing was used to scale up the component's activities.

3. Titling and regularization services
ORIGINAL COST: (Estimated, US$16.6 million; Actual, US$18.0 million).
ADDITIONAL FINANCING: (Estimated, US$5.3 million; Actual, US$5.9 million).
To develop and implement a land regularization methodology that would serve as a foundation for a
long-term, comprehensive program. This component would also support processing of land claims and
conflict resolution. The additional financing was used to scale up the component's activities.

4. Demarcation and Consolidation of Protected Areas
ORIGINAL COST: (Estimated, US$2.2 million; Actual, US$2.5 million).
ADDITIONAL FINANCING: (Estimated, US$0.3 million; Actual, US$0.3 million).
To physically demarcate selected protected areas, formulate management plans in a participatory
manner, and implement a social and environmental communication program in and around these areas.

5. Demarcation of Indigenous Peoples’ Lands
ORIGINAL COST: (Estimated, US$2.6 million; Actual, US$2.8 million).
ADDITIONAL FINANCING: (None).
To support the strengthening of indigenous peoples’ land rights in the Caribbean region through
demarcation and titling of selected indigenous territories, including within the Bosawas Reserve for
indigenous peoples, and the development of a limited number of territorial management plans.

6. Information Systems
ORIGINAL COST: (Estimated, US$2.7 million; Actual, US$4.4 million).
ADDITIONAL FINANCING: (Estimated, US$0.9 million; Actual, US$0.4 million).
To develop an efficient technological framework that would: modernize cadastre and registry services and
land titling and regularization procedures (including through the piloting of an Integrated
Cadastre-Registry Information System or SIICAR);and provide for project management and monitoring
and evaluation.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project Cost

At appraisal, the estimated project cost was US$48.5 million; at closing, the actual project cost was
US$ 54.2 million.

Financing

The original IDA credit was US$42.6 million. On 02/16/2010, Additional Financing (AF) of US$10 million
was approved. The distribution of AF between components is shown in Section 2c above. At closing, total
IDA financing was US$48.0 million. The equivalent of US$1.2 million of the Original Credit was canceled
at closing and US$13,492 was canceled when the AF closed.

Borrower Contribution

The expected contribution from government was US$5.8 million; the actual contribution was US$6.1
million. Local communities contributed US$0.1 million (expected and actual).

Dates
The original closing date was December 31, 2007. There were four extensions to the closing date of the
Original Credit (OC): (a) at the January 2007 restructuring, closing was extended to December 31, 2008
to allow for the additional time required to achieve objectives and targets; (b) at the February 2008
restructuring, closing was extended to October 31, 2009 to provide additional time for the completion of
key activities; (c) in May 2009, a six-months extension was approved, running to April 30, 2010, to allow
for the preparation of the Additional Financing (AF); and (d) when the AF was approved in February 2010,
closing of the OC was extended until July 2010 to ensure adequate closing of credit accounts. The
Additional Financing closed, as expected, on April 30, 2013.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

The relevance of objectives is rated high.

When the project was appraised over one-third of rural land was held without a clear title. The share of
land with no or inadequate documents was particularly high among small producers. Land conflicts due to
overlapping claims were numerous. The land claims of indigenous peoples remained mostly
unaddressed. There was also an urgent need to promote gender equity in land ownership because past
agrarian reform programs and inheritance laws had favored males. Institutions needed consolidating:
there were 25 agencies dealing with land allocation and land rights. The procedures for land
regularization were cumbersome and centralized, and the land agencies lacked capacity to handle the
volume of cases. Cadastral and property registry information was outdated or missing in many places,
while the existing cadastral and property registry records were not systematically linked.

The project development objectives were consistent with the government’s 2008 National Plan for Human
Development (NPHD) and the World Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy FY13-17 (CPS), which was
current at project closing. The NPHD described the regularization of land tenure, cadastre, land titling and
territorial development as fundamental to development. The CPS also gives priority to land
administration.
NPHD and CPS cite reduced poverty and improved agricultural productivity as overarching goals.
Although typically these goals cannot be directly achieved through improved land administration, a project
of this nature may be expected to contribute to rural development by helping to remove some of the
impediments to the functioning of land markets and to investments in and diversification of the rural
economy.


b. Relevance of Design:

The relevance of design is rated substantial.

The project was designed as a five-year pilot and yet realization of its objectives was predicated on
various actions that were more consistent with a national program. Thus, startup of the pilot assumed that
the Cadastre Law would be passed by November 2003; passage was delayed until 2005. Nevertheless,
the components and activities were substantially relevant to achievement of project objectives. The
project focused on codifying land rights that were not formally defined. The design allowed for this by:
addressing the land rights of indigenous communities; mainstreaming alternative conflict resolution
mechanisms; helping agrarian reform beneficiaries to substantiate their property claims; and
strengthening the role of Regional Councils and the National Commission for Demarcation and Titling of
Indigenous Territories. The provision for monitoring and evaluation was intended to accommodate the
political and social sensitivity of land issues and the potential impact of proposed legal and institutional
changes; but the details were not spelled out and not enough priority was given to collecting baseline
data.
4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

To develop the legal, institutional, technical and participatory framework for the administration of
property rights in the Republic of Nicaragua’s territory
(Achievement: Substantial).

Project outputs comprised: regularization of 26 percent of the untitled land in the pilot area (the target was
40 percent); delivery of 44,019 land titles in rural areas, of which 37,416 (85 percent) went to “very small
producers” (the target was for 70 percent of titles to go to this group); 51 percent of titles were delivered
either to women or jointly to women and their partners (the target was 40 percent).

The primary outcome of the project was the technical support that it gave to facilitate passage of three
important pieces of legislation: the 2003 Law for the Collective Land Rights of Indigenous Peoples; the
2005 Cadastre Law; and the 2009 Public Registry Law. This legislation provided the foundation for a
national program of land administration that would provide a durable legacy once the project closed.

Highlights of this legislation are as follows.
        The 2003 law allowed poor and marginalized indigenous communities in the Caribbean Region to
receive collective titles to 15 of their ancestral territories, comprising over 22,000 square kilometers – or
close to 19 percent of the national territory.
        The 2009 law made possible the integration of cadastral and registry information. It also brought
together under a national system all the 17 regional property registries of the country and set up a Special
Commission of Property Registries and the National Directorate of Property Registries.


To demonstrate the feasibility of a systematic land rights regularization program
(Achievement: Substantial).

The pilot showed that the proposed land administration method was feasible. Over 61,690 rural and
urban households (mostly poor) were given title to their land. The area surveyed equaled almost 20
percent of the national territory. Fourteen protected areas were demarcated (the target was 11). The
data from 30 municipalities was incorporated in the National Cadastre Database, allowing for expansion
of the property tax base and strengthening of land planning. Owing to the increase in operating efficiency
resulting from the project, the Public Registry is financially sustainable. The project also pioneered
alternative dispute resolution procedures that can now be applied nationwide.


5. Efficiency:

Efficiency is rated substantial.

The net benefit estimate is based on econometric modeling of the impact of titling on property values. The
ICR acknowledges that property values are influenced by a wide range of factors, such as location,
access to public services, size, value of construction, use of the property, each of which interacts with
tenure status. The method used controls for these factors, isolating the effect of change in tenure status
after regularization.

The analysis estimates that actual net benefits were US$ 17.8 million, compared to the US$ 7.5 million
that was forecast at appraisal. The economic rate of return was 24 percent, compared to the 19 percent
that was estimated at the outset. However, there is an important caveat. The assumptions about benefits
were based on ex ante comparisons of the value of titled and untitled land (with separate assumptions for
the original credit and additional financing phases). “During the course of implementation there was no
systematic monitoring of investments after property titling or of returns to investments. Therefore,
assumptions such as the lengthy lag in the internalization of benefits, and the size of land value
increments after titling remained unchecked” (ICR, p. 41).
Three considerations offset this shortcoming of the ERR analysis. First, contemporaneous research (not
cited in the ICR) has demonstrated that the benefits of land titling in Nicaragua amply exceed the costs,
using the same measure of increased property values (See Deininger, K. and Chamorro, J.S. 2004.
“Investment and equity effects of land regularization: the case of Nicaragua.” Agricultural Economics.
30:101-116). Second, a 2012 survey commissioned by the project examined 2,251 households,
comparing households that had benefited from the project with those that had not. Based on the results of
this survey, the ICR reports that “Investment in home construction and improvement was greater in the
titled Project areas than in the control group, consistent with the theory of the positive effects of land
tenure regularization” (ICR, p. 49). Third, the Nordic Development Fund (a development partner)
observed that “the fact that municipal revenue from property taxation has increased, and that an
increasing number of land conflicts is being resolved, indicated a higher efficiency in the new
system” (ICR, p. 24).


 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                               Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                      Yes                                      19%                                     100%

    ICR estimate                   Yes                                      24%                                     100%
                                      * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

IEG agrees that the following statement in the ICR fairly represents the outcome of the project:

"The Project remains highly relevant, while its Project Development Objectives (PDOs) were achieved
and most of its performance indicators were met or exceeded, which likely improved the economic
situation of poor households . Building on Project results, the country has already launched a national land
program. Although several targets were not fully achieved in the expected time frame under the original
Credit, results within the AF period were achieved six months before the expected three-year period.
Targets that were not fully achieved were in most cases substantially achieved, and this shortfall was
more than compensated by surpassed targets on indicators of equal or greater relative weight. The net
economic benefits were significantly higher than those expected at appraisal. The legal and institutional
framework is clearer and more consolidated, and SIICAR is fully operational even though its expansion
was more limited than originally planned" (italics added by IEG, p. 18).

There is one caveat. The PDOs were pitched at the level of intermediate outcomes (that is, outcomes
bearing on the effectiveness of land administration), rather than higher-level objectives such as poverty
reduction. Evidence from a 2012 survey sponsored by the project in connection with the impact
evaluation suggests that the poverty impact may have been limited (calling into question the italicized
statement in the paragraph above). The survey compared project beneficiaries with a control group who
had not benefited from cadastral surveying and titling under the project. Survey results showed that there
was more investment in home construction and improvement by beneficiaries than by control households,
and in the beneficiary group a higher proportion of title holders were women. But in other respects there
was no significant difference between the two groups: the propensity to use plots for commercial activities
was similar, as was perceived security of tenure and access to credit (ICR, p. 19).


 a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
Since credit closing the government has continued to consolidate land administration policies and
institutions, including integration of cadastral and property registry information. The necessary laws are
now in place and coordination of the various agencies is less of a problem than it was at project startup.
There are two sources of risk, both moderate. First, some municipalities lack the technical capacity and
commitment to maintain the cadastre and the accuracy of the data may erode over time. However, in
order to ensure the overall integrity of the system, the government has a strong incentive to provide the
necessary training and technical assistance to these municipalities. Second, some people may be
disinclined to register subsequent property transactions. By ensuring that registry officers are accessible,
that registry transaction fees are affordable and that public information campaigns are staged,
government should be able to contain this risk.


   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

The design of the project was innovative and relevant to country needs at the time of appraisal. It was
well informed by analytic work. The risk associated with adjudicating indigenous land rights was
correctly assessed as substantial and sound mitigation measures were proposed. However, the
difficulty of coordinating the 25 institutions involved in allocating land rights (ICR, p. 1) was
underestimated. Also, there was an overoptimistic assumption that enabling legislation would be
swiftly passed (ICR, p. 8). Finally, the provision for monitoring and evaluation was incomplete (ICR,
pp. 11-12).


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                  Moderately Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

The operation was listed as a problem project in 2005, owing to implementation lags. The mid-term
review made important adjustments, including reallocation of funds between expenditure categories
and improved procurement oversight. Performance picked up thereafter. Trust funding was secured to
finance the hire of international experts. Good use was made of FAO’s land administration expertise.
The safeguards bearing on indigenous peoples’ land rights were soundly enforced. The Bank
collaborated effectively with, and helped supervise, parallel land operations by the Nordic
Development Fund and the Millennium Challenge Corporation.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :           Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :         Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

Government was committed to the project throughout the period of preparation and implementation.
Strong commitment was manifest in the early enactment of Law 445, which signaled the government’s
intention to recognize indigenous peoples’ land rights. There was a delay in enacting the Cadastre
Law but the government redoubled its support after 2007, leading to passage of the Public Registry
Bill in 2009. The government also pushed for closer collaboration between the judicial branch
(property registry) and the executive (cadastre, regularization), thereby facilitating project
implementation. Delays resulting from protracted negotiations in the National Assembly and
disruptions caused by two national and several municipal elections during the project span were
beyond the control of the executive arm of government.


   Government Performance Rating                        Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

Project implementation was initially placed in the hands of the Finance Ministry (MHCP), subsequently
shifting to the Attorney General's Office (PGR). On balance, PGR did a better job. Under MHCP, the
pace of implementation was generally good but dropped off at times. Compliance with Credit
Agreement conditions was inconsistent leading to some delays. MHCP could have promoted
inter-institutional coordination more vigorously. It did not launch the promised Midterm Review
evaluation. In the space of twelve months in 2007 there were three Project Coordinators, which
temporarily reduced the effectiveness of project management. Under PGR, the impetus behind
implementation increased substantially: inter-institutional coordination improved, contract
management problems were resolved, and partnership with co-executing agencies was strengthened,
gradually leading to better
implementation capacity and achievement of key targets.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :            Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

The ICR (pp. 11-12) refers to shortcomings in the results matrix that was presented in Annex 1 of the
PAD. In general, the PAD makes little reference to the provision for M&E. The PAD Outcome indicators
were not well thought out and there was insufficient provision for a baseline survey.

b. M&E Implementation:

The specialized M&E unit introduced following the midterm review led to more thorough monitoring and
completion of the special studies that had been promised. An impact evaluation was carried out in the last
year of implementation (some of the findings are summarized in Section 6 above).

c. M&E Utilization:

Following the midterm review, monitoring results were taken more account of by project management and
the improved M&E system made a significant contribution to preparation of the follow-on project.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

The following safeguards applied to this Category B project: Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01),
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.10), Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10), Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP
4.12), Forests (OP/BP 4.36), and Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.01). Compliance with
environmental and social safeguards was satisfactory. There is no evidence that tenure regularization led
to deforestation; and the demarcation of protected areas achieved under the project likely improved
environmental stewardship, without curtailing access to resources by people near these areas.
Indigenous peoples were adequately consulted throughout project implementation and project activities
were sensitive to social organization and culture (ICR, p. 13).


b. Fiduciary Compliance:

Financial management was satisfactory (all audits were unqualified) and procurement was sound,
benefiting from adoption of the Electronic Procurement Management System (SEPA), and periodic
fiduciary
training for government and project staff.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):



d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review          Reason for
                                                                              Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

The following well-considered lessons are cited in the ICR:

    The sustainability of outcomes of land administration interventions requires building broad social
     and political commitment, as well as maintaining and mainstreaming key competencies across
     electoral cycles.

    The challenge of recognizing the complexity of indigenous people’s land rights requires attention to
     historical and social particularities and intensive social supervision.

    A strong focus on local governments is critical to the sustainability of investments in cadastre and
     registry modernization.

    Alternative conflict resolution mechanisms can effectively facilitate cadastral and regularization
     processes.

In addition, IEG proposes as a lesson that impact evaluations, like that sponsored by this project (see
Section 6 above), can usefully help to establish whether changes in economic growth and poverty
levels may be attributed to land administration projects.

14. Assessment Recommended?              Yes    No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


The ICR is clear, complete and concise and proposes useful lessons of broad relevance to land
administration projects.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
