Documit of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USIE ONLY
RP"e9 No. 13623
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(CREDIT 1714-SE)
OCTOBER 24, 1994
Industry and Energy Operations
Sahelian Department
Country Department V
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENU(1 =
CFAF 1,000,000-USS3,634(ws USS2,778 in 1985, at appraisal)
Currency Unit- CPAn Fnc (CFAP)
USS 1.00- CFAF 275.2 (Jun 1993, in 1985 wu CFAF 360.0)
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
SONATEL: January I- Decenber 31, since 1993
(was July 1 - June 30 for Government and SONATEL unw
June 30, 1991,SONATEL'SFY 992wa then extended to
December 31, making it an IS months exrci)
WIGHTS ANVD EA9URES
AU weights an  masres am in metric units
ABBREVIANONS ND ACRONYMSUSED'
AfDB            = African Development Bank
BEI             = Banque Europeenne d'Investissement
BOAD            = Banque Ouest-Africaine de Development
CCCE/CFD       = Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economiquel Caisse Francaise
de Developpement
CEDEAO          = Communaute Economique des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
(Economic Community of West African States)
CIDA            = Canadian International Development Agency
DEL             = Direct Exchange Line (telephone) in operation
Expressed       = The sum of the number of DELs in service and
Demand        =   registered pending applications
FAC             = Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
GPC's           = Guaranteed Private Credits
ICB             = International Competitive Bidding, as per World Bank
procurement guidelines
ITU             = International Telecommunications Union
MIT/MOC         = Ministry of Information and Telecommunications/Ministry of
Communication
PANAFTEL        = Pan-African Telecommunications Network
OPCE            = Office des Postes et de la Caisse d 'Epargne (Senegal)
OPTS            = Office des Postes et Telecommunications du Senegal
SONATEL        = Societe Nationale des Telecommunications du Senegal
TELESENEGAL = Societe Nationale des Telecom Internationales du Senegal
UNDP            = United Nations Development Programme
* Several acronyms and organizations' names are the French ones, as used in Senegal.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
October 24, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Senegal
Second Telecommunications Proiect (Credit 1714-SE)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Senegal - Second Telecommunications Project
(Credit 1714-SE), prepared by the Africa Regional Office, with Part 11 prepared by the Borrower.
The project, which was co-financed primarily by France, Canada, EIB and AfDB, was
essentially successful in supporting: (i) the rehabilitation and expansion of the country's
telecommunication network; (ii) the strengthening of SONATEL, the state-owned telecommunications
utility, as an autonomous and financially sound entity; and (iii) the initiation of sector reform (including
the separation of postal from telecommunications activities and the introduction of limited competition
in the provision of terminal equipment and selected services).  As a result, SONATEL  is now
considered one of the best-run telecommunication entities in Sub-Saharan Africa.  However, the
experience under this project points to both the benefits and the limits of the traditional public utility
model (in as far as the sector remained unable to fully meet a growing demand), and the need to
consider alternative (particularly private) funding sources for future sector development.
Accordingly, the project outcome is rated as satisfactory, its institutional impact as substantial
and its sustainability as likely. The PCR is thorough and informative but comments were not requested
from co-financiers. No audit is planned.
Attachment
This docunent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(CREDIT 1714-SE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS                                                                     Page No.
Preface  .                    ........................................................   i
Evaluation  Summary   .................................................    ii
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity    ...................................................                                                                                     I
Background    ...................................................                                                                                      1
Sector Set-up   ................................................                                                                                1
Sector Development and  Project Genesis  ...............................                                                                        2
Project Objectives and  Description   .....................................                                                                            3
Project Objectives  .............................................                                                                               3
Project Description   ............................................                                                                              4
Project Design  and  Organization    ......................................                                                                            4
Project Design   ...............................................                                                                                4
Project Organization    ...........................................                                                                             5
Project Implementation    ............................................                                                                                 5
Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-Up   ..............................                                                                      5
Procurement   ................................................                                                                                  5
Project Implementation  Schedule and Revision   ...........................                                                                     6
Project Cost   ................................................                                                                                 6
Allocations of Credit Proceeds and  Disbursements  .........................                                                                    7
Project Results    .................................................                                                                                  7
Project Objectives and  Performance Indicators   ...........................                                                                    7
Physical Results   ..............................................                                                                               7
Financial Performance   ..........................................                                                                              8
Key  Financial Performance Indicators    ................................                                                                       8
Tariff Covenants  ..............................................                                                                                9
Internal Financial Rate of Return    ...................................                                                                        9
Economic  Rate of Return    ........................................                                                                            9
Fiscal Impacts   ...............................................                                                                                9
Institutional Impact  ............................................                                                                              9
Project Sustainability  and  Risks   .......................................                                                                         10
Bank's Performance    ..............................................                                                                                 10
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in tho performance of thirl
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table  of  Contents  (Cont'd.)
Borrower's Performance   ...........................................    10
Covenants ..................................................  10
Closing Date  ................................................    10
Project Relations  ................................................    11
Consultancy Services   .............................................    11
Technical  ..................................................    11
Financial  ..................................................    11
Tariff Study   ................................................    11
Project Documentation and Reporting ..................................  11
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER's PERSPECTIVE
Borrower's Perspective of the Design and Implementation of the Project and its Development
Impact ................................................. 12
PART m - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 3.1:  RELATED  BANK  LOANS AND/OR  CREDITS  .....................   20
Table 3.2:  PROJECT TIMETABLE  ....................................    21
Table 3.3: CREDIT ALLOCATIONS AND DISBURSEMENTS ..................  22
Table 3.3.A:  Allocation of Credit Proceeds   ............................   22
Table 3.3.B:  Credit Disbursements ..................................    23
Table 3.4:  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION    ..............................   24
Table 3.4.A:  Additional Facilities, Estimated and Actual  ....................   24
Table 3.4.B:  Completion Dates, Estimated and Actual ......................   25
Table 3.5:  PROJECT COST AND  FINANCING  ............................   26
Table 3.5.A:  Project Cost  ............                        ...........................    26
Table 3.5.B:  Project Financing  ....................................    27
Table 3.5.C:  Country Exchange Rates ................................   27
Table 3.6.B:  Financial and Fiscal Impacts  .............................   29
Internal Financial Rate of Return  .................................   29
Cash Flow  From  the Sector to the State .............................   29
Table 3.6:  PROJECT'S RESULTS   ....................................   28
Table 3.6.A:  Main Operational and Financial Performance Indicators  ............   28
Table 3.6.B:  Internal Financial Rate of Return   ..........................   29
Table 3.6.C:  Cash Flow  From  the Sector to the State  ......................   29
Table 3.7:   STATUS OF COVENANTS  .................................   30
Table 3.8:   USE OF BANK  RESOURCES   ...............................   33



Table of Contents (Cont'd.)
Annexes
ANNEX 1:   Growth of Facilities and Demand
A. Growth of Facilities and Connected Capacity  ............................   35
B. Evolution/Growth in Expressed Demand and Connected Lines Capacity  ....                    ........ 36
ANNEX 2:    Financial Statenents
A. Income Statements  .           ............................................ 37
B. Funds Flow Statements .            .......................................... 38
C. Balance Sheets ................................................. 39






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(CREDIT 1714-SE)
PREFACE
1.         This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Telecommunications Project
in Senegal supported by Credit 1714-SE. The IDA Credit in the amount of SDR 19.4 million (US$ 22.0
million) to the Republic of Senegal was approved on June 19, 1986 and signed on October 27, 1986.
The Credit became effective on April 24, 1987 and was closed on June 30, 1993, its original closing date.
The last disbursement was made on October 15, 1993. Undisbursed amounts totalling SDR 4,336,061
were cancelled, of which SDR 3.8 million were at Government's request in 1989, and SDR 536,061 at
credit closing.
2.          Parts I and III were prepared by Bank staff based on information available in project files
and information supplied by the Societe Nationale des Telecommunications du Senegal (SONATEL), the
Beneficiary and Implementing Agency under the Project. Part II was prepared by the Borrower to give
its perspective of the design, implementation and development impact of the project. Comments from
the Borrower on Parts I and III have not been received.






- 11 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(CREDIT 1714-SE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.         Credit 1714-SE of SDRs 19.4 million (US$22.0 million) was the second telecommunications
operation financed by the Bank Group in Senegal. A first project, financed by Loan 866-SE of US$6.5
million to the Government, was implemented from 1973 to 1982. The beneficiary was the Office des Postes
et Telecommunications du Senegal (OPTS), a state-owned monopoly provider of domestic basic
telecommunications services, with very little financial autonomy. Implementation was delayed due to the
insufficient experience in coordinated development and the organizational weakness of the beneficiary in
commercial-like operation of the services and network development.  The Project Completion and
Performance Audit Reports on the first project mainly stressed that: (a) the physical and operational
objectives of the project had been met, though with considerable delays, and were even exceeded due to the
enlargement of OPTS's investment program made during the extended construction period with the
participation of the other co-financiers; but (b) the project fell short of meeting its institution building and
organizational improvement objectives, in particular in the fields of financial management, commercial type
administration of the entity and relations with users, and operational efficiency.
2.         At completion of the first project in 1983, the Government asked the Bank for continued
assistance to the sector. IDA considered that a prerequisite to such continuation would be that Government
prepare and undertake an in-depth restructuring of the sector and the organization. To this effect, a study
was made in 1984 under the Second Para-public Sector Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1398-SE).
Concurrently, OPTS prepared its next priority investment program for the period 1985-92 on the basis of a
Master Plan study made by the ITU and with the assistance of consultants financed by the French FAC and
CCCE.
3.         In early 1985, the Government decided to restructure the sector by separating postal and
telecommunications operations and creating a new operating company, SONATEL, incorporating the
telecommunications branch of OPTS and TELESENEGAL, the entity in charge of international
telecommunications. The second project was appraised in 1985 and Credit 1714-SE was approved by IDA's
Board in June 1986 (Part I, Paras. 2.4 and 2.8).
Project Objectives and Description
4.         The project consisted of SONATEL's 1986-93 investment program, excluding the projects in
progress at this point of time and some works which could be deferred for future implementation. The
program aimed at increasing systems utilization and coverage through network expansion and
rehabilitation/renewal of existing equipment, improving operational efficiency and maintenance, and assisting
and strengthening SONATEL's organization and management toward efficient and productive commercial
operation.



- iii -
5.          The project included:
(a)   installation of about 34,600 lines of switching equipment, with associated cable networks,
buildings and subscriber facilities;
(b)    expansion and rehabilitation of long-distance transmission links;
(c)    establishment of a national maintenance organization; and
(d)   technical assistance and training to strengthen SONATEL in the fields of financial management,
accounting, tariff policy, management and operational information systems, and development
planning using new technologies.
Implementation Experience and Results
6.          Project Implementation. The project experienced an early and prompt start-up. This was due
to the fact that invitations to bid for goods and services for the project, estimated to cost at least 50% of the
credit amount, had been issued before credit effectiveness. At mid-project in 1990, a project revision was
undertaken on account of actual costs of equipment under ICB being lower than initially estimated, thus
enabling the Borrower to acquire additional installations and enlarge the program of transmission by optical
fiber cables. The remainder of the items of the revised project were also procured on time and all new
installations (for which adequate technical assistance for planning and implementation had been arranged)
were completed on schedule by December 1992. The credit was closed on June 30, 1993, the original closing
date.
7.          The physical components of the proiet were successfully implemented, including additional
installations for which some external financing had also been arranged to supplement SONATEL's own
resources. The total number of connected telephone lines (DELs) was increased from 26,800 to 67,100. The
initial target of the SAR for end-1993 (42,800 lines) had been reached at mid-term of project (July 1990)
when SONATEL's program was revised. During the seven year project period, the telecommunications
infrastructure was expanded to a total exchange capacity of 87,000 line units, or about 27% more than the
appraisal projection of 68,800 units. Major outside plant installations achieved in the greater Dakar and other
important regional districts enabled SONATEL to increase the pace of new connections for service from about
2,000 DELs per year in 1986 to 9,000 DELs in 1992/1993. Simultaneously, new demand for service
increased at the pace of the new connections installed. Parallel modernization and expansion of the long
distance transmission network, and the introduction of centralized maintenance and operations control within
digital installations, enabled SONATEL to increase the operational quality and performance and staff
efficiency. The number of staff per 1,000 DELs decreased from 74 in 1987 to 30 in 1993, which is
considerably lower and compares very favorably with the SAR forecast of 50 to be reached at project
completion.
8.          The estimated project cost at appraisal was CFAF 56.5 billion, (US$156.9 million at the 1985
exchange rate, or US$195.0 million at the average exchange rate over the intervening years). The actual cost
of the project is estimated at CFAF 63.2 billion (US$217.9 million at average exchange rate). The foreign
exchange component was estimated at CFAF 32.7 billion at appraisal, in line with its estimated cost (CFAF
33.6 billion) at completion, though about 25% more facilities were installed, providing further capabilities
at full development. The difference of about 25% in local cost components (CFAF 23.8 billion at appraisal
versus CFAF 29.6 billion at completion) reflects both larger works and inflation during the project period.



- iv -
9.          Concerning financial matters, the overall project objectives were reached or exceeded, except
for the current ratio, accumulated profits and accounts receivable. SONATEL has adopted a commercial
accounting system and used computerized programs and an elaborate financial and management information
system to analyze its financial performance and prepare its financial statements. The latter have been audited
satisfactorily and in a timely manner each year. SONATEL's main financial performance indicators and their
evolution are detailed in Part m (Table 3.6.A and B.) Appropriate tariff restructuring and revisions, made
in 1989, 1991, 1993, helped to effectively optimize the utilization of the installed facilities and, as a result,
boosted the average gross revenue per DEL from CFAF 740,000 in 1987 to CFAF 914,000 in 1992. The
average rate of return (RR) on fixed assets over the 78 months project period was weaker than predicted in
the SAR (14% vs. 20%). This was due to heavier investment (17% more than planned at appraisal) which
has, however, contributed to raising the 1992 RR to 24% vs. 11 % estimated in the SAR. SONATEL was
able to cover up to 47% of the increased project costs by its own internally generated funds. The estimated
total cash flow from the sector to the State Treasury was 23% higher than projected, reaching a total of about
CFAF 48 billion for the project period (SAR's estimate was CFAF 39 billion). Accounts receivable as a
percentage of gross revenue, however, remained unsatisfactory (45% in 1992, or about 5.4 months of billed
services). This was due largely to a persistent lack of provisions in the Budget to cover the actual costs of
usage of SONATEL's services by the State, and a repeated recourse to debt swapping between SONATEL
and the State.  This practice is economically counterproductive and should be discontinued through
progressive adjustments in both processes of the Government Budget and the sectoral performance contracts.
Private arrears have gradually decreased, but still represented 4 months of billed revenues in 1992, or about
1 month higher than estimated at appraisal.
10.        The proiect had an important institutional impact and effectively contributed to SONATEL's
rapid and satisfactory establishment as an efficient autonomous operation organized along commercial lines
with adequate structures for planning, development, implementation and operations, and for administrative
and financial management. Through the thrust and incentives of the project from its preparation to
completion, and more generally as a result of the continued assistance and contribution from the Bank to the
reform of the para-public sector in Senegal (Paras. 2 and 3 above), the country's telecommunication sector
was effectively restructured and organized into an autonomous corporate operation. Under the project, the
sector's institutions evolved from a government service type management to the completed commercialization
and corporatization of its operations.
11.        Though monopolistic by statute, SONATEL favored competition on terminal services by
opening the installation of fixed and mobile terminal equipment to agreed private suppliers, and the resale
of services (telephone, telex, facsimile, data transmission, etc.) to the public by private operators of
contractual telecommunications centers. This should further evolve in the future through the study and
preparation by Government and SONATEL of suitable stages for more in-depth reform and restructuring of
the telecommunications sector in Senegal, with the aim to open it to competition and permitting an increased
participation of the private economic actors in its development and the provision of services, which are badly
needed for the country's economic growth.
Lessons Learned and Conclusions
12.        The project as originally prepared and appraised in liaison with co-lenders, mainly focused on
issues confronting the newly created telecommunications operating entity with regard to development of the
installation capability, improvement of operational efficiency and strengthening of its internal organization
and management. The main findings and lessons learned from its implementation are that:



v -
(a)   in the technical area, early detailed planning and start-up of procurement action, as covenanted
in the Credit Agreement, contributed significantly to the satisfactory and timely implementation
of the physical components at lower costs under ICB (Paras. 4.2, 5.1 to 5.5, 6.3 and 6.4);
also, technical assistance and training in the fields of planning, implementation, maintenance
and operation, enabled SONATEL to meet its objectives of operational efficiency (Para. 4.7,
6.1 to 6.6 and 11.4);
(b)    with regard to demand satisfaction, a large unmet and hidden demand existed and during the
project period reached levels matching or exceeding the provision of additional services. This
is often the case when continued great shortage prevails in the provision of service, and could
have been anticipated in the initial preparation and phasing of the project. Project revisions
enabled SONATEL to partly cope with the rapidly growing demand (Para. 5.3, Tables 3.6.A
and Annex 1);
(c)   in the financial and economic areas, financial results, though intermittently below forecast
expectations, were mostly satisfactory, enabling SONATEL to finance a large part (47%) of
its development needs, and simultaneously to contribute substantially to government fiscal
returns; internal financial rates of return from operations and economic rates of return from
the project have been high, 20% and 25% respectively, showing the high level of resources
which the sector can generate, and also reflecting the leverage that telecommunications
represent in the country's economy and its development (Paras. 6.6 to 6.12); and
(d)   for the institutional aspects, the Bank's insistence during the lengthy project preparation period
(1983 to 1985), on Government commitment to sector reform before lending, was essential to
the success of the project and its effectiveness; the Bank also assisted in the related actions to
restructure and commercialize the operations of the originally complex and intricate post and
telecommunications sub-sectors; the project encompassed the process of moving from
Government to commercial type autonomous operation, including changes in the internal and
financial organization and management of the telecommunications operator. However, there
are further requirements, in particular, in the areas of post-restructuring sector policy and
regulatory development, which remain to be taken care of and to which Government attention
should be drawn.
13.        The two successive Bank/IDA telecommunications projects since 1975 in Senegal have shown
that: (a) technically, expansion of existing facilities and development of new systems have taken place
successfully, with adequate outside assistance, resulting in an eight-fold increase of the facilities in service
(from about 8,500 DELs in 1975 to 67,000 DELs in 1993), and in a noticeable improvement of the
operational efficiency and the quality of the services provided; (b) financially, the objectives of improving
financial management and establishing commercial type operation for the telecommunications services and
their development could only be met after the restructuring of the operating entity into an autonomous
operator at inception of the second project. This led to satisfactory financial results and returns on
investment, though the issue of arrears from government and parastatal usage of service remained unresolved;
(c) economically, the estimated economic rates of return of both projects have been high, confirming the
importance of telecommunications to economic development; on the side of demand satisfaction, the pending
demand for service was steadily growing at the pace at which additional services were provided, indicating
that sustained rapid development is needed; and (d) with regard to institutions, the Government's courageous



- vi -
steps to restructure the sector and its organization, separating postal and telecommunications services and
organizing the latter as an autonomous corporate entity were an essential ingredient to the success of the
project.
14.        Implementation of the above enabled SONATEL to become a more efficient, productive, better
structured and organized company. Only a small number of similar successful organizational changes have
as yet taken place in Africa amongst the providers of public telecommunications services, such as in Ethiopia
in the 1970s and Egypt in the 1980s. Senegal was the first case of institutional restructuring of the
telecommunications sector into an autonomous corporate commercial operation in Western and Central Africa.
It showed that changing management culture towards a customer/market oriented commercial and business
type approach in a sensitive strategic sector is a complex and lengthy process. At the same time, the need
for a more indepth sector policy reform to further promote competition and increase private participation in
sector operation and development remains to be taken care of, together with the establishment of adequate
regulatory institutions. Further institutional evolution and building along these lines would both ensure and
enhance the sustainability of the two telecommunications projects now completed in Senegal, and enable an
increased mobilization of resources, within the country and externally, to better meet the demand and the
country's investment requirements for telecommunications services. Experience has shown that project
lending to assist in the large investments which are needed for telecommunications, is a suitable vehicle for
sector reform. This could be a rationale for continued IDA involvement in the telecommunications sector
in Senegal, which should be discussed with Government.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(CREDIT 1714-SE)
PART I
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Ident
Title               Second Telecommunications Project
Credit No.          Credit 1714-SE
RVP Unit            Africa Region
Country             Senegal, Sahelian Department (AF5)
Sector              Industry and Energy Operations (AFSIE)
Subsector           Telecommunications
2. Backgu
Sector Set-up
2.1       The telecommunications sector in Senegal is under the general responsibility of the Minister of
Communication (MOC) since 1988. Just before the project implementation period, sector responsibilities
were divided between the Office des Postes et Telecommunications du Senegal (OPTS) which handled
domestic telecommunications, and the Societe Nationale des Telecommunications Interationales du Senegal
(IELESENEGAL), which was in charge of international services. During project preparation, the
Government merged OPTS branch for telecommunications and TELESENEGAL into the Societe Nationale
des Telecommunications (SONATEL), effective October 1, 1985. SONATEL is a state-owned autonomous
enterprise, commercially operated under the company law. OPTS's postal and financial branch was re-
organized into the Offlce des Postes et de la Caisse d'Epargne (OPCE). SONATEL and OPCE were initially
under the general responsibility of the Minister of Information, Telecommunications and Relations with the
Assemblies and, subsequently, of the Minister of Industrial and Artisanal Development and
Telecommunications.
2.2       The Bank had been associated with the telecommunications sector in Senegal through a First
Project. The first loan (866-SE) of US$6.95 million, for the OPTS with Government guarantee, was
approved in November 1972, became effective in June 1973 and was closed on April 1, 1981. The loan
supported a project at an estimated total cost of US$8.9 million, which formed a major part of OPTS's
telecommunications development program for the period 1972-75. The project aimed at rehabilitating,
modernizing and expanding the principal local telephone facilities in Dakar and the northern provincial cities,
as well as the long distance network from Dakar to the north and along the Senegal river, including a new
high capacity microwave system. The project also provided for organizational improvements in OPTS's
development planning and financial management, accounting, including separation of postal and
telecommunications accounts, strengthened billing arrangements and a comprehensive training program to
substitute Senegalese staff to expatriate advisors.



- 2 -
2.3       Delays in the start-up of the First Project resulted in its revision as part of an updated and
enlarged development program. The French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE),
Government's and suppliers' credit provided the required new resources for the revised project, at a final total
cost of US$23.2 million. Implementation took a further 5 years than initially estimated. A project
completion report and a project performance audit report were issued on December 1981 and May 1983,
respectively. Both reports stressed: (a) the technical usefulness of the project, which, though with important
delays and cost overruns, provided about 35% more facilities which were badly needed and enabled
replacement of more obsolete installations than earlier planned; but (b) the little progress made in the field
of institutional development, in particular with regard to the proposed improvements of OPTS's organization,
financial management and accounting, billing and collection procedures, commercial relations with users, and
operational efficiency.
Sector Development and Project Genesis
2.4       At completion of the First Project, though progress had already been made to develop facilities
and initiate some improvement in its organization, the main issues in the country's public telecommunications
sector were related to the need for: (a) continued rapid expansion of the systems and improvement of the
services and their operation, in a context of largely unmet and growing demand (less than two thirds of the
registered demand for local service and only about 50 % of the demand for international traffic were satisfied);
(b) rehabilitation/replacement of obsolete installations and improvement of maintenance and operational
efficiency through accelerated modernization of the networks and facilities; and (c) improvement of the sector
organization and its management through in-depth structuring to overcome the existing institutional,
operational and administrative constraints and organize the sector development and operation in a way suited
to the commercial character of telecommunications activities. Aware of these problems, the Government of
Senegal requested Bank assistance in financing a Second Telecommunications Project, in early 1983 during
the implementation review of the First Project.
2.5       With regard to development continuation, the works undertaken during the revised First Project
were then pursued and co-financed by CCCE, AfDB, BOAD, CEDEAO and OPTS.   Planning and
supervision for these works were implemented during the period 1981-84 with the assistance of consultants
provided to the planning branch of OPTS by French FAC, CCCE and CIDA. In 1982, under an UNDP/ITU
scheme, a Master Plan for telecommunications development through the year 1996 was prepared. By mid
1983, OPTS had prepared a phased comprehensive short term investment program for implementation under
the sixth and seventh Senegalese Plans, priority parts of which were suitable for financing under a second
Bank project.
2.6       With regard to sector restructuring, the Bank view based on the experience and lessons from the
first project was that considering and/or undertaking an in-depth sector reform and its restructuring were a
prerequisite to further assistance to sector development. The principal co-lenders in the sector shared such
approach. Under the successive four-year National Plans, Government goals for state enterprises and para-
public commercial type entities were also emphasizing improved management, financial autonomy, operational
efficiency, self-sufficiency and agreed operating policy frameworks in the form of performance contracts.
In 1983/84 a study financed at Bank incentive under the Second Parapublic Technical Assistance Project
(Credit 1398-SE) made specific proposals for the reorganization of the telecommunications sector. In July
1985, the following recommendations were adopted by Government: (a) OPTS's postal/financial services



- 3 -
would be reorganized into the Office des Postes et de la Caisse d'Epargne (OPCE); and (b) the
telecommunications branch of OPTS would be merged with TELESENEGAL, creating SONATEL. The
reorganization became effective on October 1, 1985. Such a radical and complete restructuring of the post
and telecommunications subsectors, effectively separating the operation of the related public services which
were historically combined under the same administration and, at same time, corporatizing the
telecommunications activities, was an exemplary first in French speaking African countries. Also, the law,
related decrees and the Company Statute of SONATEL were the first case of establishment of a National
Corporation in Senegal.
2.7       During the continued process of project preparation and of the restructuring of the
telecommunications sector, the govermment effectively liaised and worked with the various aid-agencies which
were interested in sector development. The Bank assisted in the formulation of the immediate term
investment program, selecting priorities and emphasizing operational and quality of service improvements,
and advised on the managerial and organizational needs of the new operating entity. In December 1984, the
government organized an enlarged donors' meeting to present the ongoing sector reform and to agree on a
viable co-financed 1985-93 investment program for the sector, and on a feasible immediate project for
implementation 1985-90 with suitable technical assistance to the new Company.
2.8       The government subsequently confirmed its decision to create SONATEL and have it operational
by October 1985. In April 1985, it also renewed its request for Bank assistance to sector development and
reorganization. The proposed Second Project was further defined on the basis of the agreed investment
program. Appraisal took place in June 1985. A credit of SDRs 19.0 million (US$22 million) was approved
by IDA's Board of Directors on June 19, 1986. The credit and project agreements were signed on October
27, 1986 and Credit 1714-SE became effective on April 24, 1987. The timetable of the extended project
preparation period, from completion of the first project to the conclusion and effectiveness of Credit 1714-SE,
is detailed in Tables 3.2 and 3.8 of Part III.
3.   Proiect Obiectives and Descriptio
3.1       PrQiect Objectives. In accordance with the Seventh Senegalese Plan's objectives for sector
development and with the general goals of the government to improve operation and management of state
enterprises, SONATEL's objectives under its program and the project were to:
(a)   rehabilitate existing installations, conduct systematic maintenance, and make additional
investments to bring system utilization to a satisfactory level;
(b)   expand sector facilities to meet expressed demand;
(c)   increase operational efficiency and quality of service through improved management, staff
trairing and maintenance;
(d)  generate a strong cash flow to finance a major share of investments, primarily through improved
efficiency; and
(e)  make substantial net transfers to Government, directly through income taxes and indirecly
through custom duties on imported equipment.



- 4 -
3.2      The project was a part of SONATEL's program, which was described for the period of 1986-93.
The company's objectives with regard to service development and improvement of its operations and
management were agreed upon with government in the form of program and performance contracts (Contrats
Plan). SONATEL had its own business plans (plans d'entreprise) for parallel definition and follow-up of its
achievements. The sector and the company's performance under both program and enterprise contracts were
monitored and periodically evaluated by designated supervisory units in government and the enterprise. The
project was implemented under two successive such Contrats-Plan for the periods 1986-89 and 1989-92.
3.3      Project Description.  The project consisted of SONATEL's 1986-93 investment program
excluding the works in progress at this point of time and some subprojects of lesser priority which could be
deferred for future implementation. It aimed at: (a) satisfying high priority demand through expanding and
balancing local systems in the Cap Vert (Greater Dakar) and two important provincial regions; (b) increasing
system utilization through rehabilitation of existing equipment in particular in the northern region towards
and in the Senegal river basin; and (c) improving operational efficiency and maintenance. It also included
a program to assist and improve SONATEL management and train its staff. The project comprised:
(a)  installation of about 34,600 lines of switching equipment, with associated cable networks,
buildings and subscriber facilities;
(b)  expansion and rehabilitation of existing long-distance transmission links, in particular to and
within the northern region;
(c)  establishment of a national maintenance organization; and
(d)  technical assistance and staff training in financial management, accounting, tariff policy, an
development planning using new technologies.
4.   Proiect Design and Organization
4.1      Project Design. SONATEL investment program and the project were designed by OPTS in 1984
on the basis of ITU's Master Plan for Telecommunications Development in Senegal through 1996. OPTS
initial program was divided into 3 phases for construction from 1985 on. Phase I included the continuation
for completion in 1988 of ongoing works in the Cap Vert (Greater Dakar), Djourbel, Kaolak and Ziguinchor
regions which are the largest ones. Phase 2 was for construction of local systems in three main other regions
and the interconnection with neighboring countries (Gambia, Guinea and Mali) by 1986. Phase 3 for the
period 1986-90 included additional: (a) expansion and new works for local systems throughout Senegal;
(b) modernization and expansion of interregional links between the main transit exchanges; (c) rehabilitation
of the Axe Nord link and related spur routes to the Senegal river region; and (d) overall rehabilitation and
maintenance improvement works to increase operational efficiency and quality of service throughout the
country. At the December 1984 lenders' meeting and during the subsequent project appraisal, OPTS overall
program was reorganized to separate ongoing works to be continued and new investments. Practically, phases
2 and 3 were combined, but for some works to be realized on its own by the new Company, and the project
was defined for construction 1986-92, as it was later implemented. A summary financing scheme was agreed
upon and later confirmed during appraisal. The principal lenders and financiers were AfDB, BOAD, CCCE,
CEDEAO, CIDA, FAC, IDA and OPTS/SONATEL.



4.2       Project Organization. OPTS and later SONATEL had an organized and experienced technical
branch for network development, planning and implementation. The needed consultancy services for detailed
planning and staff training in construction and operation of the systems were provided through the French
FAC/CCCE aid for the local/regional installations an through CIDA for the interregional and international
land-based PANAFTEL systems. The planning unit had adequate experience of the ICB process under
multilateral or bilateral financing. Basic project design and project organization remained unchanged
throughout implementation. SONATEL's development branch very efficiently used the technical assistance
that was made available for project implementation and well improved its capabilities and experience in
technical and economic assessment of the works and the related operational needs. The project was revised
in 1989 on the basis of actual unit costs of the installations under ICB, which proved lower than initially
estimated, thus enabling to acquire additional installations. Also modem transmission technology using the
rapidly emerging optical fiber systems could be introduced earlier under the enlarged program, providing
higher capacity equipment to replace microwave links where appropriate, in particular for the subproject to
the northern part of the country (Axe Nord). All this enabled the installation of digital switching and
transmission equipment, providing more efficient systems, with enlarged subscriber and traffic capacities at
almost unchanged investment cost (paras. 5.2 and 5.5).
5.   Project Implementation
5.1       Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-Up. Credit 1714-SE was approved on June 19, 1986 and
signed on October 17, 1986. The Credit became effective on April 24, 1987. The three months delay for
credit effectiveness was related to the execution of a subsidiary relending agreement between the government
and SONATEL. The ten other additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement were timely met. These conditions included that: (a) the consultants services for development
planning and project engineering, and to improve and strengthen SONATEL logistic and follow-up capacities
for project implementation had been contracted; and (b) invitation to bid for goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and estimated to cost an aggregated equivalent of at least 50 percent of the
credit amount had been issued. This ensured a timely start-up of the scheduled works. During the first two
years, disbursements under the initial phase of the project were about 15% higher than forecast. By mid
1988, tender had been issued for 90% of the goods and services under the credit.
5.2       Procurement. SONATEL/OPTS had acquired experience in the Bank's procurement procedures
under the First Project and the result of ICB was satisfactory. Tenders for each group of equipment and
works attracted a large number of bidders and active competition for sophisticated digital installations resulted
in favorable prices to SONATEL. Procurement of the IDA financed items took place under 7 main contracts
signed from 1987 through 1990, all entered into in accordance with Bank procedures and under Bank
supervision. Based on the contracts realized, the actual costs of the IDA project components were below
appraisal estimates as follows: about 15% for switching and 25% for transmission equipment. Conversely,
costs and requirements for support installations such as power, air-conditioning and measuring equipment,
as well as consultancy services, were higher than originally estimated. With regard to switching equipment
SONATEL proposed to disregard the lowest evaluated bid for local telephone exchanges in a large regional
subproject. The basic reason was standardization. The second lowest bidder was a confirmed supplier for
other installations throughout the networks and had proposed, during evaluation, to match the prices of the
lowest bidder. IDA did not accept the proposal. SONATEL subsequently decided to finance the item from
its own resources on the basis of the advantageous cost of the negotiated proposal. Government requested
that the involved amount of SDR 3.8 million be cancelled from the credit. A reallocation of the credit



- 6 -
proceeds was made in July 1990 on account of the reduced credit amount and of the revision in types and
quantities of several project items (para. 5.3).
5.3       Project Implementation Schedule and Revision. Overall project implementation was not delayed
and the various physical project components were completed in December 1992, in accordance with original
schedule. Table 3.4.B in Part m gives details of the completion dates, estimated and actual, for the main
project items. Delivery delays were not significant and resulted essentially from adjustments of the quantities
and types of some installations during construction. At mid-project term, a project revision took place on
the basis of actual equipment costs which enabled to acquire additional installations and to take advantage of
the new optical fiber transmission technology which became feasible, in particular for the large capacity long-
distance links. In 1989, SONATEL planned and decided to increase local and transit exchange capacities in
several regions where demand justified it and to include an optical fiber (FO) cable system in the Axe Nord
subproject, replacing the microwave link which was initially to be rehabilitated and expanded. Additional
financing obtained from the European Investment Bank (EIB) and increased own resources from SONATEL's
operations enabled to pursue the revised scheme. IDA agreed to finance a substantial part of the FO cable
link and the additional engineering consultancy services required for its planning and implementation. Credit
allocations were revised accordingly in September 1990 and the revised project was satisfactorily completed
in December 1992, as per the agreed revised schedule.
5.4       The implementation of the institutional component was well monitored. It was satisfactory on
most aspects. SONATEL's operational and organizational targets and the obligations of the Government and
SONATEL to achieve them were set up under two successive Contrats-Plan which covered the whole project
period. Technical assistance was timely provided to SONATEL at the inception of its operation as a
commercial/business entity taking over activities from a government department structure, and the Company
and its staff well benefited from this assistance. During its eight first years of operation SONATEL could
set up and adequately staff its managerial, financial, administrative, operational and developmental structures
and operate as an autonomous, reasonably efficient and productive commercial entity. These aspects are
detailed in the following section 6 of this Part.
5.5       Project Cost. The cost of the project was estimated at CFAF 56.5 billion (US$156.9 million)
at appraisal, with a foreign exchange component of CFAF 32.7 billion (US$90.8 million). The final cost of
the project at completion, as revised and implemented as a part of SONATEL's adjusted investment program
for the period 1987-93, has been estimated at CFAF 63.2 billion (US$217.9 million), with a foreign exchange
component of CFAF 33.6 billion (US$115.9 million). SONATEL does not have specific cost accounting for
its program/project investments. Final cost estimate was based on contractual costs as reported during
supervision and on account of the related estimated costs for project preparation and support, and for duties
and taxes. The foreign cost component remained unchanged, although about 25% more facilities were
installed and important items such as the Axe-Nord link were realized with high capacity optical fiber cable
rather than through rehabilitation/expansion of an existing radio link. This reflects the generally decreasing
trend of the cost of telecommunications equipment during the project period. SONATEL benefited of both
such trend and the competition through ICB under the project. The difference of about 25% in local costs
reflects the larger works which were realized as well as some inflation during the seven year period of
implementation. The difference of almost 44% in project cost when expressed in USD mostly reflects the
depreciation of the US currency. A comparison of the estimated costs of the main project components, as



estimated at appraisal and on completion, is shown in Table 3.5.A of Part m. Project financing and the
country exchange rate variations during the project period are detailed in Tables 3.5.B and 3.5.C of Part In,
respectively.
5.6         Allocations of Credit Proceeds and Disbursements. The original and revised allocations and
final disbursements of proceeds from Credit 1714-SE are detailed in Table 3.3.A, and the estimated and
actual disbursements are given in Table 3.3.B of Part m. Early disbursements were timely and occasionally
exceeded forecast before project mid-term, when SDRs 3.8 million were cancelled from the credit and the
project was revised. Large works for sophisticated transmission systems resulted in bulk disbursements near
project completion in FY92 and 93. Undisbursed amounts totaling SDR 4,336,061 were cancelled, of which
SDR 3.8 million were at request in 1989, and SDR 536,061 at credit closing.
6.   Project Results
6.1       Project Objectives and Performance Indicators. Table 3.6 gives a recapitulation of SONATEL's
main operational performance indicators as planned in the SAR and achieved by the company during the
implementation of the project. The data included indicate that the project's physical components were
successfully implemented and the set objectives met. The efficiency of management has been considerably
improved as a result of gradual restructuring of the telecom sector. The staff employed per 1,000 DEL has
been reduced from 75 in 1987 to 33 in 1992, which compares very favorably with the targeted SAR forecast
of 55 for 1992 and is expected to reach 30 in 1993, at full project development. With regard to traffic flow
performance, the call completion rate targets of the SAR for 1993 (70% for local and 60% for interurban
calls) were not achieved. An improvement of the overall call completion rate for long distance services is
expected after final implementation of the fiber optics component of the backbone network in 1994. As for
the efficiency of local calls, the rate of 55% achieved in 1992 is also expected to improve and meet the
targeted 1992 SAR figure of 65% at full developments in 1994, when the rate of digitalization of the local
exchanges capacity would reach 75%.
6.2       Physical Results. Details of the physical results of the project as outlined in the SAR and
achieved during implementation are given in Table 3.6.A and Annex 1 of Part III. The total number of
subscriber lines in service was increased from 26,548 to 58,095 for the period 1987 - 1992 and should reach
67 100 DELs at the end of 1993, which is more than 50% higher than the SAR forecasts of 36,900 and
42,800 for 1992 and 1993, respectively. As a result of the project revision in 1990 (para. 5.3) it was possible
to increase the additional switching capacity by about 25%, and to implement transmission systems of larger
capacity using fiber optics technology for the link to the northern part of the country, replacing the existing
micro wave system. These increases are due to the effective procurement procedures applied and the
resulting better prices, as well as to the improvement of the overall design of the project and optimal
utilization of other available financing sources. Also, in parallel with the rapid digitalization of the network,
centralized maintenance and operations control systems were introduced, allowing more optimal traffic
routing and full utilization of the newly installed modern capacities. The availability of these systems is
another factor for the future improvement of the quality of the services provided by the network. With regard
to demand satisfaction, the comparison of forecast and actual growth of expressed demand versus connected
capacity is given in Annex 1 to Part III, which shows that at any time during the project period: (a) the
growth of implemented capacity outnumbered the SAR forecast targets; and (b) the actual expressed demand
appeared to grow consistently at the pace at which new lines were made available for service.



- 8 -
6.3       Financial Performance. The overall project objectives, both physical and financial, have been
reached or exceeded, except for current ratio, debt ratio, accumulated profit and accounts receivable. For
comparison purpose, as fiscal year 1992 was extended from 12 to 18 months, the projection for that year was
adjusted accordingly to include half of 1993 (see financial statement summaries in Annex 2 to Part III). The
summary Table below provides a comparison for the entire period (78 Months) of some key indicators:
Key Indicators                           Actual       SAR       Actual/SAR
Cumulative Borrowing                     54,910      27,530     99% *
Cumulative Capital Expenditure           80,972      69,049     17%
Fixed Assets as of Dec 31, 1992          55,111      58,496     -6%
No. DELs as of December 31, 1992         58,055      38,900     49% *
Cumulative Net Profit                    23,341      29,993     -22%
* Reflects project's revision (paras. 5.3 to 5.5).
6.4       Key Financial Performance Indicators. Key financial performance indicators are given in
Table 3.6.A of Part m, which shows that:
(a)  the average operating ratio is satisfactory;
(b)  the average rate of return on fixed assets (after tax) over the period of 78 months was 14%, as
compared to 20% in the SAR. This resulted from heavier investment (17% more than planned
at appraisal), which has, however, contributed to raising the 1992 rate of return to 24%, as
compared to 11% in SAR;
(c)  current ratio is generally lower than projected, averaging only 1.2 as compared to 1.9;
(d) average debt ratio [Debt/(Debt + Equity)] was slightly higher: 0.4 instead of 0.3, as a result of
the additional borrowing at project revision;
(e)  the accounts receivable as a percentage of gross revenue was quite high, for all categories of
customers. It started with 96% in 1987, remained unchanged in 1988, decreased to 25% in
1991, and swung back to 45% in 1992. The apparent improvement of the situation in 1991 and
1992 was due to the debt swapping between the State and SONATEL over the 1989-1992 period,
totaling CFAF 38.9 billion, which was authorized under SONATEL's performance contracts for
the periods 1886-89 and 1989-92. Private arrears have gradually decreased, from 12,175 to
8,120 CFAF million, but still represented about 4 months billing in 1992, exceeding the SAR
estimates by about 27% (see Annex 2.C in Part III);
(f) average debt service coverage was 3.2 as compared to 3.0;



-9-
(g)  average cash generation, as a percentage of capital expenditure, was substantially higher than
projected, 80% instead of 62%; it was used as follows: 93.6% for capital expenditure, 5.5% to
subsidize OPCE until 1990, and the remaining for reserves; one should note that self-financing
and borrowing did increase in parallel; and
(h)  total cash flow from the sector to the State was 23% higher than projected.
6.5       Tariff Covenants. In accordance with the Project Agreement, a tariff study was made in 1988-89.
The tariff structure was revised in July 1990 on the basis of the study, and the overall rates were brought
down, i.e. by about 4.4% per annum in actual terms (average of seven years), including a 6% reduction in
July 1990. Additional changes took place in 1991 and 1993 to reflect service costs and, at the same time,
meet users' demand. The trend in both tariff changes was also to reflect the decreasing cost of SONATEL's
services.
6.6       Internal Financial Rate of Return. With the following assumptions, the internal financial rate of
return on investment was 20%, as compared to 13% in SAR:
-    Incremental operating cost per DEL of newly added DELs rises gradually to reach 2/3 of the
operating cost of al DELs in 1992, and remains at this level until the end of their usefulness;
-    Revenue per DEL of newly added DELs is the same as that of old DELs. For detailed
calculation, see Table 3.6.B. 1 in Part III.
6.7       Economic Rate of Return. For telecommunications projects, in order to take into consideration
consumers' willingness to pay for services which would otherwise be unavailable, and indirect benefits
received by non-users of telecommunications services, economic rate of return is generally estimated to be
higher by at least 8 to 12 percent than the internal financial rate of return. Such higher estimated return
reflects the actual greater value to the economy of telecommunications investments such as those from the
project, for two broad groups of reasons which are not accounted for in the financial rate of return. Firstly,
the project increased the quality of service through the digitalization of the facilities (para. 6.2). Secondly,
important external benefits are associated with the improvement of telecommunications services, i.e. transport
substitution, increased efficiency in government, enterprise management, use of available skills and expertise,
distribution of goods and services, provision of health, social, educational and emergency services, economic
decentralization, etc. In so doing, as was done during appraisal, the estimated ERR would be about 30%,
which is much higher than estimated in SAR (19%).
6.8       Fiscal Impacts. Positive fiscal impacts were 23% higher than estimated (For details see Table
3.6.B.2 in Part III). This was due mainly to more investment and more production.
6.9       Institutional Impact. Through adequate technical assistance and training, the newly established
SONATEL was able to effectively organize its structure and operations on a commercial/business like basis
with suitable autonomy. The monitoring of its operation took place under two successive "Contrats-Plan",
during the project period, which were timely entered into between the Government and SONATEL and
closely supervised by follow up/audit units. SONATEL's performance met most of the Contrat-Plan
objectives. One weak point remained the arrears for usage of services by the Government and parastatal
entities which were periodically compensated against SONATEL's fiscal dues. This did not comply with the



- 10-
related covenant of the Credit Agreement and is a very counterproductive practice with regard to both the
production and usage of the services and the finality of the fiscal obligations. Such practice should be
adequately phased out and promptly abandoned under the future Contrats-Plan, in order to ensure a
thoroughly sound financial management of the sector and of its commercial operation.
7.   Project Sustainability and Risks
7.1       The project was timely and satisfactorily implemented providing more facilities than initially
planned. SONATEL's organization and management were strengthened, making it a viable and capable
commercial operator with corporate status. The more rapidly than planned growing demand justifies
continued growth of the telecom infrastructure in the near future and will ensure efficient use of the existing
capacities. The benefits from the project are significant and there are no prospects that satisfactory operation
would not continue. The risks concerning the sustainability of the project are only minimal due to the ability
of the present organization to operate the services and implement coordinated further development. Beyond
the satisfactory operational and organizational results from the project, however, the need for more in depth
sector policy reform to promote competition and increase private participation in sector development and
operations remains to be taken care of, together with the establishment of adequate regulatory institutions.
Further evolution along these lines would both ensure and enhance the sustainability of the two
telecommunications projects now completed in Senegal. These matters should be discussed with and taken
up by Government.
8.   Bank's Performance
8.1       Overall Bank performance has been satisfactory. The Bank maintained adequate liaison and
cooperation with the co-lenders to deal with the evolving investment program of SONATEL and to insure
that institutional improvement would enable the Company to meet the planned organizational and operational
performance. The project was supervised as detailed in Table 3.8 of Part Ell. A total of 7 missions, i.e. once
annually, were performed during he project implementation period. Some of these supervision missions were
accomplished with other co-lenders (CCCE, AfDB and EIB).
9.   Borrower's Performance
9.1       Covenants. The status of compliance with the major covenants and conditions of the Development
Credit Agreement (DCA) and the Project Agreement (PA) is indicated in Table 3.7 of Part m. The main
points of non compliance were: (a) still continuing compensation of reciprocal debts, including Government's
arrears for service usage versus SONATEL fiscal dues, which is in contradiction with the conditions in DCA
that all bills by public sector customers should be dully paid (according to normal commercial practice) within
45 days; and (b) no effective provisions were included in the State budget for reduction and adequate control
of the telephone consumption by the Public Sector, though several attempts were made to limit service usage
by Government officials. The rest of the DCA and PA covenants were complied with, some of them with
slight delays (for example the last subsidy payment to OPCE was made in 1990 instead of end June, 1989,
as agreed in the DCA).
9.2       Closing Date. The initial closing date of the Credit 06/30/1993 was unchanged and the last
disbursement was made on October 15, 1993. Undisbursed amounts totaling SDR 4,336,061 were canceled,
of which SDR 3.8 million were at request in 1989, and SDR 536,061 at credit closing.



- 11 -
10.  Prject Relation
10.1      Bank's relationship with SONATEL and the government authorities responsible for the
telecommunications sector has been efficient and productive.
11. Consultancy Services
11.1      Technical. The technical assistance provided for project preparation was carried out initially by
ITU sponsored studies, as a continuation of the activities during the realization of the First Project (Loan 866-
SE). During project implementation, about $1.4 million of the credit were used for training of operational
staff and technical assistance aimed to institutional restructuring, improvement of managerial skills and
detailed engineering and design of the network. IDA financed consultancy assistance covered the following
activities: (a) Master plan for implementation of information systems; (b) Management of transport facilities
and warehouses; and (c) Management of project implementation (covering the present project and
methodology for management of any future project).  The technical studies for final engineering
specifications, bidding documentation and implementation supervision of the fiber optic component of the link
to the north were also financed from the credit in addition to the technical assistance provided under bilateral
and multilateral agreements (respectively FAC, CCCE and BOAD, AfDB). SONATEL adequately used all
this assistance.
11.2      Financial. Consultancy services to assist SONATEL in the field of financial management and
accounting were mainly provided under bilateral assistance from CIDA. The entity was able to establish its
accounting and financial operations on a satisfactory basis during the project period.
11.3      Tariff Study. A study for optimization of tariff structures and improvement of tariff policies was
carried out in 1989 and the recommendations from this study were later on applied in 1990, allowing better
traffic distribution through differentiated tariffs (day and night/busy hours/seasonal fluctuations) and more
cost effective tariff levels. This resulted in substantial increase of the traffic generated and better revenues
for SONATEL.
11.4      One must stress the due attention given by SONATEL's management and its financial, operational
and planning departments to the good organization and effective coordination of the consultancy services
which were provided from several sources under the project. This ensured a prompt strengthening and
mastering of the relevant qualifications and fields of responsibilities within the Company and its staff.
12. Project Documentation and Reporting
12.1      Detailed project reports were provided by SONATEL with regularity during the implementation.
Additional data were made available during supervision missions in the format of annual budget forecasts,
operational reports and review documents (Tableau de Bord du Directeur General, Statistiques Annuelles des
Telecommunications, financial and operational Statements and Statistics etc.). The abundant information
presented in these documents reflected the project achievement and the effective monitoring of its
implementation, enabling a satisfactory supervision of the project.



- 12 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(CREDIT 1714-SE)
PART II
Borrower's PersDeRive of the Design and Implementation of the Project
and its Development Impact
This Part was prepared by SONATEL and the Government and sent to the Bank on December 29, 1993.
The following is an English translation of the original document in French.
INIRODUCTION
Inadequate infrastructure development, mediocre quality of service and the conviction that the
country's economic development would be enhanced considerably by a reliable telecommunications system
all prompted the Government of the Republic of Senegal to give the telecommunications sector priority in the
Seventh Economic and Social Development Plan for 1985-89.
This decision was reflected in Law No. 85-36 of July 23, 1985, which was implemented on October 1,
1985 and resulted in the grouping of domestic and external communications, previously operated by two
separate companies, i.e. Office des Postes et des Telecommunications and Telestndgal, under Socitem
Nationale des Telecommunications (SONATEL).
Ihe broader autonomy thus given the sector was tied to the signing of a Contrat Plan, which defines the
mutual obligations of the State and SONATEL. The latter's authority is limited to executing the expansion
and modernization of the telecommunications network with a view to bringing about an effective revival of
the sector, which is seen as tlue cornerstone of the country's economic, social and cultural development.
SONATEL, therefore, has prepared an investment program in keeping with the Telecommunications
Rehabilitation Plan approved by the Government. This program, which covered the period 1985-92,
incorporated the Second Telecommunications Project discussed in this report, which focuses on the following:
-  Project content;
-  Project cost at appraisal;
-  Financing plan at appraisal;
-  Donors' contribution to project implementation;
-  Supervision of project implementation;
-  Benefits deriving from project;
-  General direction of Senegal's telecommunications policy.



- 13 -
I. PROJECT CONTEN
1.1    PROJECT OBJECTIVES. The objectives of the project are threefold:
(a)   to improve operational efficiency and maintenance;
(b)   to increase telecommunications system utilization through rehabilitation of existing equipment;
(c)   to expand the network.
1.2    PROJECT DESCRIPTION. The project originally consisted of the following parts:
Par A: Installation of approximately:
1. 15,000 lines of electronic switching and intraregional transmission equipment in the Dakar region.
2. 3,400 lines of electronic switching equipment for eight cities in the Ziguinchor, Kolda and
Tambacounda regions, including construction of related buildings and installation of transmission
equipment, with associated cable networks.
3. 7,200 lines of electronic switching equipment for 10 stations in the Thies, Fatick and Kaolack
regions, including construction of related buildings and installation of transmission equipment, with
associated cable networks.
Part B: Rehabilitation of the 'Axe Nord' transmission link (Ibies-St. Louis - Richard Toll - Bakel),
including branches and associated facilities.
*artC: Maintenance improvement through:
1. Establishing and equipping within SONATEL of a national maintenance organization for
telecommunications installations.
2. Maintenance of national telecommunications installations.
Par 1): Installation of feeder links in the southern and southeastern regions.
PartE: Installation of multiplex equipment and execution of other networks in all regions.
EarLE: Management improvement through:
1. Strengthening of SONATEL's medium and long-term telecommunications sector planning, and
improvement of its procurement and project implementation capacity;
2. Establishment of a data processing system for SONATEL's billing and collection, payroll and major
accounting operations;
3. Adoption of a management information system to produce financial and technical reports;



- 14 -
4. Study of telecommunication tariff structure;
5. Improvement of SONATEL's logistics capacity in the areas of supplies, vehicles and workshop
facilities.
II.    ESTIMATED PROJECT COST AT APPRAISAL (in USS millions)
Component                 Local currency     Foreign currency     Total
Thies region: switching, networks,
transmission, buildings.                                        3.8             6.9
3.1
Ziguinchor - Cap-Skiring - Boucote:
Hertzian links, local installations.                            0.7             1.0
0.3
Cap Vert region: switching, local
networks, junctions.                                           26.4            47.4
21.0
Ziguinchor, Kolda and Tamba regions:
switching, networks, transmission,
buildings.                                                      12.3           21.8
9.5
Engineering and training                                        1.7             2.1
0.4
National Maintenance Plan                                      11.6            18.1
6.5
Kaolack and Fatick regions: switching,
networks, transmission, buildings.                              6.5            11.3
4.8
Miscellaneous works in all regions                              8.8            13.8
5.0
Technical Assistance                                            0.5             0.5
0.0
Total base cost
Technical contingency reserve                                   3.7             7.5
3.8
Price increase reserve                                          14.8           26.5
11.7
Total Project Cost                         66.1*               90.8            156.9
* The local currency cost includes CFAF 12.8 billion (US$35.5 million) in customs duties and local taxes.



- 15 -
m.   FINANCING PLAN AT APPRAISAL (in US$ millions)
Donor         Local currency     Foreign currency       Total   T       %
IDA                   0.0                22.0              22.0            14
CCCE                  0.0                20.8              20.8            13
BOAD                  0.0                 4.2               4.2             3
AfDB                  0.0                12.6               12.6            8
CPG                   0.0                 5.6               5.6             4
SONATEL              66.1                25.5              91.7            58
TOTAL                 66.1               90.8              156.9           100
IV.   DONOR CONTRIBUTIONS TO PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Several foreign sources of financing have contributed to the implementation of the Second
Telecommunications Project, through various subprojects, viz.:
- Modernization and expansion of telecommunications facilities in the Dakar region: at a cost of CFAF
16,500 million, excluding taxes, financed by:
 CCCE (now CFD):    CFAF 7,500 million
* BNP (CPG):          CFAF 2,000 million
*FAC:                 CFAF  288 million
* SONATEL             CFAF 6,712 million
- Modernization and expansion of the Diourbel region: at a cost of CFAF 4,310 million, excluding taxes,
financed by:
* CCCE:               CFAF 2,061 million
- BNP:                CFAF 1,350 million
* SONATEL:            CFAF  899 million
-  Modernization and expansion of telecommunications in the regions of Ziguinchor, Kolda, Tambacounda
(plus the regional capitals of Bignona, Oussouye, Sedhiou, Velingara, Medina-Gounass, Kedougou,
Bakel), at a cost of CFAF 6,930 million, excluding taxes, financed by:
* IDA:             CFAF 1,892 million
* EIB:                CFAF 2,422 million
* BOAD:               CFAF 1,885 million
* SONATEL:            CFAF  731 million
-  Modernization and expansion of telecommunications in the regions of Thibs, Fatick, Kaolack (plus the
regional capitals of Tivaouane, Mekhe, Khombole, Mbour, Gossas, Foundiougne, Kaffrine, Nioro and
20 rural communities), at a cost, excluding taxes, of CFAF 7,650 million, financed by:



- 16 -
* IDA:                     CFAF 1,952 million
* EIB:                     CFAF  538 million
* SONATEL:                 CFAF 5,160 million.
-  National Maintenance Improvement Plan, at a total cost, excluding taxes, of CFAF 6,127 million,
financed by:
* AfDB:                    CFAF 4,525 million
* SONATEL:                 CFAF 1,602 million
- Modernization and expansion of telecommunications in the northern regions: at a total cost, excluding
taxes, of CFAF 9,981 million, financed by:
* IDA:                     CFAF  905 million
* EIB:                     CFAF 4,569 million
* SONATEL:                 CFAF 4,507 million
IDA's participation in the implementation of the Second Telecommunications Project became effective
with the signing of Development Credit Agreement No. 1714-SE on October 27, 1986, extending an initial
amount of SDR 19.4 million to the Republic of Senegal, which entered into effect on April 24, 1987. This
credit was onlent to SONATEL on April 22, 1987 on the following terms:
-  Payback period:             20 years, including
-  Grace period:               5 years
-  Interest rate:              8.23% per annum
-  Commitment fee:             0.50%  per annum
-  Closing date of credit:   June 39, 1993
This amount was reduced to SDR 15.6 million following the cancellation of SDR 3.8 million in
category 1 for switching.
Several changes were made in the distribution of the loan, as follows:
Distribution of the amouts aflocatod in SDR
Category
initl            Intermediate        Intermediate           Final
(1)                 (2)
1. Switching                       6,175,000          11,000,000           7,200,000           6,200,000
2. Local etworks                   2,380,000                  0                   0                  0
3. Transmission                    6,585,000           4,250,000           4,250,000           7,700,000
4. Power                             625,000            1,750,000           1,750,000                0
5. Measuring
insrurmenu                         700,000             700,000             700,000                  0
6. Technical
Aaitaance                          350,000             700,000             700,000             950,000
7. Contingencies                   2,645,000            1,000,000           1,000,000           750,000
T 0 T A L                  19,400,000          19,400,000          15,600,000          15,600,000



- 17 -
V. SUPERVISION OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
As soon as the credit agreements had been signed with the various donors and the prerequisites for
the first disbursement had been met, the suppliers and contractors embarked on their respective tasks, in
accordance with the operating plans that had been negotiated. As the works progressed, SONATEL teams
regularly visited the sites to see that the projects in question were being executed properly.
Audit reports were prepared quarterly and discussed throughout the execution of the works in order
to refocus the activities toward the initial objective of the project.
Quarterly technical and financial progress reports were periodically forwarded to the donors.
A final report was prepared on completion of each subproject.
As for the donors, they scheduled periodic supervision missions and SONATEL made all the
necessary arrangements in accordance with the terms of reference received.
All in all, the supervision of project implementation was conducted equally well by SONATEL, the
suppliers and the donors.
There were no major problems.
VI.   BENEFITS DERIVING FROM PROJECT
Several different types of benefits were derived from the project, viz.:
- the modernization and expansion of the telecommunications network;
-  the development of rural telecommunications leading to the opening up and agricultural development
of the areas served;
-  an increase in telephone line production capacity;
- a higher turnover and an improved financial situation for SONATEL;
-  an improvement in the management system, thanks to the Technical Assistance;
-  the strengthening of preventive and curative equipment maintenance;
-  the gradual digitization of the telecommunications network;
-  the stepped-up automation of switching exchanges;
-  an improvement in the quality of telephone communications;
-  an improvement in the socioeconomic activities of the areas served;
-  an improvement in the wellbeing and standard of living of the populations served;
-  the development of tourism;
-  the generation of employment with private exchanges.
VII.   GENERAL DIRECTION OF SENEGAL'S TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICY
It is thanks to the Government's telecommunications policy, initiated in 1983 (autonomy of
management, the grouping of international and domestic networks, the Contrat Plan, an ambitious investment
program prepared in minute detail, meeting of donors) and implemented in 1985, with the establishment of
SONATEL, that Senegal now has one of the best telecommunications networks among developing countries.



- 18 -
It is now up to SONATEL:
1. to maintain this advantage;
2. to expand the network into the rural areas in order to serve all the main towns of rural communities
by the year 2000;
3. to meet the demand of businesses for new services;
4. to continue to lower the price of telephonic communications;
5. to prepare itself for the new regulatory framework for telecommunications;
6. to take pains to preserve good staff relations.
1. Maintaining its advantage
The irreversibility of the advantage it has gained will be achieved by giving priority to preventive
maintenance of infrastructure, while stepping up operational control and training.
By adopting rigorous planning combined with rational investment selection it will be possible to avoid
any return to a saturation situation.
2. Expanding the network and opening up the rural areas
Emphasis will be placed on public telephones (known as wpointphonesw) and competition from the
private sector will continue to be welcomed (as in the case of private exchanges) in all areas, including rural
communities. So far, all arrondissement main towns are already served. There are plans to serve 20 new
villages per year, including 15 main towns of rural communities. At this rate, all the main towns of rural
communities will be equipped between now and the year 2000.
3. Meeting demand for new services
On the basis of a totally digitized telephone network within the next five years, its data network
(SENPAC) and Technopole's future broad-band system, SONATEL will make every effort to develop the
use of new telecommunications techniques and services (variable-speed teleprocessing, videotex,
videotransmission, mobile telephony, etc.).
4. Continuing to lower the price of telephonic communications
Thanks to a steady drop in communication prices over the last four years, our tariffs are among the
lowest in the continent. The reduction in international telephone communication tariffs will be continued and
accentuated.
The need to maintain a good financial balance continues to be a prerequisite, however.
5. Preparing for a new regulatory framework for the telecommunications sector
The area covered by public telecommunications monopolies will be inexorably reduced for the
following three main reasons:



- 19 -
(a) Changing technology, which, on the one hand, gives rise to new telecommunications services that
can be provided by other operators and, on the other, makes it advantageous to large companies to
construct independent private networks with worldwide coverage and integrated voice and data
transmission and seek to provide services to third parties, thereby bypassing the public network.
(b) Changing demand, which, triggered by technical progress, becomes increasingly diversified and
exacting and insists on access to the latest technical innovations.
(c) Changing public opinion, which is looking for more democracy, freedom and, correlatively, more
competition in the economic arena.
Discussion on the telecommunications monopoly in Senegal (a monopoly which is, in any case, less
widespread than commonly thought) should be undertaken without dogmatism.
The main thing is to ensure that changes in the regulatory framework be made in the public interest.
Steps will have to be taken to guard against the unchecked opening of the networks and services (telephone,
telex, SENPAC), resulting in the skimming of the most lucrative areas of demand, which would bring about
the collapse of the public service and, ithout exaggeration, could conceivably result in a telephone system
that would be limited to Dakar.
6. Taking Dains to preserve good staff relations
SONATEL's performance is also due to the relatively good staff relations that prevail in the company.
In order to preserve them, SONATEL must:
(a) involve the staff in company decisions and in deciding on company strategy when the efficiency of
such strategy depends on the support of everyone;
(b) establish, at all levels of responsibility, by holding periodic meetings, an ongoing dialogue with trade
union representatives and staff delegates;
(c) use the conflict prevention assistance structures that have been set in place, i.e. the Departement de
L 'Audit Social (Staff Disputes Tribunal) and the Comite Consultatif de Surveillance du Climat Social
(Consultative Committee Overseeing Staff Relations).
CONCLUSION
Thanks to the Second Telecommunications Project, SONATEL has been able to accomplish a good
part of its rehabilitation plan by providing the public with an efficient telecommunications system with the
right quality of service.
SONATEL is making ongoing efforts to make this achievement irreversible.
Supply is such that it is still not possible to meet all existing demand but by implementing its
investment program SONATEL is gradually setting in place the infrastructure needed to make this
achievement a reality.



- 20 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(CREDIT 1714-SE)
PART III
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 3.1: RELATED BANK LOANS AND/OR CREDITS
Loan Title               PurDos               Y    o       Loan
Approv    Amount               Status
million)
Loan 896-SE   To help rehabilitate, upgrade and   Nov.      6.25      Completed in March 1981
F  i r s t  expand local and long distance   1972                     (Project  Performance
T e I e c o m   telecommunications  systems   in                      Audit Report No. 4523,
Project La    Dakar and the northern province of                      was issued on 5/31tl983).
Senegal, to improve OPT's
capabilities in financial management,
development  planning   and
operations, and to implement a
comprehensive training program.
/a The Loan was the Third Bank Group lending operation for Telecommunications in Western/Central Africa.



- 21 -
Table 3.2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date             Date
Item                        Planned          Revised                 Date Actual
Identification La                                                    09/78, 07/79, 08/80,
02/81, and 04/82.
Preparation Lb                                                       07/83, 05/84, 11/84, and
12/84.
Government Application L                                             01/81, renewed in 04/85.
Appraisal Mission Ld                                                 06/85, 04/86
Credit Negotiations                                                  04/14-18/86
Board Approval                                                       06/19/86
Credit Signature                                                     10/27/86
Credit Effectiveness /e         01/24/87          04/24/87           04/24/87
Credit Closing                  06/30/93                             06/30/93
Credit Completion Lf                                                 10/15/93
/a These were identification and initial preparation missions combined with supervision/completion review
of the first project.
/b Detailed project preparation was carried out with the assistance of consultants under agreements with
bilateral (CCCE, FAC and ACDI), multilateral (AFDB, BOAD), and international (ITU) Aid Agencie
s for technical and organizational aspects, and beginning in 1979 consultants under IDA's First and
Second Parapublic Technical Assistance Projects (Credits 764-SE and 1398-SE) for organizational and
institutional restructuring aspects. The mission of 12/84 participated in an enlarged sectoral Donors
Conference to discuss and agree upon sector reform and short-term development program on which the
proposed project was based.
/c An initial request was made to further assist sector development in early 1981 during the completion
review of the first project. It was renewed in early 1985, following Government decision to create
SONATEL as the Telecommunications Operator in Senegal.
/d Full appraisal was made in June 1985, the March 1986 mission was to participate in BOAD's final
appraisal of their co-financed part of the project.
/e The initial Date of Effectiveness was extended by three months to enable completion of the required start
up procurement action and subsidiary relending agreement.
Lf Date of the last disbursement and closing of the credit account book. An undisbursed amount of SDR
536,061.40 was cancelled.



- 22 -
Table 3I3: CHEM  ALLOCATIONS AND D
Table 3.3.A: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
(Amounts in SDRs)
Original           Revised La           Final
Category                     (Oct.'86)          (Sept.'90)        Disbursement
1. Switching equipment             6,175,000          6,200,000           6,237,814
2. Local cable network and
subscriber material             2,380,000                -0-                 -0-
3. Transmission equipment          6,525,000          7,700,000            7,910,180
4. Power and airconditioning
equipment                         625,000                -0-                 -0-
5. Tools, measuring instruments
and specialized vehicles          700,000                -0-                 -0-
6. Technical Assistance              350,000            950,000             915,945
7. Unallocated                     2,645,000            750,000                  -0-
(Total Revised Credit Amount)                       (15,600,000)
Total Amount Disbursed                                                    15.063.939
- Cancellation 1, as of 01/17/90 1k                3,800,000           3,800,000
- Cancellation 2, as of 10/30/93 &                                       536,061
Total               19,400,000         19,400,000           19,400,000
/a Revision was made on September 10, 1990 on the basis of the updated project under SONATEL's
enlarged program through 1993, on account of lower contractual costs for equipment under ICB
procurement and of the inclusion of a high capacity optical fiber cable link to north Senegal replacing
the existing microwave systems which were to be rehabilitated/expanded under the appraised project.
1k Cancellation 1 of SDR 3,800,000 was made at Government request in December 1989, considering
that SONATEL's improved self-financing capability and the lower cost of switching equipment under
ICB enabled the company to finance increased exchanges capacities.
L Cancellation 2 of SDR 536,061 is the undisbursed balance of the Credit as at the closing of its
accounts book on October 30, 1993.



- 23 -
Table 3.3.B: Credit Disbursements
(Cumulative Estimated and Actual Amounts in SDRs million)
Actual as       Actual as
of % of          a % of
IBRD FY Ending       Appraisal      Actual       Appraisal        Disbursed
(June 30)          Estimates                   Estimates         Amount
(Cumulated)    (Cumulated)               (of SDRs 15.1 m)
1987                00.0           00.0        000.0            000.0
1987                 0.4            0.0         0.0              0.0
1988                 2.1            3.1       147.5             20.5
1989                 4.8            5.3       110.4             35.1
1990                 9.4            6.8        72.3             45.0
1991                15.5            7.5        48.4             49.7
1992                18.1           11.6        64.1             76.8
1993                19.4           12.7        65.5             84.1
10/30 1993            19.4           15.lIa      77.8&           100.0
La  Last payment under the Credit was made with a value date of October 15, 1993 and the credit
account was closed on October 30, 1993, four months after the official Credit closing date of June
30, 1993.
1   See notes 2 and 3 in preceeding table 3.3.A explaining cancellations 1 and 2 from the original credit
amount of SDR 19.4 millions, of which only about 78% was actually disbursed.



- 24 -
Table 3.4: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Table 3.4.A: Additional Facilities, Estimated and Actual
Types/Number of Facilities               Appraisal Estimate          Actual Installations
(Main Indicators)                        Installations           (or PCR Estimate) /a
1. Cap Vert Region sub-project = Local     24,000 lines                 27,000 lines and intra
regional switching, trans-               (electronic) and            (about 112.5%)
mission and local lines facilities.    related facilities.
2. Ziguinchor, Kolda, and Tambacouda        3,400 lines                 4,000 lines
Regions (ZKT) sub-project = local,       (electronic) and             (about 117.5%)
intra and interregional switching,       related facilities.
transmission and local lines
facilities.
3. Thies, Kaolak and Fatick Regions         7,200 lines                 8,000 lines
(TKF) sub-project = (same as 2           (electronic) and            (about 111%).
above).                                  related facilities.
4. Cap Skirring and Boucoute Regional       2 radio links               100%
transmission links.
5. Rehabilitation expansion of existing     FO cable link to            100%
networks, and National Maintenance       north, and PNAM.             100%
Improvement Plan (PNAM) in all regions.
6. Power supply, air conditioning and       Rehabilitation/             100%
operational support equipment.           replacement (in all
regions).
7. Technical assistance and training        about 300 manmonths         100%
- engineering and tariffs study.         under Credit and
- organization and administration.       other external
financing.
LA  Project was revised in 1990 to increase and redistribute some of the additional facilities including
parts of future program, and to replace the microwave link to the north using fiber optic (FO) cable
system. It was estimated that about 12 % more lines and related installations under the various sub-
projects had been realized at project completion.



- 25 -
Table 3.4.B: Completion Dates, Estimated and Actual
Completion Dates /b
Appraisal/Supervision
Component LA                         Estimate               Actual
1. Cap Vert Region sub-project               June 91                Dec. 91
2. ZKT sub-project                           June 91                 Dec. 91
3. TKF sub-project                           June 92                 Dec. 92
4. Cap Skirring and Boucoute links           Dec. 89                 June 89
5. Link to North                             Dec. 91                 Dec. 91
PNAM                                     Dec. 91                  June 92
6. Misc. support equipment                   Dec. 92                 Dec. 92
7. Technical Assistance
- engineering                            June 90                  June 90
- organization/management                Dec. 91                  June 92
- tariff study                            Jan. 88                Dec. 88
8. Project Completion                     Initial Estimate          Actual
Closing Date                             06/30/93                06/30/93
Physical Completion                      Dec. 92                 June 93
Last disbursement                        June 93                Oct. 93 /c
La A more complete description of the components or subprojects is at Table 3.4.A.
/b One condition of effectiveness was that bidding for about half of the goods and services financed from
the credit had been issued. This enabled timely start-up and implementation of the project.
L Last payment was made on 10/15/93 (see Tables 3.3.A).



- 26 -
Table 3.5: PROJECT COST AND FINANCIN
Table 3.5.A: Project Cost
(CFAF billion)
Anraisal Estimate /a      PCR Estimated Completion Costs /b
Item         Local L  Foreign  Total       Local /c   Foreign    Total
(00.0)   (00.0)   (000.0)    (000.0)    (000.0)    (000.0)
1. Cap Vert Region       10.0     11.6       21.6       10.4        11.4.8     21.8
sub-project
2. ZKT sub-project        4.4      5.6        10.0       4.0         4.4        8.4
3. TKF sub-project        3.7      4.7        8.4        4.4         4.8        9.2
4. Cap Skiring/
Boucote links         0.2       0.3        0.5        0.2        0.2        0.4
5. National Mainte-
nance Plan (PNAM)     3.0       5.3        8.3        3.4        3.9        7.3
6. Various works in all
Regions, and support
installations L.      2.4       4.3        6.7        7.1        8.0        15.1
7. Engineering and
Technical Assistance    0.1     0.9        1.0        0.1        0.9         1.0
Total Project Cost   23.8      32.7       56.5       29.6       33.6      63.2
(Total cost in
US$ million) a       (66.1)   (90.8)    (156.9)    (102.0)    (115.9)   (217.9)
La Includes contingencies.
L Costs are estimated at project completion based on the contractual costs before taxes and Custom
duties, as reported under the project, also adding estimated such local taxes and duties in the total
cost of component items. Local/foreign cost distribution is estimated, unless specifically available
from the project's cost tables, because contracts with suppliers are often expressed in CFAF or FF
and do not always separate the transferable components of the cost.
L. Local costs include estimated customs duties and local taxes, totalling CFAF 12.8 billion in the
appraisal estimate and CFAF 14.0 billion in the PCR estimate.
La This item includes, in the actual cost table, the initially planned miscellaneous works and support
equipment in various regions, the Djourbel sub-project and the part of the Axe-Nord optical fiber
cable financed from the IDA credit following project revision in 1990.
The US$/CFAF exchange rates used are 1/360 at appraisal and 1/290 at completion, the later rate
being the average exchange rate during the six-year project period (see Table 3.5.C).



- 27 -
Table 3.5.B: Project Flnancng
(US$ million equivalent)
Actual or PCR Estimated
Apnraisal   imae La                     Financing of Completion Cost /a
Source                  Local    Foreign    Total          Local 1k      Foreign AL        Total
IDA                          0.0       22.0         22.0                      20.4            20.4
CCCE (CFD)/FAC               0.0       20.8         20.8                      34.6            34.6
BOAD                         0.0         4.2         4.2                        6.6             6.6
AFDB                         0.0       12.6         12.6                       15.7           15.7
GPC's                        0.0        5.6          5.6                       12.1           12.1
BEI                                      -            -              -        26.5            26.5
SONATEL                     66O1       25.6         21.7           102.0        _            102 0
Total                       66.1       90.8        156.9           102.0     115.9           217.9
(Total in CFAF Billion) (23.8)        (32.7)       (56.5)          (29.6)    (33.6)          (63.2)
/a   Exchange rates ued equals USS 1/360 CFAF at appraisl and USS 1/290 CPAP at completion, the latter being the
intervening yeas' average (aee Table 3.S.C).
Lb   Contracts with foeign exchange component are often expreswd in CPAP or PF and do not separate the local and
tranaferble components of the oat. Local cos a  shown financed by SONATEL may include some foreign coa component
and vice versa for contrcts financed from external ource.
Lc   SONATEL financed about 47% of the total project coat from its own resources which compas with an estimated self-
financing of 58% at appraisa. Inreasd physial capacities were realized under the project with increased elf-financing
amounts from SONATEL and various additional external borrowings.
Table 3.5.C: Country Exchange Rates La
Exchange Rate (CFAF per US$1)
Year                                              Annual Average
1986                                                       346.30
1987                                                       300.54
1988                                                      297.85
1989                                                      319.01
1990                                                      272.26
1991                                                      282.11
1992                                                      245.69
1993 (through October)                                    290.85
Appraisal year average (1985)                                        360.00
Intervening years' average (1987-Oct. 1993)                          289.80
La Fixed parity: CFAF 50 = FRF 1 (floating), over the project period.



Table 3.6: PROJECT'S RESULTS
Table 3.6A: Main Operational and Financial Perfonnance Indicators
1987          1988       1989      1990      1991             1992                1993
SAR     Actual    Actual    Actual    Actual    Actual        SAR      Actual      SAR    Actual
1. Teduical and Onerational Indicators (*)
Installed exch. capacity (lines)  32,160    34,287   37,464    64,364    63,177    76,972    50,570    86,990    68,800   86,990
Main subscriber lines (DELs)   26,800    26,548      28,993    36,166    40,413    48,469     38,900    58,095    42,800   67,100
Additional DELs connected (net)
during the year:
(a) Dakar                      2,260     2,271      1,787      6,432     3,205     5,441      2,900     5,493      3,100    5,900
(b) rest of country              700       767        598       801      1,038     2,615       700      4,133       800    3,105
Unsatisfied demand (lines)      2,171      5,416      4,046     2,918     9,268      6,342     3,151      8,798     5,435    9,476
Telex lines in operation          890        956      1,049     1,041       985       887      1,940       888      2,084      910
Staff                           2,030      1,957      1,947     1,929                1,915     2,030      1,927     2,030    1,952
Staff per 1000 DELs                76         74        65         52        45        42         55        33         50       30
Average call completion in percent
of total number of attempts
during busy hours:                                                                                                                      x
(a) local calls inDakar           50        38.12      35.72     44.19      49.81     52.58     65         55.15     70       57.13
(b) interurban calls              30        31.12      28.38     30.92      36.61     40        55         39.67     60       42
2.  Financial Indicators (**)
Capital Expenditure             7,618     11,197     22,108    15,543     4,317     11,396    14,139    16,411
Operating Ratio                    60.00%     54.00%    54.00%    56.00%    58.00%    51.00%    78.00%    56.00%
Rate of return after tax'          28.00%     19.00%    15.00%     10.00%     5.00%     13.00%    11.00%    24.00%
Current ratio (times)               1.8        1.2       1         0.9        1.3       1.4        1.5       1.3
Debt/(Debt+Equity)                  0.3        0.4       0.5        0.5       0.5       0.4        0.3       0.3
Accounts Receivable/Gross Revenue  48.00%    96.00%     96.00%    80.00%    25.00%    45.00%      17.00%    31.00%
Debt Service Coverage (times)       4.1        5.5       2.9        1.1       5.7       1.6        2.5       2.4
NICG as % Cap Expend2              70.00%    66.00%     26.00%      6.00%   249.00%    60.00%    78.00%    74.00%
Gross Revenue per DEL               0.728      0.739     0.695      0.671     0.685     0.632      1.156     0.914
Cash operating Expense/DEL          0.434     0.397      0.375      0.377     0.397     0.322      0.834     0.511
Billing Delays in Days3            35        45         26         25        18        19         10        16
(*) Technical Indicators are on December 31, each year.
(**) Fiscal year ended June 30 until 1991, and from 1992 ended on December 31, making it an 18-month year.
RPAT on average net fixed assets = (Net Profit + Interest Paid/Average Net Fixed Assets).
2 Net integral cash generation as a percentage of capital expenditure.
3 As defined in Contract Plan.



- 29 -
Table 3.6. B: Flnancial and Fiscal Impacts
1. Internal Finandal Rate of Return
Fiscal Yea       Capital       Incremental     Incremental     Net Benefits
ExpenditureCs                    Revenue
1987               11,197              0               0       (11,197)
1988              22,108             119           1,659       (20,569)
1989               15,543            967           6,453       (10,057)
1990               4,317           2,204           9,500         2,979
1991              11,396           3,762          13,861        (1,297)
1992*              16,411          10,728         28,798          1,659
1993-2008                0           10,728         28,798        18,070
Internal Financial Rate of Return: 20%
(*): Fiscal year 1992 ended on Decembei 31, making it an 18-month year.
Assum=tin:
(a)  Incremental operating cost per DEL of newly added DELs rises gradually to reach 2/3 of the
operating cost of the combined DELs in 1992, and remains at this level until year 2008.
(b)  Same revenue per DEL for old and newly added DELs.
2.  Cash Flow From the Sector to the State
(excluding revenue resulting from onlending)
Actual and SAR (CFA francs million)
YAR ENDING        1987      19i 18              i         1        12*        IIWn
JUNE 3
Value-Added Tax     1,400    2,764     1,943       540     1,425     2,051     10,122
Import Tax         2,089     4,125     2,900       806     2,126     3,062     15,109
Sales Tax          2,428     2,481     2,982     3,367     2,247     3,928     17,433
Contribution to     1,530    1,360     1,190     1,020                          5,100
OPCE
Total Actual        7,447    10,730    9,015     5,732     5,798     9,042     47.764
Total SAR                                                                      38.800
Debt Swapping(l)                      10,000     4,400    21,000     3,500    38,900
(*): Fiscal year 1992 ended on December 31, making it an 18-month year.
(1): Compensation between SONATEL's debt to the State, consisting of various taxes (ITPS/TVA,
customs duties, etc. , excluding corporate income taxes) and the State's debt to SONA'T'EL,
consisting of telecommunication services consumed. The compensation was authorized under
SONATEL's performance contract (contrat plan) for the periods 1986-89 and 1989-92.



- 30 -
Table 3.7: STATUS OF COVENAN
Compliance with Major Covenants of:
The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
Section                        Decwription of Covenant                   Comp                        Remarks
-liant
1. Deveoommnt Credit Anrement (DCA) Covenants
Govemment to:
DCA 3.01a    Cauee SONATEL (Societe Nationale des Telecommunications)    yes
DCA 3.01b    Relend the proeeds of the Credit of SONATEL under a          yes
DCA 6.01      subsidiary loan agrement, under ternm  and conditions
appoved by IDA
DCA 3.01c    Exrcie the rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in     yes
mch nner - to acconplish the purposes of Credit, and do
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agxenngt or any prviaion thereof
DCA 3.02      Ensure the procurement of the goods, works and consultants'  yes
servig required for the Project and to be finnced out of the
proceeds of the Credit is governed by the provisions of
Schedule I to the DCA
DCA 4.0la    Take el necessauy measures to ensure that, with regard to    yea
servics renderd by SONATEL to any entity of the Public
Sector, all amounts billed and not ttled as of March 31,
1986, are ettled in accordance with the shedule in the Contrat
Plan
DCA 4.01b    Tale all necessry mesures to ensure that, with regard to     NC*    In accordance with the Contrat Plan, compensation
servie rendered by SONATEL to any entity of the Public              of reciprocal debts, including Government's
Sector, all bills, from Mareh 31, 19S6, onwards, are paid           armas for ervice usage versus SONATEL's fiscal
wihin 90 days from the billing date, within 60 days by June         dues excluding company income tax, was agreed
30, 1987, ad within 45 days from June 30, 1988 on                   upon each year, from 1989 to 1992. The covenant
is consistety in default.
DCA 4.0lc    Take all necessary meaures to ensure that, with regard to    NC*    Provisions in the national budget were consistently
service rendered by SONATEL to any entity of the Public             inadequate. Ineffective attempts were made to
Sector, separate and adequate provision is made in the budges       initiate reduction and adequate control of the
of any entity of the Public Sector to cover payment of areas        telephone comsumption by Public Sector.
and aural forecast of billings; eaure that no service are
requested from SONATEL by any entity of the Public Sector
which is not covered by said budget provisions
DCA 4.02a    Ensure tht any ervices rendered by SONATEL to OPCE          yes      A last subsidy payment was made in 1989/90, and
(Office des postes et de la Caiue d'Epargne) ar paid in full by     no other payment since then.
the latter
DCA 4.Mb    Ensure that the level of annual subsidy from SONATEL to      yes
OPCE declines each year and ends not later than June 30, 1989
DCA 6.01b    Contract the consultants' ervices for Part 1, 2, 3 and S of the    yes
project in a manner cceptable to IDA
DCA 6.01e   Issue invitatior to bid for goods and services for the Project,    yes
to be finsnced out of tho proceeds of the Credit and estimated
to cost and aggregto equivalent of SDR 9,700,000
DCA 6.01e    Sign the Contmet Plan with SONATEL                          yes      Two succesive four-year Contrat Plans were signed
nd became effective in 1986 and 1989.
DCA 6.01g    Advise IDA tht the opening balance sheet for SONATEL has    yes
been aed upon
NC - Non-
Complance



- 31 -
2. Project Agrment (PA) Comuts,Sodet Natona  des
Te beommunlatim: SONATUL to:
PA 2.01slb    Carry out tho Projet in acordanm  with the IVmwlbm  n      ye
Progam in Schedule 2 to the PA, nd provide the rquird
resour
PA 2.02       Ensure th prcument of the goods and wo'a requind for       yes
the Project a  to be finaed out of tho proceeds of the Credit
nd of oonsultn' services required for the Project  governed
by the prvisios of Schedule I to the PA
PA 2.03       Cary out the oblipin etforth in Section 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,   yes
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the Geal Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and ervie, pln  nd shedules,
reord and reports, maintenance a  land acquisition)
PA 2.04       Perform all obligations under the Subsidiy Loan Agreent;    yea
do not take or incur in any action which would hav the effect
of amending, abrogating, asigning or waiving the Subsidiay
Loan Agreemont or any provision threof
PA 2.0S5      At the request of IDA, exchange views with IDA with regard  yea
to the progres of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performce of SONATEL's
obligations
PA 2.05b      Promptly inform IDA of any condition which interfere or    yes
thrtens to interfere with the progmeu of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purpoes of the Crdit, or the
performance of SONATEL's obligation
PA 2.06a      Not later than January 1, 1988, fumish to IDA a sudy of the  yea    The tariff study was completed in December 1988.
stuctum  and levels of telecomnunication tariffs
PA 2.06b      Not later thn July 1, 1918, carry out uch reommndation     yea      The recommendations of the tariff study were
od said  udy as are  ooeptable to SONATEL, the Government           carried out from July 1, 1989, on. Rates were
and IDA                                                             further adjused in 1991 and 1993.
PA 3.01       Cary out SONATEL's opeation and conduct its affairs in     ye.
acrdance with  und prac     under the supervion of
qualified ad  _perined management assisted by competent
PA 3.02       Operate nd ma intain SONATEL's plnt, machinery,            yes
equipment and other property at all tumes, nd make all
necearuy repai  nd rnewanl threof
PA 3.03       Take out and maintain with reponible inure, or make other   yen
prviion aisfactory to IDA for, insurne against suh risks
and in such amoun  as consistent with appropriate practice
PA 3.04a      Not later than Marh 31, 1913, and theafter on Marh 31 of    yea
each year, roeh agnmnt with IDA in performance targets,
in the area of service quality, financial performne, and
oprating efficiency, to be  ained by SONATEL in its
subsequent fil year
PA 3.04b      Not lter thn June 30 wad December 31 of each year, submit a   yes
report sting forth SONATEL's perfomane as meured
aanst sad  red performance taget
PA Finandal Covenmts-SGNATE N,=
PA 4.01i      Maintain reods ad aooount adequat to reflect SONATEL's    ya        SONATEL's accounting system and procedures
opeations and financial condition                                   were much improved foUowing consultant'
recommendations.



- 32 -
PA 4.COb(i)   Have th records, acoun    d fimncial _aatr and Special   yea
Accmnt for each ficl year audt  by indepent audito
aoceptable to IDA
PA 4.01b(Hi)   Punish to IDA, not lar than four months after the and of    yes      An unaudited report was submnitted for the year
each arch year, the uro uded copier of SONATEL's financial            1990-91, with minor reservations and a small
utatements                                                           delay.
PA            Punbih to IDA, not ater than six mwnth after the end of each    yes   From 1992 on, SONATEL's financial year ends on
4.01b(iii)    suh year: (A) cetified copies of SONATEL's finacial                   Decenber 31. The audit report for IS-month
satmmta and (B) the report of ach audit                              period ccounts wu available in early June, 1993.
Previous reports suffered delays of 9 to 12 months.
PA            Furish to IDA  ebh other infomtion cn _ng said               yes
4.01b(xv)     accounts ad financial rtat      a well as the udit thereof
and aad  rooos, u IDA  hal reasonably request
PA 4.01o(i)    Maintain or caue to be mantained roords and accounts        yer
relectng all expenditurea with respect to which wthdrawals
from the Cret Account wre made on the basi of staemnts
of expenditur
PA 4.01l(ii)   Regain, until at eat one year after IDA has rceived the audit    yea
report for the fiscal year in which the last wthdrwal from the
Credit Acoaunt was made, all rcos evidencing such
PA            Enable IDA's representatives to examine such records         yes
4.0lo(u;)
PA 4.01c(rv)  Enure that webh reords nd accouns are included in the        yes
anima audit nd that the report of sch audit oontain a
sparat, opinion as to whether the statements of the expenditure
an be relied upon to support the relted wirthdwals
PA 4.02       Not ter than Dcember 31, 1986, write off receivables         yea      The consultant's work took more time than
deemed uncoflecdbt                                                   expected. The report was submitted in time, 1990.
Its recommundations were adopted by SONATEL
and all unreoverabble sre  previous to June 30
1987 were written off ar loses in the 1990
Acount. Extenive provisions were made
available for further ttment of such accounts.
PA 4.03       Witht DA'. approval, do not underake any investment in       yes
the t      _ a       sector that would: (a) increae the cot
of its 1 -992 investment progrun by mor than 10% in any
yer, or (b) in the opinion of IDA sublatialy alter sad
invement pronrn
PA 4.Oa       Except u IDA   ell othwise agree, produce, for each fisal    yea      The covenant was fiulfilled for each of the three
year, st      with the fisal tear ending on June 30, 1987,           yeam 1990.1991 and 1992. During the six-year
hinds from iternal ou   equhalent to not lesr than 50% of            project period, SONATEL financed about 47% of
the anua averg of SONATEL's apital expenditures                      the total project cost from its own resoures.
inarfed, or expected to be incured in the currnt, previous
wAn nw following fe l year
PA 4.04b      Before Mach 31 in each fiscal year, review whether           yes
SONATEL will mat the requirements in rpect of uwh year,
the preceding year ad the next following fiscal year, nd
furnish to MDA the sult of uch revw  upon its compltion
PA 4.04       If any a    review shows that SONATEL would not mst the      yes      Not applicable-no  measure were needed.
requirements, prmptly take all neeay measu(including,
whout limiton, adjusments of the sucture and level of its
rte) in acler to most sch requieme
NC - Non Compliance



- 33 -
Table 3.8: USE OF BANK RESOURCES
Missions' Data
Numbe                         Perf.
Stage of project    Month    r of    SW      Speciali-    Rating   Types of problems or remarks
cycle        / Year  persons  in        zation       Status
Field                La
Through Appraisal
Identification initial   09/78                                       These were combined missions with
preparation        to                                                supervision/completion review of the First Project. Initial
04/82                                           proposed project was on the basis and complement to a
CCCE financed project. /b
Government          01/81                                            An initial request was made during the implementation
Requests            04/85                                           review of the First Project. It was renewed in 1985,
following sector reform and creation of SONATEL. Ib
Preparation 1       07/83    2         3       eng. & fin.           Revised short-term investment plan for the period 1983-88
based on an updated master-plan by ITU was discussed.
/b
Preparation 2 and 3   05/84    2       3       eng. &fin.            Finalization of program/project and progress in sector
11/84    1         1      eng.                  reform were discussed.
Preparation 4                2         2       eng. & fin.           Enlarged sectoral donors' conference agreed upon sector
reform, co-financed development program and project. b
Appraisal           06/85    3         6       eng., eco.
& fin.
1        1       eng.                  For participation in BOAD's appraisal of their part of
03/86                                           project.
Negotiations        04/86                                           In D.C.
Board Approval      06/86
Loan Signature      10/86
Effectiveness       04/87                                            Late: The initial date was extended by 3 months. / b
Supervision
Supervision 1       3/87     2         2       eng. & fin.  3        Discussion on the fulfillment of the conditions and
extension of the date of effectiveness to April 24, 1987.



- 34 -
Supervision 2       6/88     2         3       eng. & fin.  2        Procurement probleas are discussed as well as the
improvement of operational and management capabilities.
Supervision 3       11-12    2         3       eng. & fin.  2        Tariff modifications are discussed and problems
/88                                             concerning government arrears for telcphone
consumption.
Supervision 4       12/89    1         2       eng.         1        Project revision, extension of switching component and
implementation of fiber-optic scheme to the North are
discussed and a revised credit allocation is prepared.
Supervision 5       7/90     2         3       eng. & fin.  2        Problem of indirect subsidization of postal services is
discussed.
Supervision 6       1/91     2         3       eng. & fin.  2        Government fiscal policy and its damaging consequences
for SONATEL are discussed, and possible solutions
prepared.
Supervision 7       2/93     2         3       eng. & fin.   1       Last supervision mission - with review of final progress
of the project. Eventual further participation of the Bank
and suitable institutional evolution are discussed.
Closing date (CD)    6/93                                            Project completed, CD unchanged. Last disbursement
was made in October, 1993.
PCR preparation     9/93     2         2       eng. & eng            Project implementation review mission to gather data for
the PCR and discuss the project results with SONATEL.
LI: Key to overall performance rating: 1 - problem-free; 2 - moderate; 3 major problems.
&: Combined missions for supervision/completion of first project (Loan 866SE) and identification/initial preparation of a proposed second
projeet.



- 35 -                                     An  
Annex 1
Page 1 of 2
SENEGAL
SOCIETE NATIONALE DES TELECOMMUNICATIONS (SONATEL)
Second Telecommnunications Project
Annex 1: Growth of Facilities and Connected Canacity
A: Growth of Facilities and Connected Capacity
Year                   SAR Forecast                  Actual
(end)                     lines                       R
1986                      23,820                     23,586
1987                      26,800                     26,548
1988                      27,200                     28,933
1989                      27,500                     36,166
1990                      31,700                     40,413
1991                      35,300                     48,469
1992                      38,900                     58,095
1993                      42,800                     67,100
GROWTH OF SUBSCRIBER CONNECTED CAPACITY
(1986-1993)
80
70 -
60-
50                                                         pct
.0 40
30
20
1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
As of Year End
(*) The average growth of connected subscnber capacity for the period 1987-95 is 15%.
(**) The SAR forecast average growth of connected capacity was 8. 1% for the period 1987-93.



- 36 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
Annex 1 (Continued)
B. Evolution/Growth in Expressed Demand and Connected Lines Capacity
Year                    Actual Exoressed Demand (lines)             SAR Expressed Demand
(end}           Waitina List         DEL               Ti                    lines
1986            5,500            23,586           29,086                    25,749
1987            5,416            26,548           31,964                    28,971
1988            4,046            28,933           32,979                    29,430
1989            2,918            36,166           39,084                    29,500
1990            9,268            40,413           49,681                    34,268
1991            6,342            48,469           54,811                    38,159
1992            8,798            58,095           66,893                    42,051
1993            9,476            67,100           76,576                    48,235
GROWTH OF EXPRESSED DEMAND vs. CONNECTED LINES CAPACITY
(Forecast and Actual 1986-1993)
00
Aclual Expre  Demand (1)
sBo
40 
30-
20-
1006    1987     1988     1989     1990     1991     1992      1993
AS OF YEAR DID
(*) Actual average growth (t986-93) was 15%.
(*) SAR average growth for the period was estimated at 8.1%.



- 37 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 3
SENEGAL
SOCIETE NATIONALE DES TELECOMMUNICATIONS (SONATEL)
Second Telecommunications Prold
ANNEX 2 - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
A. INCOME STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDING JUNE 30            1987        18              i1      1991         1992'
-              -- Actual                         SA
(CFA francs million)
Operating Revenues:
Telephone                 15,424  14,854  15,528  18,555  21,914  24,529  45,184  32.986
Telex &Telegraph           2,950   2,171   2,640   2,438   2,105   1,967   2,246   6,055
Cuircuit Leasing             915     515    798   1,022      798     770   1,318   1,373
Data Transmission            157                      33     152    461      922     393
Public Payphone                      928     802   1,267   1,358   1,444   2,832
Others                        54   1,145     353     950   1,364   1,477     561   4,169
Gross Operating Revenue   19,500  19,613  20,121  24,265  27,691  30,648  53,063  44,975
Operating Expenses:
Salaries                   4,351   4,074   4,952   4758   5,227   5,774  10,113   9,903
Operation & Maintenance    1,615   1,816   1,311   2,657   2,956   1,742   4,411   4,133
Depreciation               2,317   2,613   3,084   4,613   5,739   5,953   9,493   8,764
Others                     3,361   2,032   1,498   1,606   2,141   2,128   5,633   9,658
Total Operating Expenses  11,644  10,535  10,845  13,634  16,063  15,597  29,650  32,458
Net Operating Income          7,856   9,078   9,276  10,631  11,628  15,051  23,413  12,517
Non-Operating:
Interest Received                    189    275      407     759     688     686
Interest Paid              1837)   (566)  (1,140) (2,142)  (2,292)  (2,376)  (2,320) (3,082)
Others                    (1,215)  (2,310)  (4,489) (5,460)  (9,792)  (8,479)  (8,703)    613
Net Non-Operat Gain (Loss)    (2,052)  (2,687)  (5,354)  (7,195) (11,325) (10,167) (10,337)  (2,469)
Net Income (Loss)             5,804   6,391   3,922   3,436     303   4,884  13,076  10,049
Less Income Taxes          1,915   2,130   1,307   1,635     166     823   2,610   3,316
Net Profit (Loss)             3,889   4,261   2,615   1,801     137   4,061  10,466   6,733
No. of DELs as of December 31  26,800  26,548  28,933  36,166  40,413  48,469  58,055  38,900
(): Fiscal year 1992 ended on December 31, making it an 18-month fiscal year.



- 38 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
Annex 2 (continued)
B. FUNDS FLOW STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDING JUNE 30              1987        18      i       1990    1991          1992*
.$~AB --------------------------------- Actual--------------------------   SAR
(CFA francs million)
Internal Cash Generation     7,043   9,080   8,915  11,005  13,050  17,823  20,554  18,579
Equity Grant/Reimburse                  64   3,470   1,700   1,539       270   2,982
Borrowing                    4,124   6,257  16,055  13,466   4,340   7,693   7,099   1,752
Total Sources               11,167  15,401  28,440  26,171  18,929  25,786  30,635  20,330
AmDlications
Capital Expenditure          7,618  11,197  22,108  15,543   4,317  11,396  16,411  14,139
Others                       3,223     169   3,230      523    1952      563   4,865    (843)
Debt Service                 1,725   1,659   3,102  10,105   2,303  11,019   8,453   7,544
Change in Working Capital   (1,399)   2,376                   10,357   2,808      906    (511)
TotalAnolications           11,167  15,401  28,440  26,171   18,929  25,786  30,635  20,330
(V: Fiscal year 1992 ended on December 31, making it an 18-month fiscal year.



- 39 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
Annex 2 Icontinued)
C. BALANCE SHEETS
YEAR ENDING JUNE 30            1987      1       1989   1990   199            1992
EM                      Actual            -  
(CFA francs million)
ASSETS
Net Operating Fixed Assets  23,069  24,647  26,073  49,769  51,127  50,768  55,111  58,496
Work in Progress              5,159   7,265  24,246  10,775   7,433  13,039  16,280   7,881
Other Long-Term Assets        1,689    818   3,793   2,981   3,374   3,008   4,166   1,689
Total Long-Term Assets    29,917  32,730  54,112  63,525  61,934  66,815  75,557  67,866
Current Assets:
Cash and Bank Deposit      8,559   2,494   4,648   8,219   8,225   5,123  13,631   8,600
Accounts Receivable:
Private                  5,000  12,175   9,828   8,681   5,498   8,641   8,120   6,457
State                    4,400   4,995   7,997   9,149    384   2,620      23   1,140
Foreign Operators                1,666   1,614   1,537   1,159   2,447   8,264
Others                   6,467   5,706   1,766   4,357  10,619  11,639   8,336  10,935
Inventories                1,399    961   1,264   2,074   1,553   2,195   1,676   3,636
Total Current Assets      25,825  27,997  26,917  33,997  27,438  32,665  39,950  30,767
Total Assets       55,7',P  60,727  81,029  97,522  89,372  99,480 115,507  98,633
EQUITY & LIABILITIES
Equity:
Capital & Subsidies        5,972   8,638   8,395   8,772   8,631  24,964  25,359   5,972
Reserves & Surplus        19,079   9,611  13,797  17,466  26,101  16,858  20,664  42,339
Period Profit (Loss)       3,889   4,261   2,615   1,801    137   4,061  10,466   6,733
Total Equity              28,940  22,510  24,807  28,039  34,869  45,883  56,489  55,044
Long-Term Debt               12,713  15,151  28,529  31,284  33,223  29,896  28,937  23,449
Current Liabilities          14,089  23,066  27,693  38,199  21,280  23,701  30,081  20,141
Total Eauity & Liabilies  55,742  60,727  81,029  97,522  89,372  99,480 115,507  98,633
(1): Fiscal year 1992 ended on December 31, making it an 18-month fiscal year.



