Denm  of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
C9 />/$tSC
Report No. P-4326-SE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 19.4 MILLION
(?QUIVALENT TO $22.0 MILLION)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR A
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
May 23, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             =      CPA Franc (CFAF)
$1.0                             CFAF 360
CFAF 1 million             =     $2,778
FISCAL YEAR
Government and SONATEL: July 1 - June 30
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: Metric
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB         -  African Development Bank
BOAD         -  Banque Ouest-Africaine de D-veloppement
(West African Development Bank)
CCCE         -  Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CEDEAO       -  Communautg Economique des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
(Economic Communit-y of West African States)
CIDA         -  Canadian International Development Agency
DEL          -  Direct Exchange Line
EIB          -  European Investment Bank
FAC          -  Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC)
GPC's        -  Guaranteed Private Credits
ITU          -  International Telecommunication Union
PANAFTEL     -  Pan-African Telecommunications Network
OPCE         - Office des Postes et de la Caisse d'Epargne
OPTS         -  Office des Postes et Telecommunications du Seingal
SONATEL      -  Societe Nationale des Thlecommunications du Senegal
TELESENEGAL  -  Societe Nationale des Thlgcommunications Internationales
du Senegal
UNDP         -  United Nations Development Programme



SENEGAL
SOCIETE NATIONALE DES TELECOMMUNICATIONS (SONATEL)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             The Republic of Senegal.
Beneficiary:          Soci6tf Nationale des Telecommunications du Senegal
(SONATEL).
Amount:               US$22.0 million equivalent.
Terms:                Standard IDA terms.
Onlending Terms:      The credit would be onlent to SONATEL for 20 years,
including 5 years of grace, at the standard Bank
interest rate prevailing at the date of the Credit
Agreement. SONATEL will bear the foreign exchange
risk.
Project Description: The proposed project consists of SONATEL's 1986-1993
investment program, excluding ongoing and future
works. The program aims at improving operational
efficiency and maintenance, and increasing system
utilization through rehabilitation of existing
equipment and network expansion.
The project comprises:
(a) installation of about 34,600 lines of switching
equipment, with associated cable networks,
buildings and subscriber facilities;
(b)  expansion and rehabilitation of long-distance
transmission links;
(c) establishment of a national maintenance
organization; and
(d) technical assistance.
Project Benefits
and Risks:            The improved telecommunications services to be
provided by the project will benefit all sectors of
Senegal's economy, promote more efficient use of



- ii -
capital and energy resources, and facilitate
agricultural and commercial/industrial development,
and the extension of health, educational, and other
services to rural areas. Environmental pollution will
be reduced due to more efficient transportation use.
Substantial resource mobilization and net transfers to
Government will occur.
The project faces no unusual risks. The recent sector
restructuring appears to have been implemented
smoothly. The technical assistance component of the
project will assist management in critical areas.
There could be delays in physical implementation;
however, a number of project components will be
executed on a turn-key basis and some are already well
underway, so that this risk is considered minimal.



- iii -
Estimated Costs:
Local Foreign Total
Component                             (US$ million equivalent)
Thies Region: switching, networks,
transmission, buildings                         3.1       3.8    6.9
Ziguinchor-Can Skiring-Boucote:
microwave links, local installations           0.3       0.7    1.0
Cap Vert Region: switching, local
networks, junctions                           21.0      26.4   47.4
Ziguinchor, Kolda, Tambacounda
Regions: switching, networks,
transmission, buildings                        9.5      12.3   21.8
Engineering and training for
previous items                                 0.4       1.7    2.1
National Maintenance Plan                        6.5      11.6   18.1
Kaolack, Fatick Regions: switching,
networks, transmission, buildings              4.8       6.5   11.3
Various works in all regions                     5.0       8.8   13.8
Technical Assistance                             0.0       0.5    0.5
Total Base Cost                               50.6      72.3  122.9
Physical contingencies                 3.8      3.7    7.5
Price contingencies                   11.7     14.8   26.5
TOTAL PRuJECT COST:          66.1a/   90.8  156.9
a/ Local costs incLude CFAF 12.8 billion (US$35.5 million) in customs
duties and local taxes.



- iv -
Financing Plan:                      Local  Foreign   Total          z
______                        (US$ million equivalent)
IDA                0.0    22.0      22.0         14
CCCE               0.0    20.8      20.8         13
BOAD               0.0     4.2       4.2          3
AfDB               0.0    12.6      12.6          8
GPC's              0.0      5.6      5.6          4
SONATEL           66.1    25.6      91.7         58
TOTAL      66.1    90.8    156.9         100
Estimated
Disbursements:  IDA FY:  FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93
- - - - - - - - US$ million - - - - - - - - -
Annual                   0.4    2.0    3.0    5.3    6.9    3.0    1.4
Cumulative               0.4    2.4    5.4   10.7   17.6   20.6   22.0
Ecinomic Rate
of Return:          19%
Staff Appraisal
Report No:            5977-SEN, dated May 23, 1986.
Map:                  IBRD No. 19284-Senegal.
fI



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL FOR
A SECOND TELECONMUNICATIONS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit for the equivalent of SDR 19.4 million (US$22.0 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms to the Republic of Senegal to help
finance a proposed Second Telecommunications Project. Additional financing
for the project would be provided by France, through a loan from CCCE in
the total amount of US$20.8 million equivalent, a loan from AfDB in the
total amount of US$12.5 million equivalent, a loan from BOAD of US$4.2
million equivalent, and credit guarantees in the total amount of US$5.6
million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
Economic Structure and Past Developments
2.        A report entitled "Senegal: Country Economic Memorandum"
(5243-SE) was distributed to the Executive Directors on November 5, 1984.
Country data appear in Annex I.
3.        Three-quarters of Senegal's territory lies in the Sahel, which
suffers from low rainfall and periodic droughts. The mainstays of the
traditional economy are millet cultivation and nomadic cattle-raising for
domestic consumption, and groundnut cultivation for export. The modern
sector of the economy is concentrated in Dakar, the capital, a city of over
one million inhabitants, the economic base of which consists of excellent
port facilities, an importart industrial sector, and a small but
fast-growing tourism industry. With a population of 6.3 million in
mid-1984, Senegal's per capita GNP for 1984 was estimated at US$380.
4.        At Independence in 1960, Senegal lost its privileged position as
the center of French West Africa, and subsequently had to adapt to reduced
economic, administrative and political circumstances. In the latter part
of the 1960s, income from groundnuts (the principal export) fell due to
unfavorable weather and lower export prices resulting from the loss of EEC
special preferences. Over the decade, the Senegalese economy marked time
as real output increased at a rate estimated at 2.5Z per annum, i.e., below
the e-..-imated rate of population growth.
1/  Parts I and II of this report are identical to Parts I and II of
Report No.4325-SE, dated May 20, 1986 (Report and Recommendations of
the President to the Executive Directors on a Proposed Development
Credit to the Republic of Senegal for an Energy Sector Rehabilitation
Project).



5.        Economic management became even more difficult during the 1970s
as a result of the growing unreliability of agricultural production and its
linked effects on domestic incomes and on fiscal and export revenues.
During the 1970s, Senegal's groundnut production was hit by sharp climatic
fluctuations, and despite higher rates of private and public investment,
average GDP growth did not rise above that of the previous decade. The
same pattern of sharp year to year fluctuations around a 2.5% growth trend
has continued since 1980. However, the government no longer has the leeway
to cushion these fluctuations through increasing its borrowing and
expenditures.
6.        Fluctuations in physical output are aggravated by the price
volatility of Senegal's major exports and imports. For example, in 1974,
the overall terms of trade improved by over 21%, due to exceptionally high
prices for phosphate rock, Senegal's second export commodity; however, this
improvement was almost entirely wiped out the following year by declines in
export prices for both groundnuts and phosphates. Increases in imported
oil and rice prices in the later 1970s brought a further deterioration in
the terms of trade, causing a total loss in national income of roughly 6%
between 1974 and 1982.
7.        This deterioration in terms of trade, along with two successive
years of drought in 1979 and 1980, plunged the economy into an acute
financial crisis, from which it is still recovering. The onset of this
crisis led the Government to launch a five-year economic and financial
recovery program, whose main objectives were to stabilize the economy
during the first two years and then to achieve an economic growth rate of
4% per annum in the following three years. This program was supported by
an Extended Fund Facility (EFF) of US$243 million equivalent, approved by
the IfF in August 1980, and a Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit (SAL) of
US$60 million equivalent approved by the Bank in December 1980.
8.        The recovery program consisted of an economic stabilization plan
(agreed with and monitored by the IMF), introduction of new producer
incentives, reorientation of the public investment program, a change in the
national policy on parastatal enterprises, and a package of structural
reforms in the agricultural sector. The objectives of this program were
sound but the implementation schedule proved too ambitious. Despite delays
caused by a record low 1980/81 groundnut crop and by the change of
president in early 1981, the Government did achieve significant progress in
financial arrears reduction, parapublic sector management and introducing
new industrial incentive policies. However, in other areas, and especially
in the reform of agricultural policies and institutions and in reduction of
the current account and fiscal deficits, the results were disappointing.
The SAL second tranche of US$16.2 million was cancelled on June 30, 1983.
Recent Economic Developments and Adjustment Efforts
9.        The overlay of acute structural and financial problems which
Senegal had already suffered for a number of years was compounded in
1983/84 by the return of severe drought conditions. These reduced by



- 3 -
almost 40% the volumes of agricultural crop production available both for
export (groundnuts and cotton) and for domestic consumption (mainly
cereals). The drought, probably the second most severe since 1972/73, had
a negative impact on the level of economic activity in 1984, on Senegal's
balance of payments and, indirectly, on its public finances.
10.       While there are some encouraging jigns of growth in sectors not
directly affected by the drought (e.g. fishing and tourism), a sustained
recovery in output and employment is still some way off, not only because
of climatic aberrations, but also as a direct result of the persistent
financial crisis and the contraction in domestic demand. Although the
economy appeared to have recovered strongly in 1982 and 1983 from the
effects of the two preceding drought-affected years, restoring real per
capita income to its 1979 level, GDP fell by an estimated 4.0% in 1984; it
would have been even lower without the growth in fisheries, petroleum
refining and other export-based industries, notably fertilizers, for which
a 200,000 tpy phosphoric acid plant came on stream at mid-year.
Preliminary figures suggest that the effects of the recession which took
place in 1984 continued well into 1985, limiting the growth of GDP in that
year to only about 2 percent. With an estimated one million ton cereal
crop and an improved prcduction of groundnuts in 1985/86, the outlook for
recovery in 1986 is much more promising.
11.       Over the last two years Senegal has pursued its financial
stabilization program in close consultation with the IMF, with which credit
outstanding a; end-June 1985 was equivalent to 260% of Senegal's quota of
SDR 85.1 million. In August 1983, following the announcement of measures
to eliminate subsidies on petroleum, rice and other products, an IMF
standby arrangement was agreed for 1983/84, with commitments to observe
strict public employment limits and domestic credit ceilings. This
program, aimed at reducing the current account deficit by more than three
percentage points of GDP and reducing the overall fiscal deficit from 9 to
4.8% of GDP, was successfully completed. A new standby arrangement
covering an 18-month period to June 1986 was approved by the IMF Board in
Januarv 1985, and performance is judged by the IMF to be satisfactory up to
the end of December 1985, the period covered by the last review.
12.       The first meeting of the Consultative Group for Senegal was held
in December 1984 and endorsed the Government's medium-term adjustment
program for the period 1985-1992. Since the CG meeting, the Government has
prepared an action plan of specific policies and reform measures to
implement the objectives outlined in the medium-term adjustment program.
The main objec.ives of the program are to establish an incentive
environment which maximizes the exploitation of the growth potential,
particularly in agriculture and industry, and to improve economic
management. The Government's strategy to accomplish these objectives is,
on the one hand, to progressively withdraw the state from direct
involvement in production activities and to promote private sector
initiative through a change in incentive policies and, on the other hand to
achieve greater efficiency of public resource management through
improvements in the quality and management of public investments, the



- 4 -
streamlining and reform of the parapublic sector, and the generation of
public savings. The first phase of this program is being supported by a
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL) which was approved in February by the
Executive Directors. Details are given in Report No. P-4213-SE dated
January 10, 1986.
13.       A major constraint on the Government's finances and the balance
of payments is the serious and growing burden represented by service of the
external debt. Over the past four years, debt has been rescheduled four
times with the Paris Club, and as well as with the banks, and debt service
is projected to average around US$300 million per year over the next four
years; this will represent an average debt service ratio of about 21
percent and is almost certain to require a continuation of debt relief for
a few more years until the adjustment program has had time to take effect
on the economy.
Producer and Export Incentives
14.       The structural adjustment program addresses the need to improve
Senegal's trade balance by adjusting relative prices in order to encourage
export production and to discourage growth in imports of food, energy and
consumer goods. Under the SAL, the objective is to revise the export
premium system introduced in 1981 with a view to basing it on industrial
value added in international prices. During 1986 there is to be a full
revision of the structure of the customs tariff, to be followed by a
progressive removal of non-tariff protection over the next two years.
Between February 1982 and January 1985 the Government doubled the retail
price of rice, the main food staple in urban areas, in order to reflect
higher import costs, eliminate consumer subsidies and to provide a measure
of protection for domestic rice production. The Government is committed to
maintai.xing this nominal rate of protection at a level of at least 25
percent. Cereals are marketed mostly through private channels; the official
floor prices for producer were raised by about 1OZ for the 1984/85 season
and by around a further 20% for 1985/86. There was also a substantial
increase in the producer price for groundnuts for the last season, in order
to maintain comparability with prices offered on the parallel market.
Electricity tariffs and petroleum product prices were also increased in
1985 to eliminate subsidies and to reduce the operating deficits of SENELEC
and the petroleum refinery.
Investment Program
15.       The outlook for investment has deteriorated since the
establishment of the structural adjustment program in 1980. While the
latter imposed ceilings on the investment program to reestablish
macroeconomic equilibrium, implementation of even the reduced program has
become difficult. In the present climate, a careful screening of new
investment projects is particularly needed, together with increased atten-
tion to rehabilitation and maintenance needs. The necessary institutional
reforms for improving the Government's programming, budgeting and
monitoring of investment projects are expected to be put into place this



- 5 -
year under the SAL. The objective is to put in place a system of three
year rolling investment programs starting with fiscal year 1987. In the
meantime an interim two year investment program (1985-86) has been prepared
and reviewed by the Bank. In view of the difficult public finance
situation, the Government's ability to generate public savings for
financing its investment program will remain very constrained during the
next few years, and the investment level itself will be largely determined
by the availability of concessional foreign resources. Some public
enterprises, however, such as SONATEL and SENELEC should be able to
generate funds for investment during this period and the share of private
investment is expected to increase as the financial situation begins to
improve.
Parastatal Sector
16.       Reform of the large parastatal sector in Senegal continues to be
a high priority. Over the last year the Government has taken some
significant steps to reduce the budgetary burden presented by non-viable or
inefficient public enterprises. In the agricultural sector, a number of
agencies are being wound up and about 2000 staff have been laid off. For
others, a redefinition of tasks and a reduction in staffing numbers has
been decided. For some of the most important public enterprises, the
Government has moved to improve performance by negotiating multi-year
contrats-plans which set out production and financial objectives for
company operations and spell out the reciprocal obligations of the
Government and enterprise managers. To date, the Government has signed
seven contrats-plans, and several others are well advanced. A
comprehensive policy guideline and action program was adopted by the
Government in 1985 and progress is being assisted by an IDA-financed TA
project for parastatal reform.
Long-term Prospects
17.        Senegal's long term economic prospects very much depend on the
success of its medium-term adjustment program. This program seeks tce
create an improved base for development both by correcting the
unsustainable imbalances on the government budget and on the external
accounts, and by improving the institutional and incentive environment for
economic activity, part of which involves reducing government's involvement
in the economy. The Government's development strategy continues to
emphasize the promotion and diversification of agricultural and
export-oriented activities. The agricultural program calls for the
development of rainfed areas lebs susceptible to drought such as Casamance
and Eastern Senegal, and increased incentives for domestic millet and maize
production to replace imported rice. Agricultural research is being
reoriented, with the objective of lowering the costs of yield-raising
agricultural techniques and better adapting them to local constraints.
Irrigated cereal production is being developed in the arid northern part of
the country along the Senegal River. Construction in proceeding on the two
large dams planned for the Senegal River by the Organisation pour la Mise
en Valeur de la Vallee du Senegal (OMVS), and the first (Diama) should be



completed in 1986 and the second (Manantali) in 1988. The Government's new
agriculture policy aims to eliminate the present high level of state
subsidies required on irrigated rice production, which otherwise would
severely constrain the pace of new irrigation development, by a combination
of cost-cutting and transfer of production activities to the private
sector.
18.       The US$250 million ICS phosphoric acid/fertilizer project started
commercial operations during 1984, and Senegal's attractive investment is
expected to help attract other export industries, as the international
economy improves. Export diversification is necessary to offset the
probable limits on growth of earnings from groundnuts, phosphates and fish
exports. Senegal's groundnut exports suffer from increasingly irregular
production due to recent drought conditions, from an increased-supply to
EEC markets of competing vegetable oils, which have tended to narrow the
price premium previously enjoyed by groundnut oil, and by restrictions
imposed by some European Countries for health reasons on the import of
groundnut cake for animal feed.
19.       The assistance provided to Senegal in support of the Government's
1980-85 stabilization program has helped the country survive a period of
extraordinary economic difficulty and to start to address some of its most
difficult long-term problems. However, the overextended public sector, as
well as heavy domestic arrears and external debt service charges, continue
to impose serious burdens on public finance and on the current account of
the balance of payments. The Treasury will not be able for a few years to
absorb additional recurrent cost charges from development projects and will
continue to need high shares of foreign financing for the investment
program and for budgetary assistance on concessional terms. However the
actions taken so far indicate the fir ess of the Government's commitment
to tackle these problems.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL 2/
20.       As of March 31, 1986, the Bank Group had approved 61 operations
in Senegal for a total of US$646.0 million, consisting of 36 IDA credits,
11 Bank loans, five blends of Bank and IDA funds, six IFC operations, two
blends of Bank and IFC funds, and one blend if Bank, IDA and IFC funds.
Physical execution of projects is progressing reasonably well, although
some operations are affected by the shortage of counterpart funds due to
the Government's continuing difficult public finance situation. Annex II
contains the Status of World Bank Operations in Senegal.
21.       Until a few years ago, our assistance was mostly project-oriented
with a strong emphasis on diversification of the economy and improvement
2/   See footnote on page 1.



- 7 -
and expansion of basic infrastructure. The acuity of the financial crisis
of the past several years and the magnitude of the structural distortions
in the economy has led to a major shift in our strategy, which now has the
following main objectives. First, to assist the Government, supported
where appropriate with technical assistance and structural adjustment
lending operations, to improve the production incentive environment and the
efficiency of economic management, and restore in the medium-term a sound
financial basis for development efforts. Second, to promote the long-term
growth and development of the economy by underpinning the structural
adjustment operations through well-prepared investment, rehabilitation and
sectoral adjustment operations within a framework of appropriate sectoral
policies. Third, to improve our knowledge of economic, social,
institutional and the administrative frameworks to better tailor policy
reforms to the country's absorptive capacity. Finally, to contribute to
improved aid effectiveness in Senegal by acting as the focal point for aid
coordination between donors and the Government, and at the same time
assisting the latter to strengthen its own planning and aid coordination
ability.
22.       The structural adjustment credit which was approved by the
Executive Directors on February 4, 1986 is conceived as the first in a
series of such operations to promote central incentive policy changes and
improved economic management objectives, over the medium-term the IDA
lending program will also include complementary project lending and sector
operations which will be increasingly policy oriented and highlighting
sectoral strategies, investment programs and institutional reforms.
Finally, as described below, the on-going project portfolio also supports
the development of sound economic growth in the productive sectors as well
as the rehabilitatian of infrastructure.
23.       In agriculture, past operations have aimed at improving the
productivity of traditional food and cash crops, supporting diversification
into new crops and regions, and enhancing forestry outputs and agricultural
research. At the core of the Government's development strategy in
agriculture is the promotion of rainfed cereals production and the
exploitation of the irrigated rice farming potential in the Senegal River
Val3ey. In addition to an Irrigation Technical Assistance Project approved
in October 1985 to help restructure the River Valley Development Agency
(SAED) including preparation of a specific schedule for the latter's
disengagement from production activities, the Fourth Irrigation Project
under preparation would help rehabilitate and expand rice perimeters.
Sector operations are also under preparation in support of inputs and
marketing activities for the development of rainfed food crops.
24.       Past projects have strongly supported modernization and expansion
of the country's infrastructure in all modes of transport: highways, rail,
port and airport. But with the stagnant economy and heavy past
investments, emphasis is now being placed on better utilization and
maintenance of existing facilities. To this end, three projects were
approved during FY84: a Fifth Highway Project addresses the Government's
limited capacity to provide funds for road maintenance; the Dakar Container



-8-
Port Project includes rehabilitation and maintenance of the Port of Dakar;
and the Technical Assistance Project for Urban Management and
Rehabilitation emphasizes maintenance and rehabilitation of urban
infrastructure in support of industrial development.
25.       As in infrastructure, the Bank is supporting the rehabilitation,
modernization and expansion of the major public utilities. In electric
power, an engineering credit approved in 1980 led to sector reorganization
proposals, and a follow-up project to support tariff policy reforms and
expansion of operating capacity has been submitted to the Executive
Directors for their consideration in this fiscal year. Finally, in the
urban water supply and sanitation sector, an engineering credit, approved
in 1979, laid the groundwork for the Eleven Centers Water Supply and
Sewerage Project which was approved ii. March 1985.
26.       While Bank strategy has supported the emphasis on financing
productive projects and rehabilitation needs, it also recognizes the need
to support the social sectors, with due consideration to the capacity of
both the Government and users to bear the recurrent costs involved. In
education, efforts have been directed at primary education and at technical
and vocational training to support activities in the productive sectors,
and in health, efforts have been directed at primary care in the rural
regions.
27.       As it became increasingly clear that many of Senegal's economic
and financial problems run across the board and could not be addressed
exclusively through project lending, the Bank program began to shift in the
late 1970s towards multi-sectoral technical assistance and structural
adjustment lending. Two operations in support of this effort are currently
being implemented: in the parapublic sector, a second parapublic technical
assistance project was approved in July 1983 to help consolidate results
already achieved under the first project and to begin rehabilitation of
some key public enterprises through detailed action plans; and a technical
assistance project for economic and financial planning was approved in
August 1980 to help the Ministry of Planning evaluate priority projects and
monitor the investment program and the Finance Ministry to strengthen its
debt management capability. A follow-up Project is being prepared to
consolidate progress made in improved economic management.
28.       Given the need to focus Senegal's public investment program on
high-priority rehabilitation and maintenance needs and developmental
recurrent costs, improved donor coordination is now assuming increased
importance. The Bank is pursuing its economic dialogue with Senegal in
close coordination with the IMF and bilateral and multilateral donors. In
this connection, the Bank convened a first meeting of the Consultative
Group in December 1984 at which agreement was reached on the policy
measures and assistance levels and aid coordination mechanisms needed to
enable Senegal to overcome its economic and financial difficulties. The
Bank followed-up on this meeting by preparing a structural adjustment
operation as well as by organizing sector meetings of interested donors on
telecommunications and power; further sector meetiags are planned during



9
1986 for agriculture, industry the water supply sectors. A second CG
meeting is also planned for late-1986 to consider the Government's new
investment program.
29.       The Bank Group's share in total external aid disbursements to
Senegal over 1980-83 averaged approximately 20%, of which roughly
two-thirds was IDA-financed. The Bank Group's share in outstanding
medium/long-term (MLT) debt was 19% at end-1984 and is projected at around
24% by 1990. The Bank Group's share in MLT external debt service payments
(excluding IMF) rose from 3.7% in 1980 to 16% in 1984, but is projected to
decline to around 8% in 1990, under an assumption of no new debt
renegotiations between 1986 a.d 1990.
PART III - THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Telecommunications and the Economy
30.       Compared with alternative means of communication,
telecommunications are more efficient in terms of capital, energy
consumption and user time. With adequate telecommunications facilities,
the level and variety of productive activities can be increased
considerably in areas where this would otherwise not be feasible. In terms
of the specific constraints on Senegal's economic and social development,
telecommunications can play a significant role in: (a) increasing the
efficiency of transport, resulting in energy savings and greater afficiency
of productive interactions; (b) improving the working of the market
mechanism by expediting and extending access to information; (c) providing
essential domestic and international communications for tourism, an
important source of foreign exchange; (d) facilitating communication
between Dakar and provincial centers, as required for effective
coordination and management of development activities; (e) facilitating the
extension of social services, public works and Government administration to
rural areas; and (f) increasing domestic savings by transferring part of
the incremental net income from telecommunications operations to
government.
Access to Service
31.       As of January 1, 1985, the average telephone density in Senegal
was only about 0.32 telephone lines (DELs) per 100 inhabitants, which is
only about 65% of the average for Africa (excluding the Republic of South
Africa). For example, the average telephone density in the Republic of
Cote d'Ivoire, already low in comparison with other countries with similar
GNP per capita, was 0.56 per 100 inhabitants in 1985. The low average
density in Senegal is the result of very low investment amounting only to
about 0.2% of GNP on average, in the domestic network during the past
decade. The number of telephone subscribers has only been growing at about



- 10 -
4.2% per annum in recent years, compared to the African average of 8.7% per
annum. Access to service is unevenly distributed, with 71% of the total
number of telephone lines in the Cap Vert (Greater Dakar) region, 17% in
five other major cities, and 12% for the rest of the country. There are
about 150 public telephones in the country. Telex service is available to
about 780 subscribers, of which 690 are in Dakar.
Usage of Service
32.       Of the telephone subscribers, 16% are in the public and 84% in
the private sector. About 26% of telephone operating revenues are from
domestic calls, 67% from international calls (due to the large number of
Senegalese living abroad and substantial transit traffic revenues), and 7%
from rentals and other services . The average revenue of US$1,750 per DEL
in 1985 is high by international standards, reflecting the relatively high
call charges and the multiple and intensive use of many telephone lines.
Quality of Service and Existing Facilities
33.       The quality of service is generally poor.  About 15% of the
aational network is out of service at any given time due partly to unsuit-
able or obsolete cable networks and lack of coordinated and systematic
maintenance. An acceptable figure would be 2%. Delays in reestablishing
service are usually more than a week, often more than a month (50% should
be reestablished in one day). Inadequate maintenance on domestic long
distance connections has resulted in poor service and congestion as
measured by the number of faults (5) per line per year (1 per year), the
duration of such faults (50% last more than seven days, versus an
acceptable figure of 50% lasting less than one day), and the average call
completion rate during peak hours (generally less than 50%). International
facilities (one type A satellite earth station and four submarine cables
with terminal switching equipment) are well maintained and have low fault
rates, but full utilization is inhibited by the poor local network.
34.       As of January 1, 1985, total telephone switching capacity was
31,599 lines and telex exchange capacity 807 lines. About 94% of telephone
subscribers and all telex subscribers are connected to automatic
exchanges. About 96% of international telephone calls and 99% of telex
communications are direct-dialled. However, the capacity of much installed
equipment is exhausted in some areas, underutilized in others, or is
obsolete. Three of the ten regional capitals and 14 of the 30 departmental
capitals have only manual service. Local distribution networks are
generally poor and have inadequate capacity.
Demand for Service
35.       As of January 1, 1985, connected telephone lines met about 70% of
expressed demaad (working lines plus registered applicants). However,
there is significant suppressed demand which is not accounted for since
potential subscribers are discouraged from registering by long waiting
times. Expressed demand over 1980-85 grew at about 7.0% per annum, while
connected DELs increased at only 4.3% per annum. Expressed demand is



- 11 -
expected to grow by at least 8.1X per annum over 1985-1993. Present
planning aims to meet about 78% of expressed demand by mid-1993, compared
to 70X at present. Only about 63% of demand for telex service is satisfied
due to saturation of the available switching equipment. Additional
capacity will be available by the end of 1987.
Sector Organization
36.       Until recently, domestic telecommunications services were the
responsibility of the Office des Postes et Telecommunications du Senegal
(OPTS), and international telecommunications were the responsibility of the
Societe Nationale des Telecommuniations Internationales du Senegal
(TELESENEGAL). This arrangement was unsatisfactory. Poor planning and
execution of investments, combined with inadequate maintenance and
operating inefficiencies, led to increased customer dissatisfaction, and
aggravated the discrepancy between domestic and international services. A
1983/84 consultants' study, financed under the Second Parapublic Technical
Assistance Project (Credit 1398-SE) made specific sector reorganization
proposals. The following recommendations were adopted by Government in
July 1985: (a) OPTS' postal/financial services would be reorganized into
the Office des Postes et de la Caisse d'Epargne (OPCE); and (b) the
telecommunications branch of OPTS would be merged with TELESENEGAL, forming
SONATEL. The reorganization became effective on October 1, 1985. The new
entity is functioning satisfactorily .
37.       SONATEL is a Societe Nationale (State Corporation) with Govern-
ment as the sole shareholder. The status of Societe Nationale gives
SONATEL's management wide ranging operating autonomy, subject to policy
review and approval by its Board of Directors. SONATEL's organizational
structure is satisfactory. Its senior staff consists of the most able
managers of the two merged entities. They are qualified to implement the
proposed project. Under the project, technical assistance will be provided
to assist management in selected areas.
Sector Constraints
38.       The recent sector reorganization should help overcome some major
past problems. First, the previous sector organization was not suited to
the highly commercial nature of telecommunications activities. OPTS was
directly supervised by Government and was burdened with problems relating
to the postal/financial services. TELESENEGAL had adequate autonomy, but
was hampered by dependence on OPTS for subscriber connections, maintenance
of the domestic network, and bill collection. Second, job descriptions for
most OPTS staff were rarely applied and there was inadequate delegation of
authority and responsibility. Recruitment policy frequently did not match
needs with qualifications. Third, most investment planning for the
domestic network was done by consultants or by equipment suppliers.
Overall programing was merely a listing of separate investments. This led
to significant network imbalances, creating congestion in some areas and
underutilization in others. Fourth, maintenance of the domestic network
was not adequately organized. This led to neglect of equipment, increased
maintenance costs, and reduced the useful life of existing equipment.



- 12 -
Finally, OPTS' management was unable to provide the necessary leadership
for system development, both vis-a-vis Government as well as its own
staff. This resulted in stagnation of investments, even when financing was
available, inability to connect subscribers, and a lack of operating
efficiency stemming from the absence of financial management and of
adequate recruitment policies. With the creation of SONATEL and its
stronger, more purposeful management team, this constraint has been
substantially alleviated. Similarly, the absence in the past of an agreed
operating policy framework is a constraint that will be eliminated upon
signature of SONATEL's Performance Contract (para 39).
Sector Goals
39.       Senegal's Seventh Development Plan (FY86-FY89) contains the
following general objectives affecting the sector: (a) state enterprises
should improve their management and generate funds sufficient to finance an
adequate share of investments; (b) government subsidies to state
enterprises should be reduced or eliminated to save public funds and to
encourage increased efficiency; (c) the regions should be given increased
participation in the national economy; and (d) as a matter of high
priority, the telecommunications sector should be rehabilitated and
expanded. The emphasis is on self-sufficiency, efficiency, and agreed
operating policy frameworks in the form of Performance Contracts. Such a
Performance Contract, establishing the mutual obligations of Government and
state corporations, has been prepared for SONATEL and lays down its
medium-term strategy. A final draft of the Performance Contract,
acceptable to SONATEL, Government and IDA, was agreed upon during
negotiations. Signature of this Performance Contract is a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed credit. In accordance with the Plan's
overall objectives, SONATEL's objectives are to: (a) rehabilitate existing
installations, conduct systematic maintenance, and make additional
investments to bring system utilization to a satisfactory level; (b)
expand sector facilities to meet expressed demand; (c) increase
operational efficiency and quality of service through improved management,
staff training and maintenance; (d) generate a strong cash flow to finance
a major share of investments, primarily through improved efficiency; and
(e) make substantial net transfers to Government, dir^ectly through income
taxes, and indirectly through custom duties on imported equipment.
Role of the Bank Group
40.       The Bank became involved in the sector through the First
Telecommunications Project (Loan 866-SE) of US$6.25 million, approved in
November 1972.  The project, completed in December 1980, comprised:  (a)
rehabilitatioa, modernization and expansion of local telephone facilities
in Dakar and in other cities and towns in the northern provinces; and (b)
construction of long distance radio links from Dakar to the north and from
there eastwards along the Senegal river, to support agricultural
development. Technical assistance was provided to improve staff training
and financial management. However, OPTS' management did not take full
advantage of the training provided, neglected financial management and
maintenance, and was unable to introduce systematic overall planning and



- 13 -
programming. This caused delays, cost overrins, inadequately balanced
investments and a lack of operating efficiency. Under the First Parapublic
Sector Technical Assistance Project (Credit 764-SE) approved in 1979, IDA
provided further support to OPTS in accounting and financial management;
some improvement occurred. However, realizing the magnitude of the
restrictions imposed on sector development by the fragmentation of the
sector, Government decided to reorganize the sector (para 36).
41.       IDA's role through this project is to address the principal
constraints facing the sector. The primary emphasis is on institutional
development. Through prior sector restructuring, significant obstacles to
improved sector management have already been lifted; the technical
assistance component of this project aims to provide added impetus to this
process and provide management with valuable support in critical areas.
IDA has been instrumental in bringing the size of the investment program
down to levels that are feasible in terms of both physical implementation
and availability of external financing at concessionary terms. Finally,
IDA focuses through this project on rehabilitation, increased capacity
utilization and improved maintenance as the primary means of optimizing the
contribution of the sector to the economy. IDA played a major role in
bringing about a consensus on the above objectives by convening a donor's
meeting on Senegal's telecommunications sector in Paris (December 1984).
During this donor's meeting, broad agreement was reached on sector
restructuring, the investment program and the financing plan.
PART IV - THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
The Program
42.       SONATEL's investment program of CFAF 78.8 billion (US$ 218.9
million equivalent) covers July 1, 1986 - June 30, 1993. The program
comprises ongoing works (15%), the proposed project (69%), and future
investments (16%). Ongoing works are tofinanced by CCCE, BOAD, CEDEAO, and
by SONATEL. They consist predominantly of equipment rehabilitation, and
will increase utilization of existing equipment in the Cap Vert region.
IDA played a key role in the formulation of the proposed investment program
by focusing the objectives on: (i) rehabilitation and maintenance; (ii)
achieving a balanced network; and (iii) network expansion if of high
priority and economically justified. Future investments consist mostly of
investments for the international network commencing around FY89.
43.       The proposed second telecommunications project is a balanced and
integrated package of high priority works. The basic objectives are to
improve: (a) service quality; (b) access to service; (c) organization and
management; and (d) operational efficiency and resource mobilization. The
project aims to meet about 78% of expressed demand by 1993; exchange
capacity will increase from 31,600 to 55,000 lines, and the number of
connected subscribers from 21,200 to 42,800. The project was appraised in
June 1985. Negotiations were 'neld in Washington from April 14 to 18,
1986. The Senegalese delegation was led by H.E. Djibo Ka, Minister of



- 14 -
Communications. Supplementary data on the proposed project are presented
in Annex III.
Project Description
44.       The project will be implemented during FY87-93.  It comprises
priority components of the overall investment program, namely:
(a)  24,000 lines of mainly electronic switching equipment, cable
networks and Intra-regional transmission for the Cap-Vert region;
(b)  3,400 lines of electronic switching equipment for the Ziguinchor,
Kolda and Tambacounda regions serving eight cities, plus
associated cable networks, buildings and interurban transmission
equipment;
(c)  7,200 lines of electronic switching equipment for ten stations in
the Thies, Kaolack and Fatick regions, plus associated cable
networks, buildings and interurban transmission equipment;
(d)  facilities for linking Cap Skiring and Boucote to the national
telecommunications network;
(e)  rehabilitation of various existing installations and cable
networks and establishment of a national maintenance
organization;
(f)  various works in all regions (feeder links, multiplex equipment,
conventional and solar power installations, etc.); and
(h)  staff training, engineering and other technical assistance;
Project Costs
45.       Total project costs are estimated at CFAF 56.5 billion
(US$156.9 million), including foreign costs of CFAF 32.7 billion (US$90.8
million) and local costs of CFAF 23.8 billion (US$66.1 million). Local
costs include CFAF 12.8 billion (US$35.5 million) in customs duties and
taxes. Project base cost estimates are based on mid-1984 prices
experienced in Western Africa, and adjusted to mid-1986 level.
46.       Physical contingencies have been calculated at 5% for imported
equipment and 10% for services and local cost items. Price contingencies
for local costs have been computed at 7% annually. The standard rates have
been used for price contingencies for foreign costs, i.e., 7.0% (1986);
7.0% (1987); 7.5% (1988); 7.7% (1989); 7.6% (1990); and 4.5% per annum
thereafter.
Project Financing
47.       The project's foreign costs of US$ 90.8 million will be financed
by a number of cofinanciers and SONATEL. CCCE will provide US$20.8 million



- 15 -
in foreign cost financing for switching and intraregional transmission in
the Cap Vert, region together with guaranteed private credits (US$5.6
million ). AfDB would provide US$12.6 million to finance investments under
the national maintenance plan. BOAD intends to provide US$4.2 million to
finance switching and transmission in the Ziguinchor, Kolda and Tambacounda
regions. IDA would provide US$ 22.0 million to finance the remaining
project components. These financing arrangements were confirmed during
negotiations. Fulifillment of the conditions of effectiveness of the CCCE
and AfDB loans is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit.
Appraisal of the BOAD-financed project component is expected to take place
in the beginning of FY87. SONATEL will finance all local costs (US$66.1
million) and the foreign exchange gap of US$25.6 million from net internal
cash generation. Efforts are continuing to find additional cofinancing for
the foreign cost portion of the project. Assurances were obtained from
SONATEL that it will seek prior agreement with IDA on any proposed changes
in the investment program that would increase its cost by more than 10% in
any one year or that would substantially alter network balance.
Procurement
48.       Procurement arrangements are summarized below:
PROn   Wr  ARANGt
(pS$ '000)a/
Limited
Iter-
tk:c_lated    natioial     local
ICB         Contract      Biddig       Bidding  Other        Total
SW-;ching    16,011 (7,672)  1,362  (800)                         26,415   43,788  (8,472)
local retwiks 8,825 (2,598)  1,006  (220)                         26,542   36,373  (2,818)
TransmLssion  14,432 (7,684)  2,592  (660)                        14,006   31,030  (8,3f14)
Pmaer equipt.  3,395   (866)   705  (130)                          2,507    6,607    (996)
I.stnmunts   3,434   (314)  1,214  (284)   2,830 (272)             9,432   16,910    (870)
Civil wiors                                              14,805            14,805    ( 0)
Tectmical
assisLanee                               3,550 (500)b/           3,831    7,381    (500)
TaL       46,097 (19,134)  6,879 (2,094)   6,380 (772)         82,733  156,894 (22,000)
Note: Figires in parentheses represent anmots financed by the
proposed IDA credit.
a/ nclluding contingncies.
b/ Bank gidelines for the use of consultants.
Equipment for US$19.1 million to be financed by IDA will be procured
through ICB in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Some spares and
equipment to be financed by IDA (US$2.1 million), required to remove



- 16 -
physical bottlenecks, would be procured on the basis of negotiated
contracts with existing suppliers. IDA's approval will be required for the
negotiated contracts to ensure that the prices are comparable to those
likely under ICB.  Limited international bidding (LIB) would be used to
procure US$0.3 million of test instruments, tools and specialized vehicles,
for which there is a limited number of suppliers. Consulting services for
US$0.5 million will be procured according to Bank guidelines for the use of
consultants. IDA financed contracts of over US$100,000 each will be
subject to prior review covering about 70% of all contracts for equipment.
Other IDA financed contracts will be subject to post-award review.
Procurement under cofinancing will be in accordance with the guidelines of
the respective institutions. Project preparation is well underway.
Specifications for major project items have been prepared or are nearing
completion. To minimize implementation delays, the issuance of invitations
to bid for goods and services to be financed by IDA, for an amount
equivalent to 50% of the credit amount, is a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed credit.
Disbursements
49.       The proposed IDA credit of US$22.0 billion would be disbursed
against full standard documentation for: (a) 100% of foreign expenditures
for goods, including the foreign exchange component of equipment installa-
tion; and (b) 100% of total expenditures for technical assistance. A
Special Account of US$1.5 million, to be maintained in US dollars in a bank
acceptable to IDA, will be established to facilitate IDA disbursements.
Applications for replenishment will be submitted on a bimonthly basis.
Disbursements for amounts of less than US$50,000 would be made against
Statements of Expenditure. The estimated disbursement schedule is in line
with standard Bank disbursement profiles for the country. The Credit
closing date is expected to be June 30, 1993.
Project Implementation
50.       Project implementation will be coordinated by the technical
department of SONATEL. Installation of equipment will be done by suppliers
under SONATEL supervision. Local coatractors would be hired for civil
works aad other suitable tasks. The transfer of knowledge to SONATEL staff
would be achieved through staff participation in installation and testing
work, training provided by suppliers and institutions abroad, as well as in
local training centers (para 53). The project is expected to be
substantially completed by June 30, 1992. Final acceptance testing and
guarantee payments are expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.
51.       Improvement of SONATEL's management systems will be monitored
through selected performance indicators on service quality, financial
performance, operating efficiency and program implementation. This will
enable SONATEL to take the required corrective actions in a timely manner.
While the targets for later years are indicative, those for fiscal
years 1987 and 1988 were agreed upon with SONATEL during negotiations, as
representing desirable and feasible levels of attainment. Assurances were
obtained from SONATEL that: (i) the targets for each of the subsequent



- 17 -
fiscal years will be agreed to with IDA by March 31 of the preceeding
fiscal year; and (ii) SONATEL will furnish semiannually, for IDA review, a
report on its performance against these indicators.
The Implementing Agency
52.       SONATEL's ability to succes6fully manage and develop both the
domestic and the international network remains to be tested. However, the
current management team consists of the most able managers of ex-OPTS and
TELESENEGAL, and is highly motivated. In addition, in order to provide
management with support in critical areas during the transition period
following sector restructuring and during the remainder of the project
implementation period, technical assistance will be provided under the
project. SONATEL currently receives technical assistance from a variety of
sources: (i) engineering and rehabilitation of installations (FAC); (ii)
computerized billing system (FAC); (iii) introduction of data processing
in accounting and administration (CIDA); (iv) management and operation of
power supply and transmission equipment (CIDA); (v) preparation of a
Master Plan (UWDP/ITU); and (vi) personnel management (IDA-Second
Parapublic Technical Assistance Project, Credit 1398-SE). Total assistance
from these sources during the project implementation period is about 270
manmonths. In addition SONATEL has engaged, under its own financing,
experts in the operation of highly specialized telecommunications
installations and a general management expert for a total of about 36
manmonths. During project appraisal (June, 1985) IDA identified the
following broad areas where expert support is considered necessary:
planning, data processing, management information, and supply logistics.
SONATEL expects to be able to obtain grant financing from sources other
than IDA for experts in these areas, with terms of reference and
qualifications acceptable to the Association. Appointment of these
consultants is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit. Due to
the phasing of the tariff study (para 66), a tariff expert will not need to
be recruited until the beginning of 1987. During project implementation
other areas may be identified where expc-t assistance is required. An
amount of US$0.5 million (36 manmonths) has been allocated within the
credit to meet additional teclnical assistance requirements as necessary.
Terms of reference for these additional experts would be agreed to during
project supervision.
Staff and Training
53.       SONATEL took over existing telecommunications staff from OPTS and
TELESENEGAL. This initial staffing of 2,030 results in a ratio of 93 staff
per 1,000 DELs in service, which is high. Under the terms of its
Performance Contract (para 39), SONATEL will control recruitment and
improve the personnel structure primarily through attrition, highly
selective recruitment, and staff training. In addition, strict adherence
to job descriptions and staff participation in management committees to
improve productivity, as practiced by TELESENEGAL prior to sector
restructuring, will be continued by SONATEL. These measures, and the
expected increase in the number of connected lines, will result in a
decrease of the staff ratio from 93 in 1986 to 50 in 1993. The staff ratio



- 18 -
is one of the principal performance indicators to be monitored during
project implementation.
54.       Two specialized technical telecommunications schools exist in
Senegal, one in Rufisque (lower level technical staff) and one in Dakar
(higher level staff). They were established with assistance from the
International Telecommunications Union tITU). During the project period,
the two multinational schools will be merged and located in Dakar, and
SONATEL will take over the Rufisque facilities. ITU is expected to provide
technical assistance to implement this plan. The schools will provide most
of the technical staff training needed by SONATEL. Highly specialized and
university level training will continue to take place abroad. Training
needs will be established through evaluations against job descriptions and
on the basis of recommendations by ITU experts. In addition, training to
update technical stdff will be provided by equipment suppliers and by
SONATEL. SONATEL will continue the in-house training programs for
administrative staff previously provided by TLLESENEGAL, and has committed
itself under its Performance Contract to spend the equivalent of 5% of its
salary budget on staff training. These arrangements are satisfactory.
Billing and Collection
55.       Prior to sector restructuring, OPTS was responsible for billing
and collection of domestic and international charges. Bills were prepared
on a bi-monthly basis through the Government's data processing department,
but were frequently delayed by two to three months. To minimize delays,
SONATEL will in the future process bills on its own computer system. An
expert provided by FAC is assisting in this. SONATEL's Performance
Contract specifies that billing delays should be reduced from the current
average of 50 days to 20 days by the end of FY89; progress will be checked
through the performance monitoring system.
56.       As of March 25, 1986, telecommunications accounts receivable were
CFAF 14.3 billion, equivalent to about nine months of billing. Of this,
Government owes an estimated CFAF 5.3 billion (equivalent to 24 months of
billing to Government); the exact amount of Government arrears will be
confirmed by May 31, 1986. The private sector owes CFAF 9.0 billion
(equivalent to seven months of billing). Actual arrears are less, in view
of existing billing delays and a two-month period during which subscribers
may pay their bills. Given improved application of disconnection
procedures, as per SONATEL's Performance Contract, private sector arrears
should be manageable. Clearance of Government arrears has long been a
problem. However, under the terms of SONATEL's draft Performance Contract,
Government commits itself to repay CFAF 2.4 billion in FY86 and FY87 each,
and the remaining CFAF 0.5 billion in FY88. The CFAF 4.4 billion in
cross-debt from SONATEL, mostly due to previous debt rescheduling, would
offset most of this. Assurances were obtained from Government that it
will: (a) settle its arrears in accordance with the schedule stipulated in
the Performance Contract; (b) ensure that adequate annual budget
provisions are made for payment of arrears and consumption; and (c) settle
future telecommunications bills within 90 days of the billing date starting
immediately, and within 45 days by June 30, 1988. As a condition of



- 19 -
effectiveness of the proposed credit, SONATEL will present an accounts
receivable aging schedule to IDA. Assurances were obtained that SONATEL
will write off, by December 31, 1986, receivables that are uncollectable.
Accounting and Auditing
57.       SONATEL will keep accounts on an accrual basis and in accordance
with the Senegalese accounting plan. With the simplification of accounts
resulting from the separation of postal/financial services, SONATEL's
unaudited accounts are expected to be ready within four months after the
end of each fiscal year. Assurances were obtained that SONATEL will: (a)
have its accounts audited annually by external auditors acceptable to IDA;
'b) present its unaudited financial statements to IDA within four months
after the end of each fiscal year; and (c) present the external auditor's
report to IDA within six months after the end of each fiscal year.
Financial Aspects
58.       OPTS' and TELESENEGAL's financial performance over the period
FY81-85 was satisfactory. The consolidated rate of return on the book
value of average net fixed telecommunications assets in service was about
33% on average and net internal cash generation was equivalent to 172% of
investment expenditures. However, telecommunications investments during
that period were at undesirably low levels, with investments in the
domestic network averaging only 0.2% of GNP. Total sector investments
during the period FY86-93 will be equivalent to about 0.9% of GNP on
average. Accounts receivable for the sector were at very high levels,
equivalent to about eleven months of billing as of the end of FY85 (para
56).
59.       SONATEL's opening balance sheet as of October 1, 1985 has not yet
been finalized. Auditing firms working on different aspects of the balance
sheet are expected to complete their work by June 30, 1986. Establishment
of the opening balance sheet implies basic agreement on the modalities of
the split-up of OPTS between SONATEL and OPCE, will determine its initial
working capital and is necessary to enable SONATEL to produce complete
financial statements at year-end. Agreement between Government and SONATEL
on the definitive opening balance sheet is a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed credit.
60.       Despite substantial investments during the project period, the
financial indicators would remain satisfactory. The operating ratio would
remain strong, ranging from about 59 in FY86 to about 74 in FY93. Debt
service coverage would remain adequate at over 2.5 times, and the debt
level would remain low around 30% of debt plus equity, despite the increase
in borrowings. The current ratio would be adequate at above 1.5. Net
internal cash generation would finance on average 62% of construction
requirements. Assurances were obtained that SONATEL will finance from net
internal cash generation not less than 50% of investment expenditures, on a
moving three year average basis, in any one year during the project
implementation period.



- 20 -
61.       The IDA credit will be onlent by Government to SONATEL at the
standard Bank interest rate prevailing at the date of the Credit Agreement,
with repayment over fifteen years following five years of grace. SONATEL
will bear the foreign exchange risk. As a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed credit, a subsidiary loan agreement acceptable to IDA would be
concluded between the Government and SONATEL.
62.       In the past, the telecommunications sector subsidized the
postal/financial services through OPTS. Government would have preferred
continuation of such a direct financial link between SONATEL and OPCE.
However, this would not enhance the autonomy and efficiency of OPCE. Under
the terms of its Performance Contract (para 39), SONATEL will transfer
to Government gradually decreasing amounts, starting at CFAF 1.7 billion in
FY86. Government, in turn, wil transfer these funds to OPCE. Assurances
were obtained from Government that: (a) any services rendered by SONATEL
to OPCE will be paid in full by the latter; and (b) the level of the
annual subsidy from SONATEL to OPCE will decline each year and end by June
30, 1989.
Benefits
63.       Telecommunications services benefit all sectors of Senegal's
economy and promote more efficient use of capital and energy resources.
They are likely to play a particularly significant role ia Senegal in:
Ca) promoting industrial and commercial development in the Cap-Vert region
and in the regions around Diourbel, Thies, Tambacounda, Kaolack, Ziguinchor
and Kolda; (b) developing tourism; (c) stimulating agricultural development
through better access to market information and more efficient management;
(d) improving the services offered by regional development agencies;
(e) facilitating the improvement and extension of health, education,
government administration and other services to rural areas;
(f) substituting for transport and facilitating vehicle coordination; and
(g) mobilizing domestic savings by transferring part of SONATEL's net
income to Government (para 65).
Least Cost Solution
63.       The investment program is the least cost solution for providing
the planned service levels, within the constraints imposed by the
configuration and technology of the existing telecommunications network.
The timing and dimensioning of various elements in the system are based on
accepted engineering practice with regard to selection of techniques and
equipment.
Fiscal Impact
65.       During the project implementatioa period SONATEL'S 33% income tax
is expected to generate CFAF 17.7 billion in revenues for Government.
Amounts transferred to Government to subsdize OPCE are estimated at CFAF
5.8 billion. In addition, SONATEL would pay customs duties and taxes
on imported equipment equivalent to about CFAF 12.8 billion during the
project implementation pcriod, plus an additional CFAF 2.5 billioa on



- 21 -
imported operating equipment items and services. Thus, total transfers
from SONATEL to Government would be CFAF 38.8 billion (US$107.8 million).
Tariffs
66.       Senegal's telecommunications tariff level and structure are
comparable to those of neighbouring West-African countries; tariff levels
are relatively high by internal standards. Current tariff levels are
expected to be adequate through FY88, with a 10% average revenue increase
required in FY89. However, the tariff structure should be reviewed to
ensure economic efficiency in the use of existing plant and new
investments. For example, the connection charge and monthly rental in
Dakar are relatively modest but the base call charge is relatively high.
This could encourage a high demand for new connections from customers with
low prospective usage, resulting in underutilized aetworks. There is no
peak/off peak pricing, and local calls are not metered. Under the proposed
project the tariff study would be carried out by SONATEL, with the
assistance of an IDA-financed expert (para 52).  Assurances were obtained
from SONATEL that it will carry out, and furnish to IDA, the tariff study
by January 1, 1988, and implement its recommendations, as appropriate, by
July 1, 1988.
Return on Investment
67.       The internal financial rate of return on the investment program
is estimated at about 13%. The quantifiable economic rate of return is
19%. This estimate understates total program benefits, since it does not
take into account the total consumer surpius or the secondary benefits
derived from telecommunications, such as more efficient use of
transportation, responsiveness to market forces, more effective health
services, etc.
Risks
68.       The program faces no unusual risks.  The merger of TELESENEGAL
and OPTS into SONATEL appears to have proceeded smoothly. The project's
technical assistance component will provide management with expert
assistance, should problems develop in specific areas. The principal risks
are that the new entity will not be able to implement the investment
program as rapidly as scheduled; and that it will not be able to achieve
prompt recovery of arrears and future billings. Protection against the
first risk is provided by the fact that implementation of the first phase
of network rehabilitation is well underway and that many contracts will be
on a turn-key basis, and by the technical assistance provided by IDA and
other donors. Protection agairnst the risk of low recovery of receivables
is provided by Government's assurances concerning arrears settlement and
payment of future bills, as well as the improved billing and collection
procedures to be implemented under the project. A sensitivity test on the
rate of return indicates that a combination of a 20% increase in capital
expenditures and operating costs combined with a 20% reduction in revenues,
which is extremely unlikely, would reduce the estimated economic rate of



- 22 -
return from 19Z to about 10X. A two-year delay in all benefits without
postponement of costs would reduce the economic rate of return to about
13Z.
Environmental and Health Aspects
69.       The project is expected to have no adverse environmental or
health impacts. On the contrary, increased use of telecommunications
services produces more efficient use of the transportation system, reduces
environmental pollution, and promotes energy conservation. In addition,
improved telecommunications services improve the delivery system for
routine and emergency health services.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington DC
May 23, 1986



- 23 -ANNEX I
T A    LS 93A                rPage  1 of 6
SUINEAL               - BOCIAL KIDICATR  DATA NUT
SUINEAL                            J17UPlRE CE COR05 (VCIOITID AVEARME) l
HOST                    (MMOT mEanT MSTIMATE) /b
m               MDOLE IlUCME           MIDDLE rINCm
19@        1970iL   ESTIATELk    AFRICA S. OF PAURA   N. AFRICA A MID EAT
au ('i *e-. o4
TOTAL                             196.2      l61.2      194.1 2
AGRICULTURAL                      99.        104.5      10 3
Go  P  CAPIA                          ..         ..        440.0            1063.6                  1134.9
-v  -onnn   s cama
CKILOORA   OP OIL EQUIVALENT)    331.0       360.0      20.0              5831.5                  623.9
POLATES   S  VITUL STATEITC
POPULATION.MID-TEAR (THOUSAS)   3493.0      415.0      6211.0
URBAN POPULATION C RF TOTAL)      23.0        30.0       34.4              32.0                    49.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
PoPwuATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                         10.1
STATIONARY POULATION (MILL)                            30.0
POPULATION      I                                       1.9
POULATION DNSITY
PER 110. RH.                    17.J       22.5        31.7              65.1                    37.6
PE SQ. .   RI. LAD              35.1       42.2        55.2             124.6                   470.1
POPULATION AGC STRUCTU..E CR)
0-14 IRS                       42.7        43.9       44.4              45.4                    43.S
15-64 IRS                       54.2       53.1        52.6             51.5                     53.0
65 AND ABOVE                     3.0        2.6         2.6               2.7                     3.3
POPULAATI  CROItH RATV ()
TOTAL                            2.3        2.3         2.6               2.9                     2.8
URBA                             3.4         5.0        3.7               5.1                     4.4
CRUDE BUITH RATE (PU T3s0)        47.5       46.7        46.1             47.0                     40.0
CRUDE DATH RATE (PER TlOUS)       24.4       21.9        16.5              15.0                    11.5
GROSS REZRODUCTON JATE             3.1        3.1         3.2               3.2                     2.8
FAMILY PLANISC
AccEPTOS.  ANNUAL (Tnous)
USERS CE OF HARRD  ON)            ..        ..          4.o c             6.4                    21l.
INDEI OF FOOD PItOD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                    125.0       83.0       64.0              62.9                    95.1
PEr CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORS (Z or RRQUIETS)          99.0       93.0        99.0             98.5                    113.2
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)        67.0       62.0        70.0              55.4                    77.8
orF WIH1 ANIMAL hND PULSE      20.0        19.0       19.0 Id           16.5                    17.8
CHiLD (AGES 1-4) ODEAT RATE       45.9        38.1       28.0              16.6                    12.8
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (TARS)      39.4       42.4        45.5             52.0                     57.8
INFANT MO. RATE (PU TDOUS)       173.5      164.0       140.0            106.6                    96.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER CRPiP)
TOTAL                            ..         ..         42.0 Ia          42.4                     67.2
URBMA                            ..         ..         77.0 We           67.5                    93.4
RURAL                            ..         ..         25.0 7;           35.8                    45.8
ACCESS TO EXCErTA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                            ..         ..         33.0 /a          28.9                     45.9
URBAN                            ..         ..        100.0 7            57.7                    63.0
RURAL                            ..         ..          z.o 7;          20.7                     28.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN       24990.0    16790.0    13760.0 Ic         11791.7                  4331.0
POP. PER NURSIN  PERSON         3150.0 IC  1950.0      1390.0 7         2459.8                   1645.0
POP. PER HOSPITAL -D
TOTAL                          840.0       820.0      900.0 Id          981.1                   621.8
URBAN                          460.0 A    450.0       560.0 7          36S.6                    545.0
RULAL                          1990.0 7j  1250.0     120.0 7;         4371.9                   2511.3
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL  0..                 22.2        29.2 Id          27.2                     25.7
SOSINC
AVERAGE SUEt OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                            ..         ...
URA                              ..         7.Ih        .
RURAL                            ..         6.0 7r
AVRACE NO. OF PERSOCSIROM
TUTAL                            1.5 11      ..
URBAN                            ..         ..
RURAL                            ..         ..
PCRCENTACE OF WEUlIDS WI  ELCT.
TOTAL                            ..          ..
URBAN                            ..          ..
RURAL                            ..          ..



- 24 -                                          ANNEX I
TAULF. lA                                  Page  2 of 6
SEINGAL               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SENEGAL                             RSFERENCE GROUPS (WEGHED AVERAGES) /a
HOST                    (OMST RECET ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT           MIDDLE INCUS          MIDDLE INCOME
i96db     1970.1b  STIKA4..!b    AFRICA S. OF SANARA   N. AFRICA & MID EAST
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRlIARY:  TOTAL                  27.0       38.0       *6.0               95.7                    89.8
K1AL                   36.0       47.0       58.0              100.0                   103.7
FINALE                 17.0       30.0       38.0              83.2                     75.2
SECONDARY: TOTAL                  3.0        9.0        12.0              17.3                    42.9
HALE                   *.0        13.0       16.0              25.0                     50.9
FEMALE                 2.0         5.0        8.0              14.8                     34.6
VOCATIONAL (X OF SECONAY)          23.1        9.2       10.4               5.9                     10.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIKARY                          63.0 tg    45.0       43.0              1.1                     29.7
SECONDARY                        34.0       34.0       21.0               25.5                    18.8
CO_i3WTIO
PASSENGER CARSITHOUSAND POP         5.7        8.7        ..               20.8                     17.8
RADIO RECEIVERStTHOUSAND POP       35.7       60.7       61.3              107.8                   175.9
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP           ..         0.3        0.8              20.8                     51.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOSAND POPULATION             5.7        4.5        7.5              18.4                     37.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCEICAPITA    ..          ..         0.7 /L            0.4                      2.6
LABOR FORS
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TaOUS)        1619.0     1925.0     2509.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 39.5       39.0       37.9              36.2                     11.0
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)            84.0       80.0       76.9 /e           54.5                     4Z.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                5.0        7.0       10.0 7;            18.3                    27.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            46.3       63.6       40.4               36.8                    26.2
MALE                             56.3       53.7        50.7              47.1                    46.2
FEMALE                           36.4       33.7       30.6              27.2                      5.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO           1.0        1.1        1.2               1.3                      1.8
INCM  DISYRIUDTIO
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 OF HOUSEHOLDS         36.8 /k
HIGHEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS        62.5 7/k
LOWEST 20X OF HOUSEHOLDS          3.2 7      ..
LWEST 40S OF HOUSEHOLDS          9.4 /k     .
ESTIIATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOM
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             ..         ..          ..              590.7                   226.3
RURAL                             ..         ..        82.0 /c           275.3                   134.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOU
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             ..         ..        196.0 /c          545.6                   431.5
RURAL                             ..         ..          ..             201.1                    326.0
ESTIKATED POP. BELOW ALSOLUTC
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                                                                                              ..
RURAL                             ..         ..         ..                ..                      29.0
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
NO TE S
/a  The group averagae for each Indicator are popUlation-welghted arithmetic mn. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depre on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unleas otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961.; Data for 1970" beeuen
1969 and 1971; and data for "Mat Recent Eatimae" betwen 1981 and 1983.
/c  1978; /d 1977; /a 1980; /f 1963; / 1962; /h 1973; /I 1955; /1 1976; tk Population.
JUNE. 1985



- 25-                                              ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DFlNmONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes: Although the dat are drawn from sources gerallyjuded the moa authoitatmve and relauble it should also he noted that they may not be mlurnneonaily
comparable becaute of the lack of andardized defiesitions and coieepis usd by diffaeren countines in collcting the data. The data are. nonehekl ueful to
dacrihe orders of nagnitude. indicate trends, and charcerize certain major diferences between countries.
The reference groups re m (1 the mmne country group of the subject country and t2) a country group with somewhat higher verae income than the coualry
Sroupof the subject country texcept for 'High Income Oil Exporers group where "Middle Income North Africa and Middle East" ischosen buae of stronger
,ocio-cukural affiniteial. In the reference group data the averag are population weighted arithmetic means ror cach indictor and shown only when majority
of the countrie in a group hba data for that indiclaor Since the coverage of countries among the indicators depends on the availability of data and is not uniform.
caution muil be cercised in relaing averags of one indicator to another. Thee averas ae only useful in companng the value of one indkiar at a time among
the country and reference groups
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                             Crui Birth Rate (per thossnd)-Number of live births in the year
Tot&--Total surface area compnsing land area and inland waters;    per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                          Crud Death Rate (per thousand)-Number of deaths in the year
Ajpi,catral-Estimnate of agricultural area used temporarily or     per thousand or mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1913 data.
permanently for crops, pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to  Gross Reprodmction Rate--Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 19112 data.                             will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)--GNP per capita estimates at current          in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prics, calculated by same conversion method as World        Family Pmiding-Acceprors, Annwal (trhusands)--Annual num-
Rank Atlas 119111-113 basis); 19113 data.                          ber of acceptors or birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                     family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.        Fuild  P nuii-sers (percent ofmwried wmn)-The  rcen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geothermal elec-    tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricty) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any Form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                         of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                    groups.
ToalPopubiuton. Mid-wYer (fthasis-AsofJuly 1; 1960. 1970.          FOOD AND NUTRMON
and 19113 data.
Urban Population (percent of total)  Ratio of urban to total    nldx ofFoodProdmcrion Per Capita (1969-71 = J0)- Index of per
popuaion. diffTn definitios of urban areas may affect compar-      capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
ability op data among countrios. 1960. 1970. and 1983 datae xcludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commoditics
include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of supr)
Pultwion Projtio                                                   which are edibie and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Pbpulation in year 27000- The projection of population for 2000.   excluded); they comprise cereals, root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on     vegetabics. fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock. and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters    on national average producer price weights; 1%1-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized   19K2 data.
assumptions until the population became stationarv.                Per Capita Supply ofCalories (percent ofrequirements)--Comput-
Stationary population- Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
ality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fcrtility rates havc simultaneously remained at replacemcnt level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate= 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also    food processing. and loss's in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population   estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate or decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level,                                         waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momentwn  Is the tendency for population growth to      Per Capita Supply of Protein (gramsper day)- Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is. even arter the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries cstablished by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year r is measured as   provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. or which 10 grams
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment level from year f onward. 1985 data.                          75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Populion Density                                                   average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per .rq.km. -Mid-year population per square kilometer 1 100 hec-   Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) or total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                   Per Capa Protein Sipply Froar Anisaleand Pidse- Protein supply
Per .sq.km. agricultural land--Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day; 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                               1970 and 1977 data.
Popation Age Structur (percent)--Children (0- 14 years). work-     Chi  ages 1-4) Death Rate (per thousand)  Number ofdeaths of
ing age ( 15-64 years). and retired t65 years and ovcr) as percentagc  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                 group in a given year For most developing countries data derived
Population Growth Rate (percent)-total--Annual growth rates of     from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-0. 1960-70. and 1970-83.        HEALTH
Populto  Growth Rate (percesur)-wrbas--Annual growth rates         Lefe Expectancy at Birth (years) - Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.         infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



-26-                                             ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
at the time of of its birth were to stay the .me throughout its lire;  Pw-ueaher  Ratio - primary and secandary-Total students en-
1960 1970 and 1933 data.                                       rolled in primary and secondary lvels divide  by numbers or
bho  Mmenahb Rae (per roamsd)-Number of infants who die    teachers in the corresponding levels.
before reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year, 1960. 1970 and 1983 data                                 CONSUMMlON
Aesos r. S*  Water (pmn  of            tu       Wh   mid       Pael r  Canr (per timed paplaien)-PFsaenger cars coin-
rwal-Number of people (toal urbn and rural) with reonable      prim motor cars mating les than eight persons; excludes ambul-
acus to afe water supply (includes treated surfae waters or    ances. hearses and militauy vehiles.
untreated but uncontaninated water such a that from protected  Redb Redevrs (per thesandpop tl j-All type of receivers
boreholes sprinsp and satary wel) as percentages of their respec-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population:
tive populations. In an urban area a public fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receiver in countries and in years when
located not mo  than 200 meters from a house may be consideredstration Or radio ets wu infect, dta nd in y              may
reason be wensould imply ta   thte houewife or Inembrs of the  not be comparable since most countries abolished licensing.
houwlhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TV Recevers (per thoassndppulerise)-Tceivers for broadcast
in fetching the fanmily's water needs,                         to general public per thouund populadon: exdudes unlicensed TV
AcceX t. Eir         - D -soe f  {    J    i  r t-i    bc      receivers in countries and in year when registmrtion of TV sets was
Accss o  xcrteDIapers (percenw of pop.. o)-ot.,in effect.
and rural-Number of people (total urban, and rural) served by
excreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Newsppr Ckculta (per tlouasmdp.pul j-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposll may include the wllection and disposal, with or  age circultion of "daily general interest newspaper' defined as a
without treatment, or human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primarily to recording general news.
borne systenms or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be "daily if it appears at least four times a week.
Ao_tp.l      per Physilcan-Ibpulation divided by number or prac-  Cia Anal AttendAer per Capita per Yer-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university level  number of tickets sold during the year, including admissions to
Prpulauwr P'ussg Penhn-Pbpulation divided by number of         drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses, assistant nurses,
practical nurses and nursing auxiiaries.                         LABOR FORCE
Ppul_on p-_ Hospital Red-retal, urban, andn -PDpulation        cot L      or Fce (randbt-E    cnmically ucdive persons, in-
(total, urban.d rural) divided by their rcspeive number of     cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives,
hospital beds available in public and privar geneml andn       students, etc.. covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitlsh and rchabiltaton centers Hospitats are establishments  various countries are not comparable; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanentdv staffed by at least one physician. Establishmeats prov-  F   (percentS-Female labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals,    force.
however, include health and medical centers not permanently staffed  Agricltr (percent)-Labor force in fanmingr forestry hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse, midwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force; 1960, 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities                                          nulisrry (percent)-Labor force in mining, construction, manu-
Admission per Hospital NEd-Total number. of admissions to or   facturing and ecutricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beods.      force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
P Wrtiom Rar (percentS-total, ask,  andfeLe-Participation
HOUSING                                                        or activity rates are computed as total, male, and female labor force
Avene Sie of Hasealdt (peo  per b-sehodd5-ouu. when,           as pcrcentages of totaL male and female population of all ages
adraral-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively; 1960. 1970. and 19S3 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure ofthe population, and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national souwces.
Avra  Nan.ber of Persons per Room-tftal, uran, and rural-      Econmic Dependny RAek-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural     65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                 INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percetq  Of Dullis with Ekca ty-roraL. Urban, ad rural-        Prenwag of Tot Dipambl Ines (bot  in cas and tAt-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households rnked by total house-
tage of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively,        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adued EnlMwent Ratios                                          The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Prenay sdcol - total. male and female-Gross total, male and   levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ages at the primary level as prcentages of  Estiated Absolute Povety nome Level (USS per capital-arban
respetive primary school-age populations. While many countries  and rural-Absolute poverty income lvel is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are refkcted in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estimed Redive Poverty Income Lev  (USS per capita_-urban
education, gross enrollmcnt may exceed 100 percent since some  and rural-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-chool  average per capita personal income or the country. Urban level is
age.                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary scho - total mak andfemale-Comppued as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at kast four years of approved pri-  Es&rimed Popultion beow Absohte Porerry Inme Level (per-
mary instruction; provides general, vocational or teacher training  cent)-urhe and rum!- Prcent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years or age. correspond-  who are absolute poor."
ence courses are generally exduded.
Vocational Enrolheni (percent of sewn&dn.j-Vocatio.al institu-           Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tr.ns include technkal. industrial. or other programs which operate    Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                             June 1985



- 27 -                    ANNEX I
page 5 of 6
OUINTIRY DATA - SINECAL
AREA                                        POPULAT2ON                  NSITY (1983)
Total            196,200 aq. km            6.4 mtillion (mid-1984)        31.7 per sq. kt
Agricultural     109,300 sq. Km           Race of Growth 2.91n            15.2 rural population per sq. km
(1980 - 1985)                  agrtcultural land
FOPULATION CHARACTERISTICS (19oL)                        NULTH (1978)
Crude Birth tace (per 1,000)           46.1              Populatton per physician               13,780
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000)           18.5              Population per hospital bed               900
Ag of 14 years (%)                     "44-              Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000)         140
Urban Population (9)                   34.4
INCOl  DISTRIBUTION (1960)                               DISTRIBUTION OP IAND OWNERSHTP
S of National Inca e                                     Not available
Highet Quinttle                      62.5
Lowest Quintile                       3.2
ACCESS TO PIPED WATER (1982)                             ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (1980)
Occupied dwellings without                               % of Population - Total                   18S
safe water (S)                       63.0                             - Rural               (negligible)
NUTRTION (198-83)                                       EDUCATION (1980)
Caloric intake as % of Requirements    99.0              Adult Literacy Rate .                   10.0
Per Capita Protein Intake (grms/day)   70.0              Prtmry School Enrollment %              48.0
SNP PER CAPITA in 1984 s/: USS380
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1984                      ANNUAL RATE OF CR0319 (9.. Constant Prices)
US SHIn         S          1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-84
GNP at Market Prices        2159.0        100.0           2.5       1.9        0.6       2.3
Cross Domestic Investent     301.8         14.0           1.4       3.0       -2.4      -0.4
Cross National Savings      -110.1         -5.1           2.1       3.1      -31.7      47.6
Current Account Balance     -1.1.9         -19.1
Export of Coods, NFS         806.0         37.3           0.1       1.0       -4.9       0.0
Ixports of Coods, NS        1084.2         50.2           0.2       1.4       -0.2      -1.6
OlTUT. EIPLOYNE   AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1983
Value Added                Labor Force                V.A. Per Worker
USS Kln.         S         million          S             USS            S
Agriculture                   537.1          21.7           1.9         77.0            287          28.0
Industry                      596.7          24.1           0.2         10.0           2456         241.0
Services                     1342.2          54.2          0.3          13.0           4208         414.0
Total                    2476.0          100.0          2.4         100.0           1017        ZW.0
Annual
GDVERNMt FINANCES
80/81       81/82       82183        83184        84/85        Growth rate (9)
T-                actual                 )       (pro.)         80/8o-84s85
(percentages)
Wages and salaries            46          46           43          48            49               8.2
Operating expenditures        37           35          31          33            30               1.6
Interest on public debt        7          10           13          18            20              38.4
Treasury accounts, net        10           9           13           1             1             -41.4
Current expenditures       100          100         100          100          100
(CFAF billions)
Current expenditures         169         182          216         207           219               6.7
Revenues & grants            126         152          177         196           211              13.8
Net budgetary savings        -43          -30         -39         -11            -8
Development expenditures      38           31          39          40            35
Memorandum item:
CDP (current CFAF bn)        649         757          892         978         1,076              13.5
Inflation (9 P.&.)
(QP deflator)          9.5          8.8         9.2         10.7         11.1              10.0
a/  Per capita GNP estimate calculated by the sme conversion technique as the
World Bank Atlas, 1984-85 edition.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange
rate prevailing during the period covered.
not applicable
not available
March 1986



ANNEX I
-28 -                                rage 6 if 6
COUNTRY DATA - SENECAL
MONEY, CREDTT AND PRICES       1982        1983            1984             1985             1986
(CFAF Bln Outstanding end period)              (ProjectiOng)
Money Supply
(end of June) a*            238.1       266.8            276.6            284.7            300.4
Bank Credit to Government
(net)                        70.2        90.4            120.9            126.3            149.8
Bank Credit to Private
Sector                      328.3       377.6            369.2            377.1            399.6
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money as % of GDP             28.2         28.4             27.2             25.1             22.3
General Price Index
(1979 - 100)                 138.9       151.1            165.9            179.3            197.0
Annual Percentage Change in:
General Price Index           10.2          8.8              9.7              8.2             10.0
Bank Credit to
Government (net)            134.8         28.8             33.7              4.5             18.6
Bank Credit to
Private Sector               11.5         15.0             -2.2              2.1              6.0
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1983-85)
1981     1982       1983      1984
=   milloineir                                         (USS Mln.)      S
Petroleum Imports b/             297       251        203      240   Groundnut products             115        21.1
Petreoleum Exports c/            141       139        107      105   Fish and fish products         112        2 .5
Phosphates                     61        11.2
Exports of Goods, NFS            832       918        849      806   Petroleum Products             104        19.0
Imports of Goods, NFS           1335      1275       1172     1084   Fertilizers                     30         5.5
Resource Cap                    -503      -356       -323     -278   Salt                            U1         2.0
Cotton                         17         3.1
Interest Payments (net)           67        62         97      142   Other goods                     83        15.2
Other Factor Payments (net)       27         24        24       23   Encrepot                        13         2.4
Met Transfers (private)           31        30         29       31
Balance on Current Account      -566      -414       -415     -412   Total                          546       100.0
EXTERNAL DEBT AS OF DECEMBER 31. 1984
- IJ~~~sS Mlni.
Private Capital                   66        44         51       91
Capital Grants                   122       107        113      129
Public MLT Capital
Disbursements                  164       228        243      209   Public Debt, incl. guaranteed           1546.1
Amortization                    49         9         17       35   Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                8.7
Debt Relief                     54        78         75       83   Total Outstanding and Disbursed        13TWXI
Net Flow                       169       297        301      257
Other Capital (net) dl            44      -159       -132     -101   NET DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1984
Overall Balance                 -165      -125        -82      -36   Public Debt incl. guaranteed              10.8
Non-guaranteed Private Debt               0.6
Total Outstanding and Disbursed          ITI:
Net foreign assets
(end year)                    -465      -467       -503   -425
IBRD/IDA LENDING (Dec. 31, 1984) (Millions US S)
USS Mln.
Oustanding and Disbursed                19"U7
Undisbursed                      25.7  123.4
Outstanding Incl. Undisbursed  116.6  322.1
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Annual Averages                                End Period
1981            1982           1983            1984                  June 1985
USS 1.00 - CFAF                 271.7           328.6           381.1          437.0                  467.0
CFAF 1.00 - US S                 3.68            3.04            2.62           2.29                    2.14
ai Money and quasi-money.
b/ Crude and derivatives.
cl Debt Service, net of interest accrued on foreign exchange reserves as a percentage of Exports of Goods and
Non-factor Services; after rescheduling.
d/ Includes errors and omissions.
March 1986



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of March 31. 1986) *
Amount (less cancellations)
russ Million)
Loan/Credit
Number        Year    Borrower      Purpose                              Bank       IDA 2/ Undisbursed 2/
Fourteen Loans 1/  and twenty-one Credits fully disbursed               86.74     160.57
1412-T-SE     1977    Senegal       Petite Cote Tourism                  8.0                     1.04
1413-SE       1977    Senegal       Petite Cote Tourism                  5.6                     0.87
775-SE        1978    Senegal       Debi-Lampsar Irrigation                        20.0          0.94
908-SE        1979    Senegal       Education III                                  22.0          6.60
991-SE        1980    Senegal       Small Rural Operations                         11.0          4.05
1810-SE       1960    Senegal       Fourth Highway                      10.0                     5.51
S-26-SE       1980    Senegal       Power Eng. & T.A.                               3.3          0.66
1061-SE       1980    Senegal       T.A. for Planning                               5.3          1.44
1973-SE       1981    SOFISEDIT    Investment Promotion                  6.5                     3.18
1136-SE       1981    Senegal       Investment Promotion                            2.5          2.50
2025-SE       1981    SEFICS        Rail Transport                      19.3                     6.32
1103-SE       1981    Senegal       Forestry                                        9.3          6.28
1176-SE       1982    Senegal       Agricultural Research                          19.5         11.56
1310-SE       1983    Senegal       Rural Health                                   15.0          9.77
1323-SE       1983    Senegal       Petroleum Exploration                           9.5          4.54
1360-SE       1983    Senegal       Phos. Ind. Dev. Eng.                            7.7          7.29
1398-SE       1983    Senegal       Second T.A.-Parapublic                         11.0          8.74
1406-SE       1983    Senegal       E.S. Rural Dev.                                16.1         14.24
1448-SE       1984    Senegal       Fifth Highway                                  10.75         5.56
SF-15-SE      1984    Senegal       Fifth Highway                                  10.75         6.71
1458-SE       1984    Senegal       T.A. for Urban Mgmt. & Rebab.                   3.05         1.59
SF-13-SE      1984    Senegal       T.A. for Urban Mgmt & Rehab.                    2.95         2.96
1459-SE       1984    Senegal       Dakar Container Port                            2.65         2.37
SF-14-SE      1984    Senegal       Dakar Container Port                            4.85        4.85
1554-SE       1985    Senegal       Eleven Centers Water Supply                    24.00        22.83
1632-SE 4/    1986    Senegal       Irrigation T.A.                                 4.9          4.90
1638-SE 41    1986    Senegal       Regional Mgmt.School (CESAG)                    5.5          5.50
1656-SE       1986    Senegal       Structural Adjustment Credit                   20.0         13.55
A-10-SE       1986    Senegal       Structural Adjustment Credit                   44.0         33.33
Total                                                          136.14     446.17      199.02
of which repaid                                               23.42       6.57
Total now outstanding                                          112.72     439.60
IBRD     IDA
Amount sold                           3.Z6    27K
of which has been repaid            3.24    2.01               0.02       0.05
Total now held by Bank and IDA 31                              112.70     439.55
Total undisbursed                                               16.92     182.10      199.02
1/ A loan of USS3.5 million for agricultural credit (584-SE) made in 1969 was cancelled on
March 25, 1971.
2/ Beginning with Credit 1061-SE, credits have been denominated in Special Drawing Rights (SDR).  The
dollar amounts in these columns represent the dollar equivalents at the time of credit negotiations
for the IDA amounts and the USS equivalents as of March 31, 1986, for the undisbursed amounts
(1 SDR = USS1.13827).
31  Prior to exchange adjustments.
7/ Not yet effective.
* The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA
financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive
Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
re  Z of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 1986)
Amount (USS Million)
Equity
Fiscal Year       Obligor                     Type of Business          Loan       Investment         Total
1967           Societe Industrielle         Fertilizer Plant         2.45          1.01             3.46
d'Engrais du Sdn6gal
1972)
1973)          BUD Sdnpgal, S.A.            Vegetable Export          -            0.84             0.84
1976)
1974           SOFISEDIT                    Development               -            0.34             0.34
Finance Company
1980           Banque d'Habitat             Money and Capital         -            0.47             0.47
du Sendgal, S.A.            Market
1980           Societe HotelLere           Tourism                   3.00            -              3.00
du Barachois, S.A.
1982           Industries Chimiques         Fertilizer              25.00            -             25.00
du Senegal
1984           African Seafood             Fish Processing           2.50          0.70             3.20
Plant
Total Gross Comitments                               32.95          3.36            36.31
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments, Sales and Losses                          7.54          1.15             8.69
Total Commitments now held by IFC                    15.91          1.51            17.42
Dndisbursed Balance                                   9.50          0.70           10.20



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SENEGAL
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Supplementing Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: 18 months.
(b) Agency which prepared the project: OPTS/SONATEL.
(c) First presentation to IDA: June 1984.
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: May 1985.
(e) Completion of Negotiations: April 1986.
(f) Estimated credit effectiveness: September 1986.
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
No special IDA implementation action is required.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) SONATEL will seek prior agreement with IDA on any
proposed changes in the investment program that would
increase its cost by more than 1OZ in any one year or
that would substantially alter network balance (para 47);
(b)  (i) performance targets for 1987 and 1988;  (ii) the
targets for each of the subsequent fiscal years will be
agreed to with IDA by March 31 of the preceeding fiscal
year; and (iii) SONATEL will furnish semiannually, for
IDA review, a report on its performance against these
indicator (para 51);
(c) government will: (i) settle its arrears to SONATEL in
accordance with the schedule stipulated in SONATEL's
Performance Contract; (ii) make adequate annual budget
provisions for payment of arrears and consumption; and



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(iii) settle future telecommunications bills within 90
days of billing starting immediately and within 45 days
by the end of FY88 (para 56);
(d) SONATEL will, by December 31, 1986, write off receivables
that are uncollectable (para 56);
(e) SONATEL will: (i) have its accounts audited annually by
external auditors acceptable to IDA; (ii) present its
unaudited statements to IDA within four months after the
end of each fiscal year; and (iii) present the external
auditor's report within six months after the end of each
fiscal year (para 57);
(f) SONATEL will finance from net internal cash generation
not less than 50% of investment expenditures, on a moving
three year average basis, in any one year during the
project implementation period (para 60);
(g) (i) any services rendered by SONATEL to OPCE will be paid
in full by the latter; and (ii) the level of the annual
subsidy from SONATEL to OPCE will decline each year and
end by June 30, 1989 (para 62).
(h) SONATEL will carry out, and furnish to IDA, a tariff
stLdy by January 1, 1988, and implement its
recommendations, as appropriate, effective July 1, 1988
(para 66).
3.   Conditions of effectiveness of the credit are:
(a) signature of the performance contract (para 39);
(b)  fullfillment of the conditions of effectiveness of the
CCCE and AfDB loans (para 47);
(c) the issuance of invitations to bid for goods and services
to be financed by IDA for an amount equivalent to 50% of
the credit amount (para 48);
(d) appointment of consultants with terms of reference and
qualifications acceptable to IDA (para 52);
(e) presentation of an accounts receivable aging schedule
(para 56);
(f) agreement between Government and SONATEL on the
definitive opening balance sheet (para 59); and
(g) conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement, acceptable to
IDA, between Government and SONATEL (paia 61).



MUD 19%
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
DEUXIEME PROJET DE TELECOMMUNICATIONS
IT.11 ~ ~ ~   ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      ~                           A RIA I
-E                -  I ,T~
[w_ \ v t01r 1tt}//  BA*    "-8                                                                                                                       M A  U R I T N     I A
Pwr\  0   >,>-       A   ,* >/ > 'DCI MAO U R_E I.  T ,A
.Er     l  DIURU  _-
RUT  ~~~~' '~~'         GOSSAS L2 L IAI 
kO(Eg LLNGUERE 91 5                                                                             T.    L O5      U   I  S, ,
(f      i ADT.IinC                                                                                                    1.                                                                                                        T  ! , T  A   M   B A    C   O U   N   1 C  C    U    N    D-
KAI ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
S r L /.  7 z L  !                                                 T A     M    B j9e/ ,3~@[_+_  A ,C O U N C ~  O      UA                  J     OUA   sb  
-             DCC,         Tw2L                    N    B               KO    L-         D EISAC GM ;AEA              ,,  .
LOUCIA~
ZII A NRA                 ,        ~        Cf                                                                          l
I~~~~~~N                                 E  u     i.9-Coz                                       
|                    Z4GUIN~~~CldOt     m        -    .,-    /'                           /                                                                                XU EOOU--     ,    _TO_U 
- A M                            B                           \ A    D             J                                                                                             L 
_.GUINEA-?BISSAU                       )                                                                   A                                         AELOMEAUD






