OFFICIAL
CREDIT NUMBER 1714 SE
Project Agreement
(Second Telecommunications Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SOCIETE NATIONALE DES TELECOMMUNICATIONS
(SONATEL)
Dated                             , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1714 SE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated          ,CI   tr    4P-7      1986, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and
SOCIETE NATIONALE DES TELECOMMUNICATIONS (SONATEL).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between Republic of Senegal (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
nineteen million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 19,400,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that SONATEL
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and SONATEL, the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to SONATEL on the terms and conditions set forth in
said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS SONATEL, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agree-
ment;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) SONATEL declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out


﻿-2-
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and
telecommunications practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, SONATEL shall carry out the Project in accor-
dance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time
by agreement between the Association and SONATEL.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
of consultants' services required for the Project shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. SONATEL shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project
Agreement.
Section 2.04. SONATEL shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, SONATEL shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) SONATEL shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) SONATEL shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by SONATEL of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.06. SONATEL shall: (a) not later than January 1,
1988, furnish to the Association for itr review, the study
carried out under Part F.4 of the Project; and (b) not later than
July 1, 1988, carry out such recommendations of said study as
shall be acceptable to SONATEL, the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SONATEL
Section 3.01. SONATEL shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, and telecommunications practices under the supervision
of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent
staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. SONATEL shall at all times operate and main-,
tain its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and telecommunications practices.
Section 3.03. SONATEL shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. SONATEL shall: (a) not later than March 31,
1988, and thereafter on March 31 of each year the Project is
executed, reach agreement with the Association on performance
targets satisfactory to the Association, in the areas of service
quality, financial performance, and operating efficiency to be
attained by SONATEL in its subsequent fiscal year; and (b)
submit, not later than June 30 and December 31 of each year the
Project is executed, a report setting forth its performance as
measured against said agreed performance targets.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SONATEL shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.


﻿-4-
(b) SONATEL shall:
(i)  have   its  accounts   and   financial  statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) and the Special Account
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, the unaudited copies
of its financial statements for such year;
(iii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in 6uch detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iv) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and financial statements
as well as the audit thereof and said records, as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, SONATEL shall:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the   Association's  representatives   to
examine such records; and


﻿-5-
(iv) ensure that such sepa ate accounts are included in
the annual audit refei red to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of such
expenditures were used for the purposes for which
they were provided.
Section 4.02, SONATEL shall, not later than December 31,
1986, write off receivables deemed uncollectible in accordance
with established accounting practices.
Section 4.03. SONATEL shall not, without the Association's
prior approval, undertake any investment in the telecommunica-
tions sector that would: (a) increase the cost of its 1986 - 1992
investment program by more than 10% in any year; or (b) in the
opinion of the Association substantially alter said investment
program.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, SONATEL shall produce, for each of its fiscal years during
which the Project is executed, starting with its fiscal year
ending on June 30, 1987, funds from internal sources equivalent
to not less than 50% of the average of SONATEL's capital
expenditures ircurred, or expected to be incurred in its current,
previous and next following fiscal year.
(b) Before March 31 in each of its fiscal years, SONATEL
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by SONATEL and
satisfactory to the Association, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year,
the preceding year and the next following fiscal year and shall
furnish to the Association the results of such review upon its
completion.
(c) If any such review shows that SONATEL would not meet
the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for SONATEL's fiscal
year covered by such review, SONATEL shall promptly take all
necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments
of the structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such
requirements.


﻿-6-
(d) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "funds from internal sources" means the
difference between:
(A)  the sum of revenues from all sources related
to operations, consumer deposits and consumer
contributions in aid of construction and net
non-operating income; and
(B) the sum of all expenses related to opera-
tions   including  administration,   adequate
maintenance and taxes, payments in lieu of
taxes and provisions for bad debts, (exclud-
ing provision for depreciation and other
non-cash operating charges), debt service
requirements, all cash dividends and other
cash distributions of surplus, and other cash
outflows other than capital expenditures.
(ii) The term "net non-operating income" means the
difference between:
(A) revenues from all' sources other than those
related to operations; and
(B) expenses, including taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation of
revenues in (A) above.
(iii) The term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
charges on, debt.
(iv) The term "capital expenditures" means all expendi-
tures incurred on account of long-term fixed
assets, including interest charged to construc-
tion, if any, related to operations.
(v) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the


﻿-7-
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the
basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the
Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of SONATEL thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 15 years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in para-
graph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly
notify SONATEL of this event.
Section 5.03, All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have


﻿-8-
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For SONATEL:
6, Rue Wagane Diouf
B.P. 69
Dakar, Senegal SNT
Telex:
950 SG
1296 SG
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of SONATEL, may be taken or executed by
SONATEL's General Director or such other person or persons as he
shall designate in writing, and SONATEL shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
SOCIETE NATIONALE DES TELECOMMUNICATIONS
ByizedRepresentativ
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped in packages estimated to cost the equivalent of at least
100,000 dollars each.
Part B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the West
African Economic Community may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A hereof, SONATEL may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Test instruments, tools and specialized vehicles may be
procured under contracts awarded through limited international
bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of
bids invited from a list of at least three qualified suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with the proce-
dures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding
paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).


﻿- 11 -
2.   Equipment and spare parts for the improvement of operation
and maintenance of existing installations on SONATEL's long
distance and regional transmission and switching systems, and for
completion or rehabilitation of said installations up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 1,100,000
dollars, may be purchased by direct negotiated purchases from the
actual manufacturer or supplier of equipment already in place, if
in the opinion of the Association: (a) such items cannot be
obtained from another source; and (b) the cost of such items is
reasonable.
Part E.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract, together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3, shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be re-
tained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 12 -
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist SONATEL in carrying out Part G of the
Project, SONATEL shall employ planning, telecommunications, data
processing, management information, tariffs and supply logistics,
training   and  regulatory   consultants   whose  qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. When financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.


﻿-13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
FY ending June 30             1985/86   1986/87   1987/88   1988/89    1989/90   1990/91   1991/92
"TELECOM 1"1
1.1 Dakar
1.2 Engineering
1.3 Diourbel
1.4 Ziguinchor
1.5 Kaolack
1.6 M'wave links                                                     j Y  z
"TELECOM 2"                                                          f         f
2.1 Thies */                             B                   Y
2.2 Laboratory */                                                        Y--
2.3 CapSkiring */Y
2.4 Dakar Telex               B-    4--f     --
"TELECOM 3"
3.1 CapVert */                  B
3.2 Zig., Kolda, Tamb. */               B          X             Y                       q
3.3 L'Axe Nord */                                                                        f Y
3.4 Nat. Maint. Plan */                        B       X.       ...                    .Z
"TELECOM 4"
4.1 CapVert */                  B-                      Y
4.2 CTI                                                B                      Y
4.3 Earth Station                                                          B                   .
4.4 Submarine Cable                                  B            XY
4.5 Kaolack, Fatick */                          f         f B                        Y
"Regional Works"
5.1 Various*/                            work----ongoing-Ithroughout -periodi
*/Part of the Project                  Legend: B - Invitation to bid
X - Official date of contract
Y - Delivery in Senegal
Z - Provisional acceptance
NOTE: "Telecom 1, 2, 3, and 4" and "Regional Works" are titles of groupings in SONATEL's
investment program; they do not refer to separate projects.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


