AOFFICIAL
NUM BER 1714 SE
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Telecommunications Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated     ,00..       4           1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1714 SE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       &    $0&6ax     D-7    , 1986, between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
foreign exchange financing of the Project;
(B)' the Project will be carried out by SONATEL with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Bor-
rower will make available to SONATEL the proceeds of the Credit
as provided in this Agreement; and
(C) the Borrower intends to contract from Caisse Centrale
de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) a loan (the CCCE Loa.< in an
amount equivalent to CFAF 7,500,000,000 to assist in financing
part of the Project-on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the CCCE Loan Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower and CCCE;
(D) the Borrower intends to contract from the African
Development Bank (AfDB) a loan (the AfDB Loan) in an amount equi-
valent to approximately CFAF 4,525,000,000 to assist in financing
part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the AfDB Loan Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower and AfDB;
(E) the Borrower intends to contract from the Banque Ouest-
Africaine de Developpement (BOAD) a loan (the BOAD Loan) in an
amount equivalent to approximately, CFAF 1,500,000,000 to assist
in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the BOAD Loan Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and BOAD; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing,-to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and SONATEL;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the deletion of the last sentence of Section 3.02
thereof, (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have tha following
meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and SONATEL of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to    be
entered into between the Borrower and SONATEL pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(c) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(d)  "OPCE"  means  Office   des  Postes  et  de  la  Caisse
d'Epargne, the postal services of the Borrower;
(e) "Contrat Plan" in,--as the contract concluded between the
Borrower  and   SONATEL  in   1986,  setting   forth  the  mutual
obligations of the Borrower and SONATEL to achieve SONATEL's
operational targets, as the same may be amended from time to
time;
(f) "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower; and
(g) "entity of the Public Sector" means any entity in which
50% or more of the equity is owned by the Borrower or any sub-
division thereof.


﻿- 3-F
-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section  2.01. The Association     agrees  to  lend  to  the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to nineteen million four hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 19,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in convertible CFAF a special account in the
name of SONATEL in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Associacion. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1993 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be
cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.


﻿Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1 commencing September 1, 1996, and ending March 1,
2036. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on March 1, 2006 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause SONATEL to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of
SONATEL therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all
action, including adjustment of telecommunication structures and
tariff levels, the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable SONATEL to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
SONATEL under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and SONATEL, under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Association and which shall
include a repayment period of twenty years including a grace
period of five years and an interest rate per annum equal to the
Bank's interest rate prevailing at the date of this Agreement,
the foreign exchange risk being borne by SONATEL.


﻿-5 -
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the Genetal Conditions (relating to in-
surance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively)
shall be carried out by SONATEL pursuant to Section 2.03 of the
Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures
required on its part to ensure that, with regard to services
rendered by SONATEL to the Borrower and its municipalities or any
other entity of the Public Sector:
(a) all amounts billed and not settled as of March 31, 1986
shall be settled in accordance with the schedule set forth in the
Contrat Plan;
(b) all bills, from said date onwards, shall be paid within
a period of 90 days from the billing date; said period shall be
reduced to at most 60 days by June 30, 1987, and to at most 45
days by June 30, 1988; and
(c) separate and adequate provision shall be made in its
national budget and in the budgets of its municipalities or any
other entity of the Public Sector to cover payment of arrears
and annual forecasts of billings in respect of the annual use of
telecommunications services by all government departments and
municipalities or any other entity of the Public Sector. The


﻿-6-
Borrower shall ensure that no services shall be requested from
SONATEL by itself or its municipalities or any other entity of
the Public Sector which shall not be covered by said budget
provisions, unless a corresponding adequate additional provision
shall also have been made in their respective budgets to meet the
cost thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrows!     shall ensure   that: (a) any
services rendered by SONATEL to OPCE shall be paid in full by the
latter; and (b) the level of the annual subsidy from SONATEL to
OPCE shall decline each year and end not later than June 30,
1989.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) SONATEL shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
or the Contrat Plan;
(b) the Borrower shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the Contrat
Plan;
(c) as a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situa-
tion shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
SONATEL will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement;
(d) Law No. 85/36 of July 23, 1985 of the Borrower
establishing   SONATEL  shall   have  been   amended,  suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of SONATEL to perform any of its
oblikxtions under the Project Agreement;
(e) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of SONATEL or for the suspension of its operations;


﻿- 7 -
(f) the BOAD Loan Agreement shall have failed to become
effective by June 30, 1987, or such later date as the Association
may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this para-
graph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
faction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project
are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement;
(g) the Borrower or SONATEL shall have amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived the Contrat Plan without prior
approval of the Association; and
(h) (i) subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the CCCE Loan, the AfDB Loan or
the BOAD Loan made to the Borrower for the
financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and pay-
able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the  Association   that:   (A)   such  suspension,
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caund by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower and SONATEL;


﻿- 8 -
(b) the events specified in paragraphs (d), (e), (f) and
(g) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c) the events specified in paragraph (h) (i) (B) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso
of paragraph (h) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as ad-
ditional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and SONATEL;
(b) the consultants services for Part F.1., 2, 3 and 5 of
the Project have been contracted for in a manner acceptable to
the Association;
(c) invitations to bid for goods and services for the
Project, to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
estimated   to  cost   at  least  the   aggregate  equivalent   of
SDR 9,700,000 have been issued;
(d) the CCCE Loan Agreement and the AfDB Loan Agreement
have been executed and delivered and all conditions precedent to
their effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals thereunder, except, as the case may be, for the
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled;
(e) the Contrat Plan has been signed by the Borrower and
SONATEL;
(f) SONATEL has provided the Association with an aging
schedule of all its accounts receivable; and
(g) the Association has been advised by the Borrower that
the opening balance sheet for SONATEL has been agreed upon by the
Borrower and SONATEL.


﻿-9-
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized and
signed by SONATEL, and is legally binding upon SONATEL in
accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loa.. Agreement has been duly
authorized and signed by the Borrower and SONATEL and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and SONATEL in accordance with its
terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sec-
tions 4.01 and 4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine
on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on the date 15 years after the date of this Agree-
ment, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere de l'Economie
et des Finances
Rue Charles Laine
B. P. 4017
Dakar, Senegal
Cable address:                        Telex:
MINIFINANCES                        3203 SG
Dakar, Senegal


﻿- 10 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                         Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUSLIC OF SENEGAL
Byf3~        9O~/4.
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
A   k .Regional Vice President
rC         Western Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category             SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Switching equip-         6,175,000    )
ment, including                      )
installation                         )
(2) Local cable              2,380,000    )
network and                          )
subscriber                           )
material,                            )
including                            )
installation                         )
)    100% of foreign
(3) Transmission             6,525,000    )    expenditures
equipment,                           )
including                            )
installation                         )
(4) Power and air--            625,000    )
conditioning                         )
equipment                            )
(5) Tools, instru-             700,000    )
ments and                            )
specialized                          )
vehicles                             )
(6) Technical                  350,000              100%
assistance
(7) Unallocated              2,645,000
TOTAL              19,400,000


﻿- 12 -
2.   For  the  purposes   of  this  Schedule  the  term  "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied
from the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower
is also that of another country from the territory of which goods
or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such
goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures".
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve operational
efficiency and maintenance of the Borrower's telecommunications
network, and to increase telecommunications system utilization
through rehabilitation of existing equipment and network expan-
sion.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
1.   Installation of:
(a) about   24,000  lines of mainly    electronic  switching
equipment and associated cable networks and intra-
regional junction switching and transmission in the
Cap-Vert region;
(b) about 3,400 lines of electronic switching equipment and
cable networks for eight cities in the Ziguinchor,
Kolda and Tambacounda regions, including construction
of related buildings and interurban transmission
facilities; and
(c) about 7,200 lines of electronic switching equipment and
cable networks for ten stations in the Thies, Kaolack
and Fatick regions, including construction of related
building and interurban transmission facilities.
2.   Construction of facilities for linking Cap Skiring and
Boucote to the national telecommunications network.
Part B:
Rehabilitation of the "Axe Nord" transmission link (Thies -
St. Louis - Richard Toll - Bakel), with branches and
associated facilities.
Part C:
Establishing and equipping within SONATEL of a national
maintenance organization for telecommunications installa-
tions.


﻿- 14 -
Part D:
Rehabilitation of existing telecommunication installations
and cable networks.
Part E:
Installation of feeder links, multiplex equipment and
execution of other telecommunication works in all regions.
Part F:
1.   Strengthening of SONATEL's medium and long-term telecom-
munications sector planning and improvement of its procure-
ment and project implementation capacity;
2.   establishment of a data processing system for SONATEL's
billing and collection, payroll and major accounting oper-
ations;
3.   establishment of a twnagemeat information system to produce
financial and technical reports;
4.   Study of the structures and levels of telecommunication
tariffs; and
5.   improvement of SONATEL's logistics capacity in the areas of
supplies, vehicles and workshop facilities.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1992.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount in
CFAF equivalent to 1,500,000 dollars to be withdrawn from the
Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SONATEL's
payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 16 -
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by SONATEL out of the Special Account
for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to para-
graph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such and
other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request,
showing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by
the Borrower from the Credit Account in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any outstanding agreement to reimburse made by
the Association and of any outstanding special
commitment   entered  into   by   the  Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Associ-
ation shall specify by notice to the Borrower and SONATEL. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice have been or will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.


﻿- 17 -
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit or cause
SONATEL to deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Associa-
tion shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Association into
the Special Azcount shall be made until the Borrower or SONATEL
has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
or cause SONATEL to refund to the Association such outstanding
amount for crediting to the Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


