Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFmCLA USE ONLY
x~. 9ct29c6
Report No. P-4274-CHA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
TO THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO t130 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
TIANJIN PORT PROJECT
March 25, 1986
1This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit - Yuan (Y)
Calendar 1985        March 1986
$1.0 = Y2.96            Y 3.20
Y 1.0 = $0.34             $0.31
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
MEASUREMENT EQUIVALENTS
Metric System                  British/US system
1 meter (m)             =      3.281 feet
I square meter Cm2)    =       10.764 square feet
1 cubic meter (m3)      =      35.315 cubic feet
1 kilometer (km)               0 0.621 mile
1 ton-km                =      0.621 ton-mile
1 ton                   =      2,208 pounds
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
CHC       =  Cargo Handling Corporation
cif       =  Cost, insurance and freight
COSCO     =  China Ocean Shipping Corporation
dwt       =  Dead weight ton
fob       =  Free on board
MLW       =  Mean Low Water
MOC       =  Ministry of Communications
MOF       =  Ministry of Finance
nrt       =  Net registered ton
THCDC     =  Tianjin Harbor Construction and Development
Company
TPA       =  Tianjin Port Authority
POC       =  Port Operating Company
SPC       =  State Planning Commission



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
TIANJIN PORT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:     Tianjin Port Authority (TPA)
Amount:          $130 million
Terms:           Twenty years, including five years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Relending
Terms:        GOC procedures for ports subsector; currently 20 years
including 5 years of grace at 4Z p.a. interest. TPA will
bear the foreign exchange risk between the dollar and the
Borrower's currency and commitment charges on the subsidiary
loan.
Project
Description:   The project will contribute to China's overall plan to remove
bottlenecks in the port subsector by constructing deepwater
berths at key ports by 1990. The project will meet the
Government's objectives by:  supporting infrastructure
development at the Tianjin port; providing training in plan-
ning, design, control and operation of ports; including pre-
paration of a master plan for the Tianjin port; providing
equipment for the develorent of computerized operations and
information systems, andma study on reducing siltation in the
port; and establishing the Tianjin Port Development Center
for training, research, and development studies. The project
will also contribute to the development of an important new
organizational model for port operation and management in
China.
Specifically, the project will: (a) increase capacity of the
Tianjin port by constructing 2,150 m of quaywalls for timber,
construction material and general cargo berths with
the necessary works like dredging, reclamation, railways,
pavement, roadways, utilities, and supply of equipment;
(b) provide technical assistance and training for port
personnel to minimize siltation, to extend computer control
of operations, to prepare a master plan for the port and to
further develop management information systems; and
(c) establish the Tianjin Port Development Center and provide
the necessary equipment and technical assistance.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oliciui dute Its contents may not otherwise be disclod without World Bnk authborintion.



- ii -
Risks:           There are no unusual risks associated with the project in
that -allicomponenta involve proven technology that has been
in extended use in-China or in other parts of the world. The
training thatk will be provided to the personnel of the
,Tianjin Port Authority (TPA) to construct and operate the new
project will assure its proper function and use. The risk
involves possible delays in project start-up due to the
introduction of ICB for civil works in this subsector. To
minimize this risk, appropriate Bank assistance and
supervision will be provided in the early project stages.
Estimated
Project Costs:
Local             Foreign         Total
---  -    ($ million    -      -
Civil works  92.0              49.8              141.8
Equipment    11.2              51.1              62.3
Training     2.0                 0.4               2.4
Technical assistance             0.2               3.1           3.3
Subtotal                 105.4             104.4          209.8
Contingencies
Physical     10.6               10.4             21.0
Price        23.2              28.0               51.2
Total Project Cost /a   139.2              142.8          282.0
Total Financing Required       139.2             142.8         282.0
Financing Plan:
Bank Loan    -                 130.0             130.0
TPA/covernment                 139.2              12.8         152.0
Total   139.2            142.8             282.0
Estimated
Disbursements:
Bank FY       87       88      89       90      91       92
Annual         7         19       23      41       20      20
Cumulative    7          26       49      90      110     130
Economic Rate of Return 21%
Staff Appraisal Report:  No.5856-CHA, dated March 17, 1986
Map IBRD No. 18961
/a Includes customs duties of about $5.0 million.



REPbRT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONWAND DEVELOPMENT
TO'THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA FOR THE TIANJIN-PORT-PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report-and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the People's Republic of China to help finance the Ti'anjin Port Project.
The loan of $130 million would have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The Government would onlend
the proceeds of the loan to the Tianjin Port Authority (TPA) under.-a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, with a 20-year term including 5 years of grace and
an interest rate of 4.0Z p.a. TPA would bear the foreign exchange risk
(between the dollar and the Borrower's currency) and commitment charges on the
subsidiary loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A country economic report entitled, "China: Long-Term Issues and
Options" (No. 5206-CHA) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
May 22, 1985. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Background
3.        Since 1978, China has initiated economic reforms in both rural and
urban areas and in the external sector. Reforms have been greatest in rural
areas. Following some experiments with the abolition of collective farming in
impoverished areas, the Government implemented a comprehensive restructuring
of rural institutions based on various forms of the "production responsibility
system". By 1983 the farm household had become the fundamental unit of
management and production in agriculture, within a framework of collective or
state ownership of land and major fixed assets. Reforms have not yet proceed-
ed as far in the urban economy, but there have been significant changes in
enterprise management and finance. The scope for collective and individual
economic activities has been enlarged and state enterprises have been allowed
greater freedom in production, pricing and marketing above their mandatory
plan targets. State enterprises have also been allowed to retain some profits
and investment projects have increasingly been financed on a loan rather than
a grant basis.
4.        In international trade and investment, China has promoted opening up
to the rest of the world in recent years. Between 1978 and 1984, the share of
exports to GDP nearly doubled to about 10X, a ratio similar to other large
economies such as the U.S. and Brazil. Foreign investment has been encour-
aged, first through establishment of four Special Economic Zones and signing
of joint venture contracts for off-shore oil exploration, and more recently
through opening of several coastal cities to foreign investment.



-2-
Growth and Stabilization
5.        Reforms have helped stimulate rapid development of the whole
economy. Real GDP growth averaged 5% p.a. between 1978 and 1981 and 10% p.a.
between 1981 and 1984. During these six years, per capita incomes in real
terms more than doubled in rural areas and increased by more than 50Z in urban
areas. Agriculture has continued its remarkably strong performance, with
gross agricultural output value (excluding rural industry and commerce) rising
at nearly 11% p.a. between 1981 and 1984 and grain output at 8Z p.a. (reaching
over 400 million tons in 1984). Cash crops and animal husbandry, stimulated
by rising demand and attractive prices, have also grown rapidly. Gross indus-
trial output value grew at over 10 p.a. over the same period, with heavy
industry growing somewhat faster than light industry (12Z p.a. vs. 9% p.a.).
If rural industrial output is included, total industrial output value grew at
close to 12% p.a. in real terms between 1981 and 1984. The energy constraint
on industrial growth was eased by rising coal output (8Z p.a. between 1981 and
1984), renewed increases in crude oil production (4% p.a. between 1981 and
1984) and improvements in the efficiency of energy utilization (primary
commercial energy consumption grew only 60% as fast as GDP between 1981 and
1984). Manufactured exports growth at 8% p.a. between 1981 and 1984 was
slower than during the 1978-81 period but it started from a much higher base
and in the face of worsening world market conditions.
6.        The Government continues to face difficulties in combining system
reform and rapid overall growth with maintenance of economic stability.
During 1979 and 1980, China experienced large budget and current account
:eficits combined with excessive investment and inflationary pressures. In
rz.sponse, a strict stabilization program was introduced in 1981 relying mainly
on administrative controls on investment spending. The prceram slowed growth
but also helped lower the budget deficit from about 5% of GDP in 1979 to less
than 1% in 1981, reduce inflation to around 2% p.a., and change China's
external position to one of current account surpluses averaging nearly
$4 billion during 1982-84. As a result, foreign debt and debt service ratios
remained at low levels ($6.4 billion and 5.5% respectively in 1983) and
China's foreign currency reserves (excluding gold) rose to $17 billion (over
7 months' imports) by mid-1984.
7.        This comfortable balance of payments position, achieved at the cost
of drastic reductions in investment spending and some recentralization of
investment decisionmaking, disappeared rapidly durirg rhe course of 1984 and
early 1985.  Partly as a result of decentralization of decisionmaking and the
lack of effective indirect levers, there was a rapid acceleration of invest-
ment and consumption during 1984 and the first half of 1985 causing the
economy to overheat. Real GDP grew by 14% during 1984, while average wages in
state-owned enterprises rose by 20% and domestic credit grew by 362. The
retail price index rose by only 3% in 1984, but inflation is expected to be
higher in 1985. Imports of capital goods increased from $4 billion in 1983 to
over $7 billion in 1984, with most of the increase occurring in the second
half of the year. There was also a rapid expansion in consumer goods
imports. These trends continued during early 1985. As a result, foreign
exchange reserves (excluding gold) had fallen to about $10 billion by
July 1985 (equivalent to 3.1 months of exports), and the current account



-3-
deficit for the year is likely to be in the range of $10 billion. The Govern-
ment has responded quickly by launching a strict stabilization program that
includes further increases in interest rates as well as a series of adminis-
trative directives governing bank credit and project approval. As a result,
aggregate credit and demand as well as new import orders have begun to slow,
though total imports will continue to rise as past orders are filled.
Recent Reforms
8.        The Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party issued a major
document on "reform of the economic structure" in October 1984. Recent reform
developments have been fully in accordance with the directions indicated in
the October decision: (a) state enterprises should be made fully independent
units which pursue profits and are responsible for losses; (b) the scope of
mandatory planning should be reduced and replaced by indicative planning while
the focus of planning should shift from annual to medium- and long-term
guidance planning; (c) a more rational price system should be introduced by
reducing the role of state-controlled prices and increasing the role of
"floating" and free market prices; and (d) the tax system should be improved,
finance and banking should be reformed and a larger role should be given to
indirect macroeconomic regulation through instruments such as tax, credit and
pricing policy.
9.        Rural reforms have continued to progress more rapidly than reforms
elsewhere in the economy. There has been a remarkable spread of nonagri-
cultural activities like processing, transport, and commerce. "Specialized
households" (which concentrate on cash crops, animal husbandry, or nonagri-
cultural activities) and pooling of capital by small groups of households in
various types of ventures are becoming increasingly common forms of economic
organization in China's rural areas. Wholesale markets for some agricultural
products have emerged. To encourage investment in land improvement and devel-
opment, farming contracts between collective and peasant households for the
use of l-id (which typically had been fixed for no more than 3-5 years) can
now be extended to as long as 15-20 years. In early 1985, the system of
agricultural procurement was changed. Previously the Government purchased
quota output of grain and other crops at relatively low prices and stood ready
to purchase all above-quota output at a higher price. Under the new system,
procurement up to a certain amount (below former quota procurement) is based
on contracts concluded voluntarily between peasants and procurement agen-
cies. Prices for these purchases are based on the relatively high average
price of past years. Output above the contracted amount must be sold by
peasants directly on the free market, but the Government will intervene to
purchase grain if the price falls to the original low quota procurement
price. Thus a considerably larger portion of basic crop production will be
produced for and traded on markets with flexible prices.
10.       The momentum of urban reforms has revived, with significant progress
on several fronts. In enterprise management, the focus has been on broadening
and delineating the decisionmaking authority of urban enterprises. Profit
retention now extends to virtually all state-owned industrial enterprises and
to nonindustrial sectors like transport, commerce, construction, and other
services. Urban collectives and individual enterprises, as well as a variety



-4-
of joint ventures between them and state enterprises, have grown rapidly (the
number employed in urban individual enterprises rose from 150,000 in 1978 to
2.31 million in 1983).
11.       In financial reforms, the most important new development has been
the implementation of a profit tax system to replace profit remittances by
state enterprises to the government budget. Though most enterprises have
switched to this system, the benefits have been limited because of the
application of a different effective tax rate for each enterprise, to offset
the impact of distorted relative prices and other factors. Similar problems
have resulted in the abandonment of an attempt to impose a fee or charge on
the fixed capital provided to state enterprises by the Government, and they
have hindered the shift from grant to loan financing of new fixed invest-
ment. Financial discipline at the enterprise level remains weak, in spite of
efforts to strengthen accounting and auditing systems and more strictly
enforce existing financial regulations.
12.       Some progress has been made with price reform.  The majority of
agriculture commodity prices were decontrolled even before the recent change
in pricing and procurement of grain. Prices of many minor consumer goods are
also set by negotiations between producers and commercial units. "Floating
prices" (up to 20X above or below official prices) are now allowed for many
industrial producer goods (either for all output or for output above the
mandatory plan target). Price adjustments for key energy products and raw
materials (which in many cases are severely underpriced) and for subsidized
basic consumer goods like grain and edible oil have proven more difficult to
implement, hindered by the potential impact of price changes on urban living
standards and on the finances of energy-using enterprises. Nevertheless, some
price rises have occurred (e.g., for coal and petroleum), and moreover the
share of free market transactions, at largely uncontrolled prices, has
increased in recent years. Gradually over time, and only partly as a result
of conscious policy, a two-tier system is emerging; a large but shrinking
share of the total supply of most important goods is subject to mandatory plan
allocation and administratively set prices, while at the margin a substantial
and growing share is allocated by the market mechanism, largely at flexible
prices. This pattern may permit China to "grow out of the plan" in a rela-
tively smooth transition, though there are obvious threats to this strategy
arising from the strong incentive for arbitrage between planned and unplanned
realms.
13.       The Government recognizes the need to develop new tools of indirect
macroeconomic management and has taken some steps to do so. The People's Bank
of China was established as a separate central bank at the beginning of 1984,
with its commercial banking functions taken on by the newly created Industrial
and Commercial Bank of China. In 1985, new methods of credit planning and
control were introduced and lower-level and specialized banks were given
significant redeposit requirements. Interest rates (including deposit rates)
were also raised in 1985, with some move toward unification of rates and
development of a term structure resembling that in other countries. Technical
transformation loans with a maturity less than one year and loans for working
capital now carry the same 7.9% interest rate while loans of longer maturity
carry higher rates, up to 10.8% for 10-year loans. However, interest rates on



-5-
budgetary capital construction loans (formerly grants) remain low and there
are a variety of directed credit schemes. On the external side greater use is
now being made of the exchange rate. The old internal settlement rate was
abolished at the beginning of 1985 and between January and end-October 1985
the rate against the U.S. dollar declined by over 13Z. Despite these changes
progress in developing new indirect levers of control has been slow. Recent
difficulties in securing macroeconomic belance highlight the need to
strengthen institutions and macroeconomic management tools (including
monetary, fiscal, and exchange rate instruments) for a decentralized and more
market-oriented economy.
Long-Term Issues and Prospects
14.       In September 1985 a national party conference adopted a proposal
which will be the basis for drafting a new Seventh Five Year Plan covering the
period 1986-90.  The proposal reaffirms a political comhitment to economic
reform and provides guidelines for future reform and development. One of the
main objectives of the plan will be to create a favorable environment for
reform which, in turn, will set the stage for future development. Target
growth rates (7% p.a. for industry, 6% for agriculture, a little over 7Z for
GNP) are below rates of growth achieved with the Sixth Five Year Plan, invest-
ment i. to be restrained in the next few years, and emphasis is to be placed
upon quality rather than quantity of output. It is felt that slower growth
will facilitate reform.
15.       The plan proposal identifies three main areas of reform.  First,
enterprise management and incentives are to be improved by: giving enterprises
greater autonomy in production, pricing, and employment decisions; lowering
and equalizing taxes; increasing competition; increasing accountability for
performance; and reforming personnel procedures. In addition, some small
state enterprises will be turned over to collective or individual management
through contract or lease. Second, the role of the market is to be extended
and market networks strengthened. The scope of mandatory planning will be
further reduced and markets for capital, technology, and labor will gradually
be developed. Third, the emphasis of planning will shift from detailed admin-
istrative control to indirect macroeconomic control through economic policy.
To this end a series of mutually reinforcing reforms in the planning, pricing,
fiscal, banking, and labor and wage systems will be introduced during the plan
period.
16.       Implementation of the plan proposal will help foster an environment
in which fundamental reforms can be gradually implemented in a coordinated
way. But specific policy measures will take time to design and then to imple-
ment. Many of the reforms required will be difficult, particularly since
reforms in different areas are closely interrelated, and thus appropriate
sequencing and coordination are essential. For example, price reform in the
absence of improvements in enterprise financial discipline will have limited
benefits, yet the more profit-oriented behavior that would result from tighter
financial discipline would exacerbate the adverse impact of distorted
prices. Similarly, reform of the labor allocarion system will be incomplete
without eliminating many of the "social responsibilities" of enterprises
(which now provide housing, medical care, and pensions for their workers and



-6-
in many cases education and jobs for workers' children) and replacing them
with Government-supported social service programs. The plan proposal suggests
moving in this direction by comnercializing housing.
17.       China's objective of quadrupling the gross output value of industry
and agriculture between 1980 and 2000 (which means GDP growth of well over 6Z
p.a.) will tequire significant improvements in efficiency as well as continued
high saving and investment rates. The plan proposal recognizes there must be
major structural changes in the economy over the next two decades, including a
reduction in the share of agriculture, a rise in the share of industry and
services (which at present is unusually low), and substantial urbanization.
There will also be a shift within agriculture, away from grain and basic crops
and into cash crops and animal husbandry. The new plan will emphasize
development of the service sector. mainly through removing restrictions on
collective and individual activity. Urban development will focus on small and
medium sized cities and towns while restrictions on growth of large urban
areas will continue.
18.       Certain physical/technical constraints will hinder the attempt to
achieve China's targets for the year 2000 and its longer-term goal of catching
up with developed countries. Despite rapid growth and substantial improve-
ments in efficiency in recent years, agriculture may again become a constraint
on overall growth, since land in China is severely limited. In energy, short-
ages of fuel (primarily coal) and electricity may continue to constrain growth
in transport and commercial infrastructure. Without large new investments and
improved efficiency, economic growth will lag. In mobilizing resources in all
these areas, China could profitably make use of foreign borrowing. Finally,
the rising share of the elderly in China's population (related to the slowdown
in population growth) means that more resources will have to be devoted to
maintaining their consumption levels, especially in the decades after 2000.
19.       Poor motivation and inefficient utilization of labor in the state
sector of the economy are major problems which can be solved only by coor-
dinated reforms in labor allocation, the wage system, enterprise management,
and social services, among other things. Reforms in the system of education
and training to develop China's "human capital" potential also are crucial.
Backward technology and inefficient use of existing technology must be
addressed by a combination of reforms, appropriately directed investment, and
transfer of advanced foreign technology. Irrational location of factories,
suboptimal scale of many plants, and poor utilization of physical capital in
general are related problems.
20.       If reforms successfully transform the economic system, with a bene-
ficial impact on growth and efficiency, a new set of issues will come to the
fore, as the plan proposal recognizes. Management of a reformed economy with
indirect fiscal, monetary, and other instruments is a major issue (see para.
13 above). In this context, maintaining an adequate saving rate (if the
Government no longer accounts for the bulk of aggregate saving) and avoiding
inflation (as well as deep cyclical downturns) will be major goals. Assuring
an adequate minimum standard of living for the population and an appropriate
level of social services will become a major challenge as enterprise and rural
communal responsibilities in these areas are reduced. The problem of poor,



-7-
backward rural areas in various parts of the country will continue to require
attention. Redistributing financial resources to these areas through the
fiscal system, easing restrictions on migration out of the poorest areas, and
lowering nonagricultural wages to make investment in them more attractive are
some options for alleviating poverty.
21.       In order to mobilize the external resources needed for rapid,
sustained growth the plan proposal calls for export growth of 40-50% over the
next five years, greater efforts to attract foreign investment, and increased
commercial borrowing. If exports grow at 8% p.a. between 1984 and 1990 and
imports grow at 9X p.a., China would have a relatively modest current account
deficit of around $4-5 billion p.a. (except in 1985) during the remsinder of
this decade, equivalent to about 1% of GNP. This implies that the present
debt service ratio would increase only moderately by 1990. If China's exports
grow more slowly, imports will probably have to be cut back because a higher
borrowing target, though feasible in terms of debt service indicators, would
probably run into supply constraints as China would become one of the largest
developing country borrowers. This highlights the need for continued export
growth in order to meet other plan objectives and service greater commercial
borrowing. The plan proposal recognizes that greater use of exchange rate and
pricing policies will be needed to encourage export growth.
22.       Even with continued good export performance, China will have
substantial external capital requirements during the remainder of the
decade. Under the trade growth assumptions outlined above (exports growing at
8% p.a. and imports at 9% p.a. during 1984-90), the current account deficit
would be over $5 billion in 1990 and the gross borrowing requirement would be
about $6.5 billion. If export growth fell to 6% p.a. during this period and
imports continued to grow at 9% p.a., the current account deficit would reach
$14 billion by 1990. Although the plan proposal calls for increased borrowing
at commercial rates, access to concessionary capital will play an important
role in sustaining China's growth. China also has a claim to concessionary
lending because it is still one of the poorer countries of the world. But
China's access to concessionary capital to finance development and moderniza-
tion. is limited; apart from Bank Group funds, a significant amount of conces-
sionary capital is likely to come only from Japan and a few other bilateral
donors and will probably average no more than $500-600 million p.a. during the
rest of the 1980s.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
23.       To achieve the target growth rates envisioned in the Seventh Five-
Year Plan, to increase efficiency, and to maintain equity in distribution,
China will need continuing economic reforms. China will need to import more
technology, increase trade, and expand investment. In the next few years,
therefore, the Bank can best assist China by increasing its access to foreign
technology and capital and supporting the implementation of reforms that will
help to increase the efficiency of resource use and reduce poverty.
24.       To address China's objective of updating technology, the Bank will
play the role of an intermediary. In transportation, energy, industry,



agriculture and social sectors, the Bank will contribute to technology
transfer by bringing the Bank's experience to bear on proje7t design and
implementation and by helping China to seek appropriate tecl.nical solutions
through international competitive bidding, training, and foreign technical
assistance.
25.       Bank assistance will be closely linked with the Government's reform
efforts. There are five major elements common to both rural and urban reform
in China that will be the focus of the Bank's involvement. First, institu-
tional change, involving both the separation of economic and administrative
functions and further decentralization of decisionmaking, will extend to every
sector in which the Bank is involved. Second, financial sector reform,
primarily development of financial institutions, has become a focus of Bank
assistance. Third, improving planning and project analysis will be critical
to reform in sectors such as agriculture and industry, where decisions are now
being made by households and independent enterprises, as well ao in
infrastructure where direct government involvement will be required. The Bank
will therefore continue its emphasis on introducing appraisal methods and
financial planning as well as analysis of intersectoral issues. Fourth, the
Bank will be involved in the Government's major program of price reform and
development of indirect levers such as control via money, credit and fiscal
policies. And finally, the Bank will support reforms in health, education and
other social services and measures, in particular, to address the problems of
poor regions.
Economic and Sector Work
26.       The Bank's economic and sector work in China aims at expanding the
understanding of the structure and direction of the Chinese economy and
introducing to the Government new tools of economic management. This work
provides a foundation for Bank Group lending and for the dialogue with the
Government on development options and policies. Past work has included two
major economic reports, studies on sectoral investment analysis and planning,
and collaborative research with Chinese institutions. The Bank has also
organized seminars on macroeconomic and sector issues.
27.       Over the next two years, the Bank will carry out a large program of
studies to follow up on issues identified in the most recent economic
report. In this program, the Bank will examine aLternatives for developing
the f_nancial system, foreign trade and investment. It will also analyze
issues of intersectoral investment coordination and development of resource-
poor regions. One such study is already under way in Gansu province to
formulate programs for increasing interregional resource flows, improving the
efficiency of investment and reducing poverty. Research on urban development,
transport planning, and regional industrial development will also be under-
taken to form the basis for project preparation. Collaborative studies with
Chinese research institutions will continue. An ongoing study of management
and guidance of state-owned industrial enterprises will be followed by a study
of collective enterprises, which are expected to become increasingly important
industrial organizations in the reformed system.



-9-
Lending Operations
28.       Since China's change of representation in the Bank Group in May of
1980, 33 projects involving lending of $3,159.1 million to China have been
approved. Of the projects, eleven have been in the agriculture sector, seven
in energy, four in transport, four in industry, three in education, two in
technical cooperation and one each in health and water supply. In FY85, IFC
made its first investment in China of $17.02 million in automobile
manufacturing. Annex II contains a summary statement of these loans, credits
and IFC investment as of September 30, 1985.
29.       In addition to the proposed project and the recently approved second
rural credit, third industrial credit, second technical cooperation and
provincial universities projects, we expect to present projects to the Board
this year for power, petroleum, railway, aquaculture and health. For FY87 and
beyond, we expect the lending program for China to continue to grow from
current levels. Infrastructure projects in energy and transport will remain
priorities. Technical renovation of enterprises, particularly in industry,
will be given greater attention and support as will the regional approach to
project development, now being used to assess the needs of Gansu province.
30.       In the energy sector, future Bank lending will be aimed at improving
efficiency of energy consumption and expanding energy production. For
example, in the coal subsector, we will assist in upgrading the facilities and
operations of existing mines and in transferring improved technology for mines
under construction or in operation. In power, we will assist China in
technology transfer, staff training and institution building. Through a power
tariff study, we will seek to introduce a tariff system based on marginal cost
and to increase the awareness of the need for a nationwide power system devel-
opment program. In the petroleum subsector, the rationale for project
involvemuent will lie in the identification, packaging and transfer of
specialized technologies as well as in the strengthening of investment plan-
ning and management capabilities.
31.       Future transport projects will both upgrade technology and
strengthen institutions. In roads, major changes in organization and
financing will be required as a result of administrative decentralization and
introduction of the production responsibility system in rural areas. In rail-
ways, we will focus on technologies to improve domestic production of railway
equipment and materials in addition to our work on line construction and
electrification. We also intend to broaden our involvement in ports to
include coastal shipping and inland water transport. For all transport
subsectors, we will support efforts to improve financial analysis and
investment planning.
32.       Agriculture lending will focus on developing institutions to provide
services to individual farmers and to monitor and stimulate change in the pace
and pattern of agricultural development. The shift from grant to loan finance
and the increased autonomy of the rural banking system will be major aspects
of change that will be supported through rural credit projects. We will
continue to assist with the training, research, extension, and other service
activities of the ministries concerned with agriculture. In addition, we



- 10 -
expect to finance programs for specialized agricultural development such as
livestock and fisheries, and for irrigation and area development.
33.       Bank lending in industry, as in agriculture, will focus on strength-
ening of financial intermediaries which provide credit to state and collective
enterprises. In addition, we expect that there will be large regional
projects in fertilizer, cement and machine tools and other subsector projects
concerned with upgrading technology and improving organization and management.
34.       Bank lending in education will gradually be broadened beyond the
present concentration on higher education. For example, we will finance
vocational and technical education which is now being given great emphasis in
China. In view of the Government's recent decision to universalize access to
primary and lower secondary education, another major aim of education lending
will be to assist with basic education, particularly in poor rural areas. In
this context, support for teacher education will be given priority.
35.       Project preparation in the urban sector is currently concentrated in
Shanghai on effcrts to improve services, especially in environmental upgrading
and housing, and development of municipal institutions. Future lending is
expected to include support for development of medium-size and small urban
areas in specific provinces. In addition, we expect to continue lending for
r'=ral water supply.  Bank lending in health will provide access to new medical
technologies for more efficient health care in both the lingering problems of
communicable disease, primarily in poor rural areas, and the emerging problems
of chronic disease. This will involve further support for medical training
and planning and management of service delivery systems. Projects will also
support the reform of systems for supplying and financing health services.
36.       Cofinancing with multilateral and bilateral agencies has been
arranged for projects in coal, power, agriculture and rural water supply and
will remain a feature of our assistance program. We will explore further
options for cofinancing with export credit agencies. Commercial bank
cofinancing and the use of B-loans also appear viable, particularly as China
increases the overall volume of its foreign borrowing. In technical assist-
ance, we will continue to incorporate into projects components for training,
overseas study, and access to foreign expertise. In addition, we will be the
executing agency for a second UNDP umbrella project in China. EDI activities
remain an important element of the Bank's program and in coming years will
provide an extensive program of policy seminars for senior Chinese officials,
and economic and financial management courses and sector-specific training for
officials from core and line agencies.
Implementation
37.       Project implementation is generally proceeding well.  Most project
agencies, as well as the Ministry of Finance and the State Planning
Commission, have established and staffed offices to handle Bank projects.
Disbursement performance has also been satisfactory. Special accounts have
been estpblished for 22 of the 33 approved projects and have helped to speed
disbursements. In October 1985, the Bank opened a resident office in Beijing
to support further expansion of the lending program, accelerate project prepa-
ration, improve project implementation and further economic and sector work.



- 1-1 -
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
38.       The structure of China's economy, which for three decades emphasized
heavy industry at the expense of light industry and the service sector, is
still inherently "transport intensive," despite recent reforms of the sectoral
priorities. Chinese policy statements repeatedly identify transportation and
energy shortages as the two most critical bottlenecks in the economy. Coal is
at the heart of both problems, because coal is simultaneously the most
important source of energy and the largest user of transport capacity. This
dual problem with coal is exacerbated by China's high level of energy
consumption per unit of CDP (about two and a half times that of other LDCs).
However, the need to ship large volumes of coal is not the sole cause of the
transportation bottleneck. The rapid growth of China's economy in recent
years has naturally entailed a growing demand for the shipment of commodities
of all sorts, and for passenger travel as well. Efforts to reduce waste
within the transport system (for example, by eliminating cross hauling of the
same commodity, increasing the processing of raw materials before shipment,
and increasing the intensity of road and waterway utilization) are certainly
desirable. Nore fundamentally, however, the Government's strategy for solving
transportation shortages will have to rely on an expansion of the system's
capacity, primarily by increasing the productivity of existing facilities
wherever possible, and secondarily by building new facilities where needed.
Traffic
39.       Freight Traffic.  Domestic freight transported in 1984 reached 1,131
billion ton-km, a 15-fold increase since 1952, or an average annual growth
rate of almost 9%, significantly higher than the growth of domestic product.
By the year 2000, domestic freight traffic could be in the range of 3,000
billion ton-km, or nearly three times the 1984 level. The modal split has
moved toward a more balanced use of modes, but the railways still handle 64%
of the traffic versus 82Z in 1952; this predominance is expected to continue
for quite some time.
40.       Passenger traffic reached 362 billion passenger-km (p-km) in 1984, a
14.6-fold increase since 1952 and an average annual growth rate of almost
9%. Since 1978, growth averaged 13% p.a. This illustrates the potential
demand for travel as income grows. It is likely that this growth would have
been even more rapid if it had not been constrained by the limited capacity,
particularly of the railways, to offer more passenger services. The modal
split has shifted more rapidly than for freight, and the railways now handle
less than 56Z of the traffic versus over 80% in 1952. Despite the rapid
growth of passenger traffic in recent years, the mobility of people in China
is still much lower than in countries of comparable income levels. By the
turn of the century, passenger traffic may well reach about 1,500 billion p-km
per year or about four times current levels.



- 12 -
Investment
41.       Over the period 1953-84, some Y 136 billion, or 14% of all new
investments under central government control went to transport. In comparison
with other countries, annual levels of transport investment appear somewhat on
the low side, a factor contributing to transport's being a bottleneck to
economic development. For example, by 1983, 30 million tons of coal had
accumulated in Shanxi for lack of transport, and some of this stockpiled coal
was destroyed by spontaneous combustion. Despite a recent policy of
curtailing production to match available transport, the volume of coal
stockpiled in Shanxi increased during 1984. Rural areas are short of
transport, both for agriculture and for commune and brigade enterprises. In
the ports, lack of proper handling facilities is hampering trade of bulk
commodities such as fertilizers, cement and grain. In the forthcoming
decades, a much larger investment effort will be needed in transport if these
bottlenecks are to be overcome.
System
42.       The railway system consists of some 52,000 route-km, of which about
9,700 km are double or multiple-track and 3,100 km are electrified. The net-
work is served by 11,100 locomotives, 291,000 freight cars and 19,600 passen-
ger coaches. At present, 68% of tractive power is still steam, 28% diesel and
4% electric. Freight traffic density averages 15 million net ton-km per
route-km which is the second highest freight density in the world after the
Soviet Union, and 50% higher than freight density in the United States.
Freight traffic reached 1.2 billion tons in 1984. Growth which averaged
4.52 p.a. since 1978, reached 9% in 1984. Three quarters of all freight
traffic involves ten commodities including coal, iron and steel, grain and
construction materials. The passenger traffic density of 4.2 million
passenger-km per route-km is also second in the world, this time after
India. In 1984 1.1 billion passengers were carried. The average annual
increase since 1978 has been 11%.
43.       Despite some possible rationalization in the transport of natural
resources and heavy industrial outputs, there is no question that the trans-
port demand for the major commodities will continue to grow rapidly. Thus,
although its share is expected to decrease, rail traffic will continue to grow
requiring massive investments in line capacity increases as well as in motive
power and rolling stock well into the future. The Bank has financed two
railway projects (Loans 2394-CHA and 2540-CHA) and a third is scheduled for
Board approval soon. Besides line capacity increases, these projects include
assistance to the manufacture of electric locomotives, passenger coaches and
signalling equipment, as well as to railway management.
44.       The highway system comprised about 915,000 km in 1983, of which
about 180,000 km were asphalt paved, about 510,000 km were gravel and sand
paved, and the remainder were earth roads. Despite impressive expansion of
the road network since 1949, when only some 80,000 km of motorable roads
existed, the roads in China today are inadequate because: (a) pavement
strength and quality are poor; (b) there are many thousand kilometeres of
extremely rough macadam surfaced roads with traffic in excess of 300 average



- 13 -
daily traffic (ADT); (c) congestion is severe near cities, due to mixed slow
and fast moving traffic; and (d) there are gaps of about 4,000 km on major
national roads linking large cities and provincial capitals. The road network
and road transport in China today can therefore be characterized as
underdeveloped. Road maintenance, however, is well organized and currently
absorbs much of the attention and resources of the provincial and other local
road authorities. Except for western China, the highway network is still very
much a system of feeder roads to the railways. Nevertheless, motor traffic
has grown at a very high overall annual average of 15% on the national
highways since 1978. The Bank's First Highway Project in China (Loan 2539-
CHA; Credit 1594-CHA) involves the construction or improvement of about 290 km
of national roads and about 1,400 km of rural roads.
Transport Issues and Objectives in the 1980s
45.       The transport system has been severely taxed by the recent economic
development and capacity constraints are evident in all modes. At present,
railway transport is a greater constraint on energy supplies than coal mine
development. Recently initiated projects of line electrification and new line
construction are addressing the problem although it will take several years to
alleviate bottlenecks between major mining areas and coastal cities. Modern
freight car technology and operational improvements could also contribute to
capacity increases. China will also need to expand substantially its ports
and waterways facilities for domestic and foreign trade (details on the port
subsector are given below). But the most serious transport need is for
dramatically expanded road transport, especially in rural areas where
increased specialization has created an urgent demand for better farm to
market transport services. It is widely recognized in China that road
transport should and will play a larger role in the future. Yet there seems
to be no strategic plan to bring this about. There is a need for more
efficient trucks of both larger and smaller size as well as for more and
better roads to handle the traffic. Potential sources of financing for road
development such as road user charges need to be investigated as they could
generate sufficient funds for an accelerated construction and improvement
program as well as contributing to an economically appropriate division of
traffic between modes. Considerable efficiency gains could be made in the
entire transport system through better intermodal coordination which has thus
far been impeded by the vertical and self-contained organization of transport
and other sectoral agencies. Through container transport from origin to
destination is still the exception. Changes in policy, pricing and management
of the system are needed to maximize the benefits of intermodal transport. To
support all the developments referred above, staff development and training
will also be an important objective in the sector.
The Port Subsector
46.       Port Facilities.  China has 15 major coastal ports but most foreign
trade passes through just seven of these: Dalian, Huangpu, Qingdao,
Qinghuangdao, Shanghai, Tianjin and Zhanjiang. There are also many minor
ports along China's 2,000 km coastline and 110,000 km of navigable rivers.
China's largest port, and one of the ten largest ports in the world, is
Shanghai. It has 96 berths gith a total waterfront of 12,700 m but only 50



- 14 -
berths accessible to ships larger than 10,000 dwt. In 1984, Shanghai port
handled just over 100 million tons of cargo and more than 10 million
passengers. Dalian and Tianjin are China's next largest ports. Dalian has 36
deep water berths and a further 3 under construction. Tianjin has 26 berths
and 3 under construction. Approximately 30% of all traffic passes through
Shanghai, 35% through the three bulk cargo ports of Dalian, Qingdao and
Qinhuangdao, 9% through Tianjin and 26% through the remaining 10 major ports.
47.       Most of China's ports are now badly congested.  There are shortages
of bulk cargo berths, container berths, port equipment and storage areas and
transport infrastructure for distribution. For example, in 1981 container
cargo at the most important 7 ports was only 700,000 tons, even though 60% of
general cargo of 42 million tons was suitable for containers. As a result,
ship waiting time is very high; outside Shanghai port alone there are usually
120 vessels at anchor waiting for berths. The extent of the congestion is so
serious that it threatens to hold back further expansion of China's foreign
trade.
48.       Traffic.  Despite the serious congestion, for the size of its
economy China's port traffic is low compared with other developing
countries. This is mostly because of China's historical emphasis on self-
sufficiency. In 1983, China's foreign trade accounted for about 13% of GNP
wherus Brazil's accounted for about 20Z and Korea's for nearly 30%.  However,
China's port traffic is now growing quickly following the opening of the
economy to foreign trade: between 1977 and 1983 traffic at the 15 major ports
increased over 50% to 249 million tons p.a.
49.       Tonnages of domestic and foreign cargoes are growing about equally
but proportionately foreign traffic is growing faster. Between 1977 and 1983
foreign traffic more than doubled to 89 million tons and domestic traffic
increased about 502 to 160 million tons. Foreign trade is expected to
continue growing in stride with the economy as a whole, and domestic water
trasnport should play an increasing role to relieve the congested rail
system. These two elements combined will continue to generate a large demand
for port capacity and port traffic could more than quadruple its 1980 level by
the end of the century. Accommodating such an increase would require major
expansion of all China's port facilities.
50.       Operations and Maintenance.  All the major ports operate
continuously using a 3-shift system but port operations are hampered by
congestion. On average more than 60% of ships' port time is spent waiting
first for berths and then for port equipment. Berth time is also Long because
a lot of China's port equipment is outmoded and slow. In 1983 the average
demurrage time in Dalian port was 5.7 days, up from 3.6 days in 1981. Total
port time in 1983 averaged 9.2 days. In Tianjin the average in 1983 was 5.5
days; in 1984 it increased to 7 days.
51.       Apart from inadequate port capacity, three aspects of port opera-
tions contribute significantly to the delays. First, documentation procedures
are complicated and ponderous. Frequently this results in port equipment not
being in the right place at the right time and sometimes in cargoes arriving
before bills of lading have been received by the port. Thus, a study of the
management information system of the Tianjin Port Authority (TPA) to ration-



- 15 -
alize the processing of cargo movement through the port is included in the
project. Second, in some of the southern ports, a large proportion of traffic
is ship-to-ship or ship-to-barge transfers, some of which could be avoided by
direct trading between minor ports or by modern sea going barges capable of
operating both on coastal routes and inland waterways. Third, not all shipping
and domestic distribution is arranged as efficiently as it might be and some
trans-shipment cargoes could be distributed more easily by rail from another
port.  Recently, the Ministry of Communications (HOC) has begun rationalizing
some traffic flows. Shanghai, for example, has already had some coal traffic
directed to their final destinations in surrounding provinces and by the year
2000, approximately 34 million tons of other transshipment traffic is expected
to be diverted from the port.
52.       Each major port has its own mainteuance works and port equipment is
kept serviceable although because of its age much of the equipment suffers
frequent breakdowns. The most serious maintenance problem is siltation at the
estuarine ports and this requires considerable routine dredging. Neverthe-
less, present dredging in some ports may be excessive and might be reduced
somewhat through survey work to understand estuarine flows better.
53.       Costs and Tariffs.  The structure and rates of port tariffs are
determined jointly by HOC and the State Price Bureau. The present tariff
structure was set up in 1971 on the basis of an accounting allocation of costs
to the different types of port services which was to some extent arbitrary.
The tariff structure also reflects all the distortions inherent in the prices
of the different factor inputs. As a first step in rationalizing tariffs, the
Bank's first port project in China (Loan 2207-CHA, October 1982) included a
study of the economic costs of providing port services for bulk cargoes and
containers. This study is to be carried out during 1987, the first year of
operating the new terminals under the project, and it includes Tianjin.
54.       About 80% of all Chinese cargo is carried in vessels owned or opera-
ted by the Chinese Ocean Shipping Company (COSCO), which is controlled
directly by MOC. In national terms, port tariffs paid by COSCO are little
more than a transfer payment between two parts of MOC. Tariff rates could
still be set for efficiency objectives, but instead rates seem to reflect the
relative financial strengths of COSCO and the ports and their different
investment requirements. In contrast, rates for foreign vessels seem to be
set on the basis of what the market will bear. Until the 40Z increase intro-
duced in May 1985, tariff rates for foreign vessels had been kept somewhat
lower than rates at Hong Kong. There was no increase in the lower rates
charged for domestic vessels, and MOC says it has no plans to increase these
rates. Overall, present tariffs provide TPA with a sound financial position.
55.       There are no shipping conference rates for Chinese ports and the
ports only rarely pay demurrage charges for ship waiting. Charter contracts
usually include an allowance for ship waiting time, but these charges are paid
by the cargo owner, not by the port. Recently, however, ports have been
signing contracts with ship operators guaranteeing a certain turnover time
with demurrage charges if time is exceeded or premiums paid to the port if a
ship is handled faster. Usually the premiums far exceed the demurrage
charges.



- 16 -
56.       Planning and Control.  Investment planning has so far been largely
carried out by MCC in consultation with the ports management. The process
starts with the annual drafting and revision of plans by the ports themselves.
These plans are usually based on actions needed to alleviate congestion. MOC
subsequently holds extensive meetings with port personnel and reviews the
draft plans. If necessary, the plans would be amended during these meetings
so as to achieve consistency with the national transport plan objectives.
Once approved by MOC, the plans are submitted to the Ministry of Finance (MOF)
for final approval. In the case of new projects designed to handle more than
one million tons of cargo annually, approval of the State Planning Comission
(SPC) is also required.
57.       Financial planning consists mainly of short-term budgeting, because
the traditional grant system of financing combined with rigid central govern-
ment control of project approvals, rendered unnecessary anything more sophis-
ticated. As ports acquire a greater degree of autonomy and greater discretion
over available funds, however, more comprehensive planning techniques will be
needed. Recently, the Government has initiated quite radical institutional
reforms of the ports subsector as part of its policy of devolving responsibil-
ity from the central government. The beneficiary of the proposed loan, TPA,
is a pilot for these reforms. The object of the reforms is to create the
incentives necessary to accelerate resource mobilization at the enterprise
level, enhance operating efficiency and provide the extra port capacity needed
to facilitate the further expansion of China's foreign trade. Through the
period of project implementation, an active dialogue on financial management
issues and system improvements will be maintained.
58.       The Role of the Bank.  Besides assisting the urgent expansion of
port capacity and improvement of productivity, the Bank is, through its
involvement in the subsector at this time, afforded a unique opportunity to
assist the Government in introducing organizational changes aimed at improving
the effectiveness of port management and autonomy of operation. While the
general direction of the reforms is sound, a number of the steps so far taken
are short-term expedients pending the more careful evolution of longer term
policies and the benefit of experience. Through a policy dialogue with the
Government and through education at the enterprise level, the Bank can
contribute to the formulation of these policies in the light of its
international experience.
59.       At the Ministerial level, the Bank will concentrate on demonstrating
to the Government the need to give increasingly autonomous enterprises an
appropriate policy framework within which to work; in particular a financial
environment which will encourage planning for expansion, and provide the means
to implement it, thus securing the benefits expected from the system
reforms. At the enterprise level, Bank will continue to help develop project
identification and evaluation techniques and stress the importance of inte-
grating investment planning and financial planning. Both these dialogues can
best be pursued through a continuous lending program to the ports.



- 17 -
The Beneficiary
60.       Legal Status, Organization and Management.  TPA is the beneficiary
of the proposed loan. On June 1, 1984, TPA was placed under the primary
leadership of Tianjin Municipality rather than MOC. Its powers and duties are
described in regulations which have recently been approved by the Tianjin
Municipal Government and found acceptable by the Bank. It has authority over
the land and water areas of Tianjin port, and is responsible inter alia, for
planning port development, raising finance therefor, administering fees and
charges, training personnel, and enforcing security, safety and environmental
protection. It can enter into joint ventures and technical cooperation
projects with foreign partners.
61.       TPA is managed by a director and a deputy appointed by the Tianjin
Municipality. TPA controls the five enterprises that carry out port
operations, as well as a number of other enterprises engaged in warehousing,
tug and lighter operation, engineering and maintenance. Each of these enter-
prises is self accounting and has legal personality, but its individual
production and project plans and budgets are subject to approval by TPA,
which, as supervisory authority, is ultimately responsible for coordination.
The consolidated plans and results of TPA and its subordinate enterprises are
subject to review and approval by the Tianjin Municipality.
62.       The administ:acive arrangements for Tianjin port represent a signi-
ficant departure from normal practice in the port subsector in a number of
ways. First, Tianjin port is the first to be placed under the primary leader-
ship of the local municipality instead of MOC.  Second, the degree of
supervision to which the port will be subject is considerably less than that
exer-ised by MOC over the ports under its leadership. Third, TPA has been
endowed with a number of powers which considerably exceed those typically
vested in the administrations of other major ports. In particular:
(a) TPA has been authorized to retain the income tax and profit remit-
tance due from its subordinate enterprises and to utilize the funds
for capital expenditures instead of paying them over to the State;
(b) TPA's own approval ceiling on individual capital projects has been
raised to Y 10 million; and
(c) foreign exchange earnings of the subordinate enterprises may be
retained by TPA for application to the purchase of imported plant
and equipment.
63.       Taken together, these arrangements represent a substantial decentra-
lization of authority and increased autonomy for TPA.  The objective is to
develop the capability of local management in the interests of improved effi-
ciency of operations and more effective planning and development of the port.
TPA is clearly an experiment: it is referred to in the Chinese documents as a
"pilot system reform." If it is successful, there could be significant conse-
quences not merely for other ports but for state enterprises generally.



- 18 -
64.       Due to the large construction program of the Tianjin Municipality,
including port development projects, TPA's construction and development
department (Tianjin Harbor Construction and Development Company  -  THCDC) has
recently been separated and given the status of an enterprise under the
Municipality. THCDC is entrusted with feasibility studies, design, bidding,
construction supervision and the import of equipment for all new major
projects in the Municipality. A charter for THCDC has been approved by the
Tianjin Municipal Government and found acceptable by the Bank. THCDC will be
responsible for the construction of the project and disbursement of funds
allocated to the project.
65.       Facilities.  Tianjin is located about 42 km from the mouth of the
Hai river and 120 km Southeast of Beijing. The city's main port is sited at
Xingang, at the river mouth. Construction of these facilities began in 1939,
replacing much older and since abandoned shallow facilities near the city.
There are also shallow draft berths for fishing vessels and ships up to 3,000
dwt at Tanggu, a few km upstream of Xingang. A barrage has been built on the
Hai river between Xingang and Tanggu for irrigation purposes, and access to
Tanggu is through a navigation lock.
66.       Tianjin port has 26 deep-water operating berths totalling 3,405 m in
length, with water depths alongside between 8.0 m and 12.0 m below MLW. Three
new container berths financed under the Three Ports Project (Loan 2207-CH&)
are nearing completion. The proposed project will add 11 berths with a total
length of 2,150 m and water depths alongside between 11 and 13 m below MLW.
The port is protected by north and south breakwaters of 5 km and 8 km in
length respectively. The access channel extends from the east side of Xingang
lock to the entrance channel of Tanggu light tower and is about 24 km in
length and 8 m depth at MLW.
67.       Tides are semi-diurnal with a range of about 2.5 m between mean high
and low water levels. Ice conditions prevail for about three months of the
year during the months of December through February with most severe condi-
tions in January, but they do not hinder shipping or port operations. The
port and access channel experience heavy siltation necessitating about 8 mil-
lion cu m of annual maintenance dredging in accordance with terms of reference
and timing agreed with the Bank. Dredging spoil is dumped in the sea. The
dumping sites are not selected to prevent the spoil from returning to the
channel and port basins by waves and currents. Assurances were obtained that
TPA will carry out a siltation minimization study aimed at reducing mainte-
nance dredging in accordance with terms of reference and timing agreed with
the Bank. The terms of reference were discussed and agreed with the Bank;
implementation will start around October 1986.
68.       Tianjin port is connected to the city by two railway lines.  The
port is served also by two highways, with a third highway under construction
that will bypass the city of Tanggu, and relieve traffic congestion in the
city. Adequate transit sheds, warehouses, and open storage areas are avail-
able. Rail and road service in the port area, power and water supplies, waste
disposal and telecommunication syst=ms are also adequate.



- 19 -
69.       Port Planning.  The need to update the master plan for Tianjin port
is urgent. The future needs resulting from rapid economic growth, in
particular from the creation of a special economic zone, and the rearrangement
of existing port facilities which will be made following completion of the
proposed project are all important activities that need to be coordinated in a
master plan. The transfer of the port to the authority of the Tianjin
Municipality gives TPA an added incentive, since its plans must be harmonized
with those of the MunicipaLity. Accordingly, TPA hired consultants (Port of
Kobe, Japan) to update the master plan for the port. Upon completion of the
master plan, TPA will send it to the Bank for review and comments. The
present project is a part of the existing master plan and thus will not be
affected by the new master plan. A master planning course financed by the
Bank was conducted in China in August 1985 to train Tianjin and other major
port's staff in modern master planning techniques.
70.       TPA's master plan is not complemented by a financial plan.  The
financial policies which applied until recently rendered such a plan unneces-
sary at the enterprise level, since investment project approval by SPC
automatically conveyed the corresponding release of funds from the State
budget. Now, however, changing circumstances render the adoption of formal
financial planning procedures highly desirable; this is further discussed
later.
71.       Accounting and Auditing.  TPA prepares the following financial
statements: Funds Balance Sheets (yearly); Statement of Fixed Assets (yearly)
(an elaboration of a Balance Sheet item); Special Funds ana Appropriations
(yearly) (an elaboration of a Balance Sheet item); Statement of Seaport
Handling Cost (monthly) (containing information on the plan for the ycar and
the performance for the reporting month as well as cumulatively to date); and
Statement of Profit (monthly). Double entry accrual basis accounting is used.
It is entirely manual. Management accounting consists of monthly key indices
and capital construction progress statements. Revenue, handling costs and
administrative expenses are examined quarterly and compared with budgets.
Final accounts for the year including a balance sheet are prepared within 50
days of the fiscal year ending December 31. Annual financial statements on
capital construction are ready within 60 days of the end of each fiscal year.
72.       The port's financial statements are now audited by the State Audit
Agency (SAA), whose procedures are acceptable to the Bank. SAA reports to the
Municipal Government in the event of dissatisfaction with the port's
accounts. Assurances were obtained from TPA that financial statements,
including balance sheets, statements of income and of sources and application
of funds for the entire port, vill be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank and submitted to the Bank for review not later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year. Assurances were also obtained from
THCDC that project accounts kept by THCDC will be similarly audited and
submitted.



- 20 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
73.       This project will directly contribute to China's overall plan to
remove bottlenecks in the port subsector by constructing additional deepwater
berths at key ports. It will increase the Tianjin port's efficiency in
handling timber, construction materials and general cargo by constructing
specialized berths with modern equipment. The project will also contribute to
longer-term efficiency improvements by: providing training in the planning,
design, control and operation of ports; including preparation of a master plan
for the port; providing technical assistance for the development of computer-
ized operations and information systems, and a study on reducing siltation in
the port; and establishing the Tianjin Port Development Center.  Importantly,
the project will allow the Bank to participate in establishing a new organiza-
tional model for public enterprises in China, which could have a significance
much wider than the ports subsector alone.
Project Description
74.       To reduce congestion and handle future cargo volumes, the construc-
tion of a new pier (East Pier) has been decided (see Map No. IBRD 18961). It
will comprise 11 deep-water berths for ships of 30,000-50,000 dwt with work to
be carried out from 1986 to 1992 in two phases: Phase I (1986-1990) to con-
struct five berths and Phase II (1987-1991) to construct an additional six
berths. The eleven berths have been designed to be converted into container
berths in the future when needed. The proposed project would comprise both
phases, including the following components:
(a) construction of five new berths on the East Pier's south side for
timber, general cargo and construction materials, requiring: (i)
construction of a 780 m quaywall for four berths with alongside
depth of 10.5 m; and (ii) construction of a 170 m quaywall with
alongside depth of 10 m for the remaining berth;
(b) construction of six new berths 1,200 m in length on the East Pier's
northside for general cargo with alongside depth of 10 m; and
construction of some service boat quays;
(c) dredging about 11.82 million cu m of spoil and reclamation of
840,000 sq m of land and stabilization of the fill material;
(d) construction of the required railway lines (about 15.6 kms), roadway
and yard pavement (about 48,000 sq m);
(e) provision of water supply, sewerage and power supply systems;
(f) provision of the required loading/unloading equipment, navigational
aids, harbor operations equipment and boats;
(g) construction of the required maintenance buildings, auxiliary build-
ings, and various minor structures; and



- 21 -
(h) provision of consultants to assist port staff in supervising
construction.
75.       The project also contains components to address the port's needs in
institutional and technological development. These components comprise:
(a) technical assistance for a study of methods to minimize siltation in
channels and basins, and training of port specialists;
(b) equipment for the development of management information and
operations control systems;
(c) establishing the Tianjin Port Development Center for training,
research and development studies.
Assurances were obtained that TPA will carry out the training under the
project in accordance with the program agreed with the Bank.
Cost Estimate
76.       The total project cost is estimated at Y 902 million or $282 million
equivalent, including Y 457 million or $143 million in direct and indirect
foreign exchange costs.
77.       Cost estimates for civil works including design and supervision are
based on unit and design prices for ongoing similar works in China. Equipment
costs are based on costs of similar equipment recently purchased in China and
in other Bank-financed projects. Estimates are in January 1986 prices, and
include physical and price contingencies. They are based on designc done by
the First Design Institute and reviewed by consultants financed under the
Technical Cooperation Credit (TCC) (IDA Credit No. 1412-CHA). Physical con-
tingencies of 1OZ have been added for all civil works and equipment. Price
contingencies for both foreign and local costs assume an annual increase of 7Z
for 1986 and 1987, 7.52 for 1988, 7.7Z for 1989, 7.6X for 1990 and 4.52 for
1991. Customs duties amounting to about 1OZ of purchase price will be levied
on imported equipment. The foreign exchange component of Bank financed civil
works is based on construction by foreign contractors.
78.       The total cost of consulting services for assistance in reviewing
designs, construction supervision, and carrying out the study, the improvement
of management information and operations control systems, is estimated at
about $6 million of which $3.0 million is foreign exchange. mne rest of the
foreign exchange is earmarked for training purposes. Consultants will be
chosen following the Bank Guidelines.
Financing
79.       The Bank loan will be made to the People's Republic of China and
will be used to finance the foreign exchange cost of civil works and procure-
ment of equipment awarded through international competitive bidding (ICB), and
the costs of technical assistance and training. TPA will finance the local



- 22 -
costs and the remainder of the foreign exchange costs. The Government will
onlend the loan proceeds to TPA on terms and conditions approved by the
Bank. In accordance with the Government's established practice, the terms
will be those prescribed for enterprises in the ports subsector, currently 4%
over 20 years including a grace period of 5 years. TPA will bear the foreign
exchange risk and comfitment charges on the subsidiary loan. Signature of a
subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and TPA satisfactory to the
Bank is a condition of effectiveness of the loan. The subsidiary loan
agreement will provide for THCDC, as the implementing agency, to withdraw the
required funds.
Implementation
80.       The implementation of the proposed project falls within the juris-
diction of: (a) THCDC, for the construction of the East Pier; and (b) TPA,
for the institutional and technological developments at the port. THCDC will
be assisted by the Design Institute, consultants, and the China National
Technical Import Corporation (CNTIC), as appropriate. Assurances were
obtained that at the completion of project construction, the facilities will
be transferred from THCDC to TPA for operation. Other aspects of project
implementation, such as training, master plan, operations controltMIS,
siltation study, and the establishment of Tianjin Port Development Center,
will be carried out by or under TPA.
81.       Procurement will be carried out according to the following plan:
($ million)
Procurement method
Project element       ICB        LCB            Other         N.A.      Total cost
Civil works          120.0        75.9             -            -          195.9
(60.0)                                                (60.0)
Equipment             79.0          -             1.0           -           80.0
(65.5)                      (1.0)                     (66.5)
Services                -           -             6.0           -            6.0
_                        (3.5)                      (3.5)
Total            199.0       75.9             7.0           -          281.9
(125.5)                      (4.5)                    (130.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank
loan.
82.       Procurement of civil works contracts will be awarded after ICB for
wharf construction on south side, soil consolidation, storage yards and roads,



- 23 -
utilities, wharf construction on north side, and other utilities. The
remaining civil works not financed by the Bank, will be carried out by
contractors chosen through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB). These are mainly
for dredging of the north basin which can be more economically and efficiently
handled through LCB due to technical reasons including labor intensive tech-
niques for site preparation and flexible use of dredging equipment. Other
elements of LCB will be the railway connection outside the port which does not
belong to the port, and for auxiliary buildings that are mostly for overall
port use. Prequalification of contractors will be carried out for works
contracts to be awarded after ICB. Qualifying domestic contractors for civil
works will receive a preference in bid evaluation of 7Z of the total contract
cost. Equipment will also be procured through ICB. Qualifying domestic
suppliers of goods will receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15 of the
cif price or the import duty, whichever is lower. Some small items to be
agreed with the Bank and amounting to less than $200,000 per contract, and
aggregating less than $1,000,000 will be procured after evaluation of
quotations solicited from at least three qualified suppliers under procedures
acceptable to the Bank. Contracts awarded through ICB will be subject to the
Bank's prior review of procurement documentation and proposed contract
awards.
83.       Civil works and equipment installation are expected to be completed
by the end of 1991.
84.       In order to operate the new terminal at Tianjin, TPA intends to
train some 6,000 management and administrative staff, stevedores, machine
operators and maintenance personnel. TPA prepared a recruitment and training
plan which includes training to be provided by equipment manufacturers. The
training plan covers the operational needs until 1995.
85.       Land needed for the project will be reclaimed from the sea and con-
solidated within the project. Designs are completed and consultants, financed
through TCC, are now assisting in the preparation of the bidding documents,
which will be completed by April 1986. Prequalification of contractors was
carried out for the two major contracts; for the other contracts, prequali-
fication will follow according to schedule. TECDC will construct the project
assisted by foreign consultants to supervise execution. The consultants will
be appointed following the Bank's Guidelines and with terms of reference
reviewed and agreed with the Bank. Construction will start by November 1986.
Disbursements
86.       Disbursements from the proceeds of the loan will cover:  (a) 100Z of
the foreign costs of equipment or 100% of the local costs (ex-factory), 75Z of
the costs of other items locally procured; (b) 100Z of foreign costs and 20Z
of local costs of civil works procured under ICB; and (c) 100% of the costs of
technical assistance and training. Disbursement will be made against full
documentation except for reimbursement for training and contracts for civil
works, goods and services each valued less than $200,000 equivalent, which
will be disbursed against statements of expenditures. Supporting documents
for the statements of expenditures will be kept in the offices of TPA and
THCDC and will be made available for inspection by Bank supervision



- 24 -
missions. The disbursement schedule is based on the assumption that the
proposed loan will become effective by July 1986.  The loan closing date will
be December 31, 1992. To facilitate disbursement, a spc.cial account will be
set up with an initial deposit of $8.0 million approximating four months'
estimated expenditures in a bank on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank.
Economic Benefits and Risks
87.       The port of Tianjin serves a vast hinterland extending all the way
to Xinjiang province, some 3,000 km inland. However, almost 97% of the
outgoing traffic and 84% of the incoming traffic have their origins and
destinations within the cities of Tianjin and Beijing and the surrounding
Hebei province.
88.       In 1984, Tianjin port handled 16.1 million tons (mt) of cargo, of
which 12.4 mt foreign trade and 3.7 mt domestic. General cargo including iron
and steel products accounted for over 40X of total traffic. Total port
traffic is forecast to doubLe over the next decade and triple to 50 mt by the
end of the century. The port works around the clock, seven days a week and
has achieved a high annual throughput of about 400,000 tons of general cargo
per berth in recent years. Despite such achievements, existing facilities
cannot keep up with traffic growth. Congestion is heavy and total ship
waiting time exceeded 10,000 days in 1984. This represents an economic cost
of some $60 million or about one fourth of the total project cost.
89.       Project benefits are predominantly in terms of ship time savings.
As some 75% of the ships caLling at Tianjin are either Chinese owned or
operated, most of the project benefits will accrue to China. Other benefits
are cargo handling cost savings and cargo time savings. These benefits give
an overall ERR for the project of 21X. Even with significant cost increase
combined with lower benefits, the ERR would be 16%.
90.       The risk involves possible delays in project start-up due to the
introduction of ICB for civil works. To minimize this risk, appropriate Bank
assistance and supervision will be provided in the early project stages. It is
unlikely that traffic will fall short of estimates and it may instead be
higher. The flexibility of the design enabling to use project berths first
for general cargo and convert later to container traffic ensures that their
use will, be maximized at anytime.
Finances
91.       Operations at the port of Tianjin have been profitably run over the
past few years. This was attributable to excellent control of working costs,
increased worker productivity and increased handling of more profitable types
of cargo. Forecasts show the share of the more profitable cargoes continuing
to increase in relation to other cargoes at the port, yielding continued prof-
itability of operations.
92.       Until recently, most of the port's net earnings were remitted to the
State. Retention of earnings by the port was minimal and was permitted for



- 25 -
only a small number of clearly defined purposes. Capital investments were
funded exclusively from the national budget by way of grants. Recently, sig-
nificant changes were made in the financial policies affecting public enter-
prises in China; in particular, a structure of tazes on profit has replaced
the blanket remittance of net earnings to the state, and loan finance has
replaced grants for capital expenditure.
93.       As part of the package of measures comprising the "pilot system
reform," TPA has been granted temporary exemption from these new policies.
For an interim period (understood to be not less than three years, 1984-86),
it will pay no tax on profit and may instead apply the funds to capital
projects. Projections suggest that as long as this arrangement continues,
TPA's need for local loan finance will be minimal. However, it is desirable
from all points of view that financing arrangements for the longer term should
be regularized so as to leverage TPA's equity to the extent prudent and to
encourage rigorous evaluation of potential capital projects and cost-conscious
construction. To this end, assurances were obtained from TPA that, beginning
in 1986, it will prepare annually a rolling five-year financial plan bringing
together its projected traffic, revenues, costs, capital expenditures and
financing plan (or plans) and that it will discuss its conclusions with the
Bank. For the time being, TPA's financial objective should be to maintain its
revenues at a level sufficient to cover all its costs of operations (including
depreciation), and to meet from internally generated funds all of its
financial obligations including debt service, taxes and allocations to special
funds. Assurances were obtained from TPA to this effect.
PART V - RECOMMENDATIONS
94.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank, and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 25, 1986
Washington, D.C.



- 26 -
Annex I
rAI Lr IA                                            Page  1 of  7
CHINA. POPLrs usp. or - SOCtAL tuDiC     DATA 51
auzao  PtWLrs UP. oF                  Mu       C P (SQIW  A         E   /c
MOST                     CMOS?  UC? UTSTINAT) /b
1gk -         0ESUNATILt             SIA * PACtIFC        ASIA A PACIFIC
mmn cuouse mm. MO
TOTAL                            9561.0      9561.0     9561.0
AuICULTURAL                      3257.6      3342.0     365.9
GM pB CpPA(uA                          ..          ..       300.0              273.3                   1011.1
CtK0cRA3  oF on. quzvALrt         202.0       25.0       641.9              285.7                    56.5
m          mma m wtur uaium
POpJLATION,HID-UA (TUSAIIODS) 6531000.0   815160.0  1019102.0
uIRN PoPUlATION (I OF TOTAL)       18.4 M       ..        21.0               22.3                     35.9
POPULATION flOJtCTIOIS
POPLATIO IN  EAl 2000 CHILL)                           1242.3
STATIONBAY POPULATON (CHILL)                           1571.0
POPULATION MOMWZ                                          1A
PoULAoN DINSm
Mra sQ. Ki.                      65.1        35.3       106.2             173.3                    36.9
PER SQ. a. ARI. LAD             19.8        210.0      260.8              353.3                   1591.2
POPULATION WA STUcU  CZ)
0-14 TES                        36.9        37.6        32.0              36.3                     38.2
5-64 ns                          56.2        57.2       63.1               59.4                    57.7
65 AND BOVE                       4.7         5.0        5.0                4.3                      3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (5)
TOTAL                             1.1         2.2         1.7               2.0                      2.3
aM                                ..          ..          ..                4.1                      4.1
QRUDC 31X3 3aTY (PER THUDS)        39.2 Id    35.7        18.6               27.5                     30.1
COuDE DEA  RATE (PEE TIaS)         23.5 77      SJ         7.1               10.2                      9.4
GROSS fhPPOOUCTICU IATE             2.s 7d      2.3         1.0               1.7                      1.9
FAMILY PLASMI
ACCPTOs. ANNUAL (TUS)             ..
uSERS CZOPr HrED  MN)             ..          ..        71.0               49.4                     56.1
oO - aem
is   OF FOOD PROD. rR CAPIrTA
(1969-71-100)                       ..        100.0      123.0              116.6                    124.6
PEr CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (I OF EuI3uIITS)        94.6 /d   101.6        119.8             106.3                    315.7
PrteINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          53.0 7d-   56.2        69.7              6n.1                      60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        32.5 7J    13.3        15.9              14.4                     14.1
CHILD (AS 1-4) DEATH RATE          13.5         3.5        2.0                7.3                      7.2
HALl!
LIFE EXPECr. AT IXTH (YEARS)       41.0 la    60.9        67.1               60.5                     60.6
INFaNT H0RT. RATE (PEE THOUS)     163.0 7_     69.0       36.0               69.2                     64.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PoOP)
TOTAL                             ..          ..        50.0               44.2                     4b.0
URA                               ..          ..        85.0              17.2                      57.6
RURAL                             ..          ..        40.0               36.6                     17.1
ACCESS TO EXCRErA DtSPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TUTAL                             ..          ..          ..                7.8                     50.3
UR                                ..          ..          ..               28.8                     52.9
RURAL                             ..          ..          ..                5.5                     44.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         7940.0 /f  3690.0 It  1140.0 it           3316.0                   7751.7
POP. PER NUSWING PERSON          3530.0      2760.0     1710.0             4690.7                   2464.5
POr. PeR HOSPITAL SED
TOTAL                          1040.0       760.0      440.0             1039.2                   1112.1
URAM                            210.0         ..       160.0              29.1                     651.4
RuRAL                         10140.0         L. 1020.0                  6028.2                   2596.9
AOLISSOS PER HOSPITAL  0..                      .          ..                52.3                     41.1
masmI
AVERAGE SIZE OF WOSENOLO
TOTAL                             ..          ..         5.1
CRAM                              ..          ..         A.3 
RURAL                             ..          ..         1.4
AVERSE NO. Of PERSONS/RDOM
TOTAL                             .           ..
CREM                              ..          ...
RURAL                             ..          ..
PERCETAGE OF MIELLIICS 11TH ELECT.
TOTAL                             .           ..
URBAN                             ..          ..
RURAL                             ..          ..



- 27 -                                               Annex I
T   I I LS  34                                  Page  2  of  7
cai^, ~       m                        CNnr w.a orwuau  ncmo nuax
i~~eoLkz    (.aa  MDI                  CMS  IEI  S        ) 4L0
~~~~ucw lla                        UDDI   =
1@-M41   1w7!    47Td, UL         *        PACIXIC        ASUG PAUCFIC
ADJUIf  amLUU  RATIOS
wnnsnz   TOTAL                  109.0       110.0      110.0              92.5                    100.7
I=                      .          ..        123.0             105.5                    104.4
PIAL                    ..         ..         97.0              79.2                     97.2
ICDUDAIAI TOTAL                  21.0        23.0       35.0              31.3                     57.4
Imu.                    ..         ..         46.0              40.5                     50.
FNAL                    ..         ..         25.0              21.9                     44.6
VOCAThI0UL-(0S Of 2C DA             ..          ..         2.2               3.2                     11.4
VUPIL-TUA=mlLI *11O
nDnf                              ..         33.0       25.0              38.0                     30.4
U=UM1T                            ..         22.0       15.0               17.4                    22.2
PASSIUU CII      UMD POP            ..          ..         0.2               0.9                     10.1
RADIO    uRSIiumiD   r              ..         14.7      210.1              129.                    172.9
TV UZIVIu/TuSim                     .. o0.                 35.3              19.8                    56.3
IRU     C"tAILT LGICIhL
nmu n) CIsmIAnON
PR TUSAD POMAT                     ..          ..        33.4               25.7                    65.3
CI    A        AEAWCAPITA           ..          ..         ..                6.0                      3.4
LABO J-
TOTAL LUA    FORM (TIY)        321646.0   380553.0   470692.0
nEAL  CPSnCET                    38.3        36.0       37.3               33.2                    33.5
ACMLURR CIP        I              ..          ..        66.9              59.5                     S2.2
GUSTA  CPUT                       ..          ..        18.7              15.8                     17.9
PAR2ICZYA!IOll Em2 (PERCENT
TOTL                             46J         *5         4.1                41.9                    38.9
ImAL                             35.9        54.5       35.4               53.5                    50.6
PALS                             37.0        35.0       35.               23.1                     26.8
zCO111IC DEFIDICY AIO               0.9         1.0        0.8               1.0                      1.1
Dum   3iU nTE
PEWT or FZVA=; VICO
RacEIVE  n
11t     20 or sUoLSCi0            ..          ..        12.5              4..*
REST 20201 IOF DSRL               ..          ..        29.3 7..                                   UA
LCUS 202 OF 0OsIOLDS              ..          ..         5                 ..                       6.4
lOUWS 405 O UOUSENOLDS            ..          ..       16.4                ..                     1.5
MM AU T _      VRr N
LEVE (UNS PMR CAPITA)
UR..                                          ..         ..               133.9
oISAL                                          ,         ..               111.6                   151.9
ESTISAW5D RILATIE POVES? DIRT
LIVES CUSS PER CIPIA)
UBA                               ..          ..                                                  177.9
NIRIAL                            ..          ....                        51.7                    164l7
ZSTXMATED POP. UELW ABSOLUTE
10951!D ICONK  LML (I)
Ul                                .           ..                          43.6                     23.5
RtNAL                              .          .          .                51.7                     37.8
NMT AVAXLABLK
NOT APILICABL
. . ~~~~NOTS V-
/a  The group average for each indicator are populaeioe_egbted arlctmtlc  ane. Coverag  of countrtie
eamng tbe idicatote depends on aval2abilty of dta ad La not unifore.
Ib   nlela  otbrzuisa noted. "Data for 1960" refer to soy year beutee 1939 nd 1961; "Daca for 1970" bet_en
199 end 1971; and data for 'Mot Recent  ttatoe" bet_ee  1961 and 1903.
/e  1964; /d 1955-65 averae; 1 1955-64 average; /f Senor doctor of wetern medicine; 4j Dierbutin
of people ankd by bomehida per capita Incou.eTh79 data; lb 1960.
mK. 1985



- 28 -
Annex I
Page 3 of 7
DEM1NMONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notn: Although the dan are drawn from sources nrally judged the most authoritative and reliable it should also be noted that they may not be atermationally
comparLble bemuse of the lIck of tandardid definitions and concepts ued by different coumries in collecting the data. The doat are. nonethlless, useful tn
describe order of mnitude, indica&t trends. and ebstcrir certain major differnc betwsan countries.
The rderCemc groups are (I) the same country poup of the subject country and (21 a country group with somewhat higher aveage intorne than the country
group ofthe subjctuntry (eept for -Higb IncoeneOil Exporters group wherc -Middle Income North Aria and Middk East" is choss becouse orstronger
socio-eultural affinitics In the referncne group data the avere afre population weighted arithmetic means for each indicator and shown only when majurity
ofthecountriesin agroup hsdaa for tha indatwro Since thecoverefcountries among the indicator depends on the avaibbility orddta and is not unifrm.
caution must be execisd in reldaing averaesof one indicator to another. Thse averas are only weful in comparing the value of ene indicator at a timc among
rhe coumtry and refermc groupL
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                           Crud Birth late (per trhuiad)--N umber of live births in the year
Total-Total surface area comprising land arca and inland waters;  per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                        Crud Deth Rate (pet thosand)-- Number of deaths in the year
AgEiltnmal-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or     per thousand or mid-year population; 1960, 1970. and 1933 data.
permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to  Grass Reproducton Rate-Average number ofdaughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                            will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rAtes; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current         in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices, cakulated by same conversion method as World      FuNnly Plani-Acceprars, Amma (thousad)  Annual num-
Bank Arias (1938143 basis); 1933 data.                           ber of acceptors or birth-control deviees under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                    family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.      fkuidy Plwnng-lUsers(percentofmldaswarm)  Thepercen-
petroleum, natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-  tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form or contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                       of child-bearing age are generally women aged 1549. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VrrAL STATIS ICS                                  groups.
Total Popalaion.Mid-Yew (thessnds)-As of July I; 1960. 1970.     FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data
Urban PapuLauiom (percent of total)-Ratio of urban to total      lr~rlrffo      dt,viei Per Capita (1969-71=1W)- Indes ofper
popuiaopn-         (pereWntiofol)-Rations  of urban areasomay affctcompar-  capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population. different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  exdudes animal feed and seed for agficulture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.     include primary commodities le.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
IP-la tin Phwjsr                                                 which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Population in year 2000-The projection of population for 200raj  exduded): they comprise ceels. root crops. pulses, oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on   vegetables, fruits. nuts. sugarcane and supr beets. livesiock. and
total population by age and sex, fertility rates, mortality rates, and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 19n0. these parameters  on national average producer price weights: 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.              Per Capta Supply ofCalories (percet ofreqnirensentsl-Comput-
Stationary populatio--Is one in which age- and sex-spccific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies availabic in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion, imports less exports, and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate = I). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed, seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAQ based on physiological needs for normal activitv
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                       waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Popudation Momennon-Is the tendency for population growth to     Per Cata Supply of Protein (grams per deyj--Pnrteii content of-
continuc beyond the time that rcplacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net suppiv of food is defined
achieved; that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year * is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 gram-
the year r. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards are lowcr than those of
ment level from year z onward. 1985 data.                        75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
P epjkJign  DIruy                                                average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Fuod
Per sq.km.-Mid-year population per square kilometcr (100 hec-    Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                 Per Capita Phoel. Supply 1oim Animal and Puse-Protein supply
Per sqkm. agricultural land-Computed as above for agricultural   offood derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 19o1-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                            1970 and 1977 data.
Popuaio Age Sarncte (percent)-Children (0-14 years). work-       Cld (ages l-4) Death Rate (per thousad) - Number ,f deaths ol
ing age (15-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mnid-year population; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.              group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Pbpulaio Growt Rare (percenr)-torad--Annual growth rates of      from lifc tabics: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.     HEALTH
Population Growh Rare (percemt)-Arhn--Annual growth rates        Life &pecaacp  at Birth (Jears)--Number of years a newhorn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.     infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



-29 -
Annex I
Page 4 of 7
at the time of of its birth werc to stay the sam  throughout its life;  Puplteacher Rato - prinary, and secondary-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                     roled in primary and secondary lcvels divided by numbers of
Iot Mwtuls  Ate (pe,r theusaud)-Nurber of infants who die    teacbers in the corresponding levels.
before reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year, 1960, 1970 and 1913 data.                                CONSUMPTION
Access to Safe Wae (pecu of p       t     oa        , aid      hswe  Cas (per thod pe.larie)-Pswrenign cars com-
riua-Nwnbar of pcople (total. urban, and rual) with rnasonable  prisc motor cars sating len than eight persons; exclude, anbul-
accss to safe wate spply (mcludes treated surface waters or    ances, hearses and military vehicles.
untreated but uncontuminted water such as that from protected  RadAo Recnlm (per thiuuandpepulatio)- -All types of receivers
boreholes springs and sanitary wells) as pacentages of their respec-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population;
tive populations. In an urban area a publc fountain or standpost  exdudes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 meters from a house may be considered  registration of radio sets was in effect; data for recent years may
as being within reasonable access of that house. In rural areas  not be comparble since most countries abolished licensing.
reasonable accs  wuld imply that the housewife or members of the
housdhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TVRe   SS (per th dpp  a)- - TV receivers for broadcast
in fetching the fiamily's water needs                          to general public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV
receivers in countries and in years when registration of rV sets was
Aesas go Exerea Ditiposol (percea of pepubsn-'-total4 WhaM1    in effect.
amd rnrl-Number of people (total. urban. and rural) served by
excreta disposal as perentages of their respective populations. 1 ewspaper Ciculaom  (per thousandpopalagon)- Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or  age circulaiion of 'daily general interest newspaper.- defined as a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publi. ation devoted primarily to recording  nral news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be 'daily' if it appears at least four times a week.
Populaton per PbysaciaP-fpulation divided by number of prac-   Ciema Anmul Attendawe per Capita per Year--Based on the
tising physicians qualilied from a medical school at university level.  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Population per Niniu  Perswo--Population divided by number of  drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses, assistant nurses.
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                      LABOR FORCE
Ibpaladm. per Hospit  Fed-tal. wham,and row&-Population        Total Labor J%rce (thousands)-Economically active persons. in-
(total urban, and nral) divided by their respective number or  cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
bospit beds avaiable in public and private general and s      students. etc.. covering population of all ages. Definilions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centes Hospital are estabvLahments  various countries are not comparable; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
prmanently staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  FSuak (peret)-licniale labor force as percentage or total labor
idgn principally custodia care ar not included. Rural hospitals.    force.
however inclide hcalth and medical centers not permanendy staffed  Agriculte (percem)-Lahor rorce in farming, forestry hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse. midwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentage or total labor force: 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and pro-wde a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                        Indastry (percentj-Labor force in mining. construction. niaaiu-
Admiuons per Hositar Bed-Total number of admissions to or     facturing and electricity. water and gas as percentage or total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force: 1960, 1970 and 1980 data.
P*sicoatioa Rate (perceut)-tal. mwk, audfemale-Participation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as total. male. and female labor force
A4re Sie of HoNehW  (persos per honsehaldj--fotaf. waa,       as percentages of total. male and female population of all ages
Adrura&-A household consists ofa group of individuals who share  respectively: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILOas
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  pacipation rates reflecting age-sex structure of dte population, and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long tme trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Aerage Number of Pasos per Roor-toal, wrhm. ad rral- -        Ec onoic Depndny Raio-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural    65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts                 INCOME DlSTRIBtiTION
Percenge of Dwellings avt Electricty-total. waro. a_d rura-   Pet   of Total Disprsbk lncamr (both o cash and kind)--
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total. urban. and rural dwellings respectively,       hold income.
EDUICATION                                                    POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4sted EnroAw  Ratios                                         The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
unaiy swhool - total. mate and female--Gross tomtl male and   k-les. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment oral ages at the primary level as prcentagcs of  Esixuted Absolue Pveyrty Iome Levef  (L'SS per capita)-urbha
respective pnmnary school-age populations. While many countries  and rua-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-1l years others do noL The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate dict plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordabic.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Esranared Reatirve Ibety Iacome Level (USS per capra)--uDan
education, gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some  and riral-Rural relative poverty income kvel is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secmdwy school - total, mle and femal-Computed as above       living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Esimaed P  qpultiw &h,w Absoue Powerty lnm    Leve (per-
mary instruction provides generaL vocational or teacher training  ceat)-rban and rura- Percent of population (urban and rural
instrucions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are "absolute poor.-
ence courses are generaly excluded.
Vocational Euollmeni (percent of secondary)-Vocational institu-          Comparativc Analysis and Data Division
tions indude tehnicaL indusariaL or other programs which operat       Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary insitutions                               June 1985



-30-
Annex I
Page 5 of 7
Populatton    a 1,019 aillion (mid-1983)
C11 per capita: 5300 (1983)
C0t1A - ICOUIIC INDICATOR
Amount - 19M4                            Annual arouth rates (S)
(million US$ *t               Aetual                                     lro1ecced
tndietsor                  current pries)Ib 190   1981   198Z   1913  19F4a/  1985    1986    1957    1968         1989    1990
NATIONAL ACC  S  /a
Croom domestic product        281,260       6.6   4.9   7.5   9.6  14.0    10.4          6.8      6.8       6.J     6.8      6.8
Agricultur                  100,430      -1.7   6.4  11.2   9.0  13.9          6.0     4.9      4.9       4.9    4.9       4.9
Industry                    1253010      12.3   2.3   7.3   11.4  16.6    14.0         7.7      7.7       7.7    7.7       7.7
Servtce.                     53,620       8.2   6.9    3.3   6.5   7.7        10.0     7.9      7.9       7.9    7.9       7.9
Conomption                    198,10O       9.1   5.2   5.9   9.0   12.5    12.5         8.9      7.4       7.4    7.4       7.1
Gross Investmnt                83,100       1.3  -1.8   10.9  15.2  20.7    11.0          2.3     4.8       4.5     5.1      5.7
Ezporto of CNF5 /a             26,720      17.8  16.7    0.6   9.5  13.0         3.0     6.9      8.6       8.8    8.8       8.8
Tmports of C11S7 77            26.750      16.1  -6.7   -5.7  28.1  25.9    43.1         0.0      5.8       5.9    6.0       6.2
Groso national savinp          65.870      -0.2   3.6  17.0  12.0  17.0          5.0     2.4      5.1       5.1     5.6      6.2
PRICES
CDF deflator (1980 - 100)                 100.0  101.8  101.7  102.9  107.6   113.1   118.7   124.7   131.0   137.5   144.4
exzhange rate (Tuan/US)                    1.50   1.70   1.89   1.98   2.32     2.84    2.84     2.84     2.84     2.84    2.84
Sbare of MDr at rket pTices (2)                  Average annual incroe (X)
(ne_    e t urrent prte-r)                      t-t eonatant 1981 prices)
1960  197   1975   160    985   1990        t960-70  970-75  1975-0o   1980-84  1984-89  1989-94
Cross domestic product /a     100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0       6.1      5.2      6.6      9.0      7.3      6.6
Agriulture                   23.0  35.0  32.8  32.0  34.2  31.3            6.7      3.4      3.3    1O.1       5.0      4.8
Industry                     48.0  41.0  45.8  48.0  47.9  49.9             7.8     7.5      9.9      9.6      8.6      7.4
Services                     29.0  26.0  21.4  20.0  17.9  18.8            3.4      4.5      5.4      6.6      8.2      7.5
Connumption                    62.4  70.8  69.1  71.3  66.7  69.3            6.1      4.7      6.4      8.1      8.4      6.8
Grose inuawent                 37.8  29.2  31.1  30.0  34.6  30.9            9.5      6.9      9.7    1L.3       5.1      6.1
Exports of CUNS                 4.8   2.8   5.3   7,1    7.7   8.5          -1.5    10.8       5.7    12.3       6.0      7.7
TAports of CUPS                 5.0   2.7   5.5   8.4   S.8   8.6            1.2    13.9    13.0    12.2         8.4      7.4
Cross national sa*inp          37.7   29.2  30.9  28.9  33.6  30.7           9.1      6.7      7.2    14.0       4.8      6.2
As 2 of CDP
1957          1970           1080           1983           1984
PLIC F WIANCE
Current rs,vfms                                   28.7           29.6          30.6           27.8           26.7
Current expenditures                              15.1           15.7          23.1           21.6           20.1
Surplus (+) or deficit C-)                       +13.6          413.9          +7.5           +6.2           +6.6
Capittl expenditure                               13.7           13.3           11.0           7.8            8.2
Forelgn financing                                  0.7           n.a.           0.5            0.2            0.3
1960-70    1970-75     1975-80     1950-84    1984-89      1989-96
OTRER DIDICA50RS
CGN growth race (2)                               6.1         5.1         6.4         9.2        7.2         6.6
CUP per capita growth rate (2)                    3.5         2.9        5.2          7.9        6.1         5.5
Energy conomption growth rate (t)                -0.3         9.2        5.8          4.1        5.3         4.8
tCOR                                             3.3         4.7         5.1          3.8        4.0         4.6
marginl savings rate                              0.4        0.4         0.3          0.3        0.2         0.3
Imort elasticity                                 0.2         2.7         2.0          1.4        1.1         l.2
/a  Data for 1981 and 1982 are 8ro  dlfferont sources; data for 1982 exlude re-exports.
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
rebruary 7. 1985



31 -                                                AXNEX I
kpuloatio      1  1,019  W Uaton (mld-19B3)                                                                         Page 6  of  7
GUP per capita.  5300 (1983)
CHINA - EXTERNAL TRADO
Amount - 1984                 Annual  roCth races (%) (at constant prices)
(million USM  at                          Actua l                         Projecee
current prices)         1980      1961     1962      1983     1984      1985      1990
XERNL TDE /a
Merchandise expores                        25,020              14.5      17.3      5.5      10.1      10.4      2.B       8.7
ftirSry                                  11,410               1.5     -1.4       3.9      14.6      9.6       3.3      6.8
Manufactures                             13,610              32.2      36.2      6.6       7.0     11.1       2.4      10.4
3hrcbandi.e Imports                        26,740               6.8       7.2      0.2      29.7     22.3      47.1      6.2
Food                                      2.330               9.1      68.3     42.9    -30.9    -24.9       14.4      7.1
fterolem                                    130              52.6    -65.5    130.0    -43.5       30.8       0.0     35.5
K chInet7 and equipment                   8,420              16.4      19.0    -41.7      34.7     82.3      58.2      5.1
Others                                   15.860               0.9    -13.5       7.1      71.7     16.8      19.9      6.3
"EcSS
eF'wt prtce index (1980-100)                                  100.0    102.7      98.7      88.8     90.5      88.0    126.0
Import pridce Ladaz (1980-100)                                100.0    104.5      89.2      76.7     78.6      77.3    112.0
Tbre of trade index (1980-100)                                100.0      98.3    110.7    115.8    115.4    113.8    112.5
Compooition of merchandise trade (Z)                    Average annual Increase (2)
(at current prices)                                (at co ncant prices)
1978        1981         19H4       1990       1980-84            1934-89             1989-94
Exports                          100.0       100.0        100.0       100.0       10.8                7.9                  7.6
Primary                        53.4         46.6         45.6       42.1         6.7                6.4                 6.1
Manufactures                    46.6        53.4         54.4        57.9       15.2                9.4                 8.2
Imports                          100.0       100.0        100.0      100.0        14.9                8.5                 7.5
Food                            12.8        17.4          8.7        9.7        13.9                8.9                 8.5
Petroleum                       0.5          0.4          0.5        0.9        13.0               17.2                16.1
Machinery and equlpment         18.9        29.2         31.5       33.3        23.6               12.0                 6.8
Others                         67.9         53.0         59.3       56.1        20.5                6.7                 7.5
Share of trade with         Share of trade with          Share of trade with
industrial                  developing                  the USSR and
esuetries (Z)               countries (2)             Eastern Europe (2)
1977     1980      1983     1977      1980     1983      1977     1980      1983
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                                     36.4     44.7      42.1      46.8     48.7      53.2     16.8       6.6      4.7
Imports                                     63.1     73.6      69.0     20.7      19.7      24.5     16.2       6.7      6.5
'a hued on customs statLirics. Exports, f.o.b.. imports, c.l.f.
Easc Asla and Pacific Reglonal Office
November 22, 1985



ANNEX I
-32-                                      Page 7 of 7
!opulation    z1,019 mllion (mid-1983)
CNP per capita:  5300 (1983)
CHINA - DALACE OF PATHETmS.           CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Millions of US at corrent prices)
Indicator                                   1978   1979    1980    1981       1982      1983      193          7r  9e4
HALANCE OF PAYIHEUT
Exports of goods and nonfactor services  10.370  14.983  20.324  24,423    23,637    23,186    26,716     26,840  35S590
Of which: lhrchandise f.o.b. /a         9.607  13,658  18,492  22,027    21,125    20,707    23,905     23,900   32,130
IXports of goods and nonfactor services  11.668  17.759  24.058  23.446    13.900    20.711    26.7"      3S.290   63,180
Of whicb: lhrchsndie f.o.b. /a        10.745  16,212  22.049  21,047    16,376   1.717    23,690      35,150   56,9XC
Net factor incom  from abroad                -8     -77    -117   -200        452     1,253     1.620      1.140    -850
Net traufers,                               597     656     640    464        530       436       304        300      300
Current account balance                    -709  -2.197  -3.211   1,241     5,719     4,164     1,392   -10,010  -3,140
Private direct in"vtant (not)                 -       -      57    265        430       636     1.100      1,650    1.950
Official grant aid (not)                      -       -      21     156       -44        75       137        140      140
I.T loanm  (not)                            549   3,815   1.069     310       301      .927      -145          0    4,450
Disbursements                             549   3.895   1.670   1.659     2,.81     i.600       715        950   6.390
Aortization                                 -      80     601   1.34S     2.180       673       363        950    1.940
Other capital /b                           -62S  -1,021   2.455    -47       -I1S   -1.672    -2,.9        2,330        -
Cange in rerves
C"-" indlcating increas)                  768   -597    -391  -1,925    -6.291    -4,130        -95      53S90  -1.400
Titarnatiomal reserve                     6.677   7.274   7.665   9.590    15.U1    20P011    20.106      14,220   23.500
Of which: Cold /c                       5.120   5.120   5.120   5.120     5,120     5.120     5.120      5.120    5,120
laerve  an nonthbe of imports               6.2     4.5     3.5    4.8       10.1      11.7       9.1        4.5      4.2
lXTERUL CAPTrAL AND DEBT /d
Gross disbur_nt                              ..      ..      ..      ..
Official grantr
ConcessLosl loans                                  ..           ..       ..       ..
DAC                                      ..      ..      ..      ... 
IDAC
fOtr                                     ..      ..      ..      ...                 .
lanconces.ional loans                                               .        .....
Official export credits
Other multilateral                                   ..          ..
Private
External debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed            549   4.364   5.433   5,261     5.562     6.397     6,340
Official                                 ..      ..      ..      ..
Private                                           .      .                           ..
Undisbursed debt
Debt service
Total service payments
Interest                                 .       .       .        ..      ..
Paymntn as 1 of exports                  0.4      2.7     6.?    9.0       11.4       4.9       5.0
Average Interest rate of new loans (I)        -       -       -       -         -         -         -
Averag  aturity of new loans (years)          -       -       -       -         -         -         -
/a  Data for 1978-81 are not comparable vith those of 1982-85 because of a difference in their sources. The Latter exclude
re-exporte.
/b  Includes net use of IMF credit and net fLow of short-tetm capital.
7c valued at 0SS402/troy ounce.
7;i Excludes short-term loans (one year or lens).
East Asia and Pacific Rsgional Office
November 22. 1935



-33 -                                         AMIN  r!
STATUS OP IIAN CGROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PEOPLE'S RENPULIC OF CHINA
A. STATEMET 07 BK LOAIS AND rOA CREDITS
(eo of Smatsber 30, 1935)
Loan or                                                                               nsS million
Credit                                                                         Amount (loee cancellations)
Number   Year Sorrower                      Purpose                            Bank n   IA    Undisbursed
2021/1167    1931  People's Republic of China  University Development             100.0   100.0        24.6
1261    1982  Peopl-'s Repblic of China  North China Plain Agriculture         -       60.n       16.8
2207    1932 People's Republic of China  Three Ports                          69.n       -        44.0
1297    1982  People's Republic of Chin  Axric. Education & Research           -       75.4       18.1
2226/1313    1962 People'. Republic of China  Industrial Credit                    40.6i    30.0       37.3
2231    1983  People's Republic of Chine  Dsqing Petroleum                   162.4       -        91.R
2252    1933 Peopleac Republic of China  Zhongyuan-VUnlin Petroleim          100.8       -        79.1
2261/1347    1933  People's Republic of China  R elonXjiang Lend Recleavtion       25.3     45.0       30.8
1411    1983  People's Republic of China  Polytechnic/TV University             -      85.0       76.9
1412    1983  People's Republic of China  TechnicAl Cooperation                -       1n.(        7.5
1417    1914  People's Republic of China  Rubber Development                   -      300.0       52.3
2382    1984  People's Republic of China  Lubuge Hydroelectric               145.4       -       139.4
2394    1984  People's Republic of ChinA  Railway                            220.0       -       126.1
1462    1984  People'. Republic of China  Rurel Credit                         -       so.0       34.2
1472    1984  People's Republic of China Rural Wealth 6 HMeical Pduc.           -     35.0        67.1
2426    1984  People's Republic of Chino  Waramy Petroleum                    99.5       -        U4.6
2434/1491    1984  People's Republic of China  Second Industriel Credit           105.n    70.0       15R.7
2 4441500    1984  People's Republic of China  Second Atricultural Education       45.3    23.5        54.6
1516    1984  People's Republic of China  Second Agricultural Research         -       25.0       19.2
1551    1985 People's Republic of China  Second nu! ereity Dvelopment          -      145.0      14n.3
2493    1985 People's Republic of Cbina  Second Power                        117.0       -       117.0
2501/a  1485  People's Republic of China  Changaun CLuan) Coal Wining        126.0       -       126.0
IS577; 1985  People's Republic of China  Seed.                                 -      40.0        40.0
1558W  1985  People's Republic of China  Rural Meter Supply                    -      80.0        8n.0
2519/159471  1985  People's Republic of China  Righsvv                             42.6    30.0        72.6
25407j 1985  People's Republic of China  Second Railway                      235.0      -        235.0
2541/  1985  People's Republic of Chin  Ferttlizer Rehabilitation end         97.0       -        97.0
Energy Ssving
1605/   1935  People's Republic of China  Forestry Development                 -      47.3        47.1
2579/160E7/   1985  People's Republic of China  Pishihsng-Chsohu Area Development  17.0    75.0        42.0
2580I 1985  People's Republic of China  Veiyn GCe Field Technicel            25.0       -        25.0
Assietance
Total                                                                           1,772.)  1,176.2
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                                  1,772Z9  1,176.2
Total Undisbursed                                                               1.452.3    794.0    2.246.1
R. SrATEMENT O IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of September 30, 1985)
Amount In osS millton
Year    d litor                                   Type of business               Loatcn   FAut       Total
19851 Guangzbhou and Peugeot Automobile Co.       Autosobile                       15.0      2.n       17.0
Total Croen Com_itmsnts                                                            15.0      2.0       17.0
Loee cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                                                               -         -          -
Totel Commdtmets now held bh IrC                                                   15.0      2.0       17. 0
Total Undisbursed                                                                  15.0      2.0       17.0
/a  Bece_  effective on October 31, 1985.
W; Becase effective on October 24, 1985.
7; Becnoe effective on November 13, 1985.
f Became effective on December 4. 1985.
Became effective on November 22, 1985.
W  Xecame effective on December IR, 1985.
bece_m effective on November 26, 1985.
Became effective on Merch 3, 1986.
Ba eemne effective on January 31, tQ86.
73 Signed on October 16, 1935.
Notes:  (1)  Subsequent to the above date of Part A, a credtt of SR. 84.n rdllton (890 mdllton equtvalent)
for the Second Rural Credit Project eas approved December 17, 1985; a loan of S75 million and
credit of SDR 22.8 m1llion (825 million equivalent) for the Third Industrial Credit Pro1ect was
approved March 4, 1986; and a credit of SnR 1R.0 million (820 million equivalent) for the
TechnieAl Cooperatton Project was approved March 13, 1986.
(2) The status of the projects lISted in Part A is described in a eparate report on all Xlak/IDA
financial projects in execution, whicb is updated twice yearly and circulated to the fxecutive
Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
CHINA
TIANJIN PORT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project          : 1 year
(b)  Agencies which prepared the project   : Tianjin Port Authority
coordinated by Tianjin
Municipality with the
assistance of foreign and
local consultants.
(c) Date of first Bank mission to
consider the project                      October 1984
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission         : June 1985
(e)  Negotiations completed                 : March 1986
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness          : July 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
TPA would:
(a)  carry out a siltation minimization study aiming at reducing
maintenance dredging with terms of reference and timing agreed with
the Bank (para. 67);
(b)  provide the Bank with its audited financial statements, within six
months from the end of each fiscal year (para. 72);
(c)  carry out the training program as agreed with the Bank (para. 75);
(d)  take measures to maintain its gross revenue at a level sufficient to
cover its full costs of operation (including depreciation), and to
meet from internally generated funds all its financial obligations
including debt service, taxes, allocations to special funds and
cther cash outflows (para. 93); and
Ce) beginning in 1986, prepare annually a rolling five-year financial
plan and discuss it with the Bank (para. 93).



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
THCDC would:
(a) provide the Bank with audited accounts of the project, within six
months from the end of each fiscal year (para. 72).
(b) upon completion of project construction, transfer facilities to TPA
for operation (para. 80).



BEIJING            o
OjoP YELLOW         JAA
L a..olrn             
EAsr CHINA a
C H I N A         -.Sh=IgW  SEA
-3r~~~~~~~~~~~,-
N.0b     .       -
:   .           130'
Gn J.eIa JSISWACU 
-  SOUTH CHINA SEA
120-
-    Side Slope of Cut
PARKING AREA                       N'--.A.te
PIER NO. 4                                                       P
QUAY
COTAINER     YADTIMBER                                     WHARF                               -
CONSTRUCTION
CONTAINER TERMINAL
PIER NON3                                          4
Side Slope of Cut     .                                                               5 ide Slope of Cut
--        : ----                  -    Ew
-          L--                                -~''                - 
- -\                                                                 _ -  C0     20           40D         6o0
METER



C H I N A
TIANJIN PORT PROJECT
FXISTING  PLANNI D  I'RUPOSED
51RUCIURLSOR STOCKPIL- -SITES
UAII ROADS
ROA11S
f'ROII Cl ARIA
IHt IHRIt PORIS PROJECT IPREVIOLIS PROJI:CII
FFNCtS
---   MAIN ROADS
*    NATIONAl CAPIIALS
INTFRNATIONAI HOUNDARIES
rvA ER
lope of Cul
.    --
,;~~ - 
S  ERViCE BO!AT    \               ''\ ge
~~~      --~~~~~-
CONSTRUCTION
MATERIAL WHARF                                     .
~~~~~~-                                                                           '.C....7         -- -_ ,- . . - - -_W 
: of Cut                                                                                         -- - |  - -        .   .eU..g
IA~~~~~~~~.
tfo>--                               "  1''--/
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~
400        600        1100       I .OW              \                                       . -           ; -7. - --v    sDstJY
METERS             I                             |                                                  -t {'        ~ 1   c
J Ur IRS 19R



i
I



