Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Reprt No. 7114-UNI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NIGERIA
PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
September 23, 1988
Africa Region, Western Africa Department
Industry and Energy Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
t  v *  ,    I   t-        -



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit - Naira (Y)
On September 26, 1986, Nigeria adopted a flexible exchange rate policy and
introduced a second-tier foreign exchange market (SFEH) comprising an auction and
interbank market. On July 2, 1987, SPEH and the official (i.e., first-tier) rates
were merged. All foreign exchange transactions now take place at market-
determined exchange rates. The foreign exchange market (FEH) is a combination of
an auction (fortnightly) on the basis of the Dutch system, and a dealer market
which operates in response to supply and demand. The FEK rate in the auction of
July 7, 1988 was US$1 - N4.47.  A rate of US$1 - t14.00 has been used for project
analysis.
US$1 - M4.00
NMl  US$0.25
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ASCON  -  Administrative Staff Collogo of                 t4ASSI  -  Nig,-ria Association of Small Scalo
Niger!                                                    Industriallets
CIRD   -  Center for Industrial Research and              NBCI  -  Nigerian Bank for Comerce and
D-velopment                                               Industry
CUD    -  Center for Management Development               NGO(s) -  Non-governmental organization(s)
CBN    -  Central Bank of Nigeria                         NIDB   -  Nigorian Industrial Development
CUB    -  Continental Merchant Bank                                   Bank
DUBS   - Durham University Business School                NISER  - Nigorian Institute of Social and
EDP(s) -  Entrepreneurship Development                                Economic Research
Program(s)                                    NMB    - Nigerian Morchant Bank
ELAN   -  Equipment Leasing Association of                ODA    -  Overseas Development Agency, UK
Nigeria                                       PB(s)  -  Participating banks
FBN    -  First Bank of Nigeria                           PCC    - Project Coordination Comittee
FEM    -  Foreign Exchange Market                         PRODA  - Project Development Agency
FGN    -  Federal Government of Nigeria                   SFEM   - Second-Tier Foreign Exchange
FIIRO  -  Federal Institute of Industrial                             Market
Research, Oshodi                              SME(s) - Small and medium scale
FMI   -  Federal Ministry of Industries                               enterprise(s)
IBWA   -  International Bank for West Africa              SSE(s) - Small scale enterprise(s)
ICON   -  ICON Merchant Bankers                           SSID(s)-  Sinl! Scale Industry Divisions,
IDC(s) -  Industrial Development Center(s)                            State Ministries of Industry and
ITF    -  Industrial Training Fund                                    Commerce
ILO    -  International Labor Organization                WFYP   - Work for Yourself Program
IMB    -  International Merchant Bank                     USA    - United Bank for Africa
MAN    - Manufacturers Association of Nigeria             UBN    - Union Bank of Nigeria
MGA(s) - Mutual guarantee association(s)                  UNDP   - United Nations Development
NAL    - NAL Merchant Bank                                            Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FM ONVDCUL U            Y
NIGERIA
PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOP ENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pane No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ......        ..............................    iii
I. INTRODUCTION .............................................          1
II. THE CETTING .............................................          1
A.   The Economic Environment ...........................          1
B.   The Manufacturing Sector .....      ....................      3
1.   Past Performance ..............................         3
2.   Recent Reforms ................................         4
3.   Impact of the Industrial Sector Reforms
and  Prospects   ...............................      6
C.   The Small and Medium Scale Enterprise (SME) Sector .          7
1. Sectoral Context.                                         7
2.   Government Policies and Support Programs                8
3.  Prospects and Constraints .11
D. The Financial Sector .11
1.  The Institutional Setting .11
2.   Financial Policy Framework .13
3. Development Constraints .15
E.   Government Objectives and the Role of SMEs  . .18
F. Bank Assistance .19
1. Past Ban!, Involvement .19
2. Bank Role *n the Sector .20
III. THE PROJECT .20
A.   Project Rationale and Objectives    .         .20
B. Project Description    .                 .21
1. Line cf Credit Component .22
2.   Pilot Financial Restructuring Component                22
3.   Pilot Mutualist Credit Guarantee Scheme                23
4.   Equipment Leasing Component .23
5.   Technical Assistance Component .23
C.   Project Cost and Financing Plan    .         .25
D. Credit Demand   ..25
IV. PRINCIPAL FEATURES OF THE LOAN    .            .27
A.   The Loan and Institutional Arrangements .27
B.   Eligible Financial Intermediaries .29
This Report was prepared by Surendra Agarwal (Task Manager), Kaikhosrou
Framji, Willem van Eeghen (Western Africa Department). Tu Dinh and Stephen
Berkman (Africa Technical Department) and N. Gangaram and Leila Webster
(Consultants). Eleanor George provided word processing assistance and Iaidu
Hewawasam provided se retarial support in preparation of the Report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by fecipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may no;t otherwise be disclosed without World Banks authorization.



- ii -
Paxe No.
C.  Eligible Beneficiaries and Subprojects ....   .........    29
D.  Subloan Processing and Administration ....   ..........    32
E.  Onlending Terms and Conditions .....     ................    34
F.  Project ImplementatioL Arrangements and Schedule  ...    35
G.  Procurement  ........................................   36
H.  Allocation and Disbursement of Bank Loan .... .......    37
I.  Monitoring .........     ................................    38
J.  Accounting, Auditing, and Reporting Requirements ...    38
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ..............................    39
VI. AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS REACHED AND
RECOMMENDATIONS ......... .............................    41
ANNEXES
2-1  Index of Manufacturin, Production by Selected Products, 1980-1986
2-2 Results of a Small Scale Industry Survey, 1983
2-3 Institutions Providing Investment Promotion, Technical Assistance and
Lxtension Services to SMEs
2-4 Industrial Development Centers(IDCs)
2-5 Entrepreneurship Development
2-6 Equipment Leasing
2-7 Monetary Aggregates
2-3 Suzmmary Financial Statements of Selected Commercial Banks
2-9  Summary Financial Statements of Selected Merchant Banks
2-10 Sunmmary Financial Statements of NBCI
2-11 Selected Interest Rates
2-12 Sectoral Distribution of Credit
2-13 Characteristics of Subprojects under the Small- and Medium-Scale
Industry Project (Loan 2376-UNI)
3-1 Pilot Mutualist Credit Guarantee Scheme
3-2  Sunmary and Estimated Costs for the Technical Assistance Program
4-1 Eligibility Criteria for Participating Banks
4-2 Guidelines for the Financial Restructuring Component
4-3 Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Reporting Requirements
4-4 Procurement Arrangements
4-5 Bank Loan Allocation and Disbursments
4-6 Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan
6   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP
IBRD No. 20709



- ili -
NIGZRIA
PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUY ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summara
Borrower:      Federal Republic of Nigeria
Beneficiaries: Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), participating banks (Pbs),
Federal Ministry of Industries (FMl), Nigerian Bank for
Commerce and Industry (NBCI), and mall and medium scale
enterprises (SMEs) in the private productive sectors and
service activities.
Amount:        US$270 million equivalent
Terms:         Twenty years, including a five-year grace period, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Onlending
Terms:         The Government will: (a) pass on US$268.2 million equivalent
to CBN as follows--US$265.7 million for onlending to SMEs
through eligible PBs, and US$2.5 millicn for technical
assistance; (b) onlend US$1 million to NBCI for
strengthening its operations at the same terms and
conditions as are applicable to the Bank loan; and (c)
retain US$0.8 million for technical assistance to PHI. The
CBN would onlend the loan proceeds (US$265.7 million) to
eligible PBs in naira terms at a variable rate, equal to the
prevailing CBN rediscount rate (currently 12.752 p.a.), and
a commitment fee of 0.751, with an amortization schedule
reflecting the aggregate subloans made by the PBs. The
final onlending rates to beneficiary enterprises would be
variable and determined by the PBs. The CBN would retain
about one percentage point of the spread on the Bank loan to
cover its administrative cost and pay the remaining amount
to the Government. The foreign exchange risk would be borne
by the Government (for a fee implicit in the differential
between the onlending rate to the PBs and the interest rate
on the Bank loan). Subloans under the line of credit and
financial restructuring components would have a maturity up
to 12 years, including up to a 3-year grace period.
Subloans under the mutualist credit guarantee scheme would
have a maturity up to 5 years, including up to a one-year
grace period. The PBs would be allowed to write leases
under the equipment leasing component for up to 10 years,
including up to a 2-year grace period. Subloans under the
Pilot Stw'dies Facility would have a maturity up to 3 years,
including up to a one-year grace period.
Project
Description:   The principal objective of the Project is to stimulate
productive activity in line with Nigeria's resource
endowments, and generate a sustained supply response in
private, productive SMEs in the context of the new policy



- iv -
environment and the ongoing adjustment process. The Project
would, in this way, help in the resumption of growth and
efficient employment generation. The Project consists of
(a) an apex line of credit to finance fixed assets and
working capital needs of SHEs; (b) a pilot program of
corporate restructuring of viable SHEs which are currently
in financial difficulties; tc) a pilot mutualist credit
guarantee scheme for microenterprise lending, in
collaboration vith selected non-governmental organizations
(NGOs); (d) an equipment leasing component to provide an
alternative and flexible source of long-term financing to
SMEs; and (e) an integrated package of technical assistance
for SHEs (Pilot Studies Facility to finance on loan terms
the consultancy costs for feasibility studies and other
technical assistance), for CBN (strengthening of the SME
Apex Unit, training for PBs in project analysis and
preparation of restructuring workouts, implementation design
of the mutualist credit guarantee scheme, studies on
equipment leasing and the mutual investment funds, and
monitoring the economic and social impact of
subprojects--tracer studies), for FMI (improvements in the
Entrepreneurship Development Programs, studies on
subcontracting, technology development and industrial
estates, and training), and for NBCI to strengthen its
operations in the areas of appraisal, supervision, portfolio
management, leasing and merchant banking.
Proiect
Benefits and
Risks:         The integrated package of institutional and financial
measures under the Project would foster a stronger private
sector. The Project would strengthen and improve the
competitiveness of existing SMEs, and help establish viable
new projects. It would also help generate new employment,
maintain employment in existing viable enterprises, and thus
partially alleviate the social cost of the adjustment
process, and thereby enhance its sustainability. The
equipment leasing and pilot financial restructuring
components, pilot mutualist credit guarantee scheme for
microenterprises, and studies on the establishment of a
mutual investment fund, and the development of an appro-
priate policy and regulatory framework for equipment leasing
would improve the quality and range of financial services
available to the SME sector. The Pilot Studies Facility
would help SMEs and entrepreneurs obtain consultancy
services of their choice and make the provision of
technical assistance demand driven, with the involvement of
the private sector and the banking system. Provision of
technical assistance to and training for CBN, PBs, FMI and
NBCI would enhance their capacity for developing and
implementing SME support programs more effectively.
A major risk of the loan is the possible reluctance of the
banking system to engage in term financing for SMEs,
perceived generally as more risky thani traditional



- V -
comuercial financing, and this could result in a slow
disbursement of the loan.   This risk has been minimized as
the PBs will be free to determine the final onlending rates
to beneficiary enterprises. Another risk is that delays in
the resumption of economic growth and high interest rates
may dampen investment demand. This risk is mitigated in
part by the overall size of the credit components which are
based on conservative demnd *stimates. Moreoor, thi Pilot
Studies Facility would help generate a significant pipeline
of bankable SHE subprojects, and the participation of the
entire banking system with extensive branch networks would
extend the outreach of the Project in all parts of the
country, which would further mitigate this risk. The pilot
financial restructuring component and the pilot mutvalist
credit guarantee scheme could also encounter a difficult
start-up because of their newness. To minimize this risk,
the amounts allocated to these components are relatively
small, and the Project includes technical assistance for the
preparation of restructuring workouts. Finally, in view of
the multi-component nature of the Project, and the past
experience of weak project implementation in Nigeria, there
is always the risk of clogged paper work which may slow down
project implementation. To mitigate this risk, the Project
relies largely on the banking system which is more efficient
than Government departments or agencies. The SME Apex Unit
in CBN, however, would have mainly an administrative role
for the credit components. The Project also includes
technical assistance to the SME Apex Unit.
Estimated Cost: a/
Local     Foreign     Total
--USS million equivalent---
Line of Credit                        107.7      200.0       307.7
Pilot Financial Restructuring          30.0       20.0        50.0
Pilot Mutualist Credit Guarantee
Scheme                                2.7        2.8         5.5
Equipment Leasing                       5.3       30.0        35.3
Technical Assistance                    6.7        4.9        11.6
Unallocated                             -          5.7         5.7
Total                            152.4      263.4      415.8
a/ Net of taxes and duties.
Financing Plan:
World Bank                              6.6      263.4       270.0
SMEs                                   79.7        -          79.7
Participating Banks                    66.1        -          66.1
Total                            152.4      263.4      415.8



- vi -
Ystimatzd Disbursements: a/
IBRD FY         89      90       91      92       93       94      95       96
------------------US$ million equivalent-----------------
Annual          0      27.0   45.9    43.2    54.0    51.3    29.7    18.9
Cualative       0      27.0   72.9   116.1   170.1   221.4   251.1   270.0
a/  Based on the standard, actual disbursement profile for IDE projects
Africa Region-wide.
Economic Rate
of Return:       Subprojects with costs above US$200,000 would be required
to have financial rates of return (FRRs) after tax of at
least 121, and those with costs above US$1 million would be
required to also have economic rates of return (ERRs) of at
least 122; payback periods for leased equipment would be
less than 6 years.



NIGERIA
PRIVATE SHALL AND MEDIUH ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Federal Government of Nigeria (the Government, FGN) has
requested a Bank loan of US$270 million for a Private Small and Medium
Enterprise Development Project (the Project) consisting of an integrated
package of financial support programs, investment promotion, technical
assistance and extension services for small and medium scale enterprises
(SMEs). In July 1986, with the support of a Trade Policy and Export
Development Loan (2758-UNI), the Government launched an ambitious and
far-reaching structural adjustment program to promote economic efficiency
and long-term growth through stabilization policies designed to restore
balance of payments and price stability. The introduction of a
market-determined exchange rate and the liberalization of trade are the
most important measures of the Government's adjustment program. The
Government has now placed a high priority on developing a nationwide
program to assist private sector SMEs. The Government believes that
private sector SME development is an important vehicle to 3timulate
productive activity and generate a sustained supply response, thus
encouraging the resumption of growth and efficient employment generation in
line with Nigeria's resource endowments and within the ongoing adjustment
process.
1.02      The Project would provide a broad and integrated package of
financial and technical assistance services to productive micro-, small-
and medium-size enterprises in the private sector. It includes five
components: (a) credit to SMEs (the Line of Credit Component); (b) support
for restructuring viable enterprises which are currently in financial
difficulties (the Pilot Financial Restructuring Component); (c) credit to
microenterprises through selected non-governmental organizations--NGOs (the
Pilot Mutualist Credit Guarantee Scheme); (d) a leasing program to improve
access of SMEs to long-term financing (the Equipment Leasing Component);
(e) technical assistance program to: improve extension services to SMEs
through direct involvement of the private sector and the banking system;
strengthen credit delivery systems; expand channels of credit; and conduct
studies to improve the policy framework for SME development (the Technical
Assistance Component).
1.03      The Project will require total financing of about US$416 million
equivalent, including US$263.4 million in foreign exchange. The proposed
Bank loan of US$270 million will cover 65Z of the total financing required
(1002 of the total foreign exchange and about 4Z of the local costs).
II. THE SETTING
A.   The Economic Environment
2.01      Nigeria, with a population of 103 million, has high potential for
diversified development. The country has considerable mineral wealth;



petroleum accounts for 142 of total GDP and about 90? of exports. It aLao
has vast rese..-7es of natural gas, little of which is being exploited at
present. The agriculture sector, with cocoa, oil palm, rubber, and cotton
as the principal cash crops, employs about three quarters of the labor
force and accounts for 402 of GDP. Agriculture is primarily based on
emall-scale farming, and productivity is generally low. The manufacturing
sector accounts for about 102 of total GDP and employment. Services
account for ver 25Z of GDP. In terms of many socioeconomic indicators,
Nigeria is close to the rest of Sub-Saharan Africa. With the recent drop
in oil prices and the subsequent sharp depreciation of the naira since
1986, the GNP per capita is expected to be about US$280 in 1988 and US$235
in 1989.
2.02      Buoyant oil revenues in the 1970s provided the basis for large
increases in government expenditures designed to expand infrastructure and
non-oil productive capacity. But, with some important exceptions, e.g.,
expansion in transport and educational opportunities, much of the public
spending was on economically inefficient projects. Agriculture exports
were particularly hard hit since the exchange rate was allowed to
appreciate substantially. When oil revenucs collapsed in the early 1980Q,
the Government responded slowly. Foreign exchange reserves were run down
and external payments arrears piled up. When austerity measures were taken
belatedly in 1984, non-oil GDP fell sharply. The inefficiencies that had
developed during the period of strong oil revenues multiplied, as import
restrictions and other administrative controls were tightened in an attempt
to contain the growing balance of payment crisis.
2.03      On coming to power in August 1985, the new Government declared
its intent to move from mausterity alone to austerity with structural
adjustment. The commitment to reform intensified with the sharp fall in
oil export earnings in early 1986. The Government adopted an ambitious
structural adjustment program covering the period from July 1986 to June
1988. The World Bank supported the program (Loan 2758-UNI). The main
features of the new macroeconomic program were: (a) the establishment of a
market-determined exchange rate; (b) the dismantling of the previous system
of import licensing, removal of the majority of import bans, and reduction
in tariffs; (c) the removal of ex-factory price controls; (d) a package of
export incentive measures including simplification of procedures and
abolition of the agricultural commodity boards; (e) a tight monetary policy
and gradual liberalization of financial markets leading to the abolitioa of
interest rate ceilings in August 1987; (f) moves to restore equilibrium in
public finances; and (g) restraints on and rationalization of federal
capital expenditures to generate resources required by the private sector
for growth. The Government has announced its decision for the
privatization and comercialization of some 135 parastatals, which
constitute the bulk of the public enterprises of commercial nature, and
appointed a technical committee to handle this program. The public
investment program and the regulatory environment for private investment
are also currently under review.
2.04      The impact of the structural adjustment program, which has been
in operation for over 18 months, has been to favor exporters over producers
of import substitutes with little value added, and to emphasize growth of
domestic resource-based and intermediate goods industries. However, the
program has not yet produced the economic growth that had been hoped for.



Preliminary estimates suggest a modest recovery in the urban economy in
1987, with manufacturing output rising by 42 in real terms. But despite
these gains, overall GDP is estimated to have fallen by almost 52 in real
terms during 1987. Over 502 of GDP derives from crude oil production and
agriculture, both of which suffered large declines last year. A key aspect
of the austerity period preceding the adjustment program was the rise in
unemployment to more than 10T in urban areas. In response to the
adjustment program, however, a return migrrtion of workers from urban to
rural areas has begun to take place as workers take advantage of better
rural employment opportunities. Even so, the unemployment problem has
worsened, as employment needs to rise by 32 pa. simply to keep pace with
labor force growth. The urban and rural unemployment reached 12? and 62 in
September 1987, respectively. The Government thus faces a serious problem
of unemployment that exceeds 45? among urban-based secondary school
leavers. The high level of unemployment, together with the population
growth rate of 3.3? p.a., is increasing the pressure on the Government to
encourage the development of labor-intensive productive activities,
including SMEs.
B.   The Manufacturing Sector
1.   Past Performance
2.05      With buoyant oil revenues and heavy public investments, the
manufacturinAg sector grew rapidly at an average rate of about 122 p.a.
betveen 1973 and 1982, compared with a growth of 3.7Z p.a. in overall GDP.
Share of manufacturing in GDP thus rose from 42 in 1973 to a peak of 10.31
in 1982. Between 1982 and 1986, however, real output of the manufacturing
sector declined sharply in every year except in 1985.   At the end of 1986,
its share in GDP was about 9.72. Although data on the relative shares of
capital versus labor are not available, it is clear that the manufacturing
sector has become relatively more capital intensive: while its share in
GDP more than doubled, the industrial sector as a whole now employs about
the same share of the total labor force as it did in 1973, i.e., about
10.8?. Although, the general business environment in Nigeria has always
been strongly private sector oriented, the Government policies have greatly
influenced industrial development. The Government has undertaken, as in
other oil economies, most of the country's investment in large basic
industries considered beyond the capacity of the private sector. The
implementation of the indigenization decrees in the early 1970s led to a
divestiture of foreign equity holdings and substantial Nigerian private
capital were diverted into acquisition of exisa:ing assets. Public
investment in manufacturing thus grew more rap. dly than private investment,
and the public sector dominated manufacturing investment. This was
focussed principally on intermediate and capital goods industries--iron and
steel, pulp and paper, petroleum refineries and chemicals, cement, vehicle
assembly, and sugar refining--with the aim of stimulating the development
of a more diversified and integrated industrial base. Most of these
projects suffered from inadequate project design, high initial project
costs, cost overruns and excess capacity once completed.
2.06      Private sector decisions on investment and production patterns
have been affected by the industrial incentives policies pursued. In the
1970s, accelerated inflation and the appreciation of the naira contributed
to a significant decline in competitiveness of domestic industry. With the



- 4 -
rapid deterioration in the balance of payments situation since 1981,
tariffs were increased, quantitative controls were extended to a wider
range of imports, and import licensing and the allocation of foreign
exchange were introduced. The protective import regime, used to insulate
domestic industries from foreign competition, encouraged the growth of
import-based consumer goods and assembly industries with little domestic
value added. The indastrial sector has suffered badly from the cutbacks in
imported raw matbrials and spare parts over the past few years (Annex 2-1).
Manufactured exports based on 2gro-processing, about 101 of exports in
1970, have all but disappeared. Equally important, industrial productivity
and competitiveness have been affected adversely by bottlenecks in
industrial infrastructure and the unavailability of skilled manpower.
There have been widespread plant closures, extensive retrenchment of the
industrial workforce, and a substantial overall drop in manufacturing
capacity utilization to an estimated 30-402 and even lower levels in
certain major inditstries. Enterprise profitability has, therefore,
dropped and many firms are heavily indebted.
2.07      Manufacturing activity is essentially aimed at the domestic
market, and is mainly concentrated in the large urban centers of Lagos,
Kano and Kaduna. Among the wide range of manufactured goods are cotton
textiles, soft drinks and beer, refined petroleum products, soap and
detergents, cement, paper products, chemicals and paints, plastic and
rubber goods, wood products, metal products, and locally assembled trucks
and automobiles. Consumer goods industries dominate the sector with 752 of
the value added and 702 of the employment. The food, beverages and tobacco
subsector is the largest in terms of value added (32Z) and employment
(20Z), followed by textiles and apparel accounting for 152 of the value
added and 182 of the employment. The intermediate goods industries
accounted for about 182 of the value added and 23Z of employment in 1984
compared with 292 and 242, respectively, in 1971/72. The capital goods
industries, after a very substantial increase from less than 1Z of the
value added in 1971/72 to 222 in 1980, now represent a modest 7X of the
manufacturlng value added. Most of the decline in capital goods industry
is due to poor performance of the heavily import dependent vehicle assembly
plants. The manufacturing sector is estimated to be on average about 552
dependent on imported raw materials.
2.   Recent Reforms
2.08      Besides the ambitious trade policy reforms adopted in 1986 (para
2.03), further reforms in the area of trade policy and to improve the
climate for private investment and rationalize the public investment
program are to be supported under the proposed Trade Investment and Policy
Loan.
2.09      Incentive System.  The most important step in the adjustment
program has been the shift to a market-determined exchange rate. In
September 1986, the second-tier foreign exchange market (SFEM) comprising
an auction and interbank market was established. In July 1987, SFEM and
the official (i.e., first-tier) rates were merged, and all foreign exchange
transactions now take place at market-determined exchange rates. The
foreign exchange market (FEM) is a combination of an auction for foreign
exchange (fortnightly on the basis of the Dutch auction system), and a
dealer market which operates in response to supply and demand. The



- 5 -
exchange rate in the auction of July 7, 1988 was N4.47 to the US dollar
compared with N1.6 to the US dollar on September 26, 1986. Foreign
exchange is reaching the produc.ive sectors, with industrial raw materials
and capital goods absorbing over 702 of auction funds, compared with some
602 of official allocations in the pre-SPEM period. Until recently, the
foreign exchange market had been working well. However, in the last few
months, downward pressure on the exchange rate has sharply increased the
differential between the exchange rates on the auction, where there has
been a small depreciation, and the interbank market, where the rate has
been free to respond to market pressures.
2.10      With the realignment of the exchange rate, the import licensing
system was abolished, and the majority of import bans were removed. The
Government also abolished the 30? import surcharge, and, in October 1986,
implemented interim revisions in import duty and excise schedules which
reduced the average trade-weighted tariff rate from 332 to 25Z, with most
rates falling in the range of 10 to 30Z. A comprehensive tariff review to
formulate proposals for a more permanent, lower and uniform structure of
tariffs and excise duty was completed in December 1987. To avoid imposing
undue hardships on existing enterprises from a sudden change in tariffs,
and to provide producers and consumers with a longer policy time horizon
within which to make decisions, the niew tariff schedule is to be phased
over a period of 7 years. The Goverrm.ent has also transferred the duty
assessment and collection functions from the Customs and Excise Department
to the banking system. The overall tariff structure is a significant
improvement in terms of providing a more certain policy environment within
which to make decisions and appropriate signals to investors on efficient
resource allocation. Yet, there are significant anomalies in the structure
of protection. The Government has established a Tariff Review Board to
review the tariff structure, correct anomalies and improve the structure of
protection. In conjunction with the exchange rate liberalization,
ex-factory price controls on manufactured goods were also abolished in
September 1986 to enable producers to operate profitably at import prices
based on the market-determined exchange rate.
2.11      Export Promotion.  Since January 1986, the Government has taken a
series of measures to promote export development. The most powerful new
incentive to exporters is the unrestricted access to the foreign exchange
market for realizing their export earnings and meeting their import
requirements. Non-oil exporters now have 10OZ retention rights. To
further encourage non-oil exports, the Government has (a) abolished all
export prohibitions and export licensing requirements; (b) simplified
export procedures; (c) abolished six agricultural commodity boards and
their monopoly export powers; (d) introduced a rediscounting/refinancing
facility for exporters; (e) approved a duty drawback/suspension scheme; and
(f) prepared a decree for the reorganization of the Nigerian Export
Promotion Council into an autonomous body with strong private sector
participation and strengthened export promotion capabilities.
2.12      Business ReRulations.  To improve the business climate for
private investment, the Government reduced the corporate tax rate from 452
to 40? in January 1987, and granted tax free dividends for 3 years on
capital imported between 1987 and 1992. As part of the 1988 budget, the
Government has exempted investment incomes from dividends, interest and
royalties from income taxes beyond the present 15? withholding tax, and



-6-
allowed an additional 5Z initial capital allowance for plant and machinery
for manufacturing and agriculture production. In addition, both existing
and new small enterprises with turnover of not more than 3500,000 will now
be subject to a lower tax rate of 202 for a period of 3 years. Investors
will also benefit from the proposed establishment of the Industrial
Development Coordinating Committee (IDCC) as a one-stop investment
facilitating and promotional body. In addition, the Nigerian Enterprise
Promotion Decree is under review to expand the range of activities in which
foreign ownership is permitted. The overall statement of the Government's
policy on the role of the private sector will be included in a fBlueprint
on Industrial Policy' to be issued shortly.
3.   Impact of the Industrial Sector Reforms and Prospects
2.13      Available data suggests some recovery of activity in the
manufacturing sector since the start of the adjustment program. Thus,
while the index of manufacturing output fell by 52 in volume terms in 1986,
estimates point to an increase by about 42 in 1987. At the same time,
employment in manufacturing has fallen by about 52 since the opening of
SFEM, reflecting major rationalization exercise in many subsectors.
Performance of industry has also been affected by weak aggregate demand due
to the loss in real income in the short-term following the structural
adjustment program. Surveys show that branches of industry with large
domestic value added have benefitted over assembly type of activities which
are heavily import dependent with low value added. Subsectors such as
textiles, wood furniture, tanneries, food products, cosmetics and cement
seem to be doing well. On the other hand, assembly operations (e.g., motor
vehicles) are in trouble due to a combination of lack of demand, escalation
of costs due to the sharp devaluation of the naira, and an inability to
compete with imports. Firms now have easier access to foreign exchange for
imports of raw materials and spare parts and can plan their operations
properly. Capacity utilization is, however, down due to lack of effective
demand, unlike in the past when the supply shortages of raw materials and
spare parts kept the capacity utilization low. According to a survey of
the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), there was an increase in
average capacity utilization from 302 in 1986 to 372 in 1987, with wide
variations among the subsectors. Most of the firms in agro-industries,
beer, textiles, chemicals, operated at 402 capacity utilization or more,
while firms in bakery products, electronics and motor vehicle assembly
operations operated at levels below 202. Dependence on foreign sourced raw
materials dropped from 622 in 1986 to 542 in 1987.
2.14      There is now considerable evidence of new interest in exporting
as a result of the shift in relative prices through the adjustment in the
exchange rate. Besides the increase in the traditional agricultural
exports (cocoa, rubber, palm produce, etc.), interviews with firms suggest
that new potential markets (Europe and ECOWAS countries) are being explored
for exports of manufactured goods. Exports of items such as cosmetics,
plastic shoes, palm kernel cakes, and textiles are already picking up. In
addition, products such as tires, industrial adhesives, tiles and
fiberglass boat shells are being added to the export list.
2.15      Overall, while the recent reforms will help generate new growth
opportunities, they will force many enterprises to improve their
competitiveness through restructuring, including phasing out those



-7-
activities which were kept artificially profitable in the past by an
excessively protective incentive system. Some enterprises are likely to
remain unviable and may have to close down. Others vill have to reorient
their activities through modernization investments, rationalization of
production processes, introduction of new technologiee and other reductions
in operating costs (including adjustments in the workforce). Maintenance
of existing assets was neglected in the past because of difficulties in
obtaining foreign exchange for imports of spare parts and components.
According to the survey by MAN, about two-thirds of the investments by
firms in the first half of 1987 were for plant changes, modifications and
replacements to improve efficiency. In the near term, manufacturing growth
is, therefore, dependent to a large extent on the availability of imported
raw materials, spare parts and components. Host of the new investments in
the near term are expected to be pursued by smaller, domestic resource
based enterprises.
2.16      The exchange rate adjustment and accompanying trade
liberalization measures have led to far-reaching changes in the incentive
system for industry. These, combined with an improved climate for the
private sector, should help create over the medium- to long-term a better
manufacturing sector which is consistent with Nigeria's resource endowments
and comparative advantage. Nigeria's endowment of supply factors (a
diversified agricultural and mineral resource base), demand factors (the
large domestic market with over 100 million peopla), and catalytic factors
(a sizeable and dynamic cadre of indigenous entrepreneurs) is favorable to
overall growth. Moreover, more than three-fourths of Nigeria's population
lives in rural areas and its participation and share in the market for
existing goods has been peripheral. Increases in rural incomes under the
new policy reforms should help bring this large segment of the population
into the market for industrial goods. The policy reforms should emphasize
growth of domestic resource-based and intermediate goods industries.
Subsectors with good potential for growth include food and beverages
subsectors, agro-based non-food industries (textiles, leather products,
rubber and rubber products, and wood products), industrial raw materials
and intermediate inputs (glucose and starches from crops, tires and tubes
from rubber, and paints from petrochemicals), chemicals and building
materials. Considering the sharp decline in manufacturing output over the
past five years and hence a low base, a growth rate approaching 8Z p.a.
through 1995 is feasible.
C.   The Small and Medium Scale Enterprise (SME) Sector
1.   Sectoral Context
2.17      Various definitions of SMEs are used in Nigeria.  Since 1985,
NBCI has defined small scale enterprises (SSEs) as firms with assets
(including working capital but excluding land) not exceeding N750,000 (or
about US$850,000 equivalent at that time). The Nigerian Industrial
Development Bank (NIDB) defines medium scale enterprises as firms with
project costs between NO.75 and N3 million (or US$0.85 and US$3.4 million
in 1985 dollars). Since 1979, the CBN has defined SSEs as enterprises with
an annual turnover of less than N500,000. With rapid inflation in the
early 1980s and devaluation of the naira, these definitions are no longer
relevant. For the purpose of the Project, enterprises with fixed assets
(excluding land) plus investment under the Project not exceeding N10



million in constant 1988 prices (or US$2.5 million equivalent) will be
eligible for financing. Recent statistical data indicating the number of
SMEs and relative importance in each sector are not available. Preliminary
estimates around 1980 placed the number of smaller enterprises employing
fever than 10 workers at about 125,000.  There are 'ndicaticns that these
SSEs account for about 702 of industrial employment, and 10-152 of the
manufacturing output.
2.18      The most recent survey of smaller enterprises was conducted in
1984 by the Nigerian Institute of Social and Economic Research (NISER). It
covered 2,696 firms with a maximum capital of N150,000 (or US$200,000
equivalent at that time) and with less than 50 employees (Annex 2-2).
Textile and wearing apparel, food and beverages, furniture making, footwear
and leather products, rubber and plastic products, basic metal and
fabricated metal products for construction industry, and motor vehicle and
other repair activities comprise the predominant small enterprises (86Z of
the total number of SSEs in the sample). In terms of value added and
employment, wearing apparel, food and beverages, furniture, metal products
for construction industry, and repair activities are the most important,
accounting for 802 of the value added and 72Z of the employment in the
sample. According to the survey, the average number of employees in a firm
was five, and 902 of firms were sole proprietorships. While about 352 of
the managers did not attend any school and more than 752 possessed only
primary education, about three-fourths of the managers had working
experience of five or more years, and about 88Z had received more than two
years apprenticeship. They are also intensive users of domestic raw
materials which accounted for about 602 of the total cost of materials.
2.   Government Policies and Support Programs
2.19      The Government has long recognized the need to foster the
development of small scale industries so as to stimulate employment,
mobilize local resources, reduce migration from rural to urban areas, and
disperse industrial enterprises more evenly within the country. These
objectives were to be achieved through the provision of special financial
an" technical assistance to SSEs. The focal point for all policies
affecting SSEs is the Small Scale Industries Division (SSID) of the Federal
Ministry of Industries (FMI); each State Ministry of Industry and Commerce
also has its own SSID. The Industrial Development Centers (IDCs) under FMI
and staffed by federal civil servants provide technical and management
assistance to SSEs. There are also a number of other public and private
sector agencies invc'ved in the provision of technical assistance and
extension services to SMEs.
2.20      Financial Assistance.  A Small Scale Industries Credit Scheme was
established by the Federal Goveniment in the mid-1960s. Loan management
committees, at the state level consisting of state civil servants,
representatives of the IDCs and branch managers of local disbursing banks,
were to administer the scheme. Due to political considerations in credit
allocation and the lack of budgetary funds, the scheme was unsuccessful and
is no longer active. In 1973, the Government established NBCI as a
specialized development bank and has relied exclusively on it to channel
funds to SMEs. During 1982-86, NBCI approved 122 projects with a total
loan amount of N85.1 million with an average loan size of N0.7 million.
While NBCI's projects cover all sectors of industry, 362 of the loans in



-9-
number (and 472 in amount) were for food and beverage industries. NBCI
has also received a line of credit from the Bank under the Small- and
Medium-Scale Industry Project--Loan 2376-UNI (paras 2.45 to 2.46).  To
channel resources to SSEs, the CBN requires commercial and merchant banks
to direct at least 16Z of their annual loans and advances to small
enterprises (paras 2.32 and 2.33). However, banks have never met the
target because of the perceived high risk of lending to SSEs. The
Government also launched a job creation loan guarantee fund in 1987,
administered by the National Directorate of Employment in the Federal
Ministry of Employment. Labor and Productivity, for lending to unemployed
graduates for establishing small businesses.
2.21      Extension Services and Technical Assistance.  There are a large
number of both public and private sector agencies involved in providing
non-financial support services to SMEs (Annex 2-3). FMI maintains a
network of IDCs in various states to provide extension services. FMI is
also responsible for the Industrial Training Fund (ITF), an autonomous
agency that collects and disburses a training tax levy on businesses with
25 or more employees. ITF maintains a network of area offices to provide
training for the employees of enterprises that participate in the Fund.
The SSIDs in some states have also provided limited extension services.
Over the years, an increasing number of other government-supported
institutions have become actively involved in providing extension services
(preparation of feasibility studies, management and technical advisory
services and training) to the SME sector. These include the Administrative
Staff College of Nigeria (ASCON), Centre for Management Development (CMD),
Center for Industrial Research and Development (CIRD, Obafemi Awolowo
University), Federal ID,titute for Industrial Research, Oshodi (FIIRO),
Project Development Agency (PRODA) and NISER. There are also various
private sector groups and associations such as the Nigerian Association of
Small Scale Industrialists (NASSI), the Nigerian Council for Management
Development, the Nigerian Employers Consultative Association, MAN, and the
National Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mining, and
Agriculture, who disseminate information and/or conduct training programs
on management, product selection, manufacturing, marketing, and other
topics of interest to SMEs. In addition, there are over two hundred
private firms (mostly located in the Lagos area and other major cities)
that provide consulting services to SMEs covering a range of ranagerial,
financial, and technical specialties. In sum, there is a sufficient number
of eristing institutions and agencies to provide support to the SME sector.
2.22      The Government's efforts to strengthen extension services to SMEs
have been supported by significant external assistance, used mainly for
strengthening IDCs operated by FMI (Annex 2-4). However, IDCs have not
performed satisfactorily because of continued shortages of operating funds,
vehicles and training equipment. Under Loan 2376-UN1, a project component
was included to support and strengthen (a) NBCI through technical
assistance and staff training to improve its project appraisal and lending
operations; and (b) the delivery of extension services to SMEs through
training for staff of FMI, state ministries of Industry and Commerce, IDCs,
and other relevant government supported institutions (e.g., ASCON). While
technical assistance to NBCI has been implemented satisfactorily, progress
in implementing the extension services subcomponent has been delayed and
has shown mixed results. During project implementation, the technical
assistance component was, therefore, modified to provide equipment for



- 10 _
selected IDCs, and to shift the emphasis in training from courses to work
attachments for the IDC staff. About 300 persons have been trained
in-country, and some have received training overseas. including training of
trainers for the Entrepreneurship Development Programs (para 2.24), and
work attachments. Fcllwing long delays, the in-country work attachment
programs are now being organized. The Government' s objective remains to
fully *quip and strengthen IDCs in each state as soon as possible. But in
view of the resource constraints and to reduce dependence on public sector
financing, there is, however, a need tos (a) concentrate efforts first on
those IDCs which offer the best prospects for success; (b) make IDCs more
autonomous in their day-to-day operations, and allow them to operate as
soei-private institutions; and (c) allow them to charge fees for services
of coomercial nature (e.g., the preparation of feasibility studies). FMI
is at present formulating a plan of action for rationalizing the IDC
network, and considering the establishment of an umbrella agency for
overall coordination of existing agencies responsible for the delivery of
extension services, and to act as a referral agency for SMEs. The umbrella
agency may also be assigned the responsibility for operations of the IDC
network, and the establishment and management of industrial estates.
However, it would be desirable to limit functions of the umbrella agency to
the coordination and referral roles only so as to keep it small, avoid
duplication and unnecessary use of scarce Government resources.
2.23      It is not proposed to allocate any further technical assistance
funds to support the IDC network under the Project for t)e following
reasonst (a) sufficient funds are available under Loan 2376-UNI for
strengthening the IDC network and training; (b) UNDP has planned additional
assistance for IDCs; and (c) there is a need to increase the role of the
private sector in the delivery of extension services so as to make their
delivery demand driven, and enhance competition and efficiency. The
Project, however, includes the establishment of a Pilot Studies Facility to
finance entrepreneurs' costs related to consultants' services of their
choice for the preparation of feasibility studies and other technical
assistance services. Training to SMEs in simple business skills (e.g.,
bookkeeping, accounting and cash flow projections) will also be provided
with full cost recovery features (paras 3.09 and 3.10). The Bank is
preparing an Industrial Manpower Training Project, to be implemented by ITF
in FMI, which will focus on increasing the quality and quantity of
on-the-job training with special emphasis on industrial and infrastructure
maintenance skills, and improving the delivery of training services to the
industrial sector.
2.24      Entrepreneurship Development.  The Government has placed a high
priority on introducing entrepreneur identification and development
programs as an effective means of facilitating the establishment and growth
of SSEs. Programs for identification, training, and development of
entrepreneurs can be effective components of a strategy to develop first
generation local entrepreneurs and assist them in the establishment of
small scale projects. Two separate entrepreneurship development programs
have been developed and tested in Nigeria: the Entrepreneurship
Development Program (EDP) based on a model developed by the
Entrepreneurship Development Institute of India (EDII), and the Work for
Yourself Program (WFYP) based on a program developed by the Durham
University Business School (UK) with ILO assistance. The EDP program is
promoted by NBCI, while the WFYP program is under the auspices of FMI in



- 11 -
collaboration with ASCON. Based on experience to date, NBCI and FMI are
now planning to implement their programs in a coordinated mJn'ier on a
nationwide basis (Annex 2-5). The Project includes assistance for periodic
reviews of these programs by experts to assess their overall effectiveness
and recomend necessary changes (para 3.12).
2.25      Other Programs.  Lack of access to adequate infrastructure (e.g.,
pover, roads and water) is a major constraint to the growth of industry in
Nigeria, particularly SHEs. The Government plans to establish industrial
estates in every state under the Fifth Five-Year Plan (1989-1993).
However, there is a need to involve the private sector to ensure cost and
management efficiencies, to reduce the burden on scarce Government
resources, and to make the establishment of industrial estates demand
driven. The Project would, therefore, support a study to evaluate
alternatives for implementing an industrial estates program on a commercial
basis with private sector participation (para 3.12). Nigeria has long
recognized the importance of technological development for
industrialization. There are a number of universities and specialized
research agencies such as FIIRO, CIRD and PRODA which can meet the
technological needs of industry. But SMEs face two main problems: lack of
information on the industrial production technologies available, and the
need to build up their technical capacity to assess, choose, acquire, and
adapt technological knowledge. The UNDP is providing assistance to FIIRO
in developing a national industrial information center which would supply
information on industrial production technologies, and establish links with
industrial information networks at the national, regional and international
levels. The Project would support a technology development study to
formulate mechanisms for encouraging linkages between SMEs and research
institutions, and enhancing technical capabilities of the manufacturing
sector in research and development (para 3.12).
3.   Prospects and Constraints
2.26      Given the revised macroeconomic policy environment, and the
Government's interest in SHE development (para 2.41), prospects for SME
growth are good. Growth in agriculture would increase the supply of
domestic raw materials for SMEs such as food processing, raise rural
income and expand the markets for small industries. Removal of interest
rate ceilings will give SMEs better access to institutional credit (para
2.31). Realistic exchange rate and an open trade policy favor more use of
domestic raw materials, and enhance prospects for SMEs which use domestic
raw materials more intensively than larger enterprises. Under the new
economic policies, prospects for subcontracting have also improved as
larger enterprises are now forced to look for their irputs locally.
Currently binding constraints for SME development are shortages of equity
funds and term credit on suitable terms, especially for smaller
enterprises, and technical assistance (i.e., preparation of feasibility
studies which meet requirements of banks).
D.   The Financial Sector
1.   The Institutional Setting
2.27      The financial system of Nigeria consists of (a) CBN; (b) 33
commercial banks with 1,407 branches; (c) 15 merchant banks with 31



- 12 -
branches; (d) five specialized financial institutions of the Federal
Government; (e) some twenty regional development finance companies; (f)
insurance companies; and (g) the securities market. Under the
indigenization decree of 1976, 60Z of the equity of banks must be held by
the Government or private Nigerian interests. Although activities of the
merchant banks have grown rapidly in recent years, commercial banks reain
the largest financial intermediaries both in terms of their assets, and
network. Their share in the combined assets (148 billion) of the
commercial banks and merchant banks was 82Z in 1986. Among the commercial
banks, 3 banks 1/ account for about 40Z of the assets and the number of
branches. The number of commercial bank branches in Nigeria has grown
rapidly in recent years under the impetus of the CBN's rural banking
program which started in 1977. About 445 rural branches were opened during
the first and second phases of the program (1977-83), and 51 out of the
planned 300 branches have been opened under the third phase (August
1985-July 1989). Merchant banks are essentially wholesale banks, serving
the needs of corporate and institutional clients, and are governed by
regulations similar to those for commercial banks.  They may engage in the
same scope of activities as a commercial bank except for the acceptance of
individual checking accounts. They also engage in equipment leasing
services which have grown rapidly in recent years (Annex 2-6). Out of the
15 merchant banks, five banks 2/ accounted in 1986 for 45Z of the total
assets and 54Z of the total loans and advances by the merchant banks.
2.28    The Government supported specialized financial institutions of the
Federal Government include NBCI, NIDB, Nigerian Agricultural and
Cooperative Bank, Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria, and the Federal Savings
Bank of Nigeria. Among these, NBCI provides financing (both term loans and
equity) for SMEs and also undertakes merchant banking operations; NIDB
provides both term loans and equity financing for relatively larger
industrial projects. Although NBCI and NIDB have thus far been the major
sources of long-term lending to the industrial sector, their combined loans
accounted for only 3.5Z of the total outstanding credit from the commercial
and merchant banks at the end of 1986. Under the 1988 budget, the
Government announced its decision to establish a National Economic
Reconstruction Fund to refinance credit to SMEs in manufacturing,
agro-allied industries and ancillary service activities on a nationwide
basis through participating commercial and merchants banks. Regulations
for establishing the fund and its operations are under preparation.
2.29      In terms of the ratio of broad money (M2 ) to GDP, the financial
system more than doubled from 16Z to 361 between 1972 and 1986 (Annex 2-7).
Despite this measure of growth, there has not been a real expansion in
financial intermediation between savers and investors. Much of the
monetary growth took place after the increase in oil prices, initially in
the form of an increase in foreign assets and later because of increased
1/   First Bank of Nigeria (FBN), Union Bank of Nigeria (UBN), and United
Bank for Africa (UBA).
2/   Continental Merchant Bank (CMB), ICON Merchant Bankers (ICON), NAL
Merchant Bankers (NAL), Nigerian Merchant Bank (NMB), and
International Merchant Bank (IMB).



- 13 -
goverinnt borrowing. The array of financial assets available to the
majority of savers is still limited to money, defined to include time and
savings deposits   The Federal and state governments play a dominant role
in financial intermediation. They borrow actively from the financial
systm, and participate extensively in the ownership of many banks. The
Federal and state governments own most of the indigenous co=mercial banks.
The Federal Government also has a controlling interest in the four largest
coamercial banks as well as in the most Important *wrchant banks. The
largest co=ercial and merchant banks are free of Government intervention
except for the appointmnts of managing directors, and they operate on a
coaercial basis.  Suamry financial statements of the four largest
co ercial banks, five largest merchant banks 3/ and NBCI are given in
Annexes 2-8. 2-9 and 2-10; all have expressed strong interest in active
participation in the Project.
2.  Financial Policy Framework
2.30       The Government's financial policies were previously embodied in
guidelines for credit allocations to priority sectors and subsidized
interest rates for these sectors. However, the special low interest rates
made commercial lending to the priority sectors unprofitable, and the
sectoral guidelines for credit allocation have not been generally met with
banks preferring to pay the penalties for shortfalls from these sectoral
targets. With the structural adjustment program, the Government has
adopted a more market-oriented approach and Nigeria is undergoing a rapid
liberalization of the financial system. The number of priority sectors for
special credit allocations has been progressively reduced, with only three
priority sectors remaining, e.g., agriculture, manufacturing and small
scale enterprises. Special interest rates have also been eliminated, and
recently ceilings on all interest rates have been removed. The Government
has decided to establish a Nigerian Deposit Insurance Corporation in 1988
to protect depositors against bank failures and thereby enhance confidence
in the banking system. These are major steps in both the mobilization of
savings and efficient allocation of financial resources.
2.31      Interest Rates.  The structure and levels of interest rates in
the formal financial system were controlled until recently by CBN through
strict guidelines issued annually (Annex 2-11). Real interest rates have
been negative in most years since the first oil boom in 1973/74, and they
were driven sharply lower during 1983 and 1984, as inflation increased in
these years to 23S and 402, respectively. With the marked slowdown of
inflation to 5.5Z in 1985, real interest rates became positive for the
first time. The negative real interest rates discouraged real savings,
discriminated against small and underprivileged borrowers in the allocation
of credit, and resulted in a misallocation of resources and the flight of
capital. The low interest rate policy is likely to have also encouraged
the use of capital intensive technology. In October 1986, CBN began to
liberalize the interest rate policy: time deposit rates were allowed to be
negotiated between the banks and savers, the maximum lending rate was
3/ Commercial banks: FBN, UBA, UBN, and the International Bank for West
Africa (IBWA); merchant banks: CMB, ICON, NAL, NMB and IMB.



- 14 -
increased by 2 points to 15, and the differential between preferred and
non-preferred sectors was eliminated. Following these measures and the
withdraval of deposits by CBN from banks related to external payment
arrears to mop up excess liquidity, banks embarked on aggressive campaigns
for deposits, offering competitive and attractive rates to depositors. The
pace of financial policy liberalization increased in 1987. All ceilings on
lending and deposit rates were eliminated as of August 1987, and the
discount and treasury bill rates were increased by 4 percentage points from
111 to 15? and from 102 to 142, respectively. The discount and treasury
bill rates were, however, reduced as of December 29, 1987, by 2.25
percentage points to 12.75Z and 11.752, respectively, to stimulate growth
of the economy, particularly investment. Savings and time deposit rates of
major banks are now about 13-15, and lending rates are about 16-18S. The
rate of inflation was less than 102 in 1987, but it is projected to be
about 202 in 1988 reflecting increases for staple food products early in
the year and adjustments in public sector prices as well as the impact of
higher import prices from the devaluation of the naira. As a result, both
the deposit and lending rates are negative in real terms at this time.
Beyond 1988, however, the rate of inflation is forecast to decline to about
15? in 1989, and 10? p.a. thereafter. The elimination of ceilings on
interest rates should allow banks to compete for funds more aggressively
and should allow the market to equate the demand for credit with the
supply.
2.32      Credit Policies.  The CBN regulates the activities of the
commetcial and merchant banks through annual ceilings on the expansion of
loans and advances, and complex and rigid sectoral credit allocation
criteria which specify minimum shares for preferred sectors. Annual credit
ceilings have been reduced since 1983 in line with the restrictive monetary
policy in response to deterioration in the balance of payments and
excessive demand pressures. Penalt.es for noncompliance of ceilings were
raised substantially in August 1987. The ceiling on the growth of banks'
credit to the private sector was, however, raised for 1988 from 7.4Z fixed
for the last three quarters of 1987 to 12.5Z so as to stimulate economic
growth. Until recently, the economy was divided into some 18 sectors/
subsectors for the purpose of credit allocation. For example, commercial
banks in 1983 were required to allocate a minimum of 1OZ of their loans and
advances every month to agricultural production, a minimum of 36? to
manufacturing, a maximum of 102 for domestic trade, and so on. Both
commercial and merchant banks were required to extend 16? of total credit
to small scale Nigerian enterprises with turnover not exceeding M500,000.
Loans and advances by a rural branch were to be at least 30Z (increased to
40? in 1985 and 452 in 1988) of deposits mobilized by it in that area. In
addition, banks are required to maintain minimum cash and liquidity ratios.
The above sectoral guidelines were so complex and rigid that the banks were
unable to comply with the stipulated targets. The actual sectoral
distribution of credit is shown in Annex 2-12. As for loans to small scale
enterprises, the prescribed target of 162 has never been met, though it has
increased from a low. of 1.6Z in 1980 to 92 and 3.1? in 1986 for commercial
and merchant banks, respectively.
2.33      In an effort to allow banks somewhat greater flexibility in
determining composition of their loan portfolios, the number of categories
was reduced from the previous 18 to only 3 in 1987--agriculture,
manufacturing, and small scale enterprises. Furthermore, for the



- 15 -
requirement of extending a minimum of 162 of total credit to SSEs, the size
definition of firms was modified for merchant banks in 1988. SSEs for
merchant banks are now defined as firms with fixed assets below NZ million
or turnover below N5 million.
3.   Development Constraints
2.34      Resource Mobilization.  The recent liberalization of interest
rates together with the tighter liquidity situation in the banking system
has led to higher financial savings in naira assets than in the past and
favored a repatriation of capital from abroad. The rural branch banking
policy, while succesaful in increasing the number of branch banks, has been
perceived to be costly by the banks. The selection and allocation of sites
for rural branches to the banks by CBN based on rec.auendation of the state
governments, and the requirement that a significant share (45X beginning
1988) of the deposits generated in each rural branch be relent by the same
branch have meant that the rural branches have not become an integral part
of the planning and operations of the banks. There is, therefore, a need
to reduce the cost of the branch program by integrating it into the overall
banking system (e.g., allowing the banks to select sites, and relaxing the
obligation to lend 45% of each branch deposits in the same area). The
range and type of financial instruments available are also important for
increased savings mobilization. The opportunities available to individual
savers in Nigeria are limited largely tCz savings deposits with commercial
banks and cooperatives. Past policies discouraged the banks to actively
seek deposits. This has been largely corrected by the elimination of
ceilings on all interest rates. But the credit expansion targets are set
for each individual bank separately and are not sufficiently market
oriented to encourage banks to attract new savings.
2.35      Lack of Term Financing.  The current restructuring of the
economy is predicated upon the entry of new firms and new investments in
areas which have become or are potentially attractive under the new
cost-price structure. These private investors will need financing, both
domestic and external, to expand production. One of the major weaknesses
of the Nigerian financial system has been its inability to generate a
sufficient amount of long-term financing mainly as a result of ceilings on
interest rates. Parastatals have obtained long-term financing from the
Government through equity participation and direct borrowing, but private
businesses have raised little funding through capital markets, relying
mostly on their internal funds and on borrowings from financial
institutions. However, because of low levels of term financing, this has
meant for the most part short-term loans and overdrafts. Commercial banks
which provide about 802 of the formal non-CBN bank credit tend to operate
at the short-end of the market; only 122 of their maturities in 1986 were
longer than 3 years and 802 were below 12 months. Part of the explanation
lies in the short-term nature of their deposits (602 of their deposits in
1986 were demand and savings deposits). The merchant banks, who because of
their efficiency attract wholesale term deposits from corporate and
institutional investors (742 of their deposits in 1986 were time deposits),
extend about 402 of their loans for over 3 years, and about 202 between one
and three years (1986). However, through continuous roll-overs and
renewals, the banks in effect supply more long-term finance to many of
their creditworthy customers than their portfolios actually show. The
banks seem to prefer this type of long-term lending to avoid illiquidity



- 16 _
and the risk of interest rate changes, and to increase their operational
flexibility. With the total deregulation of interest rates, the banks
should now be able to mobilize longer-term deposits by offering higher
interest rates which in turn would provide an appropriate ba:, for
long-term lending.
2.36      The past policy of ceilings on interest rates and complex
sectoral credit allocation criteria in practice made financial system
biased in favor of large industrial and coamercial borrowers against
certain priority sectors, mostly small enterprises and small farmers.
Lending to these sectors is associated with relatively higher unit costs of
administering the small loans and has higher perceived risks, apart from
the lack of collateral and guarantees. The previous interest rate controls
thus prevented banks from recovering their costs on these loans. NBCI,
which is a major source of long-tprm finance to SMIs, represents only 22 of
the total outstanding credit from commercial banks for productive sectors.
There is, therefore, a need to tackle effectively and quickly the serious
problem of credit availability to SMEs, if the employment and production
potential of these enterprises made possible by the recent economic reforms
is to be realized. While the liberalization of interest rates is a major
step toward improving the efficiency of the allocation of credit, there is
a need to strengthen the legal system for collecting on bad loans, review
the collateral base for credit, and promote the development of
non-governmental mutualist credit guarantee schemes (para 3.06).
2.37      Financial Stability of Banks and Portfolio Management.  The most
important structural issue facing the banking system is its stability.
Manufacturing enterprises have gone through a series of severe shocks and
many firms are in financial distress: (a) prior to recent economic
reforms, due to the scarcity of foreign exchange and import license system,
many enterprises operated at low levels of capacity utilization since they
could not import adequate raw materials; (b) many heavily import dependent
projects with little value added, which were viable under the previous
policy regime, are unlikely to be viable under the new price system and may
have to be closed down; (c) the capacity utilization of many enterprises is
low due to the still weak demand and slow economic recovery; and (d) there
have been large foreign exchange losses on long-term loans denominated in
foreign currency, and those arising out of the trade arrears. As a result,
banks are faced with potentially high arrears in their portfolios. There
is no uniform policy on the accrual of interest on overdue and doubtful
loans, and it is possible that income is overstated in some banks, as
doubtful debts are rolled aver. According to a recent study, the range of
the ratio of provisions to loans!and advances in 24 commercial banks was 02
to 27Z (9 banks had ratios above 15Z and 5 banks between 10 and 152), and
in 12 merchant banks was 02 to 182 (one bank had a ratio of 182, and 4
banks had ratios between 5 and 11Z). These wide discrepancies are
disturbing. The CBN has the power to require that additional provisions be
made for doubtful loans and it has disallowed the distribution of dividends
by 9 banks in 1986 that had inadequate provisions. Disallowing dividends
may not, however, be strong enough a sanction for state owned barks whose
owners (state governments) may not be interested in receiving dividends.
The two development banks (NBCI and NIDB) are also facing serious portfolio
problems. As of June 1987, about 602 of NBCI's portfolio was in arrears,
and 422 of these arrears were more than 18 months overdue. In the case of
NIDB, while only about 32Z of its portfolio, as of September 1987, was in



- 17 _
arrears, its borrowers are likely to face serious difficulties in servicing
their increased debt as they bear the foreign exchange risk.
2.38      Control of capital adequacy of the banks is also deficient.  The
CBN requires that loans and advances by a bank may not be more than 12
times its capital. This rule, however, does not take into account the
other types of risk assets such as leasing, acceptances and guarantees.
While the high reported profits of the banks in recent years and the
prudeece of most banks have reduced the debt to equity ratios of commercial
banks from 44:1 in 1980 to 30:1 in 1986, and of merchant banks from 52:1 in
1982 to 44:1 in 1986 (not counting the off-balance sheet items), there are
wide variations among the banks. The latest published balance sheets of 9
commercial banks showed a range of debt to equity ratio from 20:1 to 44:l,
and of 4 merchant banks from 19:1 to 32:1. There is a need to subject the
banks to stronger regulatory pressure to classify their portfolios
properly, work out their non-performing assets, make up the provision
shortfall, and strengthen their capital base. A strong regulatory
enforcement will also require strengthening of CBN staff in banking
supervision. Simultaneously, there is a need to put in place a mechanism
to assist viable corporate enterprises which are financially distressed in
restructuring their operations to improve profitability.
2.39      Capital Markets.  In recent years, merchant banks have become
major operators in Nigeria's capital markets offering a wide range of
financial services, including conventional investment banking type
services. Insurance companies, pension funds and other specialist
long-term institutions are also beginning to play a role in the
mobilization and deployment of longer-term financial resources. In the
past, however, most financing from institutions has been in the form of
debt, with only NBCI and NIDB providing a limited supply of equity. Of the
total combined term investments outstanding for these two institutions at
the end of 1986 of N660 million for example, less than 13Z had been in the
form of equity. The pension funds and insurance companies, traditional
providers of equity finance, are underdeveloped. Nigeria has a young but
fairly active stock exchange and a functional Securities and Exchange
Commission. The market capitalization at the end of 1986 was sizeable at
about N7 billion (US$2.1 billion), including N3.2 billion in 57 Government
stocks and about N3 billion in 9) equities. There has, however, hardly
been any growth in the number of equities listed (99 in 1986 versus 90 in
1980). A second-tier securities exchange set up in April 1986 to induce
smaller Nigerian companies to list on the Stock Exchange has so far
attracted only five new issues as of June 1987. The inefficient pricing
arrangements in which the Securities and Exchange Commission solely
determines the pricing of securities, and other administrative arrangements
have also inhibited capital market development. Adequate sources of equity
and quasi equity are necessary for the expansion of the small and medium
scale entrepreneurial sector, and for the restructuring of existing
enterprises in financial difficulties including mergers, acquisitions and
other financial engineering possibilities. The Government has, therefore,
decided under the 1988 budget to allow the commercial and merchant banks to
take equity position in corporate enterprises, and the CBN is preparing
necessary amendments to the Banking Decree. The equity position by a bank
in enterprises is to be limited to lOZ of its paid up capital plus reserves
in any one enterprise, and to one-third of its paid up capital plus
reserves in all enterprises.



- 18 -
2.40      Further liberalization of the local securities markets,
development of a regulatory framework for new financial instruments (e.g.,
mutual funds), implementation of the Government's privatization program,
and upgrading the technical capability of the Stock Exchange are necessary
to help develop the capital market. A more detailed analysis of the above
issues is currently underway, and the proposed Financial Sector Policy Loan
will support reforms in the financial sector.
E.   Government Obiectives and the Role of SHEs
2.41      Government Obiectives.  The Government has assigned a high
priority to industrial development in the growth and diversification of the
economy away from oil.  The medium-term industrial strategy is to reduce
import dependence by accelerating the development and utilization of local
technology, raw materials, and intermediate inputs through expansion of
private sector production and non-oil exports. The Government has already
undertaken a far-reaching program of reforms to rationalize the incentive
system and encourage the private sector (paras 2.08-2.12). Yet, it will
take some time for the recent reforms to work through the system, for the
shift and reallocation of resources to take place, and thus for
restructuring of the country's industrial structure. In view of the
continued austerity and the serious unemployment problem, the Government
feels the urgent need to simultaneously combine growth promoting policies
and programs with the ongoing adjustment process. In this context, the
Government considers private sector SME development as a positive endeavor
to stimulate broad-based productive activity, generate a sustained supply
response, and to partially mitigate the social cost of adjustment.
2.42      Role of SMEs.  Private sector SME development would contribute to
Nigeria's adjustment Process in several ways. They are complementary to
and have significant linkages with the agricultural sector. SMEs promote
broad based agricultural development through the localized adaptation and
manufacture of simple farm equipment which increases productivitv. They
tend to be regionally more evenly distributed than larger industries which
are concentrated in the urban areas. Since SMEs employ generally large
number of workers, they can become a major source of income, particularly
in small towns and rural areas. With the radical shifts in relative prices
which have already taken place, SME development should also help establish
linkages with larger industries through subcontracting.
2.43      SMEs, in general, tend to be relatively efficient users of
resources compared with larger enterprises. They are more labor intensive,
require less foreign exchange, and are intensive users of domestic raw
materials. SMEs make the greatest contribution to developing an industrial
tradition over time by providing a seed-bed, at the grass-roots level, to
develop entrepreneurial capabilities, management skills, and technological
infusion. In addition, they generally have small investment requirements,
q-tick paybacks, and more flexibility. SMEs can adapt better and quickly to
a changing environment. They also offer a unique opportunity for
developing the potential and active participation of women entrepreneurs in
productive activities for the overall economic and social development of
the country.
2.44      The Government's emphasis on private sector SME development is,
therefore, sound and represents an appropriate strategy for pursuing



- 19 -
longer-term growth in the context of the ongoing adjustment process.
However, efficient and sustained growth of SMEs will require an integrated
package of assistance including measures to: (a) foster entrepreneurial
capacity; (b) develop an innovative institutionai support system with
active participation of the private sector for delivery of promotion,
technical assistance and extension services; and (c) provide credit in
conformity with market mechanisms for financing rehabilitation and working
capital needs of existing enterprises as well as new investments by SHEM.
The proposed Project would assist the Government in these efforts.
F.   Bank Assistance
1.   Past Bank Involvement
2.45      The Bank has so far made six loans to Nigeria's industrial
sector.  Five of these were DFC operations; 'o, TDans were channelled
through NIDB, and one loan through NBCI. Ttc lati. ;t of these were the
Fourth NIDB Project approved in Hay 1983 (Lo&n t229-UNI, US$120 million)
for financing relatively larger industries, and t'se Small- and Medium-Scale
Industry Project channelled through NBCI, approved in January 1984 (Loan
2376-UNI, US$41 million). The sixth loan was for the Industry Technical
Assistance Project approved in September 1985 (Loan 2618-UNI). In
addition, the Bank has assisted Nigeria with a quick disbursing Trade
Policy and Export Development Loan (2758-UNI) in support of the structural
adjustment program.
2.46      While the fourth line of credit to NIDB and the line of credit to
NBCI are almost fully committed, implementation of these two loans had not
been smooth. Both NIDB and NBCI have large arrears in their portfolios
similar to most development banks in West Africa. The high private sector
loan arrears are the result in part of the country's past macroeconomic
problems (para 2.37). In addition, both NIDB and NBCI face significant
institutional weaknesses and are in need of strengthening their internal
procedures. To remedy the situation, comprehensive action programs have
been discussed with NIDB and NBCI and agreed upon whose implementation
began in 1987. These rehabilitation programs call for: (a) priority to oe
given to the management of existing portfolios; (b) a detailed
account-by-account review of problem projects and formulations of remedial
measures; (c) assigning priority for rehabilitation of existing clients;
(d) improvements in appraisal, supervision, collection and other internal
procedures; (e) financing of working capital needs of viable enterprises to
improve their capacity utilization; (f) review of accounting procedures and
making realistic provisions for bad loans; (g) changes in interest rate
policy to bring them in line with the market; (h) managerial and
organizational improvements; (i) tightened control over operating costs;
and (j) restoration of an adequate equity base.   However, it will take
some time before any significant improvements are felt in the financial
situation of both intermediaries. Under Loan 2376-UNI, NBCI received
technical assistance for institution building under a twinning arrangement,
but it did not renew the consultants' contract when it expired in December
1987. The proposed Project includes technical assistance for further
strengthening of the operations of NBCI in the areas of appraisal,
supervision, portfolio management, equipment leasing and merchant banking
(para 3.13). A summary analysis of subprojects financed by NBCI under Loan
2376-UNI is given in Annex 2-13.



- 20 -
2.   Bank Role in the Sector
2.47      Bank strategy for Nigeria is two-fold:  (a) support for the
Government's broad policy initiatives to restructure the economy through
adjustment loans; and (b) sector lending to facilitate the resumption of
growth in productive sectors in line with Nigeria's comparative advantage.
Within this strategy, the proposed Trade and Investment Policy Loan
provides support for continuation of the core program of structural
adjustment of Nigeria's economy, establishment of a favorable climate for
private investment, and rationalization of the public expenditure program
to ensure that it leads to a resumption of growth. It will be followed by
a Financial Sector Policy Loan to support reforms in the financial sector,
particularly efficient mobilization and allocation of savings.
2.48      lank assistance under the proposed Project would complement the
Government's policy reforms by enabling private entrepreneurs (SME.) in the
productive and service sectors to restructure, expand businesses to become
more competitive, and help establish new enterprises consistent with
Nigeria's resource endowments. To minimize the wpain of transition* of
moving from a highly protected environment to one which is internationally
competitive, there is a need to provide scarce long-term investment
resources to the private sector SMEs. In departure from the Bank's past
approach of lending to the industrial sector through single intermediaries
(NIDB and NBCI), it would involve the commercial banks (which have
extensive branch networks) and merchant banks in providing long-term
financing to SMEs and thereby enhance the efficiency and competitiveness as
well as extend outreach of the credit delivery system. The proposed
Project would also improve the quality and range of financial services
available to the SME sector (e.g., the financial restructuring and
equipment leasing components and the mutualist credit guarantee scheme for
microenterprise lending). It would link private entrepreneurs, banks and
sources of technical assistance and extension services, and thereby make
the delivery of extension services to SHEs demand driven and more
responsive to local entrepreneurial initiatives and the requirements of the
banking system. The Project would make maximum use of existing
institutions and the relatively large consulting industry in the delivery
of technical support services to SMEs. Future Bank assistance for
Nigeria's industry would support a well-balanced and integrated development
of the sector focussing on industrial restructuring of viable corporate
enterprises, efficient import substitution and, in the medium-term, on
non-oil exports, based on ongoing sector work and policy dialogue with the
Government.
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Proiect Rationale and Obiectives
3.01      Proiect Rationale.  The Project is an integral part of Bank
assistance to Nigeria for structural adjustment of its economy. To sustain
the recent reforms, there is a need to combine the ongoing adjustment
process with growth promoting programs to facilitate a sustained supply
response and generate efficient employment in the private productive and



- 21 -
service sectors. Now that an appropriate incentive system is largely in
place, the economy is gradually starting to respond to the dramatic changes
in relative prices and direct growth oriented programs can bear fruit. As
noted earlier, SMEs will play an important role in the resumption of
growth: they are flexible, generate employment at low investment costs
with quick paybacks, have higher levels of domestic value added than the
larger firms and provide the seed-bed for the development of entrepre-
neurial and industrial capabilities. They are traditionally dispersed in
the country and have the potential to establish productive linkages with
the rejuvenated agricultural sector. Moreover larger industries will shift
demand away from imported toward domestically produced inputs as these
gradually become available, thus contributing to the development of
linkages with SMEs. With the removal of ceilings on interest rates, the
main impediment for lending to SHEs has been removed. Yet, it will take
some time for the liberalization measures to work through the system, and
there are a number of market imperfections which discriminate against SMEs,
including poor access to information, high transaction costs, and
inadequate collaterals. Banks have to overcome their reluctance to lend to
smaller and relatively new enterprises which have only recently become
profitable. There is a shortage of term resources and working capital.
There is also a need to strengthen the institutional support system for
SMEs. The proposed Project would address these bottlenecks, and provide
credit for the private sector at large for the overall development of the
SME sector.
3.02      Proiect Objectives.  The Project is designed to:  (a) support
existing enterprises restructure and modernize their operations in
maintaining their comparative advantage, and to regain competitiveness
under the new incentive system; (b) help establish a new generation of
viable investments in the private productive sectors and service
activities; and (c) improve the quality and range of financial and
extension services available to SMEs. Specifically, the Project is aimed
at: (i) enabling private small and medium entrepreneurs to become more
competitive by investing in the rehabilitation and expansion of their
existing units, and establishment of new enterprises; (ii) reviving
production and improving viability of selected overleveraged firms through
establishing an institutional and financial framework to plan, implement,
and support restructuring programs; (iii) supporting a program of
assistance to microenterprises; (iv) providing an alternative and more
flexible source of long-term finance to SMEs through equipment leasing; (v)
supporting the Entrepreneurship Development Programs; (vi) sponsoring the
delivery of technical support services that are more demand driven and
responsive to the needs of the private sector; and (vii) improving the
policy and institutional support framework for SME development.
B.   Proiect Description
3.03      In line with the above objectives, the proposed Project includes
five financial and technical assistance components: (a) line of credit;
(b) pilot financial restructuring; (c) pilot mutualist credit guarantee
scheme for microenterprises; (d) equipment leasing; and (e) technical
assistance. These are described briefly below. The main features of the
onlending arrangements are given in Chapter IV.



-22-
1.   Line of Credit Component
3.04      The line of credit component (US$200 million) 41 will help
finance, through the banking system, fixed investments (plant and
machinery, related civil works, consultancy services, and training) and
working capital needs of existing as well as new private sector SMEs. For
project purposes, SHEs are defined as firms with fixed assets (excluding
land) plus investment under the Project (asset size) not exceeding 310
million in constant 1988 prices or US$2.5 million equivalent (para 4.09).
In order to benefit smaller enterprises with asset size below U5 million in
constant 1988 prices or US$1.25 million equivalent, US$100 million of the
total line of credit would be earmarked for financing such SMEs, including
US$25 million for financing free standing working capital needs (rav
materials, spare parts and components). These would include SMEs to be
established by entrepreneurs who have successfully completed the
Entrepreneurship Development Programs (para 2.24). The remaining US$100
million of the total line of credit component would finance larger SMEs
with existing fixed assets (excluding land) plus investment under the
Project between N5 million and N10 million (or between US$1.25 million and
US$2.5 million), including US$25 million for financing free standing
working capital needs. Provision of financing for free standing working
capital is particularly critical under prevailing circumstances to
encourage more efficient utilization of existing capacity and maintenance
of employment in SMEs.
2.   Pilot Financial Restructuring Component
3.05      The pilot restructuring component (US$20 million) will help meet
the long-term restructuring needs of selected enterprises that are
potentially viable and have good prospects, but currently suffer from a
weak financial position. Based on satisfactory restructuring workouts
prepared by the eligible SMEs, the component would offer comprehensive
financial packages including refinancing and/or rescheduling of existing
debts including capitalization of interest, swaps of debt into equity
and/or quasi equity instruments, and injection of new money for fresh
working capital and fixed assets. Up to US$1.0 million of the credit funds
could be applied to finance consultancy services for the preparation of
above restructuring workouts. The Project would also provide technical
assistance to help develop the institutional capacity and associated skills
in the banks for enterprise restructuring (para 3.11). As part of the
restructuring exercise, the banks will consider partial write-offs (e.g..
accumulated penalty fees, charges, etc.) as well as conversion of existing
debt to equity and/or quasi equity. Efforts would also be made to attract
other interested investors to take equity positions in the restructured
firms. The Bank loan proceeds would finance fresh working capital (raw
materials, spare parts and components), new fixed assets (mainly to
eliminate physical bottlenecks) and technical assistance (consultancy
services, training) needs of the restructured companies.
4/   Figures in parentheses refer to the Bank loan amounts for respective
components of the Project.



- 23 -
3.   Pilot Mutualist Credit Guarantee Scheme
3.06      The pilot mutualist credit guarantee scheme (US$5 million) will
provide access to institutional credit for fixed asset investment and
working capital needs (raw materials and spare parts) of microenterprises
who, because of their small size and lack of collateral, are generally
unable to borrow through the normal banking channels. All eligible
participating banks (PBs) would have access to funds under the scheme. The
PBs would finance eligible subloans submitted by microenterprises, and
guaranteed by the selected NGOs such as MAN, NASSI, etc. (Annex 3-1).
Because of the newness of this concept in Nigeria, the Project would also
provide technical assistance for a study to be completed by March 31, 1989,
to formulate detailed implementation arrangements for the scheme and to
identify other NGOs that could suitably participate in the program (para
3.11).
4.   Equipment Leasing Component
3.07      The equipment leasing component (US$30 million) will provide an
alternative and flexible source of long-term financing to SMEs which are
under-capitalized and lack adequate collateral. It will finance the
leasing of equipment by SMEs through eligible PBs. An integral part of the
financial support for leasing would be technical assistance for a study to
be completed by June 30, 1989, to develop an appropriate regulatory and
policy framework for the leasing industry in Nigeria (para 3.11).
5.   Technical Assistance Component
3.08      The technical assistance component (US$9.3 million) accounts for
about 3.4Z of the loan. A detailed description of the technical assistance
program and breakdown of costs are given in Annex 3-2. Project support
(consultant services, training and equipment) for technical assistance
would cover four main areas as summarized below. The Project is expected
to finance in total an estimated 385 and 1,200 man-months of foreign and
local consultancy services, respectively.
3.09      Assistance (U'$5 million) to SMEs and Entrepreneurs:  It is
recognized that entrepreneurs are often in need of consulting services to
(a) undertake studies, in particular prefeasibility or implementation
studies, to develop their initial project ideas; and (b) obtain technical
services and management counselling for the acquisition of technological
know-how, and for solving operational problems. Experience in Nigeria and
elsewhere has shown that studies and assistance provided by state-supported
promotion agencies generally have lacked credibility and had difficulty
finding acceptance by the banks from whom financing was requested. In
Nigeria, there are a large number of private consulting firms and other
agencies whose services could be contracted usefully by local entrepreneurs
at various stages of project preparation and implementation (para 2.21).
However, the cost of private consulting services is likely to be too
onerous for many small entrepreneurs. Therefore, a Pilot Studies Facility
(US$5 million) will be established in CBN to provide financing to SMEs and
entrepreneurs through the PBs on loan terms for costs related to
consultants' services. SMEs eligible for financing under the Studies
Facility will be those with existing assets not exceeding N#o million in
constant 1988 prices. For potential new enterprises, the estimated cost of



- 24 -
the subproject would not exceed 310 million in constant 1988 prices. The
proposed loan will finance up to 70Z of the consultants' costs but the
maxijm, financing from the Studies Facility for any one SME or entrepreneur
will be k15,000 (or US$3,750 equivalent) in constant 1988 prices. Subloans
under this component vill have maturities of up to 3 years, including grace
periods of up to 1 year. Apart from benefitting entrepreneurs, the fund
would help develop the nascent consulting industry in Nigeria. An
assurance has been obtained that CBN will establish the Pilot Studies
Facility by December 31, 1988, with procedures and conditions acceptable to
the Bank. The issuance of a circular by CBN to the banking system,
satisfactory to the Bank, outlining the conditions and procedures for
assistance to SMEs and entrepreneurs under the Studies Facility will be a
condition of loan effectiveness. The signing of a participation agreement
between the CBN and the concerned PB will be a condition of disbursement
under this component.
3.10      The Project would also support training for SMEs in simple
business skills, including bookkeeping, accounting and cash flow
projections with full cost recovery from SMEs. The training will be
provided by existing training institutions and consultants with
coordination from FKI.
3.11      Assistance (US$2.5 million) for CBN to:  (a) supplement staff
skills with an outside expert to build technical and institutional
capabilities of the SME Apex Unit in CBN (para 4.02) for administration of
the apex line of credit and other SME credit programs; (b) improve
expertise of staff of the PBs in project appraisal, supervision and
monitoring; (c) train staff of the PBs in the preparation and evaluation
of workouts related to financial restructuring of enterprises; (d)
formulate detailed procedures for implementation of the mutualist credit
guarantee scheme as well as identify other NGOs besides MhAN and NASSI for
participation in the program; (e) undertake a study to develop an
appropriate regulatory and policy framework for equipment leasing; (f)
conduct a study for the proposed establishment of a Mutual Investment Fund
for holding a portfolio of shares and bonds in corporate enterprises,
particularly those involving restructuring, to be subscribed by
institutional and individual investors; (g) monitor regularly the economic
and social impact of the SHE subprojects financed under the Bank loan
(tracer studies) (para 4.34); and (h) undertake further policy and project
preparation work in the industrial and financial sectors (CBN, US$1
million).
3.12      Assistance (US$0.8 million) for FMI to:  (a) assist in periodic
reviews by outside experts of the nationwide Entrepreneurship Development
Programs to assess their overall effectiveness and recommend necessary
changes; (b) carry out a study for developing linkages between SMEs and
larger enterprises through subcontracting; (c) conduct subsector surveys
and develop industry profiles; (d) undertake a technology development study
on encouraging linkages between SMEs and research institutions, and
upgrading the technical capabilities of the manufacturing sector with
particular emphasis on SMEs; (e) conduct a study to evaluate the
alternatives of implementing an industrial estates program on a commercial
basis with private sector participation to help SMEs overcome difficulties
of access to infrastructure facilities, and the eventual development of



- 25 _
pilot/demonstration industrial estates within high priority areas; and (f)
enhance the capacity of FHI to formulate policies for SHE development.
3.13      Assistance for NBCI (US$l million) co strengthen its operations
in the areas of appraisal, supervision, portfolio management, equipment
leasing and merchant banking. The consultants will be recruited by
February 28, 1989.
3.14      In view of the pilot nature of the financial restructuring
component, the mutualist credit guarantee scheme and the Pilot Studies
Facility for SMEs, an unallocated amount of US$5.7 million is proposed
which could subsequently be allocated by the Bank to any component based on
experience during project implementation.
C.   Proiect Cost and Financing Plan
3.15      The estimated project cost and financing plan are summarized in
the table on the following page. A detailed breakdown of the costs for the
technical assistance component is given in Annex 3-2. Total project cost
is estimated at about US$416 million equivalent, including US$263.4 million
(63Z) in foreign exchange. The proposed Bank loan of US$270 million would
finance 65Z of the total project costs (100Z of foreign exchange
requirements, and 4Z of the local costs). About US$146 million equivalent
of the project costs would be financed by the beneficiary enterprises in
equity and the share of technical assistanca costs, and the PBs from their
own resources.
D.   Credit Demand
3.16      In Nigeria, there is no reliable data available on capital
formation by subsectors, and on new credits granted as distinct from
outstanding credits. The target group for the proposed Project (e.g.,
private sector enterprises with fixed assets not exceeding US$2.5 million
equivalent and operating in a broad spectrum of economic activities)
differs significantly from SMEs as presently defined in Nigeria (para
2.17). It is, therefore, difficult to relate precisely the proposed loan
amount to the potential demand for credit. However, the proposed amount of
US$200 million for the line of credit component represents (a) roughly 4Z
of the Nigerian banking system's total outstanding credit to the private
sector as of end-1986 (N17.4 billion or US$5.2 billion equivalent); (b)
about 12Z of the outstanding loans and advances of the commercial and
merchant banks to the manufacturing sector as of end-1986 (N5.5 billion or
US$1,645 million equivalent); (c) about 281 of the estimated new credit in
1986 (N2.4 billion or US$710 million equivalent) to enterprises with
assets below 12 million (or US$0.5 million equivalent); 5/ and (d) about
11Z of the foreign exchange auctioned through SFEM/FEH between October 1986
and October 1987 intended for imports of machinery, raw materials, spares
and components by the industrial sector (US$1.9 billion). The NBCI
pipeline as of November 1987 included some 158 projects requiring aggregate
5/   Source:   CBN, Annual Report and Economic and Financial Review, 1986;
Report prepared by the Nigeria Merchant Bank, NMB (Project File).



- 26 -
Proiect Cost and Financing
X of    Z of
Components                  Local   Foresin   Total   Subtotal  Total
------US$ million------
Line of Credit
World Bank                            -       200.0   200.0      65
5SHE  (Equity)                       76.9       -       76.9     25
Participating Banks                  30.8       -       30.8     10
Subtotal                      107.7      200.0   307.7    100         74
Pilot Financial Restructuring
World Bank                            -        20.0    20.0       40
Participating Banks                  30.0       -       30.0     60
Subtotal                       30.0       20.0    50.0    100         12
Pilot Mutualist Credit
Guarantee Scheme
World Bank                            2.2       2.8      5.0     90
Microenterprises (Equity)             0.5       _        0.5     10
Subtotal                        2.7        2.8     5.5    100          1
Equipment Leasing
World Bank                            -        30.0    30.0      85
Participating Banks                   5.3       -        5.3     15
Subtotal                        5.3       30.0    35.3    100          9
Technical Assistance
World Bank                            4.4       4.9      9.3     80
SMEs                                  2.3       -        2.3     20
Subtotal                        6.7        4.9    11.6    100          3
Unallocated (World Bank)                        5.7      5.7    100         1
Total Project Cost            152.4      263.4   415.8              100
=.,-   ==z==   t=m===s
Summary Financing Plan
World Bank                            6.6     263.4   270.0                64.9
SMEs                                 79.7       -       79.7               19.2
Participating Banks                  66.1       -       66.1               15.9
Total Financing               152.4      263.4   415.8              100.0
=====   ==-M=



- 27 -
financing of N193 million or US$48 million equivalent, and the NAL pipeline
as of mid-1987 included some 50 projects requiring aggregate financing of
N139 million or US$35 million equivalent. Loan commitments by NBCI in 1987
for SHE projects with assets below MS million under Loan 2376-UNI were
about US$21 million for some 90 projects. Given that NBC1 and NAL account
for a very small portion of SME lending in Nigeria, the overall pipeline of
the Nigerian banking system and hence credit demand are significantly
larger. In addition, the ongoing nationwide Entrepreneurship Development
Programs (para 2.24) are expected to result in some 500 new SSEs each yQar
Even if only one-half of these projects were to materialize, the credit
demand for such new SSEs alone would amount to about US$35 million
annually. The Pilot Studies Facility (para 3.09) would also help generate
a significant pipeline of bankable SHE subprojects, and participation of
the entire banking system with extensive branch networks would extend the
outreach of the Project in all parts of the country. The proposed amount
of US$200 million for the line of credit comprises: (i) US$75 million for
credit for fixed investments and associated permanent working capital needs
of both existing and new smaller SMEs, e.g. enterprises with assets below
US$1.25 million; (ii) US$75 million for fixed investments and associated
permanent working capital needs of larger SMEs with assets between US$1.25
million and US$2.5 million; and (iii) US$50 million for financing of free
standing working capital needs of existing SMEs. In view of the above, the
line of credit is expected to be committed quickly, well within the 45
months assumed for the purposes of the project implementation schedule
(para 4.26).
3.17      As for equipment leasing, the annual value of leased assets has
increased from N24 million or US$35 million equivalent in 1982 to N110
million or US$81 million equivalent in 1986 (Annex 2-8). The average
annual growth rate of assets acquired for lease during 1982-86 was thus 23?
(calculated on the basis of data expressed in US dollar terms). Given the
under-capitalization of SMEs, their lack of collateral and the scarcity of
alternative sources of term financing, prospects for continued significant
growth of the leasing industry are promising. For example, the NAL which
had a 2.7? market share in 1986 based on leased assets acquired at original
cost, received applications for lease financing in the amount of N28
million (or US$7 million equivalent) from enterprises with assets below N6
million during January-September 1987. The proposed amount of US$30
million for the equipment leasing component is, therefore, expected to be
committed quickly well within the 45 months assumed for the purposes of the
project implementation schedule. The loan amounts allocated to the pilot
financial restructuring and the pilot mutualist credit guarantee scheme
components are relatively small at US$20 million and US$5 million,
respectively.
IV. PRINCIPAL FEATURES OF THE LOAN
A. The Loan and Institutional Arrangements
4.01      The proposed Bank loan of US$270 million will be made to the
Federal Government of Nigeria at the Bank's standard variable rate for 20
years, including 5 years of grace with a commitment fee of 0.75Z. of the
total loan proceeds, the Government will (a) pass on US$268.2 million



- 28 -
equivalent to CBN for: the line of credit (US$200 million); pilot
financial restructuring component (US$20 million); pilot mutualist credit
guarantee scheme (US$5 million); equipment leasing component (US$30
million); pilot studies facility for S4Es and entrepreneurs (US$5 million);
technical assistance for the SME Apex Unit and PBs (US$1.5 million);
further policy and future project preparation work in the industrial and
financial sectors (US$1 million); and an unallocated amount of US$5.7
million in view of the pilot nature of several components, and which could
be allocated by the Bank to any project component based on experience
during project implementation (para 3.14); (b) onlend US$1 million
equivalent to NBCI for strengthening of its operations at the same terms
and conditions as are applicable to the Bank loan, and under an agreement
acceptable to the Bank (the NBCI agreement); and (c) retain the remaining
loan amount of US$0.8 million equivalent for technical assistance to FMI
for SHE related studies. The amount of US$268.2 million to CBN will be
passed on by the Government under a subsidiary administration agreement on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (para 4.03). A Project
Agreement will be signed between the Bank and CBN. The signing of an
agreement between the Government and NBCI under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank will be a condition of disbursement under the
technical assistance to NBCI component.
4.02      In departure from the Bank's past approach of lending to the
Nigerian industrial sector through single financial intermediaries, NIDB
and NBCI (para 2.45), funds under this loan would be made available to the
banking system as a whole under an apex arrangement. This approach would
enhance competition among the banks and extend credit availability to all
viable SHEs/entrepreneurs on a nationwide basis. A SME Apex Unit has been
established in CBN to administer the line of credit, the financial
restructuring component, the mutualist credit guarantee scheme, the
enuipment leasing component, and the pilot studies facility on behalf of
the Government. In view of its extensive involvement in regulating the
financial sector (regulation and supervision of the banking system, credit
policies, etc.), CBN is the most suitable institution to play that role.
To avoid undue delays in the operation of the credit lines (processing of
financing proposals and disbursements), the SME Apex Unit was set up as a
small, separate, largely autonomous entity within CBN, reporting directly
to the Deputy Governor for Monetary and Banking Policy. It will mainly
perform the role of a disbursing agent with additional administrative tasks
including the monitoring of overall implementation of the SME credit
components by the participating banks (PBs)--eligibility criteria,
procedures for procurement, disbursements, and repayments, etc. The Unit
will be staffed initially with a Unit Manager with extensive experience in
administration, development and general banking, and accounting, two other
professional staff, and support staff as required. The Project would
provide technical assistance, i.e., experts to help organize the systems
and procedures and provide on-the-job training, equipment including
microcomputers, and training. Arrangements satisfactcry to the Bank for
the employment of consultants for the SME Apex Unit will be a condition of
loan effectiveness. More staff will be added as the need arises.



- 29 _
4.03      Assurances have been obtained from the Government on the
onlending arrangements as well as on the eligibility criteria for financial
intermediaries, beneficiary enterprises and subprojects, subloan processing
and administration, and onlending terme and conditions as described in the
following paragraphs. The signing of a subsidiary administration agreement
between the Government and CbN defining the functions and responsibilities
of the latter, and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank will be a
condition of loan effectiveness. A circular outlining the conditions and
procedures for the utilization of the four credit lines and the pilot
studies facility, including a standard participation agreement to be
entered into between CBN and PBs will be prepared by CBN, in consultation
with the Bank; its issuance will be a condition of loan effectiveness.
S.   Eligible Financial Intermediaries
4.04      In order to reach a broad spectrum of private enterprises on a
nationwide basis, the loan will be made available to all sound banks which
aret  (a) ln complian 'e with the CBN's creditworthiness criteria and other
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Annex 4-1); (b) interested
in term lending and project financing; and (c) willing to adhere to the
specific guidelines uwider the Project. Financial intermediaries which are
not in compliance with the CBN's regulations temporarily may be given
access to the credit lines provided they are in the process of implementing
a restructuring program acceptable to CBN and the Bank. The PBs will bear
the full credit risk on subprojects and studies financed by them, and be
responsible for their appraisal and supervision.
4.05      As for the mutualist credit guarantee scheme for lending to
microenterprises, it is expected that a significant part of the funds would
be channelled through NBCI because of its extensive past experience in
lending to small scale enterprises (SSEs). All PBs will, however, be
eligible for participation in the scheme. Since commercial banks are not
at present allowed to engage in equipment leasing in Nigeria, only eligible
merchant banks and NBCI would participate in the equipment leasing
component.
4.06        Prior to drawing on the Bank loan funds under the line of
credit, financial restructuring, mutualist credit guarantee scheme, and
equipment leasing components, and the pilot studies facility, each PB would
be required to sign a participation agreement with CBN on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The signing of at least three such
participation agreements for the line of credit component will be a
condition of loan effectiveness. Adoption by CBN of detailed
implementation procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, will be a condition of
disbursement under the mutualist credit guarantee scheme.
C.   Eligible Beneficiaries and Subprojects
4.07      General.  With the exception of subsistence agriculture, real
estate, commerce, finance and insurance, hotels and construction, all
private sector SMEs which operate in any economic sector (including
manufacturing, agro-allied industries, mining, quarrying, industrial
support services, equipment leasing and other ancillary service activities)
and are 10O Nigerian-owned will be eligible for financing. In the case of
new manufacturing enterprises under the line of credit component, the share



- 30 -
of locally sourced raw materials of the total raw materials would have to
be at least 40Z with the objective of reaching 60Z by September 1992. The
Project would finance rehabilitation, expansion, and energy saving
investments of existing enterprises as well as the establishment of new
enterprises in the following general categories: (a) fixed assets
(machinery, equipment, factory buildings and related civil works, know-how
and consultancy services, and training); (b) permanent working capital
(initial stocks or increases in stocks of raw materials, spare parts and
components); (c) free-standing working capital (raw materials, spare parts
and components) to expand capacity utilization of existing firms; and (d)
consultancy services for technical assistance and training during both
subproject implementation and operations.  In view of the need to improve
the capital structure of Nigerian enterprises which are generally
under-capitalized, proceeds of the line of credit and the financial
restructuring components could also be used by the PBs to finance their
equity and quasi equity investments (e.g., convertible debentures and
preferred, non-voting shares) in corporate enterprises (para 2.39).
4.08      Subprojects eligible for financing under the Project would have
to be technically, financially and economically sound demonstrating good
potential for adjusting to or operating under the new incentive system. An
evaluation of market potential as well as technical and managerial capacity
of enterprises would have to be carried out. PBs would also mal-e an
assessment of the environmental aspects of all subprojects to ensure that
they do not have a negative impact on the environment.
4.09      The line of credit, financial restructuring and equipment leasing
components would support enterprises with assets, defined as existing fixed
assets (excluding land) plus investment under the Project, not exceeding
N10 million in constant 1988 prices (or US$2.5 million equivalent). These
ceilings would enable the Project to assist not only SMEs as conventionally
defined in Nigeria (para 2.17), but also provide access to long-term
foreign exchange resources for private sector enterprises at large. Host
enterprises are currently in urgent need of credit to improve their
capacity utilization and adjust to the new policy regime through
rehabilitation, modernization and expansion of capacity, including changes
in manufacturing processes to shift from imported to local raw materials.
An additional benefit of a broader reach is the maintenanca of employment
in existing viable or potentially viable enterprises. For the purpose of
the mutualist credit guarantee scheme, the beneficiary microenterprises
would be defined as those with existing iixed assets (excluding land) plus
cost of the subproject of up to N400,000 in constant 1988 prices (or
US$100,000 equivalent). Specific eligibility criteria for beneficiary
enterprises and subprojects under various components of the Project are
described in the following paragraphs.
4.10      The Line of Credit.  Eligible beneficiaries should be
financially sound, able to contribute at least 25Z of the subproject cost
in equity and from internally generated cash. During subproject
implementation and for five years after start-up of operations,
beneficiaries shall maintain a long-term debt to equity ratio of not more
than 3:1, a currnt ratio of at least 1.2, and a debt service coverage
ratio of at least 1.4. The PBs would be expected to finance from their own
resources about 10? of the subproject cost to ensure their commitment; this
contribution can be made within or outside the subloans themselves, or in



- 31 -
the form of equity/quasi eqi!ity financing. The PBs would analyze the
repayment capacity of the enterprises for all subprojects.
4.11      While the methodology for subproject appraisal by the PBs would
depend on the subproject size, their appraisal will include the calculation
of the financial rates of return (FURs) for all subprojects vith costs over
NO.8 million in constant 1988 price. (US$200,000 equivalent). Calculation
of the economic rates of return (ERRs) would also be required for
subprojects with costs over U4 million in constant 1988 prices (US$1
million equivalent). FRR (after tax) and ERR each would have to be at
least 122 in constant prices. For subprojects with costs below N0.8
million, only a cash flow analysis of the enterprise would be undertaken.
Maximum financing from the Bank loan would be 702 of the subproject cost
for eligible enterprises. Maximum subloan with loan proceeds for free
standing working capital would be N2 million in constant 1988 prices (or
US$0.5 million equivalent). Financing for free standing working capital
(raw materials, spare parts and components), with loan proceeds, should be
incremental, resulting from a plan to increase utilization of installed
production capacity. To ensure that the Project will benefit a reasonably
large number of beneficiary enterprises, the overall maximum outstanding
amount of financing to any individual firm or a group of related
enterprises with loan proceeds would be N7 million in constant 1988 prices
(or US$1.75 million equivalent).
4.12      The Pilot Financial RestructurinR Component.  While the precise
financial arrangements and terms of the restructuring would have to be
established on a case-by-case basis, the following broad investment
guidelines would be followed (Annex 4-2). In general, eligible enterprises
would have to be potentially viable but have tight debt service ratios due
to overindebtedness. The equity participation by the banks in a
restructured enterprise would be such so as to maintain at all times a
minority equity participation. The Bank loan funds would be used to
finance only increases in working capital (raw materials, spare parts and
components) and fixed assets (mainly for removing physical bottlenecks in
the plants), consultancy services, and training. The cost of preparation
of the restructuring workouts by the enterprises would also be eligible for
Bank financing. The subprojects would be financed only if their
incremental FRR (after tax) and ERR exceed 122 in constant prices. To
determine if a restructuring package ie viable, on the basis of reasonable
assumptions, the proposed workout strategy should enable the company to
service its debt adequately while maintaining a sufficient level of
liquidity. Criteria to be used would include debt service coverage ratios
of not less than 1.0 in every year of the subproject, averaging not less
than 1.2 during the entire period with the projected current ratios of not
less than 1.2 at any time. The Bank loan would finance up to 1002 of the
eligible cost of the subproject. The overall maximum outstanding amount of
financing to any individual enterprise or a group of related enterprises
with loan proceeds would be N7 miliion in constant 1988 prices (or US$1.75
million equivalent).
4.13      The Pilot Mutualist Credit Guarantee Scheme.  Eligible
beneficiaries should be members in good standing with their respective
mutual guarantee associations (MGAs) such as MAN and NASSI. In view of the
small size of the subloans (maximum of N100,000 or US$25,000), simplified
appraisal procedures will be adopted by the PBs, e.g., the cash flow



- 32 -
analysis. The MGAs will have to satisfy themselves with the creditworthi-
ness of their members, business outlook, and prospects for repayment of
subloans, and provide a full guarantee on subloans extended by the PBs.
Most subloans are expected to be used for financing expansion,
rehabilitation, and working capital needs of existing enterprises. The
Bank loan would finance 10OZ of the subloans.
4.14      The Eauirment Leasing Component.  The financing for equipment
leased by an enterprise under the Project would be extended only to
financially and economically viable enterprises as demonstrated through
simple payback period tests with a maximum payback period of up to 6 years,
calculated on the basis of the installed cost of the equipment and the
estimated annual net cash flow generated from the equipment. Emphasis
would also be placed on the lessee's creditworthiness, ability to service
the lease payments, and the quality of management. All industrial and
business equipment and machinery, energy conservation equipment to improve
energy efficiency in the industrial sector, and related costs of transport,
handling, insurance and installation costs would be eligible for financing.
The PBs would be expected to finance from their own resources about 15Z of
the leased assets. Maximum lease amount financed from loan proceeds would
thus be 85Z of the cost of the leased equipment. No individual lease with
loan proceeds under the Project will exceed N2.5 million in constant 1988
prices (or US$625,000 equivalent). The overall maximum book value of
leased equipment with loan proceeds and outstanding, to any individual firm
or a group of related firms would be N2.5 million in constant 1988 prices.
D.   Subloan Processing and Administration
4.15      The commercial risk of the subloans/investments lies with the
PBs. They would be responsible for the appraisal of subprojects. The
first three financing proposals (i.e., appraisal reports) from each PB, for
each financing component under the Project, will be sent to the Bank
(through the SME Apex Unit) for review prior to approval. On the basis of
this review and of its assessment of the appraisal standards of the PB
concerned, the Bank will establish an appropriate free limit for a subloan,
investment and lease financing for each intermediary. Thereafter, the PBs
would be allowed to extend financing under the Bank loan for eligible
subprojects up to the free limit. The PBs' compliance of the eligibility
criteria for free limit subprojects will be monitored by independent
auditors during annual audits of the PBs' project accounts (para 4.35).
Subprojects above the free limit will be sent by the SME Apex Unit, after
verification of their eligibility and within two weeks of their receipt, to
the Bank for its review and approval. The levels of free limits will be
kept under review by the Bank, and will be adjusted as necessary during
project implementation. It is expected that, on average, not more than 20Z
of the total number of subloans would require Bank review prior to
approval. The PBs' submissions for subprojects to the SME Apex Unit would
be in accordance with the Bank's normal standards for IDF subprojects. The
PBs will be fully responsible for the supervision and monitoring of
subprojects both during and afteL implementation. The PBs will also
prepare and submit to the SME Apex Unit a brief subproject completion
report within six months of physical completion of the subproject,
comparing performance with appraisal estimates. The CBN will hold
initially two orientation seminars and two follow-up seminars for the staff
of the PBs to familiarize them with the procedures of subloan processing



- 33 -
and administration. The CBN will also advertise the Project regulerly to
ensure that SMEs are aware of these sources of finance.
4.16      For subprojects above the free limit, the submission by the PBs
(through the SME Apex Unit) for the Bank's approval would include: (a) a
description of the beneficiary and an appraisal of the subproject,
including its technical, economic and financial viability and environmental
aspects carried out in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) the proposed terms and conditions of the subloan, equity investment or
leasing operation as applicable; (c) in respect of a restructuring
subproject, a restructuring plan, satisfactory to the Bank, including an
analysis of the managerial, marketing, production and financial aspects of
the enterprise; (d) a list of goods and services to be financed out of
proceeds of the Bank loan; (e) the method of procurement of the goods and
services; and (f) such other information as the Bank may reasonably
request.
4.17      Business Advisory Services.  The importance of integrating
business advice with the provision of credit by the banks to smaller
borrowers has been underscored by the experience of many developing
countries including those in Africa. In Nigeria, the merchant banks
provide some business advisory services to their corporate clients. The
PBs, particularly the commercial banks would, therefore, be encouraged
(although this would not be financed under the Project) to provide business
advisory services to SME clients as an integral part of project financing,
thus complementing technical and managerial assistance from other
institutions. By establishing such services, the PBs would assist their
clients in managing their enterprises more efficiently. The staff of the
business advisory units would act as financial diagnosticians, assisting
clients with specific problems that may arise from time to time, and
helping them obtain more specialized professional services from outside as
and when required. Specifically, business advisory services are needed in
the following areas: (a) accounting, budgeting, management of cash,
finance, credit and insurance; (b) marketing, purchasing and inventory
control; (c) plant and equipment maintenance; (d) company registration,
organization and statutory requirements, and office and personnel
management; and (e) taxation and legal obligations. The PBs will levy
appropriate charges for such services. The Government would approach the
Commonwealth Fund for Technical Cooperation for such assistance.
4.18      Training in Proiect Appraisal.  In addition to NBCI, merchant
banks and most commercial banks are considered to have adequate expertise
in financial and creditworthiness analysis as well as technical appraisals
with assistance from specialized consultants as necessary. On the other
hand, with the exception of NBCI, they are unfamiliar with economic
analysis. In order to fully familiarize the staff of prospective PBs with
project appraisal, particularly economic analysis, as well as supervision
and monitoring procedures, the Project would finance a series of training
seminars and follow-up case study workshops under the coordination of the
SME Apex Unit. Appropriate standard formats to be used by the PBs for
project appraisal of various sizes of subprojects will also be prepared.



- 34 -
E.   Onlendina Terms and Conditions
4.19      The CBN would make funds available (on behalf of the Government)
to the PBs at a variable rate, equal to the prevailing CBN rediscount rate.
The rate will be adjusted whenever there is a change in the rediscount
rate. The final onlending rates to beneficiary enterprises will be
determined by the PBs and will be variable. The PBs will adjust the final
onlending rates in accordance with changes in the rediscount rate. Based
on the current rediscount rate of 12.752 and lending rates of about 16 to
182. spreads to the PBs are likely to range between 3.25 and 5.252 vhich
should be adequate to cover their administrative costs and lending risks,
and to provide a reasonable profit. The onlending rates to
microenterprises under the mutualist credit guarantee scheme will also be
variable and market-based; the sharing of the spread among the PBs, MGAs
and the MGAs' mutualist credit guarantee funds (to expand their borrowing
capacity and cover losses from defaults) will be determined in consultation
with tVe Bank on the basis of findings of the study for this component
(para 3.11). The PBs will pay to the CBN a commitment fee of 0.752 on the
undisbursed committed amounts, which they will pass on to the final
beneficiaries. Assuming an inflation rate of about 152 for 1989 and 102
thereafter, the onlending rates are expected to be positive in real terms.
The SME Apex Unit will monitor the experience of onlendiiig rates and
spreads during project implementation, and as appropriate the matter of
onlending rates will be reviewed with the Bank (para 4.23).
4.20      In accordance with the above arrangements, subloans will be
denominated in naira terms, and the FEM rate prevailing on the date of
disbursements out of the loan will be used to convert the foreign currency
into naira equivalent. The Government will, therefore, bear the foreign
exchange risk for a fee implicit in the differential between the CBN's
onlending rate to the PBs (currently 12.752) and the interest rate on the
Bank loan (currently 7.592). Out of the interest payments due from the
PBs, the CBN would keep an annual administration fee (about 12 of the
subloan amounts outstanding) to cover its expenses for administering the
Project, and it would pay to the Government (Federal Ministry of Finance
and Economic Development) the remaining spread on Bank funds according to a
schedule corresponding to receipts of interest payments due to it from the
PBs.
4.21      Subloans under the line of credit and financial restructuring
components for fixed assets and free-standing working capital would have
maturities up to 12 years and 3 years, respectively, including grace
periods of up to 3 years and one year, respectively. Subloans for
preparation of the restructuring workouts under the financial restructuring
component, and studies under the pilot studies facility will have
maturities up to 3 years, including grace periods of up to one year.
Subloans for fixed assets and free standing working capital under the
mutualist credit guarantee scheme would have maturities of up to 5 and 2
years, respectively, including grace periods of up to 12 months and 6
months, respectively. The PBs would be allowed to write leases under the
equipment leasing component for up to 10 years, including up to 2 years
grace. The above maturities are substantially longer than those of credits
extended by the banks in Nigeria at present.  This s         provide an
incentive for banks as well as for enterprises to make use of the funds
under the Project. For the PBs' equity and quasi equity investments under



- 35 -
the line of credit and the financial restructuring components, a flexible
divestment policy satisfactory to the Bank would be adopted, with an
average holding period of about six years. The divestment policy would
include a buyback option for the enterprise owner to purchase the bank's
equity at its estimated market or predetermined value. The equity
investments would be expected to yield an after tax return of 121 in real
terms.
4.22      Repayments from the PBs to CBN for each subloan would be on the
basis of the fixed amortization schedule as given in the appraisal report
at the time of the subloan approval and financing by the SHE Apex Unit.
Repayments of equity and quasi equity investments from the PBs to CBN would
also be on a fixed amortization schedule for a period of up to 10 years.
However, the PBs will be required to pay immediately to CBN any prepayment
of subloans from the final beneficiaries or any divestiture of investments
by it. Onlending to beneficiary enterprises by the PBs will be under
subloan, investment or lease agreements on terms and conditions satisfac-
tory to the Bank. The funds repaid by the PBs to the CBN and not yet due
to the Bank will be deposited in a separate account, and will be used by
the Government to finance SHEs with objectives and financing arrangements
consistent with those under the Project.
4.23        The level of commitment of resources to SMEs, eligibility
criteria for the PBs, beneficiary enterprises and subprojects, ownership of
the SMEs, sourcing of raw materials, and onlending terms and conditions
under the Project will be reviewed at least annually to identify and
implement changes, if needed, to ensure the successful implementation of
the Project.
F.   Proiect Implementation Arrangements and Schedule
4.24      Proiect ManaRement.  In view of the complexity of the Project
involving several components and institutions, the Government would
establish a high level Project Coordination Committee (PCC) to ensure
effective coordination of implementation of the overall Project. The PCC
will be presided over by the Federal Ministry of Finance and Economic
Development, and will include the following other members: the head of the
SME Apex Unit, one member each from CBN, FMI, NBCI, participating
commercial banks, and participating merchant banks. It will review
regularly the progress of the overall Project, closely monitor
implementation of the more experimental project aspects, and coordinate
timely action to remove any constraints affecting project implementation.
The PCC will be assisted by the technical staff of the SME Apex Unit--which
will perform as its Secretariat--for follow-up actions and to coordinate
submission of regular progress reports on the overall Project to the Bank
(Annex 4-3).  The PCC will meet at least once every three months.   Its
establishment with membership and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank
will be a condition of loan effectiveness.
4.25      The SME credit components will be managed by the SME Apex Unit
in accordance with the procedures described earlier in this Chapter.
Subprojects will be prepared by enterprises with assistance, as necessary,
from consultants. The PBs will be responsible for (a) ensuring that the
subprojects meet the eligibility criteria; (b) appraisal and supervision of
the subprojects financed by them; and (c) reviewing implementation



- 36 -
arrangements for subprojects. They will be required to submit to the CBN
semi-annual progress reports on their subprojects. The CBN would review
these reports and make available a summary to the Bank as part of its
regular reporting requirements. rne technical assistance component will be
implemented by eacks executing agency, e.g., CBN, FMI and NBCI. The Pilot
Studies Facility for technical support to SMEs will be administered by the
SME Apex Unit in CBN and channelled through the PBs. Training workshops in
simple business skills, including bookkeeping, accounting and cash flow
projections will be coordinated by FMI, and are expected to be delivered
through training institutions and local consultants.
4.26      Implementation Schedule.  The funds under the SHE credit
components are expected to be committed over about 45 months--January
1989-September 1992. The Project will finance subprojects approved by the
PBs for free limit subloans, investments and leasing operations, and those
submitted by the SME Apex Unit to the Bank for approval until September 30,
1992. Since subprojects will be for SMEs, they are expected to have a
maximum implementation period of about 24 months, giving an overall
implementation period for the SHE credit components of about six years
(i.e., September 30, 1994). All activities under the technical assistance
component except the studies to regularly monitor the economic and social
impact of subprojects 'para 4.34) are expected to be completed by September
1992.  Key indicators for project implementation are given in Annex 4-3.
However, based on the Bank's experience as reflected in the standard
profile for disbursement for the industrial development and finance
projects Bankwide, the overall Project is assumed conservatively to be
completed by September 30, 1995, implying a 7-year implementation period.
G.   Procurement
4.27      Procurement arrangements are summarized in Annex 4-4.  The SME
Apex Unit would have the overall responsibility for ensuring that suitable
procurement procedures are followed by the PBs. Procurement procedures for
goods and services financed under the Project would follow standard
practice for Bank IDF type projects, and will be from sources eligible
under the Bank guidelines. The PBs would have direct responsibility for
ensuring the competitiveness, in price and quality, of items procured and
their suitability for the purpose intended. All bid packages of value
exceeding US$250,000 equivalent would be procured upon the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of three qualified
suppliers eligible under the Bank guidelines, and contracts will be
reviewed by the PBs prior to award. For bid packages with values less than
US$250,000 equivalent, the PBs would assure themselves that the main
sources of supply have been canvassed and that the purchasing is from the
most advantageous sources. Procurement of vehicles and equipment under the
technical assistance component (estimated to be less than US$300,000 in
total) would be upon the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited
from a list of three qualified suppliers eligible under the Bank
guidelines. All appraisal reports of subprojects by the PBs will include a
list of goods and services to be financed under the Bank loan, and the
methods of procurement; appraisal reports of subprojects above the free
limit will be reviewed by the Bank prior to approval.
4.28      Consultants for technical services under the Pilot Studies
Facility, for which the maximum size of a contract is not expected to



- 37 _
exceed US$5,000 equivalent, will be selected by the SMEs and entrepreneurs
themselves; the PBs will be responsible for ensuring the quality of
services, and that services are obtained from the most advantageous source.
Consultants for technical- Itvices and training under the technical
assistance program financed with loan proceeds would be contracted in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines for the use of consultants.  Much of
the consultant services, studies, and technical assistance are, however, of
a nature and scope to allow the extensive use of Nigerian consultants and
experts. Those activities requiring the use of foreign firms and experts
would be linked with training programs in order to ensure the transfer of
know-how. All consultancy contracts for studies and training under the
technical assistance component would have terms of reference and consultant
selection subject to the Bank's prior approval. However, due to many
short-term assignments, terms of the negotiated contracts for consultants
and training below US$50,000 would be subject to post-approval review by
Bank supervision missions. To proceed with the establishment of the SME
Apex Unit and the employment of consultants for technical assistance
activities, the Bank loan will retroactively finance up to US$350,000 of
eligible expenditures incurred after June 1, 1988.
4.29      As noted above, all subproject appraisals by the PBs would
include a discussion of procurement procedures used or to be followed,
responses received, prices quoted and criteria for selection of goods and
services. As part of their normal supervision of subprojects, the PBs
would review the procurement aspects to assure that procurement is from
eligible sources and for eligible goods, works and services, and that
adequate commercial practices have been followed. The PBs would be
required to maintain records of the procurement methods and documents and
to monitor the utilization of subloan funds. PBs' compliance with the
procurement guidelines will be monitored by the SME Apex Unit, and reviewed
selectively during supervision missions by the Bank.
H. Allocation and Disbursement of Bank Loan
4.30      The proposed allocation of the Bank loan and percent expenditures
to be financed are given in Annex 4-5. To facilitate disbursements, two
special accounts (revolving funds) will be established in US dollars in
banks acceptable to the Bank. The first special account will be in CBN and
would have an authorized allocation of US$15 million, equivalent to an
average disbursement for about four months, for the SME credit components
and technical assistance program administered by the CBN. The second
special account would be in a commercial bank and would have an authorized
allocation of US$100,000 for the technical assistance program administered
by FMI. The CBN would also be authorized to establish, out of its special
account and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, sub-accounts in US
dollars in the PBs to expedite disbursements. The handling of the
sub-accounts by the PBs will be in accordance with the accounting controls
to be set up by CBN, and compliance of which will be monitored by CBN.
Replenishment of withdrawals from the special account for advances to
sub-accounts will be made only against supporting documentation for
disbursements out of sub-accounts by the PBs. These requirements were
agreed upon during negotiations, and would also be explained in the
disbursement letter.



- 38 -
4.31      Disbursements will be against full documentation except for
training, and contracts valued less than US$500,000 equivalent each, which
would be against statements of expenditure (SOEs). Documents in support of
SOEs will be retained by the SME Apex Unit and KMI for their respective
components, and made available to the Bank for review during supervision
missions. Only expenditures made no more than 180 days prior to the
receipt by the Bank of information relating to a free limit subloan,
in.-estment and leasing operation as applicable, or before receipt of the
request to the Bank for approval of subprojects above the free limit would
be eligible for reimbursement. This extension of the Bank's normal 90-day
limit under IDF projects is justified in view of the longer period required
for transactions under a two-tier credit system.
4.32      Documentation to be submitted by CBN to the Bank, prior to a
request for authorization to make withdrawals from the loan account or
payments out of the special account in respect of expenditures for a
subproject on account of a free limit subloan, investment or leasing
operation as appropriate would include: (a) a summary description of the
beneficiary and of the appraisal of the subproject, including its
technical, economic and financial viability and environmental aspects in
accordance with guidelines satisfactory of the Bank; (b) a list of goods
and services to be financed out of proceeds of the Bank loan; (c) the
method of procurement of the goods and services; and (d) terms and
conditions of the subloan, investment or leasing operation as appropriate.
4.33      Disbursement Schedule.  In accordance with the standard
disbursement profile for IDF loans and credits Africa Region-wide, the Bank
loan is assumed to be disbursed according to a schedule given in Annex 4-6.
The loan closing date will be March 31, 1996.
I. Monitoring
4.34      In order to monitor closely the economic and social impact of the
SME subprojects financed under the Bank loan, the CBN will undertake
regular reviews (tracer studies based on end-use analysis) of the
subprojects on an ex-post basis, with a comparison of ex-ante appraisal
data and ex-post results. These reviews, financed under the Project (para
3.11), will cover the effects of factors such as scale of operations, level
of technology, resource use, rural vs urban, employment generation,
capital/labor and capital/output ratios, local value added, etc. The
first such review will cover the first two years of the Project and the CBN
will prepare and submit to the Bank a report by December 31, 1990.
Thereafter, reviews will be undertaken every twelve months until the loan
closing date, and reports will be submitted to the Bank by December 31 of
the relevant year. These reviews will help trace the impact of the
subprojects, and build up a comprehensive data base on SMEs. The
experience gained should also contribute to improvements in the Government
policies toward SME development.
J. Accounting. AuditinR. and Reporting Requirements
4.35        The CBN would maintain separate accounts and adequate records
to reflect the project's operations and financial situation, as well as
separate accounts and adequate records related to the PBs in accordance
with sound accounting principles consistently applied. The FMI and NBCI



- 39 -
would maintain separate accounts and adequate records in accordance with
sound accounting practices to reflect operations in respect of their
technical assistance programs. The CBN, FMI and NBCI would have their
respective project accounts, including withdrawals from the special
accounts and withdrawals made on the basis of SOEs, audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank in accordance vith appropriate accounting
principles consistently applied, and submit the audited accounts with the
audit reports to the Bank within six months after the end of each fiscal
year. The CBN will also submit to the Bank monthly reports upon the
transactions of the special account. The audit reports for the CBN, PMI
and NBCI will include a separate opinion on whether satisfactory procedures
are in operation regarding the use of SOEs, and, in the case of CBN, also a
separate opinion on whether satisfactory procedures are in operation
regarding the use of sub-accounts. The CBN will require the PBs to: (a)
follow accounting and auditing procedures for their project accounts,
including withdrawals from the sub-accounts, similar to those mentioned
above and submit the audited accounts with the audit reports to CBN within
six months after the end of each fiscal year. The audited project accounts
of the PBs would also include a statement by the auditors on the compliance
by the PBs on the eligibility criteria of subprojects financed by them; (b,
submit to CBN monthly reports upon the transactions of the sub-accounts;
and (c) submit their audited financial statemeuLts to CBN; this
documentation will be reviewed on a selective basis by the Bank during
supervision missions.
4.36      PBs will be required to submit to CBN project progress reports at
least semi-annually within six weeks after the end of each semester. Based
on inputs from the PBs and its own analysis and review, the CBN will
prepare a consolidated project progress report semi-annually on the overall
Project except the technical assistance related to FMI, and submit it to
the Bank within two months after the end of each semester (Annex 4-3).  The
CBN will prepare quarterly progress reports on the pilot components, i.e.,
financial restructuring, mutualist credit guarantee scheme and the Pilot
Studies Facility for SMEs, and submit them to the Bank within six weeks
after the end of each quarter. The PBs will also be required to prepare
and submit to CBN a brief completion report on each subproject within six
months after subproject completion; such reports will be made available to
the Bank for review during supervision. This would be in addition to an
overall completion report on the entire Project to be prepared within six
months after the loan closing date for the Project. FMI and NBCI will
prepare and submit to the Bank semi-annual progress reports related to
their technical assistance programs under the Project within six weeks
after the end of each semester.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.01      Proiect Berefits.  The integrated package of institutional and
financial support programs under the proposed Project would foster a
stronger private sector. The Project would provide critical support to the
Government's efforts in stimulating productive activity and generating a
sustained supply response in the context of the new policy environment.
Resumption of growth, maintenance of employment in existing and viable
enterprises, and the generation of new employment are major Government



- 40 -
objectives to alleviate the social cost of the adjustment process and
thereby enhance its sustainability. SMEs supported by the Project are
expected to be complementary to and have significant linkages with the
agriculture sector and larger enterprises. They would thereby lead to a
shift in the industrial structure consistent with Nigeria's resource
endowments and comparative advantage. SMEs should also make substantial
contribution to developing an industrial tradition over time by providing a
seed-bed, at the grass-roots level, to help develop scarce entrepreneurial
capabilities, management skills, and technological infusion.
5.02      The Project would improve the quality and range of financial
services available to the SME sector. It would put in place an apex
mechanism designed to foster active participation of the entire banking
system in term lending and SME financing. The line of credit component
would also finance working capital to ensure more efficient utilization of
existing assets and the maintenance of employment. The equipment leasing
program would provide greater flexibility to SMEs, which generally have
less bankable collateral, insufficient asset and capital bases, and are
under-capitalized. The financial restructuring component would help
restructure selected overleveraged firms, which are potentially viable but
are underutilizing installed capacity, and improve their profitability; it
would also serve to upgrade the financial engineering capability of the
participating financial institutions. In addition to help salvage
investment resources, this component should enable the preservation of
'industrial capabilities" that have been built up through these firms at
the level of management and skilled labor, and help minimize the negative
employment impact. The mutualist credit guarantee scheme should lead to
innovations in the financial system by involving NGOs in the delivery of
credit, and particularly benefit low-income microenterprises who, because
of their small size and lack of collateral, are generally unable to borrow
through the normal banking channels. The entrepreneurship development
program would assist in creating first geaeration local entrepreneurs and
help establish small scale enterprises to generate productive
self-employment. The Pilot Studies Facility for technical assistance to
SMEs with the involvement of the banking community is expected to make the
delivery of non-financial support services responsive to the needs of the
private sector SMEs, as well as help develop the nascent local consulting
industry in Nigeria. The unquantifiable economic benefits of training as
well as technical assistance add to the attractiveness of the Project.
5.03      Proiect Risks.  A major risk of the loan is the possible
reluctance of the banking system to engage in term financing for SMEs,
perceived generally as more risky than traditicnal commercial financing,
and this could result in a slow disbursement of the loan. This risk has
been minimized as the PBs will be free to determine the final onlending
rates to beneficiary enterprises. Another risk is that demand for new
investments may be slow to materialize on account of the uncertainty over
the sustainability of the overall economic reforms, the pace of economic
recovery and high interest rates. It is expected that the Project will
initially finance mostly the rehabilitation, restructuring, expansion and
diversification of existirg enterprises. After the initial adjustment, and
as the policy reforms are deepened, the revised incentive system should,
however, provide a sustainable basis for the development of new investment
opportunities. The overall size of the credit components has been based on
conservative demand estimates. Moreover, the Pilot Studies Facility for



- 41 -
studies would help generate a significant pipeline of bankable SME
subprojects, and the participation of the entire banking system with
extensive branch networks would extend the outreach of the Project in all
parts of the country, which would further mitigate this risk. The pilot
financial restructuring component and the pilot mutualist credit guarant ?
scheme could also encounter a difficult start-up because of their newness.
To minimize this risk, the amounts allocated to these components are
relatively mall, and the Project includes technical assistance for the
preparation of restructuring workouts. Finally, in view of the
multi-component natare of the Project, and the past experience of weak
project implementation in Nigeria, there is always the risk of clogged
paper work which may slow down project implementation. To mitigate this
risk, the Project relies largely on the banking system which is more
efficient than Government departments or agencies. The SME Apex Unit in
CBN, however, would have mainly an administrative role for the credit
components. The Project also includes technical assistance to the SME Apex
Unit.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      An SHE Apex Unit has been established in CBN to administer and
manage the Project with staff and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank
(para 4.02).
6.02      During negotiations, the following major assurances and
agreements have been obtained:
(a) the project financing plan (para 3.15), arrangements for
channelling the loan to the eligible PBs (paras 4.02 to 4.06) and
the eligibility criteria for beneficiary enterprises and
subprojects (paras 4.07 to 4.14);
(b) subloan processing and administration procedures (paras 4.15 and
4.16);
(c) arrangements for training of banking staff in project appraisal
and supervision (para 4.18);
(d) onlending terms and conditions (interest rates, spreads,
maturities, and grace periods) (paras 4.19 to 4.23);
(e) the funds repaid by the PBs to the CBN but not yet due to the
Bank to be deposited in a separate account, and to be used to
finance SMEs with objectives and financing arrangements
consistent with those under the Project (para 4.22);
(f) reviews at least once every year of the project progress with a
view to identifying and making necessary changes for successful
implementation of the Project (para 4.23);
(g) the procurement, disbursement, monitoring, accounting, auditing
and reporting requirements (paras 4.27 to 4.36);



-42 -
(h) the establishment of the Pilot Studies Facility by December 31,
1988, according to procedures and conditions acceptable to the
Bank, and arrangements for channelling funds to SMEs and
entrepreneurs (para 3.09);
(i) the completion of a study by March 31. 1989, according to terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to formulate detailed
implementation arrangements for the mutualist credit guarantee
scheme and to identify prospective NGOs (other than HAN and
NASSI) for participation in the scheme (paras 3.06 and 3.11);
(j) the completion of a study by June 30, 1989, according to terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, to develop an appropriate
regulatory and policy framework for equipment leasing, and
implementation of findings thereafter following exchange of views
with the Bank (paras 3.07 and 3.11); and
(k) the other technical assistance activities (paras 3.10 to 3.13).
6.03      Conditions of loan effectiveness are:
(a) signing of the subsidiary administration agreement between the
Government and CBN with terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank (para 4.03);
(b) arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for the employment of
consultants to assist the SME Apex Unit in the administration and
operations of the SME credit components (para 4.02);
cc) the issuance by CBN of a circular to the banking system,
satisfactory to the Bank, outlining the conditions and procedures
for the utilization of funds by the PBs under the SME credit
components, and the Pilot Studies Facility (para 4.03);
(d) the signing of participation agreements between the CBN and at
least three PBs for the line of credit component with terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.06); and
(e) the establishment of a Project Coordination Committee (PCC). with
membership and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank (para
4.24).
6.04      Specific conditions of disbursement are:  (a) for each PB
receiving loan funds, signing of a participation agreement with the CBN
outlining the conditions and procedures satisfactory to the Bank for
utilization of funds under the SME credit components and the Pilot Studies
Facility (paras 3.09 and 4.06); (b) for the mutualist credit guarantee
scheme, the adoption by CBN of detailed implementation procedures
satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.06); and (c) for the technical ascistance
component for NBCI, signing of an agreement between the Government and NBCI
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.01).
6.05      On the basis of the above assurances and agreements
reached, the Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$270 million
equivalent to the Federal Government of Nigeria at the Bank's standard



- 43 -
variable interest rate for twenty years, including a five-year grace period
and with a commitment fee of 0.75Z. The Government will pass on US$268.2
million equivalent to CBN, and onlend US$1 million equivalent to NBCI under
term  and condit.ins acceptable to the Bank.
AP4IE
September 1988



NIGERIA - PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Index of Manufacturing Production by Selected Products, 1980-1986
(1972=100)
Soft              Cotton    Synthetic               Refined              Roofing   Vehicle        Soaps/
Drinks   Beer    Textiles    Fabrics    Paints   Petroleum   Cement   Sheets    Assembly   Detergents
1980       514.0    604.8       257.3        n.a.       n.a.      460.8      146.9      n.a.    2,808.2        449.5
1981       818.5    497.3       212.9     1,031.0    471.8        336,0      232.8    148.5      1,727.8       470.5
1982     1,006.0    509.3       258.5     1,175.0    474.3        353.4      272.8    243.3      5,463.3       467.0
1983       873.0    306.1       144.8     1,262.9    211.1        255.7       96.6    106.8      2,068.3       558.6
1984       921.6    419.4       103.9        639.1    243.1       251.7       60.9    113.2        689.3       334.1
1985       785.4    489.3       110.0        340.2    177.2       358.8      303.8    285.1      1,344.1       367.9
1986       644.1    587.3        73.5        646.2    149.5       338.3      285.1    350.1        687.8       247.!)
(Annual Percent Change)
1981        59.2    -17.8       -17.3          n.a.     n.a.      -27.1       85.9      n.a.       -38.5         4.7
1982        22.9       2.4       21.4         14.0      0.5         5.2       17.2     63.8        216.2        -0.7
1983       -13.2    -39.9       -44.0          7.5    -55.5       -27.6      -65.0    -56.1        -62.1        19.6
1984          5.6     37.0      -28.2        -49.4     15.2        -1.6      -37.0       6.0       -66.7       -40.1
1985       -14.8      16.7        5.8        -46.8    -27.1        43.0      399.0    152.0         95.0        10.1
1986       -18.0      20.1      -33.2        89.9    -15.6         -5.7       -6.2     22.8        -48.8       -32.7
Source: Central Bank of Nigeria, various Annual Reports and Statement of Accounts.
AF41E
December 1987



Nlt!A.ft lU11Y  '2611 ND' KDIS EN16RP915E OEYtlOiN&T FHO*CT
_e__!        .5e s-LsC-l Ind-t-. So,.na   I98 I/
* .4 Na%.s6r.
E.alo,"st.       Cost of Imported                                      . .  S o,      I. of
Nu.be,                Outaut                     Yau Added             Val.         ND. of                   N. Nat."r,a1        Cae. tj,        O  Sol*         ,. ye's          ..ib in'
of          Total        S Shere          Totl         S Share    Addad as 3       Pta4   *   Shaee        A. S of Total      Ut, I ,o.at.oas   P.e%..-    of wsrh'ea          the. 2 Years
F!!       C'09D .cu)   of Total          '000 na- r-a)   of Total   of gLl*   tk/ Ei gmtg      of TtoL l     Raw 0a to- a  I         is).          A.&A        kaMaass         h6sUh1.Ec.186
Non-Dosbl. Consos, Coods            j1             Z.d    70l Ut   461 200    3 6 A    'd MM  0    7  39 56                A             2            4tl 9             a2                            2           S     S
Food, B-mraga. and Tobacco            293          17,036        11 1           5.656            5 4        33 2         2.440        19.9           27 3              64 2           "  7            70 0                  4 64
T..t.l. and W-1-.ng Apparl           80b          37,055        24 1          26.063           25 1         70 4        3.943        29 7           56 4 *5I                        S9  3            77 2                 *1 7
Foot.a., and Lather Prodct            lSS           2.767          1.6            -602          -0 6        -21.6          292         2 2            36 4             5  7             36            41 2                 92 4
Prod.ct of R.bb., &,.d Pleatc         131           4.406         2.9           4,219            4 1         95.6          131         1 0            65 2             100 0             .3.2        1000
Pape, and Paper P,od.cts               15           6,685         4.4           1,697            1 6         25.4          351         2 6            916               46.0          so9 *                                9 37
Potterj, Chna and Cli--...             12             122         0.1            -106           -0 1        -86.5            3         0 0            76 4              6  4                              7                6t1 a
Paotols..  roducta                      1               2          0.0              2            0 0        100.0           5          0 4                              90W4
Others                                 23           2,770          1.5          1.333            13          46.1           51         0 4             16 9             n.7            7r             6 6.7                6  2
Droabl  Consume, Cood a                            31jl 2.                     2149             21           AL          LEA            A              L                              aS      u 4      ELI                 ts
F-ftn,toa                             311          13.220           .6 5.676                     6 2         64.1       1*,OS          7.9             15.              67.2          67.6             6                   66 I
Rd,0o                                  64             174          0.1             -39           0          -22.4            13        0.1            47.1              9  a           9.6             n O                to 10.
Csn.,1 l4ou  hold AePl,snces           14              45          0             -149           -0 1       -331.1            6         0 7            92.6              66.1                           54 *                  0U
OChibO                                127          16.020         11.7         13,159           12 6         73.0         691         6.2             57. 1             6  J           *1.2            76 4                95
C.t    Goods            C       ed                51 303        MA            4422 ft                       MA          L_7          293 1            W        5J                     KLt S7L                             2
86s.c Hatal Prodoct.                  112          41.216        26 6          39,25            36 2         96.6        1.470        11.             9S 4              ".2            Pe G            76 4                66.
Febr,catod Natal Pod.cts              ISO           3.625          2 4           -461           -0 5        -13.3           161        1.2            64.5               0             W.              a 1                 92 2
machnery and Eq..P.nt                  62              12         0 0             -69           -0 1       -575.0                      0 6            27 0              t4 *                5   6      9  6                96
Tlan.o-t                              199           4.90           3 2     *     .106            3 9         63 7          ISO         1.1            31.1              6.0            W 0             W 2                  u.0
Othe.                     52                                  L 2 1 0             912            0 _ .             1 .                  9          0A                      IS O          li              "                 MA
Total                           2.606         153.166       100 0         104.122          100 0        6r 6        15.265       1000            40 57y a                          e s             76                  of 
=5........   : . -1g... $ =a     
I/  lba-d un a ao..ay of 2.696 small scals f-aa -th loss tan 50 aloIaye   and/or _..a o  -aptal f oN I50.000 (or tJU207.345 *analant)  n 1663   The aaar.. calg_aI .4 Me *.,.  am. ba
5 psson*   Tb. a.rnsy d,d not nocluda any  ,. produccng ,ot..d,t. good.
i/  Thb  st Il ty  .plnat,on for nago.t-  .a(.as  n Coss ca.s .s that tho f-r.. .c.rred losses   The. data refer to 1962/d3 cond,t-oa  hn the ane-w   asn.  d,ff.caltp                                                           Z
Sowerg   7osrda th. D-lop..nt of $-.l1-Sral  Indt,,aa ,n N             s.   . gan Xnst,t    of S.C.l and E -onoae aareh (NISfR). 1967
AF41t
t>co b., 1VO/



- 46 -
ANNEX 2-S
NIOPtA - PRItVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM EiTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Institutions Providing Investment Promotion. Technical Assistance and Extension Services to SNEs s
Private
IDCe  SSIDs  CIRD   ITF  CiD  PRODA  FIIRO  ASCON   NASSI        Consults.
Tehnicl assistance provided
Selection of machinery                    X     X      X                X                                   X
Choice of production technique            X     X      X                x      X                            x
Choice of raw materials                   X     X      X                       x                            x
Plant layout                              X     X      X                X      X                            X
Installation of machinery                 X     X      x                       x                            x
Plant maintenance A repair                X     X                              x                            x
Product design a prototype developmt.   X       X      X                X      X                            x
Industry outlook surveys                  X     X      X                                                    X
Identif. of business opportunities       X      X      X                                       X            X
Investment counselling                   X      X      X                       X
Preparation of feasibility studies        X     X      X          X                            X            X
Extension services provided
Resolution of operational problems        X     X      X
Product Improvement                       X     X      X
Quality control A standardization         X
Diversification and product mix           X     X
Industry information                     X      x      x
Market A markoting counaelling            X     X      X
Financial counselling                     X     X      X                                                    X
Peraonnel counselling                     X                                                                 X
Ceneral management counselling            X     X      X                                                    X
Organixation restructuring                X     X                                                           X
Investment promotion                     X      X                                                           X
Training assistance providod
Engineering                               X                  X   X      X              X
Product-rolated(-.g.textilex)             X     X            X          X      X       X
Financial                                 X     X      X          X                    X
General management                        X     X      X     X   X                     X
Production management                     X     X      X      X   X                    X
Inventory control                        X      X      X                               X
Marketing management                      X     X      X     X   X                     X
Project identif.& formulation             X     X      X          X                    X
General entrepreneurial                   X     X      X                               X
Vocational A apprenticeship                                  X
*/   IDCu: Industrial Developmnt Centers under the Federal Ministry of Industrios (FMI); SSIOs: Small Scale
Industry Divisions of the state Ministries of Industry and Commerce; CIRD: Center for Industrial
Research and Development, Obafemi Awolowo University; ITF: Industrial Training Fund under FMI; CUD:
Center for Management Development; PRODA: Project Development Agency; FIIRO: Federal Institute of
Industrial Research, Oshodi; ASCON: Administrative Staff College of Nigeria; and NASSI: Nigeria
Association of Small Scale Industrialists.
AF4IE
DOcember 1987



- 47 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 1 of 2
Industrial Development Centers (IDCs)
1.        The purpose of the IDCs has been to provide small scale
entrepreneurs (SSEs) with a wide range of services including technical
assistance, extension services and training. The first IDC was created in
Owerri in 1963. Subsequently two IDCs were established though not fully
equipped in Zaria in 1964 and in Osogbo in 1976. Recently, thirteen other
IDCs have been established formally and plans exist to create an additional
three IDCs. FHI has allocated 36 million to equip the nineteen IDCs with
multi-purpose workshops. To date, however, only the zonal IDCs of Owerri
and Zaria, and, to a lesser extent, Osogbo are functional and provide
services of significance to SSEs. Over the years these three IDCs have
received substantial technical assistance funded by various bilateral and
multilateral donors including UNDP, World Bank, USAID, the Ford Foundation,
the Governments of China and the Netherlands.
2.        IDC operations have received considerable support from the
Government. Total Federal Government expenditures during 1984-1987 on the
three functional IDCs alone amounted to approximatel; N4.5 million (US$4.8
million equivalent). The IDC in Osogbo, for example, received 439
man-months of expert assistance from UNDP (some US$3.3 million in UNDP
support) over the 1975-1984 period. In view of these expenditures, IDC
operations as a whole have not been very efficient and have not yielded the
desired results. The less than satisfactory performance of IDCs to a large
extent is attributable to a number of factors including the lack of
non-personnel operating funds. In fact, more than 90? of total recurrent
expenditures for IDCs was spent on personnel costs; on average about 66X of
IDC personnel are support staff.
3.        It is therefore essential that a "success formula' for the
existing IDCs be found, before embarking on a full scale national IDC
development program, so as to avoid the burden on public funding at a time
when government expenditures must be carefully controlled. In addition, new
institutions generate their own momentum, and are subsequently difficult to
reorient or even dismantle should they prove to be unsuccessful. The FMI
recognizes the importance of making the IDCs of Zaria, Owerri and Osogbo
fully operational and expand only gradually the remaining IDC network.
4.        In order to make the IDCs operationally and financially sound
while simultaneously reducing their dependence on public funds, FHI is
considering to allow the IDCs to charge fees for their services. The cost
recovery features would also help identify the services for which there is
an actual demand. Part of the inefficiency of IDCs is due to the fact that
their responsibilities are very broad and have not been focused
sufficiently in the past. Service fees would also provide an incentive for
IDCs to become responsive to actual needs as well as allow them to
concentrate on areas of their expertise.



- 48 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 2 of 2
5.        Even with revenues from fees, IDCs would still not be fully
self-supporting in the short run, and some transitional financial
assistance from the Federal Government would be required, which could be
reduced gradually to, say, 201 of current levels over a period of five
years. It would also enhance competition particularly for services of
commercial nature (e.g., the preparation of feasibility studies which
can also be carried out by institutions such as NISER and CIRD, and private
consultants), and thus help stimulate the emergence and further development
of private institutions. However, many SHEs are unable to finance the cost
of such services. In such a case, the desirable approach is to directly
assist entrepreneurs in paying market fees for consultants' services. The
proposed Project will therefore support the establishment of a Pilot
Studies Facility to finance through the banking system the cost of
consultancy services for SMEs and entrepreneurs; it would also encourage
the development of the Nigerian consultant industry.
6.        In the areas where there is no effective competition with the
private sector and there is apparent demand, direct support to IDCs would
be necessary (e.g. transfer of technical knowledge and the provision of
workshop facilities for SSEs). Such direct support should, however, be
provided for those services which are actually needed by entrepreneurs.
Again, charging fees is generally an effective mechanism for determining
those services for which there is a demand.
7.        Even with the supplementary support from the Government, IDCs
would have to become independent, autonomous, flexible and operate
basically as semi-private institutions. The Government support to IDCs
should therefore be under a contract to IDCs for providing well-identified
and quantifiable services against a fixed amount. Actual performance of
IDCs should be reviewed annually by FMI. Support to IDCs, to the extent
possible, would have to be predictable so that they can plan their
activities accordingly. IDCs would thus have freedom in delivering the
services requested knowing that they will be evaluated only by their
results. IDC management would have to be also allowed to rationalize their
expenditures, determine their own personnel policy, including levels of
remuneration, set their own fees and decide which services to provide
beyond those requested directly by the Government. IDCs should also be
encouraged to respond to new needs or to drop services for which there is
no demand or where they are unable to compete (in quality and price) with
the private sector.
8.        The FMI is, at present, in the process of formulating a plan of
action for rationalizing the IDC network as part of its overall program of
the institutional support system for SMEs (e.g. umbrella agency).
Meanwhile, support for IDCs (e.g. necessary equipment for the IDCs at
Owerri, Zaria and Osogbo) is being provided under the ongoing Loan
2376-UNI. The Bank is also coordinating assistance to IDCs with UNDP/UNIDO,
who has about US$2 million earmarked for the strengthening of the IDC
network.
AF4IE
July 1988



- 49 -
ANNEX 2-5
Page 1 of 4
NIGERIA - PRIVATE SMALT. AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Entrepreneurship Development
A.   Backaround
1.        The Federal Government of Nigeria has placed a high priority on
developing entrepreneurship development programs as an effective means of
facilitating the establishment and growth of small scale enterprises
(SSEs), and providing additional productive employment. Entrepreneurship
development programs, that include identification, training, and
development of entrepreneurs, can be effective components of a strategy to
create first generation local entrepreneurs and to encourage small and
micro-enterprises that will generate productive employment, income, and
capital formation. Such programs must be integrated with the other
institutional support systems for SSEs, especially technical assistance,
extension services and credit delivery systems. Although the entrepreneur-
ship development programs cannot be panaceas to the problems confronting
Nigeria, they could serve as seedbeds at the grass roots level to sustain
and deepen the development process. However, they have to be undertaken as
a long term commitment to see a measurable impact.
2.        Two separate entrepreneurship development programs have been
developed and tested: the Entrepreneurship Development Program (EDP) based
on a model developed by the Entrepreneurship Development Institute of India
(EDII), and the Work For Yourself Program (WFYP) based on a program
developed by the Durham University Business School (UK) with ILO
assistance. The EDP program is promoted by NBCI, while the WFYP program is
under the auspices of FMI in collaboration with ASCON. Based on experience
to date, NBCI and FHI are now planning to implement their programs on a
nationwide basis in a coordinated manner. The main features of both
programs and their achievements to date are summarized below.
B.   The Entrepreneurship Development Program (EDP)
3.        The EDP program uses behavioral science techniques to select
entrepreneurs with high potential with the objective of reinforcing their
entrepreneurial orientation (using trainers/motivators) and assisting them
in starting and managing their enterprises. The obiectives of the EDP
program under NBCI, based on the methodology of EDII, are the following:
(a) generation of productive self-employment through the establishment of
SSEs; (b) stimulation of indigenous entrepreneurship and harmonious growth
of the industrial sector, mobilization of local resources, and reduction of
regional imbalances; (c) improvement in the performance of SSEs through
training and developing well-rounded entrepreneurs; (d) improvement in the
relationship between SSEs and credit institutions; and (e) generating,
stimulating and encouraging cultural and behavioral attitudes necessary for
the evolution of a healthy industrial culture. The EDP program of NBCI is
open to unemployed educated youths, retired/ retrenched public/private
personnel, traders, businessmen/women, technicians, and skilled workers who
possess basic entrepreneurial skills and are willing to work hard.



- 50 -
ANNEX 2-5
Page 2 of 4
4.        The EDP Drocess involves the following main steps:  (a)
identifying and carefully selecting those who could be developed as
entrepreneurs; (b) developing their entrepreneurial capabilities; (c)
ensuring that each potential entrepreneur (trainee) prepares a viable
project suited to his/her capability, inclination and experience; (d)
teaching them basic managerial skills; and (e) helping them to secure
needed financial, infrastructural and related assistance so that the
business venture materializes within the shortest time. Post-startup
assistance to SSEs is to be provided by the extension service delivery
system.
5.        Progress to date.  NBCI has developed its EDP program with the
assistance of an EDP expert from the Industrial Development Bank of India
(IDBI), financed under Loan 2376-UNI. A two-week Entrepreneur
Trainers/Hotivators program was held in June 1987. The trainers/motivators
are the key to the EDP process with the responsibility of starting with the
identification of potential entrepreneurs and leading to the establishment
of successful business ventures. They must not only train but motivate,
counsel and support their entrepreneur-candidates. Their role is that of
motivator, promoter, counsellor, manager and development officer rolled
into one. Following the trainers/motivators workshop, NBCI conducted an
EDP program (July-September 1987) for entrepreneurs in the state of Lagos.
The first step was a promotional campaign using local media to create an
awareness of the EDP program among the target group (about 400 application
forms were sold at a fee of N20 each). Out of the short-listed 90
applicants, 30 candidates were selected using the EDII selection process
(including 5 women) for training. The training program included 3 weeks of
classroom work, 2 weeks of field work/project identification and
formulation, and one week for evaluation of business plans. The classroom
training focussed on information on entrepreneurship; the institutional
environment, i.e., identifying agencies and schemes assisting SSEs;
procedures and formalities; business opportunities; business plans;
implementation and management of enterprises; and guidance for fieldwork
(market surveys, etc.) in preparation for project selection and formulation
of the project proposal. The faculty included staff from NBCI, banks,
IDCs, FPI, CMD, ASCON, CIRD, FIIRO, universities, and independent
consultants and successful entrepreneurs. Following the classroom
training, participants carried out fieldwork to collect data for
preparation of their business plans under the guidance/supervision of their
trainerslmotivators (one per five trainee entrepreneurs). Of the 30
entrepreneurs, 28 completed their business plans and presented them to a
counittee of selected trainers/motivators and other officials. The overall
cost of the trainers/motivators (residential basis) and the EDP program
(non-residential basis) was about N150,000. Two other EDP workshops are
underway in the Kano and Anambra states, and will be completed before
end-1987. Efforts are being madc to reduce costs to about N100,000 per
workshop. NBCI has also received assistance (US$30,000) from the Ford
Foundation (US) for its EDP program.
6.        To provide focus and to also monitor/coordinate EDP activities,
NBCI has set up a separate EDP division within its Research and Development



-  51  -
ANNEX 2-5
Page 3 of 4
Department under an Executive Director. The Department is to be suitably
strengthened to carry out EDP programs annually on a nationwide basis in
each state either independently or in association with the Government,
j         bebnks and other agencies.
C.   Vorking For Yourself Program (WFYP)
7.        The WFYP program was developed originally for ILO by the Durham
University's Business School (DUBS, UK) to address the serious unemployment
problem in the UK. The WFYP is based on four key *success* factors
necessary for starting a business, i.e., motivation, idea, ability/skill
and resources. It is expected that most of the people who intend to run
their own businesses will normally have some of these 'success' factors in
varying proportions. It is hardly likely that anyone has all these factors
operating at optimal levels. An individual intending to start a business
should therefore ascertain the relative importance of each factor to the
scale and type of business planned and assess his/her strengths and
weaknesses in relation to them. One of the main purposes of WFYP is to
facilitate this awareness. The key factors of 'success' can change and
develop over time. Through the work of motivators, the WFYP program
gradually helps to develop these factors in its participants as a part of
the process of getting into business.
8.        The materials used by DUBS for its WFYP have now been adapted for
Nigeria with ILO's assistance. A group of trainers/motivators were trained
in the use of adapted materials at DUBS and ASCON, with assistance from the
Bank (Loan 2376-UNI) and ODA through the British Council. A workshop
sponsored by FMI and NBCI to test-run the WFYP materials, and the training
given to trainers in the use of such materials was held in Akure (Ondo
State) in March/April 1987. As with the EDP, the first step was a
promotional campaign using local media to create an awareness of the
program among the target group. Of the 510 applications received, about 60
applicants were selected for a day of preliminary participation and
interviews. Of these, 26 participants were selected for the actual test
run of the WFYP program. The next step was a two-week classroom training
to develop managerial skills and prepare the participants for the normal
pitfalls encountered in the business world. Classroom training was
follo-wed by two weeks of fieldwork to collect data/information for
preparation of their business plans. One trainer/motivator was assigned to
5 participants to supervise and monitor progress in the preparation of
business plans. Of the 26 participants, 25 completed their business plans
and presented them to a panel of experts. Four more pilot workshops for
the WFYP program (Niger, Imo, Cross River and Plateau States) are expected
to be completed before end-1987.
9.        FMI, in collaboration with ASCON and DUBS, has made some
refinements in the WFYP materials. It now plans to train more
trainers/motivators, and work towards holding annual WFYP courses in each
state for about 25-30 selected would-be entrepreneurs on a nationwide
basis. Financing foreign costs of future expansions of the WFYP program
(costs of the consultants (DUBS) and visits of Nigerians to the UK) is to



-  52  -                     ANNEX 2-5
Page 4 of 4
be provided by ODA (British Council). Related local costs are to be
covered by FMI.
D.   Proposed Assistance Under the Proiect
10.       The continuation of the entrepreneurship development program.
over the next several years, with further refinements over time, is
expected to yield significant benefits to Nigeria through the emergence of
a new class of entrepreneurs endowed with requisite entrepreneurial
training and skills. SSEs established by them are expected generally to be
based on substantial use of domestic raw materials and labor intensive
technologies that partially alleviate the current unemployment problem.
Both programs share the same objectives and underlying philosophy though
there are some important variations in methodology and emphasis. Efforts
are currently underway to coordinate the both programs with a view to
encourage a degree of cross-fertilization.
11.       The proposed Project would provide (a) technical assistance for
annual reviews of the EDP and WFYP programs to assess their effectiveness
(contents of the programs, relative emphasis on steps, process, delivery by
trainers/ motivators, impact assessment, etc.) and suggest modifications
needed; and (b) financing for viable subprojects for establishing SSEs by
entrepreneurs who have successfully completed the EDP/WFYP programs, under
the line of credit component of the Project.
AP4IE
July 1988



- 53 -
ANNEX 2-6
Page 1 of 4
NIGERIA - PRIVATE SHALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Eauipment Leasing
1.        Financial leasing is an important term-financing instrument whose
development is particularly relevant in Nigeria where medium- and long-term
financing has not yet developed adequately. Leasing can play an important
role in encouraging capital formation by small- and medium-scale enter-
prises (SMEs) in the country. The business community in Nigeria has now
begun to encourage leasing as an alternative and a more flexeble source of
term credit.  Contribution of leasing to industrial finance has been modest
due primarily to constraints in the availability of long-term funds and its
relatively recent development.  With sufficient funds, however, leasing
could become a valuable source of industrial finance given the inherent
advantages of the lease instrument. The primary advantage of leasing is
that ownership of the asset remains with the lessor (lender); lease
financing typically is unrelated to the size of the lessee's (borrower's)
capital base, and relies principally on the lessee's cash flow to service
lease payments. Moreover, the schedule and size of lease payments can be
tailored to the specific needs of lessees. Therefore, leasing can offer
enterprises, particularly SMEs with insufficient asset and capital bases to
meet the high collateral requirements of most other forms of long-term
financing, greater access to capital and more flexible arrangements of
repayment.
2.        Leasing in Nigeria started in the early 19708 with some hire-
purchase/leasing companies, but it is still at an early stage of develop-
ment. The Nigerian leasing industry is dominated by approximately 10
merchant banks and specialized leasing companies. In addition, some
development finance institutions such as NBCI have recently started
leasing operations. Though small in total volume, the leasing industry's
growth over the last five years (1982-86) is impressive as shown in the
table below.
1982     1983      1984     1985    1986
----in million nairas, end December----
Annual value of assets                23.7     16.1      45.8     97.0   109.9
acquired for lease
Total assets on lease                 60.9     75.2    100.3    159.4   206.7
(at original cost)
Rentals received                      13.1     17.6      23.5     30.9    36.4
Net book value of leased assets       36.2     42.9      63.9     73.2   123.2
Net book value of leased               4.92     5.OZ      6.32     8.22    8.52
assets as a Z of loan portfolio
Memo Item:
Annual value of assets                35.4     22.4      60.2    109.0    81.4
acquired for lease
(in USS million equivalent)
Source: Equipment Leasing Association of Nigeria (ELAN).



- 54 -
ANNEX 2-6
Paae 2 of 4
Total assets on lease at cost have increased from N 61 million in 1982 to
N 207 million in 1986, and the net book value of leased assets from
N 36 million to N 123 million, equivalent to about 8.5 of the loan
portfolio of these institutions in 1986. A breakdown of total leased
assets, the net book values of leased assets, and assets acquired for lease
at original cost in 1985 and 1986 by the major lessors is given in the
table on the following page. Leasing institutions have focused on
transportation, manufacturing, construction and business equipment and, as
expected in an emerging leasing industry, they have concentrated on the
larger and less risky clients. Consequently, the volume of leasing to SHEs
to date has been small though recent indications are that Nigerian lessors
are beginning to recognize the potential of the SHE sector.
3.        The merchant banks have relied primarily on short term resources
for their lease financing operations and as a result the average duration,
i.e., term to final maturity, of leases in Nigeria is 3-4 years. As
elsewhere in Africa and Asia, leasing to SMEs has been viewed as risky,
particularly in times of illiquidity when enterprises find it difficult to
meet lease obligations. The cost of lease financing to SMEs is therefore
frequently higher than that for larger enterprises in Niigeria. The
availability of long term funds for leasing operations and increasing
competition among the lessors should, however, help bring down effective
rates for lease financing.
4.        In Nigeria, there are no laws on equipment leasing nor
established definitions of what constitutes a true financial lease, an
operational lease or a conditional sale. However, most leasing operations
currently undertaken could be classified as conditional sales given that
most of them include some arrangements for transferring ownership of the
leased asset to the lessee at the end of the lease term, normally at a
price below fair market value of the asset. In this sense, leasing is
therefore governed largely by common law rules and, to some extent, by the
Companies Income Tax Act of 1979, which stipulates only the rules for
capital allowances that can be claimed for various assets.
5.        A future comprehensive policy to regulate and promote the leasing
industry is currently under study by the Equipment Leasing Association of
Nigeria (ELAN) which is drafting proposed leasing regulations for
consideration by the Government. The Nigerian leasing industry is still
evolving, despite its years of existence and the participation of reputable
international companies as technical partners and affiliates. The industry
is a growing and valuable source of term financing; there is now need for
an appropriate regulatory framework to ensure sound industry standards and
practices, and to provide sufficiently attractive incentives to encourage
and foster its development. The Government (CBN) will therefore carry out
a study of the leasing industry which would focus on the development of an
appropriate regulatory and policy framework for leasing, the legal and
contractual rights and remedies of both lessees and lessors, and other



iotal Liard  st   Nt Siok Valug of Leare Assets. and Ameeta Acai rid
for Lea" at Orininal Coat, 1985 and 196
(mmounte in million naira-, end-oc_mker)
Nat Sook
Value of Leaoe          Aete  Ma1ired for
Total Leased Aaeta Owned            Hot Book Vnlue ft Leaed Ansets        Assets se * of          Lrnee at -ri--al C_
ount             Oi J Tota I               nt          _   of Total J; Lmn_trfa                                  Ii s   Taal
1                  13    LW            LW 1               131 13              13    1W    1W                W LW L
B.ntworth Finance Ltd. (BF)               23.0    2S.0        14.4    12.1        0.8      1.6        0.4      1.4       1.0      11.8      3.2    17.4    #1 2        16.
Continental Merchant Bank of              33.7    47.1       21.2    22.6        12.5    47.1        17.1 3l.3          27.0      15.6 S     1.5    40.9 0      .7    317.1
Nigeria Ltd. (09d)
First City Merchant Sonk (FO)             18.2    23.4        6.8    11.8        12.1    t8.6        16.5    15.1       27.0      29.0       9.7    10.7    10.0       6.6
ICON                                      14.8    28.1         6.9    11.1        8.1    11.6         4.2      9.4       1.4       2.6       0.3    11.0       0.3    10.0
International Merchant Sank (INB)         15.0    28.2        9.4    11.2         1.5    15.6         2.1    12.6        0.6       1.6 S    1.0      164.     18.4    14.6
Merchant Banking Corp. (NC)                0.5      1.8       0.4      0.9        0.5      1.8        0.7      1.5       2.9       6.4       0.6      1.6      0.6      1.4
Nigerian Merchant Bank (NM)               38.4    36.8       20.9    17.6        17.3    16.3        2S.6    13.2        9.0       9.0      11.1      3.4     .11.     5.1
NAL Merchant Sank (NAL)                   12.5    18.5        7.8      7.5       1215      -         17.1      0.1       5.7       8.5      12.5      3.C    12.9      2.7
Nigerian A_rican Merchant Bank (NANBL)   13.4    10.4         8.4      6.1       18.4    10.4        18.8      8.4      16.8       6.8       9.1      5.5      9.4     6.0
Nigerian Bank for Comoerce anJ Industry    a s      04          s-                                                       0.2 2     _-
(tI)
Total                               159.4   206.7       100.0   100.0       78.2   128.2       100.0   100.0        6.2       3.8      97.0   1009.    100.0    130.0
- -               -                  - --                                                      -       -         -
Source   Equipment Leasing Association of Nigeria (ELAN), and NBCI.                                                                                                                      l
0 1



- 56 -
ANNEX 2-6
Page 4 of 4
matters such as the registration of lessor and tax incentives and their
implications, as vell as the desirability of establishing a governing body
for the leasing industry. In addition, the study would assess the need for
comiercial banks, currently precluded from leasing, to be authorized to
undertake lease financing. The study would take into account the work
already completed by ELAN in this area.
AP4IE
July 1988



-  57  -
ANNEX 2-7
NIGERIA - PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Monetary Aggregates
(in billions of nairas, end December)
1972   1980   1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
Foreign assets (net)       0.2    5.6    1.1       0.9     1.5     1.8      5.0
Credit to the economy      1.3   10.7   21.9    28.2    31.1    32.7    36.8
of which:
Private sector        0.8    7.2   11.4    12.4    12.9    13.7    17.4
Government sector    0.5    3.5   10.5    15.8    18.2    19.0    19.4
Other assets (net)        -0.3   -1.9   -6.1    -9.7   .11.0   -10.7   -17.2
Honey and quasi money      1.2   14.4   16.9    19.4    21.6    23.8    24.6
of which:
Money supply          0.7    9.2   10.1    11.3    12.2    13.3    13.1
Quasi money           0.5    5.2    6.8      8.1      9.4    10.5    11.5
Memo Items:
Commercial bank credit
to private sector        0.6    6.4   10.5    11.3    11.6    12.3    15.7
M2/GDP (Z)                  16      29     32       33      35       35      36
Source: CBN, various Annual Reports; and IFS for 1972 and 1980 data.
AF4IE
October 1987



NIGERIA - PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary Financial Statements of Selected Comercial Banks
Income Statements
(in million naira)
1?BN a/             UBA b/              UBN cl               IRWA a/
1985     1986       1986      1987      1985      1986       1985       1986
Interest Income                            172.7    206.2      153.9    194.4      195.6    198.2        41.0       62.7
Interest Expenses                          183.6    194.9      182.9    236.9      124.7    134.6        36.9       55.4
Gross Spread                               -10.9     11.3      -29.0    -42.5       70.9      63.6        4.1        7.3
Other Income                               275.5    365.3      288.0    374.8      220.0    278.5       103.0      130.5
Net Income                           264.6    376.6       259.0    332.3      290.9    342.1      107.1      137.8
Administration Expenses                    103.5    110.9       79.4      91.9     100.6    113.2        52.6       62.3
Other Operating Expenses                    48.7     70.9       59.1      76.6      53.1      70.2        -          -
Loan-Loss Provision                         29.6     48.9       38.6      57.8      56.0      55.0       13.7       13.2    1
Taxes                                       29.4     59.3       39.8      32.4      39.6      49.9       17.2       25.7   >
Total Expenses                       211.2    290.0       216.9    258.7      249.3    288.3       83.5      101.2   @
Net Profit                            53.4      86.6       42.1     73.6       41.6      53.8      23.6       36.6
Dividend                              13.3      17.0        9.7     16.3        8.2       8.7        9.1      11.9
Ratios
Gross Spread as 2 of ATA d/                 -0.2      0.2       -0.6      -0.8       1.7       1.3        0.2        0.4
Administrative Costs as Z of ATA             2.1      2.0        1.7       1.8        2.4      2.3        3.1        3.2
Gross Income as Z of ATA                     9.1     10.3        9.4      11.1       9.8       9.8        8.4        9.9
Net Profit as 2 of Average Net Worth        25.7     32.2       18.8      28.0      21.9      21.2       25.5       29.8
Dividend as 2 of the Year-End
Share Capital                            15.4      18.4       12.9     21.7       15.1      16.0       13.0      17.0
Dividend Pay-Out Ratio (2)                  24.9     19.6       22.1      22.1      19.7      16.2       38.6       32.5
Interest Expenses as 2 of Average
Deposits                                   4.4      4.6        4.4       5.4       3.7       3.6        3.7        5.2
a/  For the years ended December 31.                               
bl  For the years ended March 31.                                                                                        em
ct  For the years ended September 30.
dl  Average Total Assets (ATA) is the average of total assets at the beginning and end of the period.
AF4IE
December 1987



- 59 -
ANNEX 2-8
Table 2
Po 0111           M  W              VW  -        1       gI
Ceab, 3a1,.ebl.  WAe 0lb.w          1040.6  1,840s.8  1,36.8 1,610.1  2808.6  1".8    90.0.   766.0
ftbe   eqb..ae.a Ago"a                68.0  1,210.0   116.3   021.6    62.9   714.4          ms.    *i1.o
Li... a"   6aa                      1,414.5  1,6011.4  1,471.4  1,796.6    408.8  1,014.2    618.6    71460
I.,.ugm. (et go"1)                    114.5   110.4  n117.7   s10.4         5.4     5.8       -
p1.48 M..". ('.8)                     110.1  241).   J4      6    1. 0.0   62.1    71.4    -3.         s-
ToUl                          LID,$ L"00.6  4.817.4 .  "8. 7  432706.  5L30.   1,00tJ   Li1E1.
LIA3IL?11U~~~~~ MS ,_ ll
ftmow NWd Tim. s.a.a.               4,1314.1 4,411.7   a.m.a8 4,7601.7  8,3661.4  4,4106.1  1,116.1  1,081.0
60.t LIabiIlStik                      608.4  1,2111.    440. 0 611.1    742.7  1,306.4    676.7       02.
Lee,.?.. Laa.                                 -           -                46.0    46,          
Total Liabilities             4,016.5  6,364.0  4,316.0  5,379.0  4,1418.1  6,607.6  1,001.6  1,676.4
$mm C.1t.a                             018.1    16.2     76.0    78.8      8.4    54.4       78.6      78.6
.taiau A,aaga ,87  Amrwe            8.4 4, .4   110.8    10n.8    UL10   5j    146.-4  u14.         08.4
mm Ueth                       2J .5l  311.1   .J.              4 .J 210        lo3     i43J     134.4
Total Labl littWA 1A 407      5,053.6  !.,QGj    4)1j  616.7  4.3706  JWn   I-a, .tl   LIILI
Ceatlagga Lsbiliti..            271.6  1,661.0    604.3   022.6    4610.6   486.2    064.7      68.6,
A momg Total hAglso                 4,010.0 6,624.5  4,716.1  5,137.1  4,117.1  4,3010.4  1,711.4  9,11011.7
Agora" Ioa; & Uva.                  1,436.8 1.672.0  1,440.2  1,035.8  1,513.7  1,708.4    499.1    611.0
w.egoa Equity (14" for"a)           17.1   2160.6    112.0   1614.4    16.    163.3         02.7    111.6
A eoOs Squmt.                       4,114.3  4,172.4  4,12.2  4,140.8  8,161.1  3,066.8    06.1  1,670.6
TOta Dht/vitlrl                       21.3    13.8      10.3    16.0         .  l281 1.0 $   16.2     14.7
Casmol CF4Q" lo Tof-8 Agmte            6.7    10.6      -8.0    11.6        7.4     2.3      16.1     17.0
A"weos  Lease A AdwameeAulAT            MI.   38.3       36.5    31.6      36.8    35.6      29.6     31.6
Awaeag EQu.tyI*v.,ag. Loans
A& "odoo.4                          14.4    10.1      16.6    16.6      11.6    14.0      1.        1.0.
PO'G.$i falt, 6.l S   i.ld Sbt..U1
04ta/Leame &.4 Ad*gmaga              2.8     2.0       1.0     3.2       3.7     1.6       2.7       1.6
~/As at. 00eaDct 31.
5/As at. Sem1..,r 30.
-/ A.e,ogo Total Assets (ATA) ;s tho a.*peg* of totae  .state   the begammiag and and of tho peusid.
1~~~ 11,S?
AF_1 '                               ,         ,.    ,Xs,ws *".    ,e                     X7z4 X.
cocmo i-gor^-    .sX                                   .*.  *"           ,aw^,u              ns       e



NIGERIA - PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary Financial Statemnts of Selocted Merchant Banks
Inco" Stateents
(in million noire)
NAL aI           NMB  */               CB bl                ICON b/              IW  b
1988     1987      1986      1987      1985      196       19t    '   1is       19#S       19"
Interest Income                           46.4      5380      31.2      46.3      55.4    U6.2        87.2       53.2      69.6       67.9
Interest Expenses                          17.9     39.4      22.4      31.2      19.7      25.C6     27.6       40.0      39.6       34.4
Gross Sproad                               26.6    383.6 C.             15.1       85.7     24.6       9.9      1U.2          .6      U8C.6
Other Income                               90.      12.0        9.4     16.7       14.2     23.3 C    24         *6.       1M.1       17.9
Net Income                           3.06      48.4      16.2      81.1      49.9      46.4      86.0       49.7      48.1       61.4
Administrative Expenses                    12.8     14.2        4.5      6.7      13.5      17.6      14.9       16.4       14.C      17.9
Other Operating Expenses                   -8.9     -4.2  /    06.       *.7       3.1       *.9       8.9        3.5        3.7       5.2
Loan-Loss Provision (Net)                  103.     18.8        1.9      4.4       11.6      2.7       4.8        7.4        7.0       6.7
Taxes                                       6.7     13.1        6.6      8.4       6.        j         94         7i       AJ          j       a 
Total Expenses                       25.4    U3.4        12.6      20.1      39.9      35.6      29.4       84.6      28.7       35.9     a
Not Profit                           12.6      13.6       6.2      11.7      10.1      13.4       L.t       14         94        16.4
Dividends                             4.2       4.7        1.6      1.5       1.9       8.O       2.9        4.1       2.4        4.7
Ratios (X)
Cross Spread as X of ATA d/                 4.6      8.2        2.4      2.5        5.4      8.3        1.7       1.6       4.8        4.6
Administrative Costs as I of ATA            1.9      1.3        1.2      1.1        2.6      2.3       2.7        2.0        2.1       2.1
Gross Income  s X of ATA                    6.0      4.4        4.9      5.2        7.6      6.4       6.6        6.1        6.1       6.1
Net Profit as X of Average Net Worth       386.     81.7       86.6     49.4      39.5      89.5      25.9       44.6       31.2      41.3
Dividend as X of the Year-End
Share Capital                            406.     44.8       20.0     15.6      20.0      40.0 19.7            27.2      25.2       21.4
Dividend Pay-Out Ratio                     33.8     38.2       10.2     12.3       183.     26.4      42.4       27.6 C    J.2        26.7
Interest Expense as X of Average
Deposits                                  4.7      5.2        7.1      6.7       4.6       7.9       7.5        3.3        7.9       5. 9  
*/  As at March 31.
b/ As at December 31.
S/ Due to loan recoveries written off in previous periods.
d/ Average Total Assets (ATA) is the average of total assets at the beginning and end of the period.
AF41E
Decensber 1987



ANNEX 2-9
-  61  -                                                    Table 2
NIOUIA - P2VATE sLL 56 A     EDIW INu   fIhS onu 1V5W3     PACI
s_,omer UIne.ela  Stameat  of Sol         "spoke" lank
(In ellilen mee)
MLa]                m                    Cie W                 StmkL            J&kW
am0  aff  am m                          m    m            a          m    190   1000
cook, ase.olabl.a aNW Other
Short-Them Pan"a                         .31     M.0     111.9   0163111    310.3    411.?    340.1       645.0     424.8    .11.1
LoomeW and lven.. lo                    i3n.1    337.6       45.8      3.       0     3 1016.31    131.8     M3.$       03.3     129.3
Within I year (net)
Careent Leaglo          118~~~73.5  1,360.6    230.5    41111.6  444.2    031.0   401.4      163.      641.6     615.$
Looe..  and A',.--. lOv                    8.0     6.6      136.1   21iS       M9.&    11.         $03.      36.0      176.8     261.0
After One Year (not)
Inwfo.te"                                 .0.       6.0       6.6      6.5      03.5      8.7       1.1       16.0       3.0       31.01
6quot, 00 Leeo.                          16.2     16.2       11.3     11.3      11.3     41.1        3.1      11.6       5.4      1.0.
FPlWed  ad ether Aaaeto (noft)           22.0     45.8      1J3       j40    J43         JfJ4       j1j        S.$     flJ        31.7
Total Asoto"                    745.3  1,353.0     3fJ       M-        MA OJ        6     sea'    3,6j         750.65    047.2
LIA6ILMITS AN6 161tT1
Curreto  and Time Dooaits               36.8   361.3        233.    UO4.0    202.       231.2     376.0      73.2     445.0     367.6
(leng than 1 year)
Leone Payable (evrronS)                   6.0      6.6        8.0      6.6       6.6    M0.$        6.6        6.6       0.6       0.6
Dluldeuud Payable                         5.0      1.1        1.3      1.6       2.2      3.3       4.1        3.8       4.1       0.1
Acessuts Payableo an
Otor Short-To,. LiobiI ltio.          3111.6    241.0      14.81   IE6.      103.2    M02.      20fl4      410.0      16.2      33.7
Cup an Liabilities              764.3  1,203.3     2003    011..   61.6          1.3      541.3      M2.1      134.5    902.3
TI..  epmeolta (aver 1 lost)              6.6      0.6      61.0       5.8       8.0     21.3       6.2       18.3       6.5       6.0
Leoom Payable (nedlism A long-tern)       1.2    211.51      6.6       6.6      18.6     18.61      8.    .0        6.0  0.    .0
Mae Liabilities                          46.6      6.         0.6     13.5      J.J      -MG        .-0       6.6          6       0
VedIa. A Long-Term Li abi I tl    1.3     21.5      16.0      13.       11.0       .        64.3     16.3      136.5       6.6
Totl LiabIlitIr                  n1.S  1,314.1     315.3   003.3       603.4    30.6    607.4   1663.6         055.6      6.
Shot. Capital                            10.5     18.5        5.6     18.0       0.6      0.6      15.6       15.6      13.5      22.8
Retained Earniago A Other Rosorves       20.3    j4.         12.8     1W.       18.0     Wl        13.4      ILl9       20.6      22.0
Na  Wort              _.                      .1L      10.0     Ml7         .4     33.5      23.4      13*.3      31.5      44.
Total LiabiIItios A Equity        743.3  1.350.8     191.3   ilL!        613.3    330.0    505.0   1.041.0       763.5    947.2
Coatlgont LiabISttIo  S/                 16.6    34.0    216.2   218.1         164.5    241.2    103.4       153.1    285.5      343.4
MMO. ITtEIS
Averag  Total LAgoS. (ATA)              6 33.0  1,664.1     372.0   01J.       U9.?    15.0    540.0        013.0    701.1       434.6
Aveores  Leans & Advoacga               286.2    2609.6     141.6    313.3     1351.4    23n.0    314.3      320.      2760.     330.1
Average Equity                           32.7     41.0       10.1    232.       26.6     34.0      20.5       33.7 J   *.2        39.2
Average Sapesita                        370.3   376.1      316.1   462.7    427.0   335.3         100.?     462.3    5102.5    637.1
Averas" Cash Lease and Advances         470.0   406.6       364.4   432.0    530.2   861.1        522.3    775.7    651.2        774.4
RATIOS (1)
Curront Rat;*                             1.6      1 0       6.0       6.7       0.0      .6.       8.3       8.0        1.8       6.7
Total Debt/Equity                        10.3    29.2       22.1      20.6      26.2     22.1      28.8       25.3      21.1      20.1
Afnnual Groth -   Total Assets           44.1 C    1.7      30.1      04.6     -11.7     43.7      13.4       74.0      16.7      23.2
Current Assets/Not Wort                  13.31   29.3        14.8    19.4       16.1     17.2      17.2       10.6      15.3      14.2
Average Leone S Advancea/ATA             31.6     10.0       39.6     35.4      25.1     30.0      39.1      46.2       33.4      39.2
Average Equity/Avorage Loans
A Advncoa                            18.3     10.6       16.9     16.0      16.4     14.0      12.3       16.2      11.2      11.9
I/ As at Maroh 31.
An at Dlecooer 31.
Acceptance, guaranteeL and other o*bigations fer account of Customers.
g       b Average Total Assets (ATA) i9 theaverage of total assets at tho beginnting and end of the period.
AF41E
DOeCO PT   11"?



- 62 -
ANNEX 2-10
Table 1
NIGERIA - PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Susary Financial Statements of NBCI
Income Statements
(end December, in million naira)
1985            1986
Interest Income                               18.3             20.4
Interest Expense                               4.4              5.4
Gross Spread                                  13.9             15.0
Other Income                                   6.2             19.3
Net Income                             20.1             34.3
Administration Expenses                       10.3              9.1
Other Operating Expenses                       1.5              1.4
Loan-Loss Provision                            2.8              4.0
Provision for Exchange Fluctuations            -                7.0
Taxes
Total Expenses                                14.6             21.5
Net Profit                                     5.5             12.8
RATIOS
Gross Spread as 2 of ATA a/                    4.6              4.3
Administrative Costs as Z of ATA               3.4              2.6
Gross Income as 2 of ATA                       8.0             11.4
Net Profit as 2 of Average Net Worth           3.5              6.9
a/  Average Total Assets (ATA) is the average of total assets at the
beginning and end of the period.
AF4IE
January 1968



- 63 -
ANNEX 2-10
Table 2
NIGERIA - PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sumoary Financial Statements of NBCI
Balance Sheets
(and December, in million naira)
ASSETS                                         1985            1986
Cash Receivables and Other
Short-Tern Funds                            64.3             94.6
Other Short-Tern Assets                       26.2             44.7
Loans and Advances                           193.3            191.6
Investments (at cost)                         23.0             22.8
Fixed Assets (net)                            14.4             19.2
Total Assets                            321.2            372.9
==am             =a..... .....
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Bank Overdrafts and
Short-Term Deposits                         16.1             16.1
Other Liabilities                             45.1             96.0
Long-Term Loans                               87.2             60.2
Total Liabilities                       148.4            172.3
Share Capital                                170.0            185.0
Statutory Capital and Other
Reserves                                     6.0              9.2
Revenue Reserves                               (3.2)            6.4
Net Worth                                    172.8            200.6
Total Liabilities and Equity              321.2            372.9
..... ==ama
Contingent Liabilities                        29.2            109.8
MEMO ITEMS
Average Total Assets (ATA) al                304.2            347.0
Average Loans and Advances                   189.6            192.5
Average Equity (net worth)                   155.0            186.7
RATIOS (Z)
Total DebttEquity                              0.8              0.8
Annual Growth in Total Assets                 11.8             16.1
Average Loans and Advances/ATA                62.3             55.5
Average Equity/Average Loans
& Advances                                  81.8             97.0
Provision for Bad and Doubtful Debts/
Loans and Advances                           1.5              2.1
a/ Average Total Assets (ATA) is the average of total assets at the
beginning and end of the period.
AF4IE
January 1988



NIGERIA - PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Interest Rates
(2)
1986              1987
Jan.    Oct.    Jan.      Aug
1981   1982   1983   1984   1985       pt.  Dec.    JulY        Dec.        1988
Rediscount rate (minimum)                  6.0    8.0    8.0    10.0   10.0    10.0    10.0    11.0    15.0            12.75
Treasury bill rate                         5.0    7.0    7.0      8.5    8.5      8.5      8.5    10.0    14.0        11.75
Savings deposit rate                       6.0    7.5    7.5      9.5    9.5      9.5      9.5    11.0 a/  c/            fI
Time deposit rates
with 7 days notice                        6.0    6.5    7.5      9.5    9.5      8.5      8.5 a/ 12.0 a/  cl            fl
one year                                 6.5    7.75   7.75    9.75   9.75    9.75        bl      bl      c/           fI
over one year                            6.5    8.0    8.0    10.0   10.0    10.0         bl      bl      cl           fl
Maximum lending rate                       9.5   12.5   13.0    13.0   13.0    13.0    15.0    15.0         c/           f
(preferenced sectors)
Maximum lending rate                      11.5   14.0   13.0    13.0   13.0    13.0    15.0    15.0         c/           f/
(less pteferred sectors)
Memo Items:
Change in consumer price index            20.8    7.7   23.0    39.6    5.5                5.2 dl          10.0 dl i/
Real savings deposit rate                -14.8   -0.2  -15.5   -30.1    4.0                4.3              6.0-             4
7.0
Real maximum lending rate                 -9.3    6.3  -10.0   -26.6    7.5                9.8              7.5-              1
(less preferred sectors)                                                                                11.0
a/  Minimum.
bl   Negotiable.
c/   Savings and time deposit rates and lending rates have been totally deregulated.  Savings and time deposit
rates of major banks ranged between 161 and 172, and lending rates between 17.5 and 21Z.
df   For the full calendar year.
e/   Estimate.
f/   Both deposit rates and lending rates remain deregulated (see para 2.31).
Source: CBN: Annual Reports and Credit Guidelines; mission estimates.
AF4IE
January 1988                                                                                                                 _
AF4IE31/ANX2-12



NIGERIA - PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sectoral Distribution of Credit
(in percent, actual, end of period)
Commercial Banks                         Merchant Banks
1982   1983   1984   1985   1986 b/       1982   1983   1984   1985   1986 b/
Preferred Sectors              68.7   66.8   67.4   68.9    69.2          59.5   56.3  59.5    61.6       62.1
Agriculture                      7.7    8.4    9.1   10.8    11.8          3.4    3.7   4.7      6.7       7.2
Mining, manufacturing and
construction a/              45.3   42.4   42.3   42.0    41.6          45.4   43.3  45.6    45.5       45.3
of which:
Manufacturing              (29.6) (27.5) (26.8) (26.6)    t.-)        (35.9) (32.6)(31.4)  (32.0)       t..)
Residential building
construction                 5.4    6.6    6.6    7.0       7.1         8.1    6.4   6.0      5.6       5.6
Services (public utilities,
transportation and
communications)              8.8    8.2    8.2    8.1 )   8.7          2.5    2.8   3.1       3.6 )    4.0
Exports                         1.5    1.2    1.2    1.0 )                 0.1    0.1   0.1      0.2 )
Less Preferred Sectors         31.3   33.2   32.6   31.1    30.8          40.5   43.7  40.5    38.4       37.9
General commerce               16.3   14.4   14.7   15.9)                 12.8   12.2  13.5    13.0)
Government                      3.6    5.3    5.0    4.5)   30.8           0.2    0.2   0.2      1.0)    37.9
Financial institutions          3.9    7.3)       )       )               26.0   28.6)              )
Others                          7.5    6.3)  12.9)  10.7)                  1.5    2.7) 26.8    24.4)   _-
Total                     100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0        100.0  100.0 100.0   100.0    100.0
inn       in                              w= .I C-=in==   s===  == m==    ===m
a/ Construction other than residential buildings.
b/ Monthly average.
Source: CBN, IMF and Bank Staff estimates.
AF4IE
October 1987



- 66 -
ANNEX 2-13
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA - PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Characteristics of Subyroiects under the Small- and Medium-Scale Industry
Proiect (Loan 2376-UNI)
1.        The Small- and Medium-Scale Industry Project included a line of
credit of US$35 million for NBCI to finance SME subprojects. The entire
line of credit is now fully committed for 117 subprojects with 612 of the
commitments in 1987. Disbursements have, hovever, lagged, and amount to 8S
of the comitted funds (as of January 11, 1988). The slow rate of
disburse ents reflects the fact that most subprojects (79S in number and
552 in amount) were appraised and approved within the past year. Recent
changes, including the establishment of a new office in NBCI to streamline
the loan process, are expected to accelerate the pace of disbursements in
the coming months. The quality of appraisal reports has improved notably
in the past years. The Investment Supervision Department has enhanced its
ability to supervise projects with new procedures to monitor project
performance on a regular basis.
1.        The total cost of 117 projects approved under the line of credit
is about N161 million or US$55.8 million equivalent, including US$26.7
million in foreign exchange. Average cost of a subproject is about
US$477,000 with an average subloan of US$328,000 from the World Bank line
of credit. Under the Project, some 3,650 jobs are expected to be created
at an average cost of N44,000 (US$15,300) per job. The ex-ante financial
rates of return range from 17S to 542, and economic rates of return vary
from 12? to 35Z.  A profile of subprojects approved under the line of
credit is shown in the table on the following page.



Characteristics of Subproiecte under the Small- and Medium-Scale IndustrX Project
(Loan 2376-W!)
No. of     Total Cost  Total Projected    Projected Average    Projected Averag                 Total Amount of
Sub-          of        Annual Value        Financial Rate        Economic Rate       No. of    Subloans from
Type of Industries       prolecto    Subprojlctc        Added              of Return             of Return          JobS       Bank Loan
(N 'US)        (N ')                 (N)                   (N)                         (1J53 'US)
Agro-industries             s6          79,U6         36,76S                286.                  23.9             1,666        18,699
Textiles and footwear        9           4,2t8         2,366                32.6                  12.0               192         1,717
Paper products               6           6,176         3,127                26.3                  35.9               149         1,960
Chemical products           24          $8,618        16,601                27.6                  27.3               771         7,671
Metal products               6           7,767         3,eG4                27.8                  15.6               199         2,922
Building materials           9          14,6C7         6,246                33.4                  23.7               34S         ,861
Other                       14           9.69          4.137                32.4                  25.6 e29                       2.13S
Total             117        166,944         67,039               29.1                   24.0            8,664          6,875 g/
/ The line of credit has been overcommitted by USS3.4 million to allow for possible cancellations.
AF4IE
February 1986
0 I
m P.-'



- 68 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 1 of 4
NIGERIA - PRIVATE SHALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pilot Mutualist Credit Guarantee Scheme
A.   Background
1.        Unlike conventional guarantee schemes, the mutualist concept
basically relies on mutual Quarantee associations (MGAs) whose members are
fairly homogenous small businesses operating within the same profession
and/or the same locality. Such an association would collect annual
membership fees from its members plus contributions toward a guarantee fund
either from all members or only from members who are interested in
subsequently requesting the association for guarantees to obtain loans from
the banks. A portion of the membership fees is also generally deposited in
a guarantee fund. The association would provide its own guarantee, against
these resources, to enable its members to obtain _;mall loans from a local
bank; in addition, counter-guarantees of two other co-members could also be
required. The aggregate maximum amount of outstanding guarantees by the
association could exceed, say up to ten times, its aggregate resources.
2.        The success of mutual credit guarantee schemes, i.e., high loan
repayments, is largely attributable to the fact that, instead of being
funded by the state and managed by institutional employees with no ties to
the beneficiaries, the association is a collective membership of the
beneficiaries themselves. Thus, there is intimate familiarity and
solidarity of interests amongst members of the association, as well as a
positive relationship with the organization itself. In Western Africa, it
is only recently that mutual assistance guarantee schemes are being
contemplated as an attempt to address the issue of the high administrative
costs, perceived high risk of lending to micro-enterprises and small
businesses, and banks' aversion to such lending. The World Bank is
experimenting with this concept in some African countries (e.g., Togo) with
the goal of facilitating access to institutional credit for small
businesses and micro-enterprises who are generally confronted with
considerable problems in dealing with the normal banking channels because
of their small size and lack of collateral.
B.   Application to Nigeria
3.        The proposed pilot mutualist credit guarantee scheme would build
largely on existing institutions. In Nigeria, there are at least five
non-governmental organizations (NGOs) who represent small and medium-size
entrepreneurs to varying degrees: (a) the Manufacturers Association of
Nigeria (MAN); (b) the Nigeria Association of Small Scale Industrialists
(NASSI); (c) the Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Mines present in
various locations and grouped together in the Nigerian Association of
Chambers of Commerce, Industries, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA); (d) the
Nigerian Employers Consultative Association (NECA); and (e) the Nigeria
Association of Independent Businessmen (NAIB). MAN has about 1,330
members and includes many small businesses; NASSI is a relatively large
organization with some 15,000 members representing mostly small businesses.
Both of these NGOs have expressed interest in the proposed Project.



- 69 -
ANREX 3-1
Page 2 of 4
4.        MAN was formed in 1971 to promote the interests of manufacturers
in the country. It has about 1,330 members engaged in manufacturing
activity. While the minimus size of assets of a manufacturing company to
be eligible for membership is N150,OOO, 512 of the members (or 680) in 1986
had turnover of less than Ml million (36Z or 476 members had turnover less
than NO.5 million, and 15? or 203 members had turnover between NO.5 and Ml
million). On the other hand, many large industrial companies are also
active members of the MAN. Its organization includes 20 branches in major
industrial centers in the country, and a national executive council at the
apex.  MAN's members are also grouped according to different subsectoral
activities.  Membership fees range between N500 and N5,000 depending on
members' size. Based on the audited accounts for 1986, the financial
situation of MAN is sound with total assets (less liabilities) of N3.5
million. Total subscriptions received from members in 1986 were N1.8
million. In view of the difficulties its small members face in obtaining
term credit, MAN has expressed strong interest in actively participating in
the mutual credit guarantee scheme, and anticipates no difficulty in
quickly establishing a fui.d to guarantee subloans to its small members.
5.        NASSI was established in 1978 to promote the interests of small-
and medium-scale industrialists. It has about 15,000 members nationwide.
While NASSI has offices in 18 states, the State level associations are
active only in the Oyo State (about 5,000 members), Anambra State (about
3,500 members), Lagos State (about 3,000 members), and Plateau State (about
2,000 members). Some sectors or trades are particularly strongly
represented in different states. Members are registered with each state
and pay annual fees averaging N200 to the state associations, which in turn
pay 1O0  of collected fees to the National Association.   The number of
registered members has increased over the past year, but the number of
paying members has dropped to about 55? of all members. NASSI organizes
national conferences quarterly for state representatives. Furthermore,
state level NASSI offices organize ad hoc promotion programs (one
day/evening) such as 'how to start a business', and training (1 to 2 days)
on functional management topics. NASSI would need some time to establish a
guarantee fund and strengthen its organization before it is able to
function as an effective MGA. ILO, with UNDP financing, is currently
considering providing assistance to NASSI to improve its effectiveness in
promoting SSE development.
C.   An Outline of the Scheme
6.        A pilot mutualist credit guarantee scheme (US$5 million) would be
set up with the following broad guidelines; the precise implementation
design of the scheme will be developed by a consultant (para 11). It is
expected that NBCI, who has substantial experience in SME financing, would
be the main participating bank (PB) in the scheme, though all PBs will be
eligible. The PBs would extend credit for eligible subloans guaranteed by
MGAs (MAN, NASSI, etc.) on behalf of members, and also possibly guaranteed
by two other members of the MGAs. Before the proposed scheme can start,
MGAs would have to set up guarantee funds with initial resources from
contributions from own reserves, and subscription to the guarantee fund by



- 70-
ANNEX 3-1
Page 3 of 4
each member or by at least those members who wish to obtain banking credit
with the guarantee of MGAs. The size of the guarantee fund will determine
the maxisum amoun' of outstanding guarantees extended by the MGA, which in
general should not be more thAn 10 times the guaranteo fund.
7.        The initial guarantee funds would be deposited with the concerned
PBe in interest bearing accounts. The members of the MGAs will submit
their subloan applications to the PBs, who will, based on a simple
evaluation of the subproject, make a decision on whether to make a subloan.
If a PB decides to make a subloan, it will seek a guarantee from the MGA
concerned. Eligible beneficiary members and subprojects will have to meet
at least the following criteria: (a) subprojects should be in productive
sectors and related service activities, (b) total initial assets, defined
as existing fixed assets (excluding land) plus the cost of the subproject
should not exceed 1400,000 in constant 1988 prices; and (c) the maximum
amount of outstanding subloans to an entrepreneur would not exceed
1100,000. Both fixed assets and related permanent working capital (raw
materials, spares), and free standing working capital (raw materials,
spares) will be eligible for financing.
8.        In view of the small size of subloans, appraisal of subprojects
would be kept simple. A member's request for a subloan would normally
consist of a brief and simple descriptionlanalysis of the following items:
assets, sales, future business prospects, profit, subproject details, items
to be procured, costs, expected benefits such as increases in sales and
profit, repayment terms, cash flow and ability to service debt, etc. MGAs'
decision as to whether to extend their guarantees would be based primarily
on the following: (a) good standing of the member, (b) character and
reliability of the member, (c) knowledge of and judgement on the outlook
and prospects of the member's business, (d) possibly the readiness of two
other members to guarantee the subloan for their fellow member; and (e)
assessment of the member's capacity to repay and MGAs' capacity to ensure
repayment. Once MGAs have satisfied themselves with the adequacy of the
subloan application, they will extend their guarantees tc the PB
concerned. The responsibility for subloan supervision and collection will
remain with the PBs.
9.        Funds from CBN to the PBs under the Bank loan would be made at
the prevailing CBN rediscount rate (currently 12.752) which would be
variable. The onlending rate to final beneficiaries will be decided by the
PBs, and will be variable and market-based. The sharing of the spread
among the PBs, MGAs and the MGAs' mutualist credit guarantee funds (to
expand their borrowing capacity and cover losses from defaults) will be
determined in consultation with the Bank on the basis of findings of the
study for this component (para 11). Additional resources to the guarantee
funds will come from the future additions from annual membership fees and
interest income on deposits in the guarantee funds.



- 71 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 4 of 4
10.       In the event that a paymnt to a PB on a subloan is overdue for
90 days, the MGA concerned vill be informed. After another 90 days, the
PS vill call the guarantee and recover the amount from the guarantee fund
with a subsequent collective loss to the MGA. If the ratio of total loans
outstanding to members of the MGA and the guarantee fund rises to 12.5, the
PI could suspend new lending and disbursements until other loans were
repaid or the guarantee fund were replenished by the MGA.
Technical Assistance
11.       To assist in the actual setting up of the mutualist credit
guarantee scheme, an entirely new concept in the region, technical
assistance would be needed for the detailed design and operational
procedures of the scheme, to suggest any changes needed in the corporate
status of MAN and NASSI to act as MGAs, and also to identify/assess other
NGOs for channeling funds to micro-enterprises. The technical assistance
program under the Project includes expert consultants' services for these
purposes.
AF4IE
July 1988



NICEIA - PIVATh SMALL AM MIIM dTERPRISE CEVET. OPJWiT
SuaryandEstimted Cost- for the Tachncal Assi-stance Proern
Itema to be           External       Local       Total       losti*tuiem,l                                 COl_ndar of
Objectives                                    Means                              Finmnced               Coat        Coat         Coat        Iep; ibility    EIpac d    ;spf t              Es;m_c en
~~-------in LS000D----------
A.  Pt 1--Ait ne to SE, and Entrepreneurs
(a)  Assist SIEs/entrepreneuro in                Establish a pilot otud4is             Consultants.                    1.75         5.250    7S000         coo A/             Increase  macme of         Ss . v .;n
obtaining technical manistane. e.tenrion    facility to foonce                                                                                                                 sapeet ervices te         first quarter
**rnicae snd mnagamnt couns llinp for            consultants' coats.                                                                                                           ls. emmp.titie            of 169.
preperation of feasibility studiies,                                                                                                                                            abets,  vearies OE
acquisition of know-how and mchinery,                                                                                                                                          _i95t institutios.
end for solving operational problems.                                                                                                                                          md sncoure  tIke
development of
consultin  *d4umtry.
(b)  Development and delivery of a              Prepare and deliver  h- _              Training cost.                      -    300             300        p1 ho                n-uesms to train         1_1  U:.y
progra for SME  ntreprsnsuril training           (40-60 hours) training                                                                                                        2, 10 _atrepr*m"'G/    1"0:20
in finmncial mtters.                            workshops in simple busino                                                                                                              i a y..e (30     141 3
skills, such as accounting,                                                                                                  particiepats per
bookkeep ing  cash flow                                                                                                      ceurse)   P.. I I met
projections, inventory control.                                                                                               rsesery fr,
and marketing.                                                                                                               perticipse.
Subtotal costa, Part I         1,750  5,550            7,300
Financing Plan:
World Sank                  1,750  3.250          56000
Entorpr;s                        -  2,300          2.300
L/ CON as ape. agency but through the participating banks.
j  FMIl will coordinate.  Actual training to be provided by training institute  a nd consultants
II Z
0l
O" _
lq t%
_ _



Items to be           Esternal     Lecal       Ttel       Lsetitotia_l                                 Celeder of
Objectives                                    eens                            Financed               Cat        Cost        Cast       bemsibi             aUe _      sEiIw         Euas;ai
B. Part I1--Aaiatance to C                                                                                 ---------in aaaooD----------
(a)  Assiat CbN in the administration of       Supplent the etaff ski ll  in        Consultant.                      240          90   230           CU                   bsI ohsent of the    Three year
the ape. line of credit and other StE          the CN's Ape. Unit with                                                                                                  pa   nit                 (beginaing
landing acheme.                                e*xternal con ultants                                                                                                                             Ioebede
(adi n i stretion/devel opent/                                                                                                                    1
monitoring of apex functions,
general banking/accounting.
on-the-jot training).
Vehicle and equipment.              FCo with aofteare,                220          40    260
ehicles, office
equipment.
Work ettachents and visits           International travelling          S0           -     S0
to reviaw ,exprience in SME         end *epensee.
apes scheme in other
countries.
(b)  Orientation for the staff of PSe and    2 orientation seminars and 2           Organizational sxpenses.         i- t/                /          CUN                 nemedg  is proco-       Oy Nmeoer
CON in overall proceduree for ths SME          follow-up seminars (3 day                                                                                                dure  feor the fuac-     30, 1GM.
line of credit and other lending schemes.    sach).                                                                                                                     timing of to   @..
line  of credit.
(c)  Strengthen ateff capabilities of Pet   10 seminars (2 woses each) and         Consultants.                      210          45    255          CU                Train sket 100 pref-   2  mainners in
in project appraisal, supervision and          10 follow-up caso etudy                                                                                                 e     _ssele free abut   Oeceso
aonitoring related to the line of credit       workshops (one wmek each) for        Training aide.                     S                                                10  * sad A frm          1       5
and other SHE lending sches.                   Personnel from POs and CU.                                                                                               CN.                        _imners is
the first
seseste of
i1, and S
_iners is
mater to
1_.
(d)  Strengthening staff capabilities of       To seminere (3 s*eke each) end    Consultants                          so         20    100          CN                 Train 30 prefer           First helf of
PlN in the preparation and *valuation of       two fol low-up workshops (2                                                                                             si_m*1  frem slet 10   1010.
workouts related to ths financial              *n k- each) for personnel from                                                                                          *srticipetmno banke.
rostructuring component.                       Na by highly qualified
consultant. for carrying out
financial engineering workouts.
j/ Insignificant.



Itxm_  to be         Eatornal      Local       Total       Institutional                              Calender of
Objecti v.                                                                    Financed              Coat        Cast        Cast       Mompeeib lil        g peetd Samfi to       E11osaiea
-----------in UW'O00-----------
(a)  Oueign detailed proeadures for           Conduct a *tdy                       CAneltents                         Se          36        70       am                Pw,leis  of               Piet  quarts
implementation of the eutueliat credit                                                                                                                                 deti led presx ires.    Of l_
guarentee ache. through *M  and  AS.                                                                                                                                    Idtif jostle  of
id*ntify/aeeeea other hlC  for                                                                                                                                           _     O
channelling funds to micro-enterpriaee.
(f)  Assist CIN in dveloping an                Conduct a study to review           Consultants.                       70          20        60       cm                 Ir_Wsto ;i t1e           Pifrx
appropriate regulatory policy frameork         existing practices. develop                                                                                              Peli Iey/fewuIe a y      semet  of
for aquipeent leaoing.                         policy and relatory frxe_-                                                                                               frx_ex-r  for            1to.
work and prepare a draft                                                                                                 equipment leesing.
legialation.
()  Assist CIIN in assessing the               Conduct a study.                    Consultants.                       70          20        g0       cm                Capitol  erbot            1to".
fasibility of establishing a Mutual                                                                                                                                     deweluewt.
Investent Fund for holdine a Portfolio                                                                                                                                 xx;Iiablse  f
of shares end bonds in corporate                                                                                                                                        deeti4s  r_rs
enterprises,                                                                                                                                                             ad cntribution to
4'-
(h) Monitoring of the econosic and social    Conduct S Os-post rovises.            Conaultanta                         -         20        2S0       CUt               e-post ewalnstien.         ,l
impect of subprojecta.                                                                                                                                                 dsobste, peliop
improemenst.
(i)  Future Policy and project                Studise.                             Consultants.                    I.000           -     1I000                          q u rewd sect            Througheut.
preparation work in the financial and                                                                                                                                   Pelicies. Na  loading
industrial sectors.                                                                                                                                                    dewelepset
Subtotal Costa. Part II        1.960         120     2.JtO
Fin nAcinom
World Bank                     1      eso     20     2.F00
0I



-               ~~~~~~ANNE; 3-2
1X !~~~~~~I
E ~ I                ia,| 
: ~~ l
1        ~~3            3     U
II~~~~~ !
,i      3il    'i    a*i'
jii:~ . 3                         j     j    :|||{{'a.   
i   I Ii  IIiI,ii                      i1



Item  to be          External      Local       Total      Institutienal                               Caler of
Objectives                                   Keann                             Financed             Coet        Cost        Caot       Fvep_nibility       Expected U_nfite        Execution
______-in USS000----
(.)  Assist in developing a fraseork for    Conduct a study.  Areas to              Consultents                       72          66        1        Fl6Coo ClI *to a  tdy en                    166
the industrial *states program to help         co,er:  evaluation of the                                                                                                foraulation of a
overcose difficulties by SME  in their         impact of tho *.i;ting/ongoing                                                                                           progrs for
acceas to infrostructure facilities-  and      estatet, design of policies/                                                                                             indutrial _tnstes
determine feasibility of developing            atrat g  for futur,e astet&,                                                                                             with ceasacial fecus
pilot/deaonstration industrial *states in   *ssess feasibility Of                                                                                                       and Private sector
the private sector within high priority        participation by tho private                                                                                             participation
areas,                                         sector. inveateent priorities
based on comeercial viability,
recommend institutional end
operating procedures.
(f)  Enhance the capacity of FMI to            Participation in thre- selected    International travelling            20           -        20       F@I               Trainimp of MI            l    and
formulate policies to promote SHE              intarnational conforences/           and  upenso-.                                                                       staff.                   1690.
development.                                   sesinars on ShEa.
Subtotal Cost. Part III          425         375       6o0
Financing:
World bank                    425         375       600
0. Part IV--Asistnce to NICI
Strengthen the operation of MCI in tho         ProVe-ion of technical               Consultants                      z                               FI                 Ieproved oeprsti;_e      1is" Bad
areas of  ppraisal. l uporvision.              assistance.                          Financing:                                                                          of II.                   1900.
portfolio mtnegosant. equipment leaing                                                World Bank                     700         300     1.000
and oerc..ant banking.
Total Technical Assistance Program:  Proi;ct CotL                              L*7i    11L
Financina Plan:
World Bank                 4,655      4,445      9,300
ShEs                           -      2.300      2.300
AF41E
Jul, 1966
00 Z
eo z
t" 10



- 77 -
ANNEX 4-1
NIGERIA - PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Eligibility Criteria for Participating Banks
1.        The following minimum criteria would be used by CBN for assessing
the eligibility of financial intermediaries for participation in the SHE
credit components:
(a) adequacy of capital. The present rule of CBN requires that loans
and advances of a bank may not be more than 12 times its adjusted
capital; provision for bad and doubtful debts is to be netted out
in the calculation of the ratio. For the pirpose of the Project,
the CBN would also take into account other types of risk assets
such as leasing, acceptances and guarantees;
(b) cash reserve requirements as specified by CBN (minimum amount of
cash deposits as a percent of total demand deposits), which at
present range between 2 and 52 depending on the size of deposit
liabilities;
(c) minimum liquidity ratio as specified by CBN, which at present is
27.5Z for the commercial banks. In the case of merchant banks,
the minimum liquidity ratio is 20Z of total deposit liabilities;
(d) adequate provisions for bad and doubtful loans satisfactory to
CBN and the Bank;
(e) favorable rating by CBN in its latest supervision of the bank
concerned, which should not be more than one year old;
(f) adequate organization with staffing and technical capacity, and
past experience in project lending satisfactory to the Bank;
(g) operating policies and procedures acceptable to the Bank;
(h) in the case of development finance and other specialized
financial institutions, an interest rate structure in line with
rest of the banking system and acceptable to the Bank; and
(i) agreement to adopt the specific terms and conditions for SME
credit components under the Project.
2.        The eligibility of a financial intermediary for participation in
the Project will have to be acceptable to both the CBN and the Bank.
3.        The eligibility of the banks will be monitored by CBN on an
annual basis.
AF4IE
January 1988



- 78 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 1 of 4
NIGERIA - PRIVATE SHALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Guidelines for the Financial Restructuring Component
1.        Recent policy reforms have led to radical shifts in the right
direction in price signals, profitability and markets. As a consequence of
high inflation rates during 1981-84, the sharp devaluations of the naira
since 1986, and the rise in interest rates, combined with weak domestic
market demand, many manufacturing enterprises in Nigeria are suffering from
heavy debt burdens and liquidity squeeze. They need to reorient their
activities to operate profitably under the new incentive regime (market
based exchange regime, trade liberalization and tariffs). Some enterprises
are likely, however, to remain unviable and may have to go under. On the
other hand, it should be possible to restructure a significant number of
manufacturing enterprises to reorient their production, improve economic
efficiency and profitability. An important part of the strategy of
industrial reorientation would therefore be a selective program of
enterprise restructuring of existing productive enterprises which are
potentially viable, but operate with a weak financial situation, and,
therefore, unable to service their debt.
2.        While the preferred solution for the financial problems of
companies is for creditor banks to systematically review their performance
and work out restructuring strategies, the commercial and merchant banks
have not thus far undertaken restructuring schemes on a systematic basis.
Furthermore, restructuring by the banks is hampered by their inability to
take equity in enterprises. Under the Project, the CBN will undertake
studies to assess the desirability of allowing the banks to take equity in
corporate enterprises, and to establish other innovative instruments such
as the mutual investment funds for holding a portfolio of shares and bonds
in enterprises to be subscribed by individual and institutional investors.
The CBN does not strictly enforce the requirements of portfolio and bad
debt management and there is need to tighten banking supervision. Reforms
in the regulatory functions of the CBN and supervision of banks are being
addressed under the proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Operation.
3.        It is proposed to initiate a pilot program of financial
restructuring under the Project, on a case-by-case basis, for selected,
potentially viable, productive enterprises in difficulties (encompassing
weak financial situation, poor physical condition of plant and management
inadequacies). An acceptable restructuring plan under the proposed scheme
would need, however, to encompass not only an assessment and resolution of
financial difficulties but it would also need to address the underlying
causes of the financial problems to make the enterprises viable, e.g.,
management inadequacies, inappropriate production mix, misplaced marketing
strategies, and inappropriate or obsolete techmologies. This pilot
component is expected to benefit selected potentially viable enterprises by
helping them improve their viability and profitability while the banks
should be able to simultaneously improve their portfolios.



- 79 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 2 of 4
Restructuring Instruments and Arrangements
4.        Restructuring Measures.  The typical corporate workout would
include a combination of the following measures to regain competitiveness:
(a) writing off part of the accumulated bank penalties, charges, etc.; (b)
bringing in new investors to take equity positions; (c) converting part of
the debt into equity and/or quasi equity instruments; (d) rescheduling the
remaining debt with maturities that span over the medium to long term; (e)
replenishing working capital; and (f) investing in new fixed assets. Bank
financing would only support investments in (e) and (f).
5.        Preconditions for Restructuring.  The banks and the current firm
owners must agree on a base balance sheet that reflects the real net worth
of a company, taking into consideration an adequate revaluation of assets
and confirmed outstanding liabilities. The company must agree to dispose
of non-essential assets to reduce its outstanding debt and to cater to
fresh working capital. Creditor banks should commit themselves, in
principle, to consider reducing their claims on the firm's cash flow by
foregoing all outstanding penalty charges and fees related to the debt in
default, and converting part of the unserviceable debt into equity or
quasi-equity. Owners would have to agree to the proposed debt/equity swaps
and buyback arrangements for the subsequent sale of equity through private
placements or other means.
6.        Restructuring Plan.  Each workout proposal, the preparation cost
of which would be eligible for financing under the Project, would have the
following basic elements: (a) The management plan would review existing
m,,-nagerial capacity and recommend a formal organization plan which is often
lacking in family businesses. The need for specialized staff and technical
training would also be identified. (b) The marketing plan would be aimed
at increasing the firm's revenues through emphasis upon more profitable
products and customers, product redesign, quality and packaging improve-
ments, and geographic coverage. (c) The Production Rlan would be devised
to fill the needs identified under the marketing plan and could include
measures to curtail productive capacity or, alternatively, for a fuller
utilization of the existing capacity. And (d) a financial plan, the
elements of which are discussed below. Each restructuring proposal would
include an independent legal opinion confirming that the beneficiary firm
possesses controlling interest, and that the proposed refinancing scheme is
legally binding and enforceable. Covenants limiting future borrowings by
the enterprise would be included in the overall financing agreement.
(a) The company to be restructured would be a duly incorporated
entity, and its activities would be concentrated in the
industrial sector. Preference would be given to enterprises in
the manufacturing sector with significant use of local raw
materials and hence high value added. Controlling interest in
the company would be clearly defined. Participation of the banks
would be such that they remain minority shareholders.



- 80 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 3 of 4
(b) While the workout strategy would essentially serve as an
evaluation of future profitability, the following broad
guidelines would determine the eligibility of participating
enterprises. They should be potentially viable but unable to
fully service their existing debt due to overindebtedness. After
the proposed restructuring and based on reasonable projections,
the enterprise should be financially viable with a projected debt
service coverage ratio of not less than 1.0 in each and every
year of the life of the project, averaging not less than 1.2
during that period, with the projected current ratio of not less
than 1.2 at any time. The incremental financial (after tax) and
economic rates of return of the subproject should be at least 12Z
in real terms.
(c) In determining the amount of debt to be serviced by the
restructured company, the guideline would be to determine a
principal amount outstanding which can be serviced over a period
of ten years, taking into account the projected cash flow of the
company. Prior to defining the debt, the banks and the company
must agree on the treatment to be given to depreciation, and the
amount of funds the firm would retain to increase working capital
or replace equipment. Provisions for prepayment of debt would be
included.
Implementation ArranRements
7.        Preparation of Restructuring Proposals.  The participating banks
(PBs) would play a lead role in identifying potential companies and
assisting them in the preparation of restructuring proposals. It is
expected that the involved banks are best suited to manage financial
restructuring packages because of their knowledge of industrial companies
plus their interest in improving their own portfolios. In the case of more
than one creditor bank, it is expected that an agent or lead bank would
carry out the restructuring exercise, as well as lead negotiations with the
company. The lead bank would regularly supervise the subprojects to ensure
that the subloans are utilized for the purposes intended, and that the
financial and other conditions affecting operating performance are
progressing satisfactorily. The PBs would submit through the SME Apex Unit
in CBN, semi-annual reports to the Bank on the performance of the portfolio
financed out of the loan proceeds. These requirements would be part of the
legal contract between all parties to the restructuring exercise.
8.        In evaluating restructuring proposals to be financed under the
Project, the PBs, in addition to the traditional project analysis and
documentation requirements for equity financing, would place particular
emphasis on analysis of the company as a whole, including its management
effectiveness, production strategy and future market prospects and
prospects for liquidating their own equity or quasi-equity within a
specified timeframe. Since skilled financial appraisal is needed to
diagnose the underlying problems of the enterprise, and considerable
knowledge of the economic outlook and products and markets is needed to



- 81 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 4 of 4
determine expected long-run financial viability, the institutional capacity
has to be developed to carry out these tasks. Accordingly, the technical
assistance funds under the Project include provisions for experienced
consultants to provide training to the PBs on how to prepare restructuring
proposals. In addition, funds under the financial restructuring component
could also be requested to finance consultancy services used for preparing
restructuring workouts for eligible enterprises.
9.        Eligible Expenditures.  Project funds would be used for breaking
production bottlenecks (new fixed assets), financing fresh permanent
working capital (raw materials, spares and components), and consultancy
sr-,,,ices.
AF4IE
December 1987



- 82 -
AM=  4-3
Page 1 of 4
NIGERIA - PRIVATE SHALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Key Indicators for Proiect IDl em ntation and Reportinp Requirements
A.   Key Indicators
For monitoring purposes, the following indicators would applyt
by mid- by mid- by mid- by Sept.
1989      1990     1991        1992
1.   Loan Commitments
(a)  Line of Credit                    1o0       40?       70?       1oo0
(b)  Financial Restructuring            5Z       302       65Z       1OOZ
(c)  Mutualist Credit Guarantee         -        302       651       1oo?
Scheme
(d)  Equipment Leasing                 15?       45Z       75Z       1OO0
(e)  Pilot Studies Facility             5?       30?       65S       lOO1
2.   Technical Assistance Program
Activities and corresponding implementation schedules are
described in Annex 3-2. Regarding the studies. the following timetable
would applys
By end     By mid-   By *nd-     By mid-      By end
Studie             109        1989      1909         1990          "
(a) Subcontracting                     TOR       Complete
(b) Technology development             To0       Complot
(C) Subeector studies and                        Initiate    Initiate/    COmPIet
Industry prof 1 le                                    Complet
cd) Industrial etates                  To        Complte
(e) lutuallet credit        TOM        compleoe
uar.mte, scheme
(f) Equipmet loweing                   TOR/
Cowlete
(g) MtUal Investment Fund              TOR       Complete
(h) Monitoring of subprojete                                 TOR          Complt /
M/  For the first study covering the first two yeare of the Projet.  After this, a now monitoring
study wll be carried out evory twelve months, and a report will be submitted to the Bank by
hesebr 81 of the relovant year.



- 83 -
ANNEX 4-3
Page 2 of 4
3.   Pilot Facility for Feasibility Studies, and Technical Assistance
By mid-     By mid-     By mid-      By mid-
1989        1990        1991         1992
(a)  Number of SHEs assisted       100         600         1,300       2,000
B. Reporting Requirements
1.        CBN will, through inputs from the PBs and concerned agencies
(e.g., MAN, NASSI, etc.), consolidate and prepare the following minimum
information for the line of credit, financial restructuring, mutualist
credit guarantee scheme, and equipment leasing components:
1. Socio-economic aspects (semi-annual, August 31 and February 28):
(a) Type of subprojectu: expansion, retooling, new, free standing
working capital, leasing, financial restructuring, micro-
enterprise.
(b) Enterprise size by assets, production capacity, sales and
employment.
(c) Sector/subsectors.
cd) Region (subproject location, and classification--rural vs urban).
ce) Financial intermediary.
(f) Incremental jobs created and cost per job.
(g) Percent use of local raw materials, and local value added.
(h) Capital/labor and capital/output ratios.
(i) Financial and economic rates of return as appropriate.
2.   Lending aspects (semi-annually, August 31 and February 28):
(a) Number of subprojects/operations financed; investment costs with
breakdown of foreign and local costs; amount of subloans
committed with breakdown oi the Bank loan and participating
banks' own resources; equity contributions from SME's own
sources; classification by asset sizes, investment costs and
subloan amounts; for each component as a whole as well as by
participating banks; disbursements.



-  84  -                       ANNEX 4-3
Page 3 of 4
(b)  Number of subprojects/operations financed and total investment
for each subproject, classified by investment items (machinery
and equipment, civil works, related and free-standing (separated)
working capital, know-how and engineering, consultancy services,
training, etc., indicating also the origin of goods and
services); by participating institutions and by size of subloans.
(c)  Experience upon subloan approvals, procurement and disbursements.
3.   Subproject lending performance (semi-annually, August 31 and
February 28):
(a) Subproject investment costs (projected and actual).
(b) Implementation delays.
(c) Sales (projected and actual).
(d) Status of portfolio; total loans outstanding and arrears; aging
analysis; principal and interests; by participating banks;
perspectives; measures taken or to be taken, as appropriate.
ce) Current project pipeline by participating banks.
4.   Technical Assistance (semi-annually, August 31 and February 28):
(a) Status report on the technical assistance activities related to
CBN.
(b) Follow-up by CBN of its technical assistance program concerning
timely implementation of schedule, quality, preparation and
implementation problems, results, adjustments required, etc.
(c) Prepare and/or agree to a work program including a schedule for
all concerned agencies (CBN, PBs, HAN, NASSI) for next six
months.
5.   Quarterly progress reports on the use and experience of the Pilot
Studi's Facility for SMEs and entrepreneurs, mutualist credit guarantee
scheme and the financial restructuring components (within six weeks after
the end of each quarter).
6.   General:
(a)  CBN will make comments in the semi-annual progress reports on
project implementation and adjustments recommended, as
appropriate, as well as on the progress on setting up business
advisory services in the PBs.
(b) CBN will also require the PBs to prepare a brief subproject
completion report within six months of the subproject's physical
completion to compare performance with appraisal estimates.



-  85  -                       ANNMX 4-3
Page 4 of 4
7.        Monthly reports on the operations and status of Special
Account(s) and sub-accounts.
II.       PHI and NBCI vill prepare smi-annual status reports on their
technical assistance activities for submission to and exchange of views
vith the Bank, within six weeks after the end of each semester. The status
reports will include coiments on the follow-up actions on the technical
assistance program concerning timely implementation of schedule, quality,
preparation and imp.ementation problems, adjustments required, and work
program for the next six months.
AF4IE
July 1988



- 86 -
ANNEX 4-4
NIGERIA - PRIVATE SMALL AND NEDIUM ENTERPRISE DVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procurement Arrangements
Nigerian       Total
Bank Financing        Financing     Project
Proiect Item                     Other               Other          Cost
-------------(in US$ million)-------___
Credit/investments under          225.0 a/               138.2          363.2
the line of credit,
financial restructuring
and mutualist credit
guarantee scheme
components
Equipment leasing                  30.0 a/                  5.3          35.3
component
Technical assistance
Micro-computers,                  0.3                    -              0.3
software, vehicles and
other office equipment
Consultants' services             8.6                    2.0           10.6
Training                          0.4                    0.3            0.7
Unallocated                         5.7                      -            5.7
Total                        270.0                  145.8          415.8
al   Three price quotations would be mandatory for bid packages exceeding
US$250,000 equivalent.
AF4IE
July 1988



-  87  -                            ANNZX 4-5
NIGERIA - PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bank Loan Allocation and Disbursements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Catelorv                                  Amount              Disbursement
1. Line of Credit
(a) Subloans to and investments in                    75.0)         1002 of subloans and
SMEs with asset size below U5 million                  )        investments up to
(b) Subloans to and investments in SMEs               75.0)         70? of the cost of
with asset size between US million and                 )        the subproject
N10 million                                            )
(c) Subloans and investments for free                 25.0)
standing working capital to SMEs with                  )
asset size below US million                            )
(d) Subloans and investments for free                 25.0)
standing working capital to SHEs with
asset size between U5 million and N10
million
2. Pilot Financial Restructuring
(a) Subloans for the preparation of                    1.0          10O  of subloans
restructuring workouts by SMEs
(b) Subloans to and investments in SMEs               19.0          1002 of subloans and
investments up to 1002
of the cost of the
subproject
3. Pilot Mutualist Credit Guarantee Scheme
Subloans to microenterprises                        5.0          1002 of subloans
4. Equipment Leasina
Equipment lease financing for SMEs                 30.0          1002 of subloans up to
857 of the cost of
leased equipment
5. Technical Assistance--CBN
(a) Pilot Studies Facility for                       5.0          70Z of expenditures
consultants' services for
feasibility studies, technical
assistance and management coun-
selling for SHEs and entrepreneurs.
(b) Consultants' services for studies                2.5          1002 of expenditures
and training, training activities
and equipment for CBN
6. Technical Assistance--FMI and NBCI
(a) Consultants' services for studies,               0.8          100X of expenditures
and training activities for FMI
(b) Consultants' services for                        1.0          100? of expenditures
strengthening of NBCI
7. Unallocated                                          5.7
Total                                      270.0
===a.
AP4IE
July 1988



- 88 -
ANNEX 4-6
NIGERIA - PRIVATE SHALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan
Estimated Disbursement
Africa Region-wide Disbursement              Schedule b/I
Profile for Industrial           Disbursement
IBRD Fiscal              Development and Finance Projects        During the       Cumulative
Year                     (Cumulative Z Disbursement) a/         Period        Disbursement
-------(in US$ million)------
FY89 - 06/30/89                        0                           0                  0
FY90 - 12/31/89                        3                           8.1                8.1
06/30/90                       10                         18.9                27.0
FY91 - 12/31/90                       17                          18.9               45.9
06/30/91                       27                         27.0                72.9
FY92 - 12/31/91                       34                          18.9               91.8
06/30/92                       43                         24.3               116.1
FY93 - 12/31/92                       50                          18.9              135.0
06/30/93                       63                         35.1               170.1
FY94 - 12/31/93                       72                          24.3              194.4
06/30/94                       82                         27.0               221.4
FY95 - 12/31/94                       88                          16.2              237.6
06/30/95                       93                         13.5               251.1
FY96 - 12/31/95                       98                          13.5              264.6
- 03/30/96                      100                           5.4              270.0
a/   Based on actual disbursement experience on 57 Africa Region-wide industrial
development and finance projects during FY78-87.
b/   Based on the Africa Region-wide actual disbursement profile.
AF4IE
July 1988



- 89 -
ANNEX 6
NIGERIA - PRIVATE SMALL AND IEDI1UM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMCEN  P:tOJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
A.   Reports prepared by the consultants for PMI, 'Proposal for a
Nationwide Development Program for Small and Medium Scale Enterprisea
in Nigeria,' in three volumes, August 1987.
B.   Report prepared by the Nigerian Working Group, "Proposal for Financing
Small and Medium Enterprises in Nigeria under the World Bank Project,'
FMI, June 1987.
C.   Report on a Survey of Small Scale Enterprises,' Towards the
Development of Small-Scale Industries in Nigeria,' Nigerian Institute
of Social and Economic Research, 1987.
D.   Supervision reports prepared by Bank staff for Loan 2376-UNI and Loan
2299-UNI, December 2987 and January 1988.
E.   Report prepared by Mr. N. Gangaram (Consultant) on selected commercial
banks and NBCI, October 1987.
F.   Reports prepared by ICON, IBWA, NAL and NMB on financing of SMEs in
Nigeria, various dates, 1987.
G.   Technical Discussion Paper No. III prepared by Bank Staff," The
Climate for Private Investment in Nigeria,' June 1987.
AF4IE
January 1988



INIIC3ERIA 
AMINISTRATIVE DIVISIONS >
KAW|  t    sisit*><<Xhi5  a    \  ss                               ?  new a      A
{Ki.Ss...;^st-s..it~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~KW /fOA Sap 23 !9S s st    
N     i)                  t   tr^** i)t                ,'3AU aH' /  * wl    0
0~~~~~~~~~~~K14
\ @ 4 \ ,' M,AKLMt
AiEOKUTA z'           '"i>-N EtiC.                  , 
*  & ^ ! ,rt                 ~~~~~~ Rivers
;             \      d 25WES*~~~~ t  Qg~CALABAR   ,__State 13ounciaries
a   Gulf o f o2alnem   .4              X u        o                                Boundaries         0
o Ai<iV.A- t-%X; ..... E.<s~~~~~~~~~~~40                 O   i6Xo  9.ha AKtA 1HCW    SePt 2Y 1.6   4
OD



