Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT No 16811
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2995-UNI)
JUNE 26, 1997
Water, Urban and Energy 2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS'
Currency Unit               Naira
1987  US$1        =    5.6  Naira
1988              =    6.8  Naira
1989              =   10.7  Naira
1990              =    9.4  Naira
1991              =   13.1  Naira
1992              =   20.8  Naira
1993              =   37.3  Naira
1994              =   62.3  Naira
1995              =   84.3  Naira
1996              -   83.1  Naira
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AO         Apex Office of Central Bank of Nigeria
CBN        Central Bank of Nigeria
EDP        Entrepreneurship Development Program
FGN        Federal Government of Nigeria
FMI        Federal Ministry of Industries
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IDC        Industrial Development Center
ILO        International Labor Organization
MGA        Mutual Guarantee Association
NBCI       Nigerian Bank for Commerce and Industry
NERFUND  National Economic Reconstruction Fund
NIDB       Nigerian Industrial Development Bank
PB         Participating bank
PCC        Project Coordination Committee
SAP        Structural Adjustment Program
SME        Small and medium enterprise
UNIDO      United Nations Industrial Development Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 1
Vice President:       Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFR
Country Director:     Yaw Ansu, AFC12
Technical Manager:    Max Pulgar-Vidal, AFTU2
Task Team Leader:     Manouchehr Ashouripour, AFTU2
The above are annual average autonomous exchange rates. There was also a simultaneous official exchange rate used by FGN for certain
official tnsactions. For example, average official exchange rate in 1996 was N 21.9 to US Sl



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .... 
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...........................................     ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMEN .....................................I
I. INTRODUCTION.1
II. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES            .2
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE            .3
IV. PROJECT OUTCOME, SUSTAINIBILITY AND FUTURE OPERATIONS  .6
V. BANK'S PERFORMANCE                      .7
VI. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE                   .7
VIl. PARTICIPATINO BANKS' PERFORMANCE .
VIII. LESSONS LEARNED.8
PART 11: STATISTICAL ANNEXES      ......................
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS .                                 II
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK CREDITS .12
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE                  .13
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL .13
TABLE 5: KEY INDICTORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .14
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION .14
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT .                        15
TABLE $A: PROJECT COSTS                    .16
TABLE SB: PROJECT FINANCING                 .16
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS .17
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANT              .17
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS .22
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS .22
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS .23
APPENDIX A: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION .24
APPENDIX B: OPERATIONAL PLAN .36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorizadon.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2995-UNI)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Private Small and
Medium Enterprise Project in Nigeria, for which the Bank approved Loan 2995-UNI in
the amount of US$270 million equivalent on October 20, 1988. The loan became
effective on November 29, 1989 about ten months after the anticipated effectiveness date
due to a delay in the signing of participatory agreements between the Central Bank of
Nigeria (CBN) and at least three participating banks.
The loan for the project closed on March 31, 1996 as planned at appraisal. The
original amount of the loan was US$270 but due to the slow utilization of the line-of -
credit component the Bank and the Borrower agreed to reduce the size of the loan to US$
142 million. The Bank disbursed a total of US$109.5 which amounted to 77 percent of
the revised loan amount and 41 percent of the loan amount estimated at appraisal. The
last disbursement took place on March 14, 1996.
The ICR was prepared by Water, Urban, Energy II (AFTU2) of the
Infrastructure Family of the Africa Region. The Borrower, commented on the ICR and
made its own contribution, attached as Appendix A.
The preparation of this ICR is based on information in the project files. There
was no completion mission.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2995-UNI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.  In the mid-1980s, the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) realized that it could
not base the country's industrial development on export earnings from the oil industry
and a system of large public enterprises. The price of oil on the international market had
dropped substantially and the public enterprises in which FGN had invested its oil
earnings proved to be costly and inefficient. FGN began to focus on diversifying its
industrial base as part of a broad structural adjustment program (SAP) which included the
commercialization and privatization of public enterprises, along with policy incentives
for private enterprise development. The development of small and medium enterprises
(SMEs) was a priority for structural adjustment because of their labor intensity, relatively
low level of capital investment requirements, and tendency to use more local than foreign
resources. However, SMEs faced financial obstacles. Private banks were reluctant to
make long-term loans to them because of the perceived risks involved relative to other
uses of their funds and the specialized development banks were not meeting the demand
for, credit. The Bank's considerable experience with financial development projects in
Nigeria and in other countries indicated that the involvement of Nigeria's private banking
system, with proper financial incentives, was likely to be a more efficient route for
providing the credit necessary for accelerating SME development.
Achievement of Project Objectives
2.   The overall objective of Private Small and Medium Enterprise Development
Project (SME II) was to stimulate and sustain the growth of SMEs, expanding the
development of the private sector in both the financial and industrial sectors. The more
detailed objectives, as they appeared in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), were to: (a)
support existing enterprises to restructure and modernize their operations to maintain
comparative advantage and regain competitive advantage; (b) help establish a new
generation of viable investments in private productive sectors and service activities; and
(c) improve the quality and range of financial and extension services available to SMEs.
The project's objectives were clear and justified by the potential contribution of SMEs to
economic development.
3.   The project only partially achieved its objectives. It supported private sector
development in both the industrial and financial sectors by contributing to the creation or
extension of some 200 SMEs and helping to establish the capability for SME project



- iii -
appraisal and monitoring in 26 private banks. However, the scale of investment and
financing fell significantly below what the project's SAR had estimated. Although SME
II made a significant contribution to the institutional development of private banks, its
contribution to improving the performance of public sector institutions in SME
development was negligible. Also, FGN did not sustain key sector policies in support of
the project.
Implementation Experience
4.   The main factor that affected its implementation was the deterioration of the
country's macroeconomic environment: rising inflation, widely fluctuating exchange
rates, and lack of sufficient growth in the manufacturing sector, and competition from
other lines of credit. The Bank and the Borrower re-designed the project to make it more
attractive to participating banks and to SMEs but ultimately the unstable economic
environment, led to low utilization of the loan. The estimated actual project cost is
US$167.7 million or 40 percent of the US$ 415.8 million estimated at appraisal (Part II,
Table 8A). Of this total, US$166.8 million supported the financing of SMEs and the
remaining US$ 0.9 million was for technical assistance to the Central Bank of Nigeria
(CBN) and the Nigerian Bank for Commerce and Industry (NBCI). The Bank disbursed
a total of US$ 109.5 million for the project and the remaining US$58.2 million came
from  SME equity and the Participating Banks (PBs). (Part II, Table 8B).  The
performance of the Bank was satisfactory overall and that of the Borrower and
implementing agencies was satisfactory in project preparation but deficient in
implementation and compliance with covenants.
Project Outcome, Sustainability and Future Operation
5.    Adverse economic conditions prevented the project from sustaining important
interest rate and policy objectives and the use of the line-of-credit was substantially
below what was planned. However, despite the unstable macroeconomic environment,
the project made a significant contribution to SME development by financing 200 SMEs
in 24 states and creating 40,000 jobs. Therefore, the project's outcome was marginally
satisfactory. The sustainability of SME growth and the availability of financing from the
private banking system are uncertain because the project did not establish a continuing
mechanism for ensuring that entrepreneurs have access to the financial resources and
technical assistance they need to accelerate SME development. To sustain the project's
achievements in the future, FGN first will need to take the necessary measures to stabilize
the economy. Then, in order to promote sufficient levels of credit from the private
banking system, FGN needs to commit to an operational plan of actions that will support
a major response from entrepreneurs and the private banking system (Part I, para. 22 and
Appendix B). At this time, the Bank has no future SME operation planned for Nigeria.



- iv-
Lessons Learned
6.   The key lessons learned from the project are as follows:
Macroeconomic policy: In order for market-based SME development to take place,
Nigeria must achieve economic stability. The projects achievements resulted from a
project design that assigned the foreign exchange risk on SME sub-loans to FGN and a
decision by FGN, during the latter part of the project, to cap interest rates, which was not
consistent with project objectives. These factors helped insulate SME sub-Borrowers
from high financial costs that would have resulted in an economy with inflation of 50-100
percent.
Project Design: The project had too many components in addition to the line-of-credit
which already was a challenge for the Borrower since it involved channeling funds
through 28 banks instead of one as in past projects. Some of the components would have
been more appropriate as part of project preparation work and others, notably innovative
pilot financing programs might have been more successful as part of a follow-up
technical assistance project.  Furthermore, the apex unit of any future line-of-credit
project should have private sector participation to improve commercial operation and
promote the project effectively.
Sub-project Supervision and Monitoring: The set-up of an apex unit with adequate
operational facilities should be a condition of effectiveness for any future project to avoid
the deficiencies experienced in SME II. Also, the Bank should not be involved in the
details of sub-project approval and monitoring, which should be the domain of a qualified
apex unit.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2995-UNI)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.   Declining international oil prices in the early 1980s led the Federal Government of
Nigeria (FGN) to move away from an economy based on oil export earnings, a high
dependence on imports, and investment in large, public sector industries, which proved
inefficient. FGN embarked on a Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) during 1986-88
which included diversifying the industrial base and commercializing about 135 state-
owned enterprises.
2.   Both FGN and the Bank believed that the development of small and medium
enterprises (SMEs) was crucial to accelerating Nigeria's industrial development and
economic recovery. Their labor intensity (70 percent of industrial employment), dispersion
throughout the country, and tendency to use local resources rather than imported goods
made them important vehicles for reducing major sector problems of unemployment, the
migration from rural to urban areas, and the reliance of the economy on imported industrial
inputs. Also the development of SMEs seemed likely to  create a cadre of private
entrepreneurs who eventually could develop larger private enterprises.
3.   Despite the potential benefits of SMEs to the economy they faced financing
constraints due to a market failure in the financial sector. Most private banks were not
interested in long-term lending to SMEs. They perceived SME lending as too risky, since
many lacked sufficient collateral, and interest rate ceilings which FGN set were
disincentives to taking the additional risks perceived. To address this problem, FGN had
formed the National Bank for Commerce and Industry (NBCI), specifically to meet the
financing needs of SMEs. However, the amount of credit NBCI extended was small,
representing only two percent of the total outstanding credit from commercial banks for
productive sectors. Also, credit availability was not the only problem.  Many
entrepreneurs also did not have the expertise to prepare the necessary feasibility work and
draw up a business plan for a new enterprise.
4.   In designing the Private Small and Medium Enterprise Development Project (SME
II), the Bank had considerable experience with financing industrial development through
five loans, which it had channeled through the country's two main government-owned
development banks -- NBCI and the Nigerian Industrial Development Bank (NIDB). The



- 2 -
Bank had made four loans to NIDB for general industrial development and had focused
the fifth loan on SME development through NBCI (Part II, Table 2).
II. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
5.   The overall objective of SME II was to stimulate and sustain the growth of SMEs,
expanding the development of the private sector in both the financial and industrial
sectors. The more detailed objectives, as they appeared in the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR), were to: (a) support existing enterprises to restructure and modernize their
operations to maintain or regain comparative advantage; (b) help establish a new
generation of viable investments in private productive sectors and service activities; and
(c) improve the quality and range of financial and extension services available to SMEs.
The project's objectives were reasonable and justified by the potential contribution of
SMEs to economic development.
6.   The design of the project's components took account of lessons learned from the
first Small and Medium Enterprise Development Project (SME I): the lack of financing
for working capital and stipulation that SME's assume the foreign exchange risk had
constrained demand for SME I's line-of-credit. The project consisted of the following
components: a line-of-credit to encourage the financing of investment and working
capital for SMEs; a pilot restructuring program to help enterprises adjust to the structural
changes in the economy; a mutual guarantee scheme to help micro-enterprises satisfy
collateral requirements of commercial banks; and an equipment leasing component to
provide SMEs with a flexible alternative way of financing capital equipment. The
project's studies and technical assistance components were to encourage greater
entrepreneurial activity and strengthen the institutions supporting industrial finance and
development.
7.   SME II was complex and demanding for the Borrower and implementing agencies
because it included a variety of financing components that were innovative in the
Nigerian context and took place under very difficult economic conditions. Therefore, to
ensure the effective project implementation, FGN established a high-level Project
Coordination Committee (PCC) to monitor the project, focusing on its innovative
components. The Bank considered the establishment of the PCC so crucial that it became
a condition of effectiveness.  However, because most of the project's pilot financing
components were canceled, the PCC did not function as planned, but instead was useful in
reviewing policy matters.
8.   The SAR identified the major project risk as the possible reluctance of the private
banking system to finance SME sub-projects. However, the project's design mitigated
this risk by allowing the PBs the freedom to determine their re-lending rates to the sub-
Borrowers. Another significant risk was that delays in economic growth and high interest
rates would adversely affect demand. However, the project preparation team tried to
mitigate this risk by: basing the size of the line-of-credit on conservative demand
estimates; including a Pilot Studies Facility to identify a potential pipeline for bankable



- 3 -
projects; and placing the emphasis of credit delivery on the commercial banking system,
which had an extensive branch network for facilitate widespread SMEs development. The
project's experimental financing components were risky because they were not yet tested
in Nigeria's financial sector which had in the past been reluctant to provide even more
traditional sources of financing. The project's design kept these components relatively
small to minimize the risk that they would not be effective. The evaluation of project
risks overall was satisfactory, although the Bank may have been overly optimistic about:
(a) FGN's commitment to all project components and sector policies, and (b) the major
turnaround of the economy which the Bank was projecting for the project's
implementation period.
9.   The project only partially achieved its objectives due to the lack of a supportive
macroeconomic environment and the insufficient capability of the key participating
institutions to manage the project effectively. The project contributed to the creation or
extension of some 200 SMEs and helped to establish a capability for SME project
appraisal and monitoring in 26 private banks. However, the scale of investment and
financing fell significantly below what the project's SAR had estimated. Although SME
II made a significant contribution to the institutional development of private banks, its
contribution to improving the performance of public sector institutions in SME
development was negligible. Also, FGN did not maintain key sector policies in support
of the project, or significantly improve the range and quality of services to SMEs.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
Implementation Record
10.   The Bank declared the loan for the project effective on September 29, 1989, about
a year later than planned due to a delay in meeting the conditions for signing subsidiary
loan agreements. Based on the Bank-wide experience with industrial finance projects, the
SAR for SME II estimated, conservatively, an implementation period of seven and half
years, with a closing date of March 31, 1996 ( Part II, Table 3). According to the key
indicators for project implementation (Part II, Table 5). The project's studies (Part II,
Table 7) were to be completed during 1989-90. Originally, the project's financing
components were to be fully committed by September 1992. However, after the re-
design of the project, the focus shifted mainly to implementing the revised line-of-credit,
for which the Bank extended the commitment date to the end of March 1994.
11.   The estimated actual project cost is US$167.7 million or 40 percent of the US$
415.8 million estimated at appraisal (Part II, Table 8A). Of this total, US$166.8 million
supported the financing of SMEs and the remaining US$0.9 million was for technical
assistance to CBN and NBCI. The Bank disbursed a total of US$109.5 million for the
project and the remaining US$58.2 million came from SME equity and the PBs. Actual
disbursements amounted to 41 percent of the original loan amount and 77 percent of the
revised target loan amount of US$142 million, after the cancellation of US$128 million
in 1992 due to the slow initial rate of utilization.



- 4 -
12.   The line-of-credit faced some competition from other funds. The main alternate
source of funds was the National Economic Reconstruction Fund (NERFUND), which
the African Development Bank funded. FGN established NERFUND in January 1989,
shortly after signing the agreements for the SME II project. NERFUND had a strong
promotion program and its funds seemed cheaper than those from the Bank. However its
disadvantage to SMEs was that it did not fund working capital and SMEs had to bear the
foreign exchange risk. Despite its initial popularity, NERFUND experienced difficulties
due to large arrears and insufficient foreign exchange resources.
13.   The Bank and the Borrower took a number of actions to increase the use of the
line of credit. Since, the management capability of entrepreneurs was weak in both the
preparation of investment projects and securing the required equity capital. The Bank
arranged for grant financing by UNIDO of experts to help strengthen SMEs in these
areas. On the supply side, the Bank and the Borrower modified the line-of-credit in 1992
to make it more competitive with other sources of funds and address the problems
limiting SME eligibility and delays in sub-loan approvals. The major changes were: the
allowance of up to 49 percent foreign ownership in SMEs; exceptions to the requirement
of local sourcing of materials for certain types of manufacturing enterprises; the opening
of a second credit window for re-lending in foreign currency; an expansion of PB
eligibility criteria; an increase in the maximum sub-project financing available under the
Bank loan to 75 percent of sub-project cost, allowing the SMEs and PBs the freedom to
decide on the mix of loans and equity for the remaining 25 percent; and a free limit for
approval of sub-projects after submission of two sub-projects by each PB. In 1994, the
Bank re-allocated the disbursement categories of the loan to reflect lower demand for the
funds and the lack of FGN interest in some of the components. The Bank canceled US$
128 million, reducing the loan amount to US $ 142 million and hence the line of credit
component was reduced from US $ 200 million to US $ 120 million.
Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation
14.   The main factor exogenous to the project that affected its implementation was the
deterioration of the country's macroeconomic environment: rising inflation, widely
fluctuating exchange rates, and lack of sufficient growth in the manufacturing sector. The
SAP initially had a marked impact on overall economic growth which increased from an
average annual two percent decline during 1980-86 to an average annual increase of five
percent annually during 1987-92. However, the growth in the manufacturing sector and in
employment began to slow down. The high cost of foreign exchange for the purchase of
equipment and raw materials, rising interest rates, increases in tariffs on public utilities and
large-scale smuggling of foreign goods into the country decreased capacity utilization in the
manufacturing sub-sector. The resulting low level of capacity utilization in the sub-sector
likely reduced the demand for credit to expand existing capacity or build new enterprises.
15.   The project also experienced wide variations in the inflation rate. During project
appraisal, inflation was about 10 percent and the SAR estimated that this level would
prevail during most of the project's implementation period. However, between 1987 and



- 5 -
1989, the inflation rate rose sharply to 50 percent but then dropped in the range of 7-13
percent during 1990-91. It rose sharply again in 1992, and in 1993 more than doubled,
reaching 100 percent in 1993. The impredictable inflationary environment made the
economic and financial appraisal of sub-projects very difficult and a number of sub-
projects that were economically and financially sound when the PBs initially appraised
them, had implementation problems.
16.   The main factors subject to FGN control which affected project implementation
were changes in policies for determining interest rates to SMEs and the exchange rate
between the Naira and foreign currencies. The project's legal agreements state the right
of the PBs to set market based interest rates. However, the Minutes of Negotiations for
the project indicated that FGN was willing to go along with market-based interest rates
but also pointed out the importance of making loans affordable to SMEs in accordance
with social policy. The PBs initially charged a market-based, variable rate linked to
changes in the CBN Rediscount Rate. However, as inflation began to soar, FGN decided
to limit interest rates so that the cost of borrowing would not be prohibitive for SME
investors. The Bank insisted on maintaining market-based interest rates but later decided
to allow some limitations as a temporary measure. However, the caps on interest rates
ultimately became a permanent feature of the project. As a result, during most of the
project's implementation interest rates were negative in real terms due to high inflation,
and caused financial problems for a number of PBs.
17.   FGN, which assumed the foreign exchange risk under the project, had some
control over the impact of foreign exchange rates on project costs. Until 1992, FGN made
only limited use of the market to determine the exchange rate between the Naira and
foreign currencies. However, subsequently FGN began to move toward a market-based
exchange rate by floating the Naira on the foreign exchange market, initially at N18
equivalent to US$1. The differential between the official and parallel market rates began
to widen and in 1993 these rates, respectively, were N 24 and N 47 per US$. As a result
of these fluctuating rates, shortfalls in funds occurred between the time letters-of-credit
were issued and the time payment came due. To mitigate the problem, FGN, in 1994,
decided to fix the foreign exchange rate at N22 per US$ and outlawed the parallel market.
In addition, CBN began tight control of the foreign exchange market.
18.   The main factors subject to the control of the project's implementing were CBN's
delay in making important improvements in the operations of the AO for the project; FMI's
lack of full compliance with all of the Bank's procurement procedures for important
project studies, and NBCI's failure to complete technical assistance for institutional
strengthening. The AO mainly was responsible for promoting and administering the
project's line-of-credit. However, the AO did not effectively promote the line-of-credit and
early Bank supervision missions found that a number of PBs were not even aware of it. In
addition, communications were difficult because of the AO's move from Lagos, where the
headquarters of most of the PBs were located, to the government center at Abuja. After
this move, the performance of the AO began to deteriorate further. Most of the PBs were



- 6 -
located hundreds of miles away in Lagos and at times during the project, the AO lacked
even basic communications facilities such as direct telephone lines, fax machines or telex
machines.
19.   Many sub-Borrowers and PBs reported to the Bank that CBN was taking too long
to approve sub-project disbursements. In an attempt to speed up the approval process, the
Bank allowed qualified PBs the authority to review and approve sub-projects on a free-
limit basis. To reduce the burden of commitment fees on FGN, the Bank encouraged the
use of special commitments by the AO and PBs: instead of the AO's depositing funds
with the PBs, for letters-of-credit, the Bank guaranteed payment of the letters-of-credit to
the supplier. These two factors resulted in significant improvements to the sub-project
approval and disbursement process.
20.   FMI and NBCI had some control over implementing the project's technical
assistance components. FMI was to supervise several studies that were important to a
greater understanding of the SME sub-sector and the operation of financing mechanisms
under the project. However, FMI did not follow all of the Bank's standard procurement
procedures for these studies and ultimately they were canceled. NBCI had control over the
timely implementation of technical assistance for its institutional strengthening but did not
complete this component as originally envisaged. Furthermore, a consultant study of NBCI
found out the bank was in serious financial distress and made proposals to rationalize its
role in the industrial and financial sectors and recapitalize the bank.
IV. PROJECT OUTCOME, SUSTAINIBILITY AND FUTURE OPERATIONS
21.   Because of unfavorable economic conditions, the project was not able to sustain
interest rate and policy objectives and the utilization of the line of credit was substantially
less than planned. However, given the pilot nature of the project, involving the Nigerian
private banking system in a Bank project for the first time and, the limitations of the
macroeconomic environment, the project made a significant contribution to SME
development and employment. The project helped to finance 200 SMEs; created at least
40,000 jobs; and extended SME development to different parts of Nigeria. As originally
intended, most of the sub-projects were in the manufacturing sector (69 percent) but also
supported SMEs in agriculture, mining, printing, and services. The sub-projects financed
spanned 24 states with about 25 percent in Lagos. The project was also successful in
obtaining a favorable response from the private banking system which financed the
majority of projects. The ICR rates the overall outcome of the project as marginally
satisfactory.
22.   The sustainability of the project is uncertain. Although the private banking
community has developed a capability in SME project appraisal and monitoring, it is
evident that private banks are not able to give credit to SMEs without external financing.
The extent to which foreign exchange will become available from the Bank or other
external financing agencies is uncertain. The operational plan for the project (Appendix



- 7 -
B) indicates further steps FGN needs to take in order to sustain SME development and
key elements of any future project that may develop. On the policy side, FGN will need
to stabilize the economy and establish market-based interest and exchange rates. The
development of any future project by the Bank or other financing agencies should be
contingent on the establishment of this operating framework. A follow-up project should
focus on expanding credit delivery to the private banking system by setting up a special
agency with private sector representation to administer and monitor line-of-credit funds
and establishing appropriate services to help entrepreneurs prepare projects for funding.
V. BANK'S PERFORMANCE
23.   The Bank's performance overall was satisfactory. Its identification of the project
responded to a clear need to support both credit delivery and extension services. The
Bank put a considerable amount of effort into helping the Borrower prepare the project
including an SME development paper and a consultant study to determine the details of
project components likely to prove viable in meeting project objectives. The appraisal of
the project took place under a set of difficult conditions. There was uncertainty about
how the innovative aspects of the project would fare in the Nigerian business
environment; weaknesses in project's implementing agencies; and a macroeconomic
environment which had been very unstable and had inhibited the performance of the SME
I. In project supervision, the Bank's performance overall was satisfactory.  The Bank
focused mainly on the credit delivery side of the project, which was reasonable since it
accounted for 97 percent of the Bank's original loan amount and it was evident that FGN
had lost interest in most of the other components. The Bank was diligent about helping
the Borrower re-design the project to improve the utilization of the line of credit and was
successful in convincing the Borrower to do a diagnostic review of the banking system.
VI. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
24.   The performnance of the Borrower, FGN, and the implementing agencies --CBN,
FMI, and NBCI--was satisfactory in project preparation but deficient in implementation
and compliance with covenants. FGN did not take sufficient ownership of the project to
coordinate the timely completion of the entire package of assistance - the line-of-credit,
pilot financing components, technical assistance and studies.  As a result, some
potentially effective alternative financing programs and important studies did not take
place. Furthermore, FGN's interest rate policy had an adverse impact on the financial
condition of some PBs. FGN's decision to move the AO to the government center at
Abuja was disruptive because it was far from the PBs and communications facilities were
inadequate. The AO did not promote the line-of-credit sufficiently or take timely action
to acquire the computerization, communications facilities it needed to manage the project
effectively. FMI did not successfully implement the studies component of the project or
significantly improve extension services to SMEs. The performance of NBCI was
deficient because of poor management and the fact that the bank became financially
distressed during the project's implementation period.



- 8 -
VII. PARTICIPATING BANKS' PERFORMANCE
25.    The Bank approved the participation of 44 PBs in the project, and of these, 28
were active in making sub-loans: 12 commercial banks, 13 merchant banks, and 2
development banks and one specialized financial institution (leasing company). The
performance of the private commercial and merchant banks was satisfactory. The
performance of NBCI was unsatisfactory and that of NIDB was marginally satisfactory.
As a result of the project, all commercial banks and some of the merchant banks, which
participated in the project, have developed a capability in SME lending either through
recruiting new staff or training existing staff in the appraisal and monitoring. These
banks also complied with the prudential guidelines of the banking system. FGN does not
require compliance by development banks. Some PBs experienced financial difficulties
due to the adverse macroeconomic environment and ceilings on interest rates. These
banks required close monitoring. Also, during the project's implementation, CBN
declared a few of the PBs as financially distressed and refused to make disbursements for
sub-loans which these banks already had approved. This action caused considerable
difficulty for some entrepreneurs, especially for those with approved loans who received
only partial disbursements and could not purchase the additional equipment they needed
to begin productive operations.
VIII. LESSONS LEARNED
26.   The major lessons learned from the project are as follows:
*  Macroeconomic Framework. It is very difficult to effectively promote SME
development with a market-based line-of-credit in an unstable economy with inflation
in the order of 50-100 percent. The focus will first have to be on policies to attain and
sustain macroeconomic stability and then on a project for SME development based
totally on free market principles, with SMEs assuming the foreign exchange risk and
participating banks charging SMEs with market-based interest rates. The SME II
project's achievements in supporting SMEs in an unstable environment were due
mainly to the project stipulation that FGN accept foreign exchange risk, and FGN's
decision in the latter part of the project to cap interest rates, which was not consistent
with the project's policy objectives. Both of these factors helped insulate SMEs from
the economy's instability and prohibitive financial costs.
*  Project Design. In designing a project for SME development in an economy with a
history of instability and a weak institutional capability for project implementation, it
is important not to overload the project with components, especially too many
innovative financing mechanisms and supporting studies. The participation of the
private banking system in the line-of-credit financing was in itself a major innovation
and was more complicated to monitor and supervise by the apex agency which it had
to approve sub-projects of 28 banks instead of only one, as in previous line-of-credit
projects. However, the addition of several innovative financing mechanisms, such as
equipment leasing and mutual guarantee schemes, as well as six studies to obtain



- 9-
more information about the sub-sector, complicated project implementation. Given
the country situation, a gradual approach would have been more appropriate,
executing some of the studies affecting the line-of-credit during the project
preparation phase and deferring other studies and pilot operations to a subsequent
technical assistance project. Also experience with SME II has indicated that any
future project should have an apex agency which includes private sector participation
to improve commercial orientation and promotion of the project among the PBs.
Sub-project Supervision and Monitoring. It is difficult for an apex unit to
efficiently monitor 200 sub-projects without adequate staff, computers and basic
communications facilities. The set-up of a unit with such facilities should be a
condition of effectiveness for any future project. Also the Bank should not be
involved in the approval, monitoring, and disbursements for individual sub-projects.
These activities may tend to duplicate the efforts of the apex agency, which should
take responsibility for efficiently managing the project as an investment in Nigeria's
SME development.



PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES



- I I -
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Project Objectives
Assessment           Substantial       Partial         Negligible       Not Applicable
Categories                                       _
Macroeconomic Policies                                                               X
Sector Policies                                 X
Financial Objectives                            X
Institutional development                       X
Physical objectives                                        _      _                  X
Gender concerns                                                                      X
Other social objectives                                          _                   X
Environmental objectives                                                             X
Public sector management                               _          X
Private sector development      X
Other                                                                                X
B. Project Sustainability
Likely             |          Uncertain            |           Unlikely
x
C. Bank Performance
Stage of Project Cycle   Highly Satisfactory   Satisfactory            Deficient
Identification                                           X
Preparation                                          _   X         _
Appraisal                                                X
Supervision           X____ ___
D. Borrower Performance
Stage of Project Cycle   Highly satisfactory   Satisfactory            Deficient
Preparation                                         __  X
Implementation                                                                    X
Covenant Compliance                                        __                     X
E. Assessment of Outcome
Highly                                 Marginally                            Highly
Satisfactory       Satisfactory        Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactory
x__                                    _ _ _  _



- 12 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK CREDITS
Preceding Operations
Title            NIDB I
Loan no.         588-UNI
Year of approval  1969
Purpose         : Provide NIDB with foreign exchange for lending to viable industrial projects;
Strengthen the organizational structure and improve financial management.
Status          : Closed. ICR completed. Performance rated as satisfactory.
Title            NIDB II
Loan no.        : 705-UNI
Year of approval  1970
Purpose         : A follow-up project to provide NIDB with further foreign exchange needed for
lending to viable industrial projects; strengthen the organizational structure and
improve financial management.
Status          : Closed. ICR completed. Performance rated as satisfactory.
Title             NIDB III
Loan no.        : 1597-UNI
Year of approval  1978
Purpose         : Provide NIDB with about 20 percent of the foreign exchange resources needed to
finance industrial projects; facilitate NIDB's resource mobilization efforts from other
sources; and further strengthen NIDB's institutional capabilities.
Status          . Closed. ICR completed. Mixed overall performance - satisfactory in some areas but
considerable improvement needed in others.
Title             NIDBIV
Loan no.        : 2299-UNI
Year of approval  1983
Purpose         : Provide NIDB with a portion of its foreign exchange resources needed to finance
industrial projects and strengthen NIDB's institutional capabilities.
Status          : Closed. ICR completed. Mixed overall performance - satisfactory in some areas but
'considerable improvement needed in others.
Title           : SME I
Loan no.        : 2376-UNI
Year of approval  1983
Purpose         : Provide a line of credit to NBCI for lending to SMEs ; strengthen NBCI's capability
as a financial institution; and train federal and state industrial extension workers; and
conduct studies to identify potential areas for SME development.
Status           : Closed. ICR completed. Unsatisfactory performance. Did not meet most objectives.
Following Operations
None.



- 13 -
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle               Planned Date                       Actual Date
Identification                    February 1987                     February 1987
Preparation                       April 1987                        March 1987
Appraisal                         September 1987                    September 1987
Negotiations                      April 1988                        April 1988
Letter of development policy      NA                                NA
Board presentation                October 1988                      October 20, 1988
Signing                           December 1988                     December22, 1988
Effectiveness                     November 1988                     September 29, 1989
Project completion                September 1995                    September 1995
Credit closing                    March 31, 1996                    March 31, 1996
NA = Not applicable
Source: Project files and Bank Staff estimates.
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ million)
Comparative Indicators   FY 89   FY 90   FY 91   FY 92  FY 93   FY 94   FY 95   FY 96   FY 97
Appraisal estimate       0.0     27.0    72.9    116.0  170.1   221.4   251.2   270.0   270.0
Actual                   0.0    15.5    15.5       29.7   53.7    82.8   109.3   115.2  | 109.5
Actual as % of estimate   NA       56       21       26      32      37      44       43      41
Date of final disbursement: March 14, 1996
Notes:
1. All US $ figures rounded to the nearest hundred thousand US$.
2. All percentage figures rounded to the nearest one percent.
3. US$160 million canceled at the request of the Borrower.
Source: Bank MIS disbursement profile of June 11. 1996; loan status data of March 9, 1997; Bank staff estimates.



- 14 -
TABLE 5: KEY INDICTORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Key implementation indicators in the
SAR/President/s Report                            Estimated                      Actual
Completion of loan commitments for
components providing financing to
SMEs.
Line-of-credit                          September 1992                   March 1993
Financial Restructuring                 September 1992                   Component canceled
Mutual Guarantee Scheme                 September 1992                   Component canceled
Equipment Leasing                       September 1992                   Component canceled
Pilot Studies Facility                  September 1992                   Component canceled
Completion of studies by CBN
Mutual Guarantees                      June 1989                         Component canceled
Equipment Leasing                       June 1989                        Component canceled
Mutual Investment Fund                  June 1989                        Component canceled
Completion of Studies by FMI
Subcontracting                          December 1989                    Component canceled
Technology Development                  December 1989                    Component canceled
Sub-sector Studies and Industry Profiles    December 1990               Component canceled
Industrial Estates                      December 1989                    Component canceled
Pilot Facility for Feasibility Studies  Assistance to 2,000 SMEs         Component canceled
and Technical Assistance to SME         by June 1992
Source: Project files and Bank staff estimates.
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
Not applicable to this project since there were no such indicators specified at appraisal.



- 15 -
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT
Study                      Purpose              Status and Impact
Subcontracting             Evaluate potential linkages,  Canceled. No impact.
through subcontracting
between large and small
industries.
Technology Development     Assess the relationship      Canceled. No impact.
between the technology
development work of research
institutions and the
development of SMEs.
Sub-sector Profiles        Conduct SME sub-sector       Canceled. No impact.
studies and develop industry
profiles to improve the
information base for SME
development.
Industrial Estates         Evaluate alternative ways to  Canceled. No impact.
develop industrial estates with
private sector participation.
Mutualist Guarantee scheme   Determine the appropriate  Draft report prepared
regulatory and policy       but FGN never
framework for establishing a    accepted the
mutual investment fund.     recommendations. No
impact.
Equipment Leasing          Determine the appropriate    Canceled. No impact.
regulatory and policy
framework for equipment
leasing.
Source: Project files and Bank staff estimates.



- 16-
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
(in US$ million equivalent)
Item                 Appraisal estimate        I   Actual or latest estimate
Local     Foreign     Total      Local    Foreign    Total
Costs      costs      Costs      Costs      costs    costs
Line of Credit
World Bank                0.0       200.0      200,0        0.0     108.1    108.1
SME equity or PB loan    107.7        0.0      107.7       58.2       0.0     58.2
Subtotal                 107.7     200.0       307.7       58.2     108.1    166.3
Pilot Financial
Restructuring
World Bank                0.0       20.0        20.0       0.0       0.5       0.5
Participating Banks      30.0        0.0        30.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Subtotal                 30.0        0.0        50.0       0.0       0.5       0.5
Pilot Mutualist                                        i
Guarantee Scheme
World Bank               2.2         2.8        5.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Microenterprise Equity   0.5         --         0.5        0.0       0.0       0.0
Subtotal                 2.7         2.8        5.5        0.0       0.0       0.0
Equipment Leasing                                      _
World Bank                0.0       30.0        30.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Participating Banks      5.3         --         5.3        0.0       0.0       0.0
Subtotal                 5.3        30.0        35.3       0.0       0.0       0.0
Technical Assistance
World Bank               4.4         4.9        9.3        0.0       0.9       0.9
SMEs                     2.3         --         2.3        0.0       0.0       0.0
Subtotal                  6.7        4.9        11.6       0.0       0.9       0.9
Unallocated (World
Bank)                     --          5.7         .7        0.0       0.0        0.0
TOTAL COST           |  152.4       263.4      415.8       58.2     109.5  |_167.7
Note: All costs rounded to the nearest US$ 100,000 equivalent.
Source: Bank MIS and Bank staff estimates.
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
(in US$ million equivalent)
Source              Appraisal estimate          Actual/latest estimate
Local    Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign    Total
Costs     Costs    costs    costs    costs    Costs
World Bank                 6.6    263.4    270.0      0.0      109.5    109.5
SMEs and PBs
145.8       0.0   145.8    58.2         0.0     58.2
TOTAL                    152.4     263.4    415.8    58.2      109.5    167.7
Note: All financing amounts rounded to the nearest US$l100,000 equivalent.
Source: Bank MIS and Bank staff estimates.



-. 17-
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Not applicable to this project. Projects with total costs less than US$ I million did not require the
calculation of an expected economic rate-of-return for financing. Projects with a cost greater than US$ I
million equivalent were required to have an ex-ante economic rate of return of at least 12 percent in order
to receive financing under the project. Ex-post economic rates of return on these sub-projects are not
available.
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANT
Loan Agreement
Sections 3.01 (a) and (b)    I
Covenant type: Project execution
Description: Borrower declares commitment to project objectives and designates CBN as implementing
agency for parts A-E of the project and FMI and NBCI as implementing agencies for Part F of the project.
Status: Compliance.
Section 3.01 (c)-(e)
Covenant type: Project execution
Description: Borrower to execute parts A-E of the project through a subsidiary loan agreement between
FGN and CBN; relend USS I million equivalent to NBCI for Part F of the project; agree not to abrogate or
waive any part of the subsidiary loan agreement to CBN or the agreement with NBCI.
Status: Compliance.
Section 3.02
Covenant type: Project execution
Description: Borrower to employ, through FMI and NBCI consultants satisfactory to the Bank.
Status: Compliance                                  _        _-
Section 3.03
Covenant type: Project execution
Description: Bank and Borrower agree to the General Conditions of the loan agreement and for CBN to
execute parts A through E of the project according to the Proiect Agreement.
Status: Compliance
Section 3.04
Covenant type: Project execution
Description: Borrower to maintain the Project Coordination Committee (PCC) in the manner specified in
section (b) throughout the project's implementation. .
Status: Compliance
Section 3.05
Covenant type: Project execution
Description: Borrower to cause CBN to maintain a separate project account according to the specifications
in subsections (a) and (b).
Status: Compliance
Section 3.06
Covenant type: Project execution
Description: Borrower to submit semi-annual progress reports on the project to the Bank through FMI.
Status: Compliance



- 18-
Table 10: Status of Project Covenants
Loan Agreement
Section 3.07
Covenant type: Project execution
Description: Borrower, through FMI, to review progress of the Entrepreneurship Development Programs;
exchange views with the Bank on the recommendations under the studies; and implement the
recommendations of the studies, taking account of the Bank's views during a timetable agreed with the
Bank.
Original Fulfillment Date for Studies Completion: December 31, 1989 for studies under Part F (2) (ii)
and (iii) and December 31 1990 for studies under Part F (2) (iv).
Revised Fulfillment Date for Studies Completion: Not applicable.
Status: Non-compliance. The sub-components for these studies were canceled.
Section 3.08                I
Covenant type: Project execution
Description: Borrower to cause NBCI to employ consultants to assist in implementing Part F of the
project.
Original Fulfillment Date: No later than February 28, 1989
Revised Fulfillment Date: 1991
Status: Delayed compliance
Section 4.01
Covenant type: Financial
Description: Borrower to provide for maintenance of separate records for expenditures under Part F of the
project.
Status: Compliance
Section 4.02 (a)             |
Covenant type: Financial
Description: Borrower to have audits independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank, prepare audits of the
Special Account. Borrower also to furnish the Bank with copies of the audit reports along with any other
information reasonably requested.
Original Fulrillment Date: Submission of audit reports to the Bank no later than six months after the end
of the financial year covered by the audit report.
Revised Fulfillment Date: Not applicable.
Status: Delayed compliance.
Section 4.02 (b)             l
Covenant type: Financial
Description: For expenditures under Part F, the Borrower to provide for maintenance of records in
accordance with sound accounting practices; ensure the retention of records supporting documentation for
the records; and enable the Bank's representatives to examine the records.
Status: Compliance



- 19-
Table 10: Status of Project Covenants
Project Agreement
Article II
Section 2.02
Covenant type: General
Description: CBN to re-lend the proceeds under Parts A-D and Part E (1) to PBs under a participation
agreement and take all actions to help PBs perform their role under the project.
Status: Compliance
Section 2.04
Covenant type: General
Description: CBN to employ consultants and acquire vehicles necessary for implementing Part E of the
project.
Status: Compliance
Section 2.05
Covenant type: General
Description: CBN to perform obligations concerning insurance, use of goods and services, plans and
schedules according to sections 9.04-9.09 of the Project Agreement.
Status: Compliance
Section 2.06
Covenant type: General
Description: CBN to perform all obligations under the Subsidiary Administration Agreement and will
furnish a related report to the Bank.
Status: Compliance
Section 2.07
Covenant type: General
Description: Borrower, Bank and CBN to review, annually progress on implementing parts A-E of the
project.
Status: Compliance
Section 2.08
Covenant type: General
Description: CBN to establish and maintain SME Apex unit adequately in terms of qualified personnel and
coordinate and monitor overall execution of these components.
Status: Non compliance. Despite repeated requests by the Bank, CBN did not maintain adequate staff and
provide them with the necessary computer equipment and communications facilities for adequate
monitoring of the project's components under CBN's supervision.



- 20 -
Table 10: Status of Project Covenants
Project Agreement
Article 11
Section 2.09
Covenant type: General
Description: CBN to formulate policies and implementation procedures for the Pilot Mutualist Credit
Guarantee Scheme and establish the scheme immediately thereafter.
Original Fulfillment Date: Before March 31, 1989
Revised Fulfillment Date: Not applicable.
Status: Partial compliance. Draft study prepared but not accepted by FGN. Component canceled.
Section 2.10
Covenant type: General
Description: CBN to prepare a study on the appropriate regulatory and policy framework for equipment
leasing and implement the recommendations of the study.
Original Fulfillment Date: Before June 30, 1989
Revised Fulfillment Date: Not applicable.
Status: Non compliance. Draft study completed but not updated or finalized. Recommendations not
implemented. Component canceled.
Section 2.11
Covenant type: General
Description: CBN to prepare a study on developing a mutual investment scheme for SMEs, exchange
views with the Bank and the Borrower on the findings and recommendations for the study and implement
the recommendations within an acceptable period of time.
Original Fulfillment Date: Before December 31, 1989
Revised Fulfillment Date: Not applicable.
Status: Partial compliance. Draft study completed but FGN decided not to implement the
recommendations.
Section 2.12
Covenant type: General
Description: CBN to establish a Pilot Studies Facility as specified by Part E of the project.
Original Fulfillment Date: Before December 31, 1988
Revised Fulfillment Date: Not applicable.
Status: Partial compliance. The PBs had difficulty implementing this component because CBN did not
want to make available funds for non-investment type activities. Component canceled.
Section 2.13
Covenant type: General
Description: CBN to implement training courses for CBN and PBs in term lending procedures, project
appraisal supervision and monitoring; and preparation and evaluation of financial restructuring workouts.
Status: Partial compliance. CBN implemented the training program with the exception of supervision and
monitoring courses.



- 21 -
Table 10
Project Agreement
Article 11
Section 2.14
Covenant type: Economic
Description: CBN to do an annual review of the socioeconomic impact of investment projects and submit
its findings to the Bank.
Original Fulfillment Date: First review to take place before December 31, 1990.
Status and Comments: Delayed compliance. Lag between appraisal and supervision longer than
expected.
Article III
3.01 (a)
Covenant type: Financial
Description: CBN to maintain accounts and records adequate to monitor and record the progress of Parts
A-E of the project..
Status and Comments: Compliance.
3.01 (b)
Covenant type: Financial
Description: CBN to have records and financial statements for each fiscal year of the project audited and
furnish copies to the Bank.
Original Fulfillment Date: Six months after the end of each year.
Revised Fulfillment Date: Not applicable.
Status and Comments: Compliance but with delay
3.01 (c)
Covenant type: Financial
Description: CBN to maintain agreed records and accounts reflecting withdrawals from the loan account
based on statements of expenditure and maintain such records at least one year after receipt of the audit
report for year of the last withdrawal, and enable a Bank representative to examine the records.
Status and Comments: Compliance.
Schedule I (b)               l
Covenant type: Administration
Description: PBs to maintain a healthy loan portfolio and adequate staff and other resources to administer
sub-loans under the project.
Status and Comments: Partial compliance due to some non-performing sub-projects.
Schedule I (c)               |
Covenant type: Administration
Description: PBs to conduct operations and affairs, including interest rate policies in accordance with
sound financial principles and practices.
Status and Comments: Compliance. Some banks became financially distressed during the project's
implementation including NBCI.



- 22 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Project Agreement
Article III
Schedule 1 (d)
Covenant type: Administration
Description: PBs to: (a) maintain lending and investment policy suitable to the Bank and maintain
sufficiently qualified staff for project appraisal, monitoring, and record-keeping; and (b) furnish CBN
reports as agreed.
Original Fulfillment Dates: Audit reports no later than six months after the end of the year; semi-annual
progress reports within six weeks after the first and second calendar year; and monthly reports on the
operation of sub-accounts.
Revised Fulfillment Dates: Not applicable to this covenant.
Status and Comments: Compliance.
Source: Project files and Bank staff estimates.
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Not applicable to this project.
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of
project cycle                   Planned                                    Actual
Staff weeks              US$               Staff weeks          000 US$
Preparation to
Appraisal                                                           14.3                28.9
Appraisal                                                           75.7               126.6
Negotiations
through Board
approval                                         _                  25.5                27.7
Supervision                                                        210.1               513.7
Completion                                                           4.0                 6.0
Note: Figures on planned resource use in staff weeks and US$ not included in the table because they were not
available consistently enough throughout the project cycle to provide a meaningful comparison with actual data.
Source: Bank MIS data and Bank staff estimates.



- 23 -
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Month    Number   Days in       Specialized    Performance   Types of
Stage of project cycle   and        of       field      staff skills     Rating      Problems
year    persons                represented
Through Appraisal
Identification          2/87         1         9      DC                   NA           NA
Preparation 1           3/87        2          3      DC, FA               NA           NA
Pre-appraisal           9/87        5         23      SO.FA,YP,FS,         NA           NA
Appraisal through
Board Approval
Negotiations             6/88       2          8      OP, LE               NA           NA
Supervision
Supervision 1           06/89       2         12      OP, FA
Supervision 2           10/90        1         8      FA                    2
Supervision 3          11-12/90      1         9      SO                   NR        NA
Supervision 4           03/92        1        NS      FA                   NR        NA
Supervision 5           10/92        1        16      FA                    2        DO, M
Supervision 6         05-06/93       1        12      FA                    2        M
Supervision 7           12/93       3          11     FAC, FA,EC            2        DO. M
Supervision 8           07/94       3          17     EC, FA, YP           NR        DO, M
Supervision 9           08/95       3          1 1    DO, FA, SA
Completion a/            NA    |  NA          NA           NA              NA           NA
a/ There was no completion mission for the project.
Staffing codes: DC = Division Chief; DO = Disbursement Officer; EC = Economist; FA = Financial Analyst; FAC
Financial Analyst Consultant; FS= Financial Specialist; LE = Legal Staff; SA = Secretarial Assistant; SO = Senior
Operations Officer; TS = T raining Specialist; and YP = Young Professional.
Problem level codes: I - no significant problems: 2 = moderate problems; 3 = major problems
Problem type codes: DO = disbursement operations; M = managerial
Abbreviations: NA = not applicable; NR = not reported: and NS = not specified
Source: Project files and Bank staff estimates.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM
ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2995-UNI)
SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES (SME) II LOAN SCHEME
FROM INCEPTION IN 1990 TO 31ST MARCH, 1996
APPENDIX A: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION
1.   The SME II Project Coordination Committee (PCC) observed that there was a
strong unsatisfied demand for loans by entrepreneurs during the implementation of the
World Bank assisted SME II Loan Scheme which closed for approval on 31st March,
1994 and for disbursement on 31st March, 1996. As a result of the unsatisfied demand,
the PCC set up a Sub-committee comprising one representative each of the following
institutions: Federal Ministry of Finance (FMF), F'ederal Ministry of Industries (FMI),
Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Nigerian Industrial Development Bank (NIDB), Nigerian
Bank for Commerce and Industry (NBCI), First Bank of Nigeria (FBN), Union Bank of
Nigeria (UBN), United Bank for Africa (UBA), Universal Trust Bank (UTB), Nigbel
Merchant (NMB) and National Economic Reconstruction Fund (NERFIJND) to:
i)    look into the implementation of SME II: problems, solutions and
achievements;
ii)   examine the funding needs of small and medium enterprises (SMEs);
iii)   make recommendations for the development of the SME sub-sector.
2.   The Sub-committee held several meetings and visited nine projects financed under
the SME 11 loan scheme for on-the-spot assessment of their performances and problems
as well as their impact on the economy. Two projects each were located in Lagos and
Kano States while the reniaining ones were located in Delta, Edo, Ondo, Kano, Abia and
Imo States. The sub-committee was divided into four groups for the inspection of
projects outside Lagos State.
3.    In line with the terms of reference of the sub-committee, this report is structured
as follows : Part I gives a brief genesis of the SME II Loan Scheme; Part Il gives an
insight into the operations of the scheme from inception in 1990 to 31st March, 1996
when disbursement to projects closed;   Part III highlights constraints in the
implementation of the scheme while Part IV discusses the solution preferred. Part V
discussed achievements of the scheme and Part VI examines the funding needs of SMEs.
Part VII presents summary and conclusion while Part VIII presents the Sub-committee's
recommendations.



Appendix A                       - 25 -                    Borrower's Contribution
Part I
Genesis of the SME II Loan Scheme:
4.    Following the introduction of the Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) in 1986,
the Government assigned high priority to industrial development as a means of reducing
the dependence of the economy on oil and addressing the serious unemployment problem
and shortages of goods and services in the country. The Government therefore decided to
accelerate SME development. To this end, the Government in 1988 obtained a World
Bank loan of $270 million for the development of SMEs.
5.    The loan was reduced to US$ 142 million in September, 1992 because it was not
disbursing as fast as was planned, apparently because of inadequate patronage by wholly
owned Nigerian enterprises for which the loan was originally earmarked as well as
reluctance by participating banks (PBs) to embrace the scheme. However, of the loan, the
amount allocated to projects was US$ 135 million while the balance of $7 million was
allocated as follows: $2.5 million for SME Office Technical Assistance; $0.5 million for
NBCI, $0.8 million for Federal Ministry of Industries and $3.2 million was unallocated.
The CBN technical assistance allocation of $2.5 million was set aside for the
administration of the loan scheme and the strengthening of staff capabilities of
participating banks as well as to carry out studies in the financial and industrial sectors of
the Nigerian economy. The allocation to FMI was to carry out studies in the SME sector
while that to NBCI was to strengthen the bank's operations.
6.    The primary objective of the scheme was to promote the development and
rehabilitation of small and medium enterprises in the productive sector of the economy.
Specificallv, the scheme catered for fixed assets and working capital needs of enterprises
in manufacturing, agro-allied industry, mining, quarrying, industrial support services,
equipment leasing, urban mass transit and other service activities ancillary thereto.
7.    The loan scheme commenced operations in 1990 and was expected to close on
30th September, 1992 after which no project from PBs would be considered. However,
the closure of approval had been extended on two occasions - from September 30, 1992
to September 30, 1993; and from September 30, 1993 to March 31, 1994 following the
availability of large uncommitted funds under the loan scheme. The large uncommitted
funds arose mainly because of late commencement of disbursement under the scheme as a
result of prolonged negotiation of the applicable interest rate with the World Bank and the
slow response on the part of PBs as well as lack of awareness of the scheme's incentives
by prospective beneficiary SMEs. Disbursement under the scheme closed on 31 st March,
1996.



Appendix A                      - 26 -                    Borrower's Contribution
PART II
Operations of the Loan Scheme:
8.    The loan scheme commenced in 1990 with five credit facilities: (a) Line of Credit
(b) Financial Restructuring (FR) (c) Pilot Mutualist Credit Guarantee Scheme (PMCGS)
for micro enterprises (d) Equipment Leasing and (e) Pilot Study Facility (PSF). In 1992,
PMCGS, FR and PSF were canceled.  The PMCGS was canceled because the
International Labour Organization (ILO), which was selected to design the scheme could
not finalize the design on time, while FR and PSF were canceled for lack of patronage by
PBs. A new facility, Urban Mass Transit Scheme was introduced.
Project approval:
9.    The tempo of activities was low at the commencement of the scheme in 1990,
because of the reasons mentioned above. However, there had been tremendous increase
in project approvals in subsequent years up to the closure of the loan scheme in March,
1994. Indeed, the SME Apex Office received a large number of project applications from
banks towards the end of March, 1994. The increase in project applications and
approvals arose from amendments and changes to the SME II Scheme in 1992. The
changes included (i) free limit status for PBs (ii) foreign participation in eligible SMEs up
to 49 per cent (iii) disbursement through World Bank Special Commitment Method for
approved projects seeking disbursements of $100,000.00 and above, and (iv) awareness
of foreign exchange risk borne by the Federal Government.
10.   From inception of the scheme in 1990 through 31 st March, 1994, the SME Office
received 346 project applications from  28 banks.  Of the 346 applications, 211
applications valued at US$132.77 million were approved while 26 other approved
projects valued at about $12.44 million were withdrawn. The projects were withdrawn
mainly because of the inability of the promoters to meet participating banks' conditions
for drawdown. Thus, total commitment as at 31st March, 1996 amounted to about $133
million.  The approved projects were in manufacturing, agro-allied, mining and
quarrying, agricultural and transportation sectors of the economy, with Lagos State
having the largest number of projects followed by Anambra State and Abia State in that
order.
Disbursement to Approved Projects:
11.   From inception to the closure of disbursement on 31 st March, 1996, disbursement
totaled US $107 million or 80 per cent of total commitment of US $133 million. The
total amount committed would have been fully disbursed but for the Federal
Government's directive to apply autonomous rate for disbursement to SME II Projects.
The directive resulted in the cancellation of many approved loans as the SMEs claimed
that their projects would not be viable at autonomous rate.



Appendix A                      - 27 -                    Borrower's Contribution
Document Outstanding with PBs:
12.   Under the scheme, documents evidencing receipt and payment for goods/services
financed (receipt, invoice, bill of lading, etc.) were expected to be sent regularly to the
SME office by PBs. The office required the documents to enable it recover the amount
covered by them (the documents) from the World Bank.
The SME Apex Office continues to encounter problems in the collection of
documents outstanding from PBs. As at 30th June, 1996, the value of the documents
overdue for collection from 19 PBs amounted to N91,830,397.20 and US$4,261,776.25.
Most PBs claimed that the outstanding documents in respect of Naira disbursements were
yet to be given to them by project promoters while those on forex disbursements were yet
to be negotiated.
Project Monitoring:
13.   From the inception of the scheme up to 31st March, 1996, staff of SME Apex
Office in conjunction with staff of relevant PBs visited 111 projects located in various
part of the country. Furthermore, SME II Appraisal Sub-committee also visited nine
projects located in six states (see Appendix I). The visits revealed that most of the
projects had commenced production and a few export their goods.
14.   Reports received from PBs indicate that over 40,000 people had been employed
by projects which had commenced production. It is believe therefore, that employment
generation resulting from the SME II scheme would be over 60,000 people when all the
projects financed would have commenced production.
TRAINING OF STAFF OF PARTICIPATING BANKS
15.   The SME Office organized three courses on Project Appraisal and Management
for staff of PBs during the implementation of the scheme. The training was necessary in
order to ensure that projects forwarded to the office were well appraised in line with the
scheme's eligibility criteria and financial viability.
Performance of PBs:
16.   As at 31st March, 1996, 44 banks participated in the SME II Loan Scheme. The
PBs include 21 commercial banks, 20 merchant banks, 2 development banks and one
specialized financial institution. Of the 44 PBs, 28 recorded at least one approved project
each (see Appendix II). NIDB led the PBs in terms of approved projects recorded,
followed by FBN and UTB. However, in terms of value of approved projects NIDB led
the PBs, followed by UTB and UBA.



Appendix A                      - 28 -                   Borrower's Contribution
17.  In 1992, the World Bank approved free limit status for some PBs. The free limit
status enabled the PBs concerned to approve projects within certain limits ($500,000.00
or $2.5 million, depending on the category in which the PBs are classified by the World
Bank) without reference to the World Bank. The free limit status facilitated the process
of project approval. Banks with such a status included NIDB, FBN, UBN, UBA, UTB,
Chartered Bank, Progress Bank, NAL, Nigbel Merchant Bank and Nigeria Merchant
Bank. Of the 198 approved projects, 75 projects or about 37.5 per cent were free limit
projects.
PART III
CONSTRAINTS IN THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE SCHEME
Credit Risk:
18.   Banks perceived SMEs as high risk borrowers and therefore did not like to bear
all the credit risk involved in lending to them under the scheme. Consequently, the 100%
risk which participating banks were required to bear had prevented many of them from
being fully committed to financing SMEs under the scheme. So far, out of 44 banks
qualified to participate in the scheme, only 28 recorded at least one approved project.
Unstable Exchange Rate of the Na:
19.   A major problem that affected the smooth implementation of the scheme was the
unstable Naira exchange rate. The deregulation of the Naira exchange rate in March,
1992 caused a lull in the lending activities of the SME Office. Many promoters were
discouraged from applying for loans because of the escalation in project cost following
the deregulation. Also, banks were reluctant to carry the increased exposure resulting
from escalation in project cost. The unstable exchange rate problem re-occurred in
March, 1993 when the exchange rate of the Naira was N24.99 to $1. The development
also resulted in a reduction in the number of projects sent to the SME office. Also,
following the emergence of autonomous rate for disbursement to projects in 1995,
requests for disbursement dropped considerably from 112 in 1994 to 25 in 1995 and 6 in
1996.
Inability of SMEs to Provide Equity Contribution:
20.   Many wholly owned Nigerian SMEs were unable to contribute the minimum
equity contribution of 25% of project cost required under the scheme. Consequently,
they could not access loans under the scheme.



Appendix A                      - 29 -                    Borrower's Contribution
Delay in Funds Replenishment:
21.   Under the scheme, documents evidencing receipt and payment for goods/services
financed (receipt, invoice, bill of lading, etc.) were to be sent to the SME Office. The
office required the documents to enable it replenish cash disbursement from the World
Bank. Banks were usually slow at submitting the required documents. This created
funding problem of the office. Therefore, the SME Office had to send staff to chase
overdue documents from PBs offices.
Communication Problem Between PBs and SME Office:
22.   The relocation of SME Office to Abuja resulted in serious communication
problems. Correspondence form SME Units of PBs in Lagos took several weeks to reach
CBN/SME Office in Abuja.  This resulted in delays approval of projects and
disbursements to projects. However, the problems were minimized with the installation
of fax machine in the CBN/SME Office in Abuja.
Inadequate Spread for PBs:
23.   Under the SME II Scheme, CBN charged PBs the minimum rediscount rate
(currently 13.5%). PBs were authorized to charge SME beneficiary a maximum of the
average of the prime lending rates (PLRs) of the four biggest commercial banks
(currently 20.62%). The difference between the two rates was the PBs maximum spread.
Initially, the spread was about 5%. It is currently above 7% PBs were of the view that
5% spread was not adequate to meet their overheads on loan administration and credit
risk to SMEs.
Market Determined Interest Rate:
24.   The PBs believed that the market determined interest rate applicable under the
SME II scheme was not in the interest of SMEs. Therefore, they wanted the interest rate
under the scheme to be subsidized in order to assist beneficiary SMEs to be competitive
and to grow.
Floating Interest Rate:
25.   As stated earlier in this report, the interest rate under the SME II Scheme is the
average of the PLRs of the four biggest commercial banks. The rate, therefore, varies
from time to time. PBs claimed that the changes in the applicable interest rate from time
to time complicated loan administration and adversely affected projection and planning.



Appendix A                      - 30 -                    Borrower's Contribution
Lack of Entrepreneurial Rate:
26.   Most SMEs are first generation entrepreneurs and they lack the expertise to run
enterprise efficiently. In addition, they do not maintain good records and management.
The PBs were reluctant to sponsor them for loans under the scheme.
Unacceptable Security:
27.   Promoters were unable to provide acceptable securities for projects particularly
for those located in rural areas, hence they could not access the loan scheme.
Inadequate Infrastructure:
28.   Inadequate infrastructural facilities such as good roads, electricity and water
supply, hinder the take-off and growth of many projects in both urban and rural areas.
These lead to a very high level of indirect capital cost.
PART IV
SOLUTIONS TO PROBLEMS IDENTIFIED
Credit Risk:
29.   The SME PCC explored the possibility of setting up a credit guarantee scheme as
a means of minimizing the credit risk of PBs. To this end, the Federal Ministry of
Industries (FMI) was urged to look into the matter. FMI has since examined the issue
and its decision was being awaited. However, the Guarantee Scheme being proposed by
FMI appears to be taking a long time to take off. There is need to establish the scheme
urgently in order to accelerate SME development in the country.
Unstable Exchange Rate:
30.   This is a macro-economic problem which is outside the control of the committee.
Initially, when large exchange rate fluctuations were experienced, most beneficiaries who
had commenced drawdown were allowed to apply the exchange rate ruling before the
large adverse fluctuations. However, when the fluctuations became a regular occurrence
subsequent projects were not given the same treatment.
Inability of SMEs to Provide Equity Contribution:
31.   Following the observed inability of SMEs to provide the minimum 30% of project
cost as equity, the contribution was reduced to 25% project cost. Consequently, more
SMEs responded in terms of project applications.



Appendix A                       - 31 -                    Borrower's Contribution
Delay in Funds Replenishment:
32.   In order to address the problem of late submission of documents by banks for
replenishment purposes, World Bank Special Commitment (S/C) method1 was introduced
for disbursement of $100,000 and above. The S/C method reduced the demand for funds
from the SME Project bank account and thus improved the funding position of SME
Office to meet cash disbursement.
Communication Problem Between PBs and SME Office:
33.   Most of the time, officers of SME Office and PBs resorted to the use of telephone
and fax to minimize communication problem.
Inadequate Spread for PBs:
34.   Initially, the World Bank had wanted PBs to charge market interest rate.
However, it was feared that this could discourage SMEs from patronizing the scheme,
hence the applicable interest rate agreed upon was the average of the PLRs of the four
biggest banks. This, to some extent, is market-based and the spread would depend on the
state of the market.
35.   The Government wanted a subsidized interest rate under the scheme in order to
attract many beneficiaries. However, the World Bank preferred that PBs should be
allowed to charge their respective market interest rates. As a compromise, the World
Bank agreed with the Government that the applicable interest rate should be the average
of the PLRs of the four biggest commercial banks.
pART V
ACHIEVEMENTS OF SME II LOAN SCHEME
36.   The SME II Loan Scheme from inception in 1990 to 31st March, 1996 had
approved 211 projects valued at US$132.77 million. Of this amount, about US$80
million had been disbursed. Some of the SMEs financed had commenced production.
Indeed, some of them exported their products.
The SME scheme had therefore assisted in the establishment of new enterprises
and the expansion of existing ones. It may be too early to assess the achievement of the
' Under the World Bank Special Commitment Method, the World Bank guarantees letters of credit opened
by PBs for approved projects seeking disbursements of $100,000.00 and above, and eventually effects
payment upon presentation of shipping documents to it by a negotiating bank.



Appendix A                      - 32 -                    Borrower's Contribution
scheme.  There is no doubt that so far the scheme has made some significant
contributions to the development of the SME sector in the country.
The achievements of the SME include the following:
37.   Provision of Funding to SMEs:
The Federal Government established the SME II Loan Scheme primarily to
provide short, medium and long-term loans to SMEs. PBs access the funds under the
scheme as additional source of credit. Therefore, many of them participated actively in
lending to SMEs under the scheme. Additional attraction to PBs was that loans under the
scheme were excluded from their credit ceilings.
38.   Provision of Foreign Exchange to SMEs:
Many beneficiaries of the scheme imported their fixed assets and items of
working capital. The foreign exchange for the items was provided by the scheme. Thus,
the scheme became an additional source of foreign exchange to SMEs.
39.   Foreign Exchange Risk:
One of the major attractions of the SME II scheme was the forex risk borne by the
Federal Government. This had assisted many SMEs who soured their funds in respect of
imports under the scheme because the loans obtained by them to finance imports were
expressed in Naira on the dates of disbursements. So, the enterprises concerned were not
affected by fluctuation in exchange rates after the date of disbursement.
40.   Industrial Development and Employment Generation:
The scheme had given birth to a new generation of manufacturing enterprises
which otherwise would not have been possible. It had also assisted existing SMEs to
modernize, restructure, diversify or expand their enterprises. The net effect of all these
developments was increased employment, increased supply of goods/services as well as
increased gross domestic product (GDP).
41.   Increased Export:
Some of the enterprises financed under the scheme exported their goods to Europe
and some West African countries. At the moment the export earnings by the SMEs may
be small, but there is no doubt that in the long-term, they will make a significant
contribution to the export earnings of the country.



Appendix A                      - 33 -                    Borrower's Contribution
42.   Encouragement of Local Sourcing of Raw Material:
Under the scheme, new enterprises were required to source between 40% - 60 %
of their raw materials locally. In this way, the scheme had encouraged SMEs to look
inward for their raw materials and thereby promote self-reliance.
43.   Entrepreneurial Skill:
The SME scheme had led to the development of entrepreneurial skill among
Nigerians. Following the introduction of the scheme, many Nigerian traders now venture
into manufacturing activities. This is a healthy development, which should be encouraged
by the authorities.
44.   Promote Banks' Interest in Development Banking:
Traditionally, two development banks, NBCI and NIDB, were the main suppliers
of industrial long term finance to the SME sector. The appraisal/monitoring of long term
loans was a new area for commercial banks and some merchant banks. Following the
establishment of the SME II scheme, participating commercial and merchant banks had to
build up a level of expertise to enable them to partake profitably in the scheme.
However, the introduction of autonomous exchange rate for disbursement to SMEs could
discourage the commercial and merchant banks from continuing with existing
Government schemes and eventually lead to their losing interest in financing SMEs.
PART Yl
FUNDING NEEDS OF SMEs
45.   Before the establishment of specialized fuinding schemes by the Govermnent,
development finance institutions (DFIs) were the main suppliers of industrial finance to
the SME sector. Commercial and merchant banks, because of the short term nature of
their deposits, shy away from long term lending in order to avoid a mismatch. In
addition, these banks perceive SMEs as a high risk sector and they are very reluctant to
provide loans to them.
46.   The Federal Government established some specialized funding schemes, NEXIM,
NERFUND and SME II for SMEs in order to address the shortage of loanable funds to
the SME sector. The specialized fumding schemes have provided avenue for commercial
and merchant banks to source medium and long term loans to meet the fixed assets and
working capital needs of their clients. However, NERFUND does not provide working
capital loans.



Appendix A                      - 34 -                   Borrower's Contribution
47.   The schemes have justified their existence based on the quantum of loans
disbursed to PBs for on-lending to SMEs. Though the SME II loan was reduced to US
$142 million in mid 1992 because it was not disbursing as planned, PBs and SMEs
showed a lot of interest in the scheme from the fourth quarter of 1992 when they realized
the benefits of foreign exchange risk borne by the Government. From that time to the end
of approval under the scheme on 31st March, 1994, the SME scheme received a large
number of project applications from PBs. The number and value of applications received
from the fourth quarter of 1992 up to the end of approvals in March, 1994 far exceeded
the uncommitted loan amount during the period. This is a reflection of the enthusiasm of
SMEs in the scheme and an indication of their funding needs.
48.   As stated earlier, without the SME II and other specialized funding schemes,
banks will not be willing to give credit to the SME sector. Even now, with the liquidity
crises in the banking industry, few banks which are liquid prefer to deal with reputable
companies. As a result of large enterprises crowding out SMEs from credit availability in
banks, the few gains already achieved under the SME II may disappear, if the SME
scheme is not maintained.
49.   The need for the Federal Government to continue to provide funds for SME
development cannot be over emphasized, if this country is to be industrialized.
Developed countries such as USA, UK, Japan, etc. up to the present moment continue to
ensure that funds are available for the development of SMEs. In U.S.A., a Government-
owned organization called the Small Business Center provides guarantee up to 90% of
loans to SMEs. In addition, the center provides free counseling and training to the SMEs.
Similar schemes exist in the UK, South Korea and many other countries.
50.   The establishment of specialized funding schemes for the development of the
SME sub-sector is a step in the right direction. The schemes have already engendered the
enthusiasm of entrepreneurs in setting up manufacturing enterprises or expanding existing
ones. It is the view of this sub-committee that there are enough resources in the country
through which SMEs can be adequately funded. In this regard therefore, it is necessary
for the country to establish a uniquely Nigerian model of funding which will address the
peculiar problems of SMEs in the country. The Government should maintain the
momentum as the economy stands to reap huge benefits.
51.   Already, the commercial and merchant banks have shown a lot of interest in the
SME II because of its unique incentives, hence a successor scheme should be put in
place. The incentives include (i) foreign exchange risk cover for beneficiary by which
Naira indebtedness is determined on the date foreign exchange is disbursed; working
capital for all categories of SME beneficiaries and (ii) long maturity of up to 12 years,
including 3 years grace period. The incentives are not available under NERFUND and



Appendix A                      - 35 -                    Borrower's Contribution
NEXIM. The problems that led to the establishment of the SME II loan scheme have not
been fully solved. Small and medium entrepreneurs do not still have enough funds to
meet their needs.
PART VII
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION
52.   This report has reviewed the operations of SME II since its inception in 1990
through March 31, 1996. It also discussed the problems which militated against the
smooth implementation of the scheme and their solutions. In addition, the achievements
of the scheme and the funding needs of SMEs were examined.
53.   Under the scheme, $135 million was earmarked to finance the fixed assets and
working capital needs of projects approved. Of this amount, $133 million had been
committed for allocation to 211 projects located within the 24 states of the Federation.
The sum of US $107 million representing 80 per cent of the total commitment had been
disbursed to various projects. Most of the projects had commenced production while a
few are exporting. The total amount committed would have been fully disbursed but for
the problem of applicable exchange rate which occurred in 1995.
54.   With full recognition of the incentives under the scheme, participating banks
(PBs) showed a lot of enthusiasm. This was evidenced by the large number of project
applications forwarded to the SME Office by the PBs. Also, the introduction of free limit
for some PBs by the World Bank facilitated approval process and increased PBs' interest
in the scheme.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM
ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2995-UNI)
APPENDIX B: OPERATIONAL PLAN
The Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) has agreed that SMEs have an
important role to play in the country's industrial development but has not set up
mechanisms to ensure that the growth of SMEs will be sustainable. However, there are
several actions that the FGN will have to take in order to sustain the growth of SMEs in a
market economy:
*  Stabilize the macroeconomic environment. During the implementation review, the
Bank stressed the need for FGN to take steps toward economic stabilization such as
reducing deficit spending. It is difficult for market-based SME development to take
place in an economy with 50-100 percent inflation. FGN also needs to improve its
financial record keeping to allow for more reliable projections of the macroeconomic
environment, which would be necessary for the approval of any future project.
*  Provide a supportive policy environment. Once FGN stabilizes the economy, it
should commit to market-based interest and foreign exchange policies for efficient
allocation of resources. In the absence of such policies, the private banking system
may perceive the risks of SME lending to be too high or become involved in SME
lending and experience financial problems.
*  Evaluate programs for promoting entrepreneurship in developing SMEs.  The
focal point of extension programs for entrepreneurs has been the Small Scale Industry
(SSI) Department and the Industrial Development Centers (IDC) of the Federal
Ministry of Industry (FMI). However, FMI has abolished its SSI Department and it
is not clear how extensive a role the IDCs are playing in SME development relative to
numerous other public and private services available to entrepreneurs. It is therefore
important to evaluate the various programs and the types of services they provide.
Such an evaluation should look at the adequacy of these services in terms of type and
quality, evaluate the potential for greater market orientation of the public agencies in
the provision of services, and determine the most appropriate way to publicize the
availability of these services to entrepreneurs interested in starting or restructuring
SMEs.



Appendix B                      - 37 -                         Operational Plan
* Examine the credit delivery system. The private banking system has developed a
capability in SME sub-project appraisal and surveys conducted under SME II have
indicated that they are willing to continue with SME lending. However, to sustain
this capability and interest, it is likely that FGN will need to make additional foreign
exchange available for SME lending to the banking system and provide a supportive
financial policy environment.









IMAGING
Report No.:           16811
Type:       ICR



