Page  1
                                     September 10, 1991
The Honourable Minister
Federal Ministry of Finance
     and Economic Development
P.M.B. 12591
Ikoyi, Lagos
Nigeria
The Governor
Central Bank of Nigeria
P.M.B. 12194
Tinubu Square
Lagos, Nigeria
     Re:  NIGERIA-Loan No. 2995 UNI (Private Small and Medium
          Enterprise Development Project)
          Amendment of Loan and Project Agreements
Dear Sirs:
     Please refer to: (i) the Loan Agreement (Private Small and
Medium Enterprise Development Project) date December 22, 1988
between the Federal Republic of Nigeria (the Borrower) and the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank);
(ii) the Project Agreement (Private Small and Medium Enterprise
Development Project) of same date between the Bank and the Central
Bank of Nigeria (CBN); and (iii) the letter from the Federal
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development dated July 22, 1991
setting out the Borrower's proposals and the reasons for amendments
hereby proposes that the above-named Loan and Project Agreements be
amended as follows:
A.   Loan Agreement
1.   By the revision in Section 1.02
     (a)  Of the definition of "Beneficiary" in (h) to read:
          "(h) "Beneficiary" means an SME which, except as the
          Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree (i) is at
          least 51% owned by private Nigerian individuals or
          private juridicial persons; (ii) operates in any
          economic sector (including manufacturing, agro-related
          industries, mining, quarrying, industrial support
          services, private sector small and medium scale urban
          public transportation projects, equipment leasing, and
          other services ancillary thereto other than subsistence
          agriculture, real estate, commerce, finance and
          insurance, hotels and construction; and (iii) enters
          into a Sub-loan Agreement with a PB for an investment
          Project."
     (b)  Of the definition of "PB" or "Participating Bank" to
     read:
          "(k) "PB" or "Participating Bank" means each commercial
          bank, merchant bank, or any development bank or
          specialized financial institution which has been
          approved by CBN as a Participation Bank for purposes of
          the Project: (i) it has met criteria for
          creditworthiness satisfactory to CBN and the Bank; and
          (ii) it has either been favorably rated by CBN on the
          basis of CBN's most recent supervision of its management
          and operations; or (iii) where no such supervision has
          taken place, it has received a current and unqualified
Page  2
          audit report from independent auditors acceptable to CBN
          and the Bank."
2.   By the deletion in Section 3.08 of the date "February 28,
1989" and the substitution therefor of the new date "December 31,
1991".
3.   By the decision in Schedule 1 of Sub-Category (a) of Category
(1) and the substitution therefor of the following new Sub-
Categories:
                         Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated    % of
                         (Expressed in       Expenditures
 Category                SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
Goods and services
to be financed
under Part A of the
Project
(a)Sub-loans and
   Investments for
   Investment Projects
   other than SME urban
   public transportation
   projects:
   (i)   SMEs with     60,000,000            100% of Sub-
         asset size                          loans and
         of 5 million                        Investments up
         Naira and                           to 75% of
         above                               the cost of
                                             the Investment
                                             Project
   (ii)  SMEs with     60,000,000
         asset size
         below 5
         million
         Naira
4.   By the addition in Schedule 1 next after Sub-Category (b) in
Category (1) of the following new Sub-Category:
                         Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated    % of
                         (Expressed in       Expenditures
 Category                SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(c)Sub-loans and       30,000,000            100% of Sub-
   Investments for                           loans and
   SME urban public                          Investments
   transportation                            up to 75% of
   projects                                  the cost of
                                             the Investment
                                             Project."
5.   By the deletion in Schedule 2 of Part A and the substitution
therefor of the following new Part:
"Part A:            Line of Credit
     The financing, through CBN and PBs of: (i) fixed investments,
including services and working capital needs of private sector small
and medium scale enterprises; and (ii) vehicles (including spare
parts) required to operate private sector small and medium scale
public urban transportation projects."
B.   Project Agreement
Page  3
1.   By the deletion in Schedule 1 of:
A.   Part A.1 and the substitution therefor of the following new
     provisions:
"1.  Currency
     (a)  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) below, all
          Sub-loans made under Part E(1) of the Project shall be
          denominated in Naira.  The aggregate amount (the PB
          Subsidiary Loan) to be made available by CBN to a PB
          under its respective Participation Agreement shall be
          the equivalent in Naira (determined as of the respective
          date or dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account using
          the market determined official rate of the most recent
          foreign exchange auction system or any other lawful
          rates acceptable to the Bank) of the value of the
          currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out of the
          cost to the goods and services to be incurred with
          respect to the carrying out of an Investment Project.
     (b)  Sub-loans, Investments and loans under Part E(1) of the
          Project which a PB intends to make to export-oriented
          SMEs: (i) may be denominated in foreign currency or
          currencies; and (ii) shall bear the market determined
          interest rate or rates appropriate to loans made in
          foreign currency or currencies.  Such SMEs shall bear
          any foreign exchange risks on Sub-loans, Investments and
          loans made to them under the Project and denominated in
          foreign currency or currencies';
B.   The following provisions in paragraph (b) of Part A.1:
     "For the purpose of this Agreement, the Bank shall establish
     the amounts for the free-limit Sub-loans, Investments and
     lease financing for each PB after review by the SME Apex Unit
     of the first two appraisal reports for Investment Projects
     submitted by PBs under Parts A to D of the Project." and the
     substitution therefor of the following new provisions: "For
     the purpose of this Agreement, a free-limit Sub-loan for an
     Investment Project financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
     shall not exceed the sum of (i) $2,500,000 equivalent for a
     well-established PB with demonstrated capacity for credit
     evaluation, and (ii) $500,000 equivalent for any other PB.";
     and
C.   Paragraph (a) of Part A.4 and the substitution therefor of the
     following new paragraph:
     "4.  (a)  (i)  Sub-loans under Parts A and B of the Project
     for fixed assets and free-standing working capital (other than
     Sub-loans for public urban transportation Investment Projects)
     shall have maturities of up to 12 years and three years,
     respectively, including grace periods of up to three years,
     and one year respectively.
     (ii) Sub-loans under Part A of the Project for public urban
     transportation Investment Projects shall have maturities of up
     to three years with up to 6 months grace period.";
2.   By the deletion of Schedule 2 of:
(A)  paragraph (a) of Part C.1 and the substitution therefor of the
     following new paragraph:
     "(a) Beneficiaries shall contribute at least 25% of the
     Investment Project cost in equity or, as a Beneficiary and a
     PB may agree, from a mix of equity and loan made by the PB to
     the Beneficiary."
(B)  paragraph (e) of Part C.1 and the substitution therefor of the
Page  4
     following new paragraph:
     "(e) Sub-loan Limits
          (i)  Maximum financing from the proceeds of the Loan
          shall be 75% of the Investment Project cost."
(C)  The last sub-paragraph of Part C.1(d) and the substitution
     therefor of the following new sub-paragraph:
     "PBs shall actively promote, encourage and give priority to
     those SMEs which make the maximum use of local raw materials;
     provided, however, that in the case of new manufacturing
     enterprises (other than enterprises which meet the
     requirements of the Borrower's manufacturing in-bond scheme)
     the share of locally sourced raw materials of the total raw
     materials shall be at least 40%, with the objective of
     reaching 60% by September 30, 1992."
5.   Please indicate your agreement to the amendments proposed
above by signing the enclosed copies of this letter and returning
them to us.  The amendments when countersigned by you shall be
deemed to have come into full force and effect as of September 1,
1991.
                           Very Truly Yours
                             Edwin R. Lim
                               Director
                       Western Africa Department
                             Africa Region
CONFIRMED:
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
By
     Authorized Representative
CENTRAL BANK OF NIGERIA
By
     Authorized Representative
