Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2995 UNI
     (Private Small and Medium Enterprise Development Project)
                              between
                    FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated December 22, 1988
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated December 22,  1988, between FEDERAL REPUBLIC
OF   NIGERIA   (the   Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL   BANK   FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     (B)  Parts A through E of the  Project will be carried out by
the Central Bank of  Nigeria  (CBN) with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such  assistance, the Borrower will make available
to CBN for  relending  to  Participating  Banks  (PBs) part of the
proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this  Agreement  and in the Project Agree-
ment of even date herewith between the Bank and CBN;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01.  The  "General  Conditions  Applicable  to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with
the modifications set forth in  Schedule  4 to this Agreement (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2. Unless the context otherwise requires, wherever
used in this Agreement, the  several  terms defined in the General
Conditions  and  in  the  Preamble  to  this  Agreement  have  the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and CBN of even date  herewith,  as  the  same may be amended from
time to time, and such  term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (b)  "CBN" means the Central Bank of Nigeria, established and
operating pursuant to the Central Bank of Nigeria Act (Cap. 30) of
the Laws of the Federal  Republic  of  Nigeria and Lagos, 1958, as
amended from time to time;
     (c)  "Subsidiary   Administration    Agreement"   means   the
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and CBN pursuant
to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement;
     (d)  "Participation  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  to be
entered into between CBN and each Participating Bank (as such term
is hereinafter  defined)  pursuant  to  Section  2.02  (a)  of the
Project Agreement for Parts A to E (1) of the Project;
     (e)  "Sub-loan Agreement" means  the  agreement to be entered
into by a Participating Bank  and  a  Beneficiary (as such term is
hereinafter defined) under  which  a  Participating Bank agrees to
provide a Sub-loan or an  Investment for an Investment Project (as
such terms are hereinafter defined);
     (f)  "SME" means a  small  and  medium  scale enterprise with
fixed assets (excluding land) plus  cost of the Investment Project
(hereinafter referred to as asset size of SME) not exceeding Naira
10 million in constant 1988 prices;
     (g)  "Micro-enterprise" means an enterprise with fixed assets
(excluding  land)  plus  cost  of  the  Investment  Project  below
Naira 400,000 in constant 1988 prices;
     (h)  "Beneficiary" means an SME which, except as the Borrower
and the Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  is  100%  owned by private
Nigerian individuals  or  private  Nigerian  juridical persons and
which operates in  any  economic  sector (including manufacturing,
agro-related  industries,  mining,  quarrying,  industrial support
services,  equipment   leasing,   and   other  service  activities
ancillary  thereto)  other   than  subsistence  agriculture,  real
estate, commerce, finance  and  insurance, hotels and construction
and which enters  into  a  Sub-loan  Agreement  with  a  PB for an
Investment Project;
     (i)  "SME Apex Unit" means  the  Apex Unit established by CBN
pursuant to Section 2.08 (a) of the Project Agreement;
     (j)  "Naira" or  the  sign  "N"  means  the  currency  of the
Borrower;
     (k)  "PB" or "Participating Bank" means each commercial bank,
merchant bank, or  any  development  bank or specialized financial
institution  which  shall  for  the  purposes  of  the  Project be
designated by CBN as a Participating Bank;
     (l)  "MAN" means the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria;
Page  3
     (m)  "MGA" means the Mutual Guarantee Association;
     (n)  "NASSI" means  the  Nigeria  Association  of Small-Scale
Industrialists;
     (o)  "Sub-loan" means a loan, including lease financing, made
or proposed to be made by a  PB to a Beneficiary for an Investment
Project out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by CBN;
     (p)  "Free-limit Sub-loan" means  a  Sub-loan, as so defined,
which  qualifies  as  a   free-limit   Sub-loan  pursuant  to  the
provisions of paragraph 1  (b)  of  Part  A  of  Schedule 2 to the
Project Agreement;
     (q)  "Free-limit  Investment"  means  an  Investment,  as  so
defined, which qualifies  as  a  free-limit Investment pursuant to
the provisions of paragraph 1 (b)  of  Part A of Schedule 2 to the
Project Agreement;
     (r)  "Investment" means an investment, other than a Sub-loan,
made or proposed to  be  made  by  a  PB  in  a Beneficiary for an
Investment Project out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by
CBN;
     (s)  "Investment Project" means  a  specific development pro-
ject to be carried out by  a  Beneficiary for which a PB agrees to
provide a  Sub-loan  or  Investment  under  Parts  A  to  D of the
Project;
     (t)  "Special Account" means any  of the accounts referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (u)  "Sub-Account" means any  sub-account  of Special Account
"A" opened pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.O1. The Bank  agrees  to  lend  to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the Loan
Agreement, an  amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent  to two
hundred seventy million dollars ($270,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in  accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement  for:  (i)  amounts  paid (or, if the Bank
shall  so  agree,  amounts  to  be  paid)  by  CBN  on  account of
withdrawals  made  by:  (A)  a  Beneficiary  under  a  Sub-Loan or
Investment; or (B) a Beneficiary  or  an entrepreneur under a loan
made under Part E (1) of  the Project, to meet the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for Investment Projects under Parts
A to D of the Project or  a  study under Part E (1) of the Project
in respect  of  which  the  withdrawal  from  the  Loan Account is
requested; and (ii) expenditures  made  (or  if  the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect  of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for Parts E (2)  and  F of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in  dollars  two  special  accounts on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  One of the accounts (Special
Account "A") shall be opened  in  the  Central Bank of Nigeria and
shall be used for  Parts  A  to  E  of  the  Project and the other
account (Special Account "B") shall be opened in a commercial bank
and shall be used for Part F (2) of the Project. Deposits into and
payments  out  of  (i)  Special  Account  "A"  shall  be  made  in
accordance with Schedule  3  to  the  Project  Agreement; and (ii)
Special Account "B" shall be made in accordance with Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
Page  4
     (c)  The  Borrower  shall  cause  CBN,  for  the  purpose  of
carrying out Parts A to D  and  E  (1) of the Project, to open and
maintain in dollars one sub-account  of Special Account "A" in any
PB on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
     Section 2.03. (a) CBN  is  designated with respect to Catego-
ries (1), (2), (3), (4)  and  (5)  in  Schedule 1 hereto as repre-
sentative of the Borrower  for  the  purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be  taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
     (b)  The Federal Ministry  of  Industries (FMI) is designated
as representative of the Borrower  for  the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to  be  taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Condi-
tions with respect to Category (6) (a) of Schedule 1 hereto.
     Section 2.04. The Closing  Date  shall  be March 31, 1996, or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.06. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a  rate  per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one  percent  per  annum  above  the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the  Borrower  of the Cost of Qualified Bor-
rowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means  the  six-month period com-
               mencing on each date  specified  in Section 2.07 of
               this Agreement,  including  the  Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.07. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
     Section 2.08. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end shall  carry  out Part F (1) and F (2)
of the Project through FMI and  Part  F (3) of the Project through
the Nigerian Bank for Commerce  and  Industry (NBCI), all with due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate
administrative, technical  and  financial  practices. The Borrower
shall provide or cause  to  be  provided,  promptly as needed, the
funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources  required for
Page  5
Part F of the Project.
     (b)  Without any limitation  or  restriction  upon any of its
other obligations under  the  Loan  Agreement,  the Borrower shall
cause CBN to carry out Parts A  to E of the Project and to perform
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations of CBN therein set  forth,  shall  take or cause to be
taken all action,  including  the  provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources,  necessary  or appropriate to enable
CBN to perform such obligations,  and  shall not take or permit to
be taken any action  which  would  prevent  or interfere with such
performance.
     (c)  For the purposes of  carrying  out  Parts  A to E of the
Project, the Borrower shall make  available to CBN the proceeds of
the Loan allocated to Categories  (1)  to (5) of Schedule 1 hereto
under a subsidiary  administration  agreement  to  be entered into
between the Borrower  and  CBN,  under  terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Bank.
     (d)  For the purposes  of  Part  F  (3)  of  the Project, the
Borrower shall relend to  NBCI  an amount equivalent to $1,000,000
or such other amount as  shall  be allocated to Category (6)(b) of
Schedule 1 hereto under  an  agreement  to be entered into between
the  Borrower  and  NBCI  (the  NBCI  Agreement)  under  terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank including the repayment terms,
interest rate and other charges as are applicable to the Loan.
     (e)  The Borrower shall  exercise  its  rights under the Sub-
sidiary Administration Agreement  and  the  NBCI Agreement in such
manner as to protect the  interests  of  the Borrower and the Bank
and to accomplish the  purposes  of  the  Loan, and, except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the  Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the  Subsidiary  Administration Agreement or the
NBCI Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
Part F  of  the  Project,  the  Borrower  shall  through FMI (with
respect to Part  F  (2)  of  the  Project)  and through NBCI (with
respect to Part F  (3)  of  the Project) employ consultants, whose
qualifications, experience and terms  and conditions of employment
shall be  satisfactory  to  the  Bank.  Such  consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank  on  the  basis  of  the  "Guidelines  for  the Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  The  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
     Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the  General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance, use of
goods and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and reports,
maintenance and  land  acquisition,  respectively)  in  respect of
Parts A to E of the  Project  shall be carried out by CBN pursuant
to Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.04. (a)  The  Borrower  shall,  at  least until the
completion of  the  Project,  establish  and  maintain the Project
Coordination Committee (PCC)  which  shall  be responsible for the
coordination of implementation of the Project.
     (b)  PCC   shall   have   the   following   members:   (i)  a
representative of the  Federal  Ministry  of  Finance and Economic
Development (who shall be the chairman);  (ii) the head of the SME
Apex  Unit  (who   shall   be   the   member/secretary);  (iii)  a
representative  of  CBN;  (iv)  a  representative  of  FMI;  (v) a
representative of NBCI; and (vi) two representatives of the PBs.
     Section 3.05. Except  as  the  Bank  may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause CBN to:
     (a)  open and thereafter maintain  a  separate account in its
books for Parts A through E  of the Project in accordance with its
Page  6
normal financial procedures  and  on  terms  and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank and to  open  the  said account by the date on
which it shall receive: (A) the first payment of interest or other
charges on  Sub-loans  or  loans  made  under  Part  E  (1) of the
Project; or (B) the  first  repayment of principal under Sub-loans
or loans made under Part E  (1)  of  the Project; or (C) the first
payment on account of Investments; and
     (b)  credit upon receipt  of  each  such payment or repayment
under Sub-loans or Investments or  loans  made under Part E (1) of
the Project the  payment  or  repayments  so  received to the said
separate account. All  amounts  so  credited  to the said separate
account shall be utilized by CBN,  to the extent that they are not
yet required to meet  the  Borrower's repayment obligations to the
Bank  under  this  Agreement,  exclusively  to  finance Investment
Projects or, with respect to any amount for loans under Part E (1)
of the Project, studies to be  carried  out under the said Part of
the Project, all in  accordance  with  procedures and on terms and
conditions consistent  with  Schedules  1  and  2  to  the Project
Agreement.
     Section 3.06. The Borrower  shall  through  FMI submit to the
Bank within six weeks of  the  end of each six-month period, semi-
annual progress reports  on  FMI's technical assistance activities
under Part F (1)  and  F  (2)  of  the Project. Such reports shall
contain such information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
     Section 3.07. The Borrower shall through FMI:
     (a)  carry  out  annual   reviews   of  the  Entrepreneurship
Development Programs included under Part  F (2) (i) of the Project
in accordance with procedures  and  within a timetable agreed with
the Bank;
     (b)  carry out: (i) not later than December 31, 1989: (A) the
study included in Part  F  (2)  (ii)  of  the Project; and (B) the
studies included in Part F (2) (iii) and F (2) (v) of the Project;
and (ii) not later than December 31, 1990, the studies included in
Part F (2) (iv) of the Project;
     (c)  exchange views  with  the  Bank  on  the conclusions and
recommendations of such reviews and studies; and
     (d)  taking into account  the  views  expressed  by the Bank,
implement such recommendations within  a timetable agreed with the
Bank.
     Section  3.08.  The  Borrower  shall  cause  NBCI  to  employ
consultants to assist in carrying out Part F (3) of the Project no
later than February 28, 1989.
     Section 3.09. The  Borrower  shall  together  with CBN review
with the Bank at least  once  every  year progress in carrying out
the various Parts of the  Project  with  a view to determining and
effecting such changes as may be required to ensure the successful
implementation of the  Project,  including any adjustment required
in the onlending terms and conditions.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or  cause to be
maintained separate records  and  accounts  adequate to reflect in
accordance  with  sound   accounting  practices,  the  operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of Part F of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carry-
ing out the said Part of the Project or any portion thereof.
     Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts  referred to in Sec-
Page  7
               tion 4.01 of this  Agreement  and those for Special
               Account  B  for   each   fiscal  year  audited,  in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year  the  report  of  such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have  reasonably  requested, including a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements  of  expenditure  submitted  during such
               fiscal  year,  together  with  the  procedures  and
               internal controls  involved  in  their preparation,
               can be relied  upon  to  support  the related with-
               drawals; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records and accounts and the audit thereof
               as the  Bank  shall  from  time  to time reasonably
               request.
     (b)  For all expenditures under  Part  F  of the Project with
respect to which withdrawals  from  the  Loan Account were made on
the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be  maintained in accordance
               with  sound   accounting   practices,  records  and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures  are retained until at
               least one  year  after  the  Bank  has received the
               audit report for the fiscal  year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Loan Account was made; and
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  CBN shall have failed to  perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the  Loan  Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation  shall have
arisen which shall make  it  improbable  that  CBN will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  The Central Bank of Nigeria Act (Cap. 30) of the Laws of
the Borrower and Lagos, 1958,  shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed  or  waived  so  as  to  affect materially and
adversely the ability of  CBN  to  perform  any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of CBN or for the suspension of its operations.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall  have been given by the Bank
Page  8
to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the  events  specified  in  paragraphs  (c)  and  (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement with-
in the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the Subsidiary  Administration  Agreement  has been exe-
cuted on behalf of the Borrower and CBN;
     (b)  CBN has made arrangements  satisfactory  to the Bank for
the employment of consultants to  assist  the SME Apex Unit in its
administration and operations;
     (c)  CBN has issued a circular  to the banking system, satis-
factory to the Bank,  setting  forth the conditions and procedures
for the utilization of funds by PBs  under  Parts A to D and E (1)
of the Project;
     (d)  CBN has signed  Participation  Agreements  for Part A of
the Project with at least  three  PBs pursuant to Section 2.02 (a)
of the Project Agreement,  under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank; and
     (e)  the Borrower has submitted  evidence satisfactory to the
Bank  showing  that  PCC,  with  membership  and  responsibilities
acceptable to the Bank, has been established.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the  opinion or opinions to be furn-
ished to the Bank:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement  has  been duly authorized or
ratified by CBN, and  is  legally  binding  upon CBN in accordance
with its terms; and
     (b)  that the  Subsidiary  Administration  Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and CBN and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and CBN in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. Except  as  provided  in  Section  2.03 of this
Agreement, the Minister  of  Finance  and  Economic Development is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          The Minister of Finance and Economic Development
          Federal Ministry of Finance
            and Economic Development
          P.M.B. 12591
          Federal Secretariat, Ikoyi
          Lagos, Nigeria
Page  9
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               PERMFIN                           21248
               Lagos
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64l45 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
                    By /s/ Hamzat Ahmadu
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated             % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
    Category             Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Goods and
     services to
     be financed
     under Part A
     of the Project:
     (a)  Sub-loans and                 )
          Investments:                  )
                                        )
          (i)  SMEs with      75,000,000)
               asset size               )
               of Naira 5               )        100% of Sub-loans
               million and              )        and Investments
Page  10
               above                    )        up to 70% of the
                                        )        cost of the
         (ii)  SMEs with      75,000,000)        Investment
               asset size               )        Project
               below                    )
               Naira 5                  )
               million                  )
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated             % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
    Category             Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
     (b)  Sub-loans and                 )
          Investment for                )
          free standing                 )
          working capital:              )
                                        )
          (i)  SMEs with      25,000,000)        100% of Sub-loans
               asset size               )        and Investments
               of Naira 5               )        up to 70% of the
               million and              )        cost of the
               above                    )        Investment
                                        )        Project
         (ii)  SMEs with      25,000,000)
               asset size               )
               below                    )
               Naira 5                  )
               million                  )
(2)  Goods and services
     to be financed
     under Part B of
     the Project:
     (a)  Sub-loans for         1,000,000        100% of Sub-
          the prepara-                           loans
          tion of re-
          structuring
          workouts by
          SMEs
     (b)  Sub-loans to         19,000,000        100% of Sub-
          and Invest-                            loans and
          ments in                               Investments
          SMEs                                   up to 100%
                                                 of the
                                                 cost of the
                                                 Investment
                                                 Project
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated             % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
    Category             Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(3)  Sub-loans under            5,000,000        100% of Sub-
     Part C of the                               loans
     Project
(4)  Sub-loans for             30,000,000        100% of Sub-
     equipment leasing                           loans up to
     under Part D of                             85% of the cost
     the Project                                 of the leased
                                                 equipment
(5)  Technical assis-
     tance under Part E
     of the Project:
     (a)  Consultants'          5,000,000        70%
          services for
Page  11
          Part E (1)
          of the Project
     (b)  Consultants'          2,500,000        100%
          services for
          studies and
          training,
          vehicles and
          equipment
          included in
          Part E (2) of
          the Project
(6)  (a)  Consultants'            800,000        100%
          services for
          studies and
          training
          included in
          Part F (2)
          of the Project
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated             % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
    Category             Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
     (b)  Consultants'          1,000,000        100%
          services for
          Part F (3) of
          the Project
(7)  Unallocated                5,700,000
                              ___________
          TOTAL               270,000,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a) payments made for expenditures  prior to the date of this
Agreement except  that  withdrawals  in  an  aggregate  amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $350,000  may be made under Categories
(5)(b) and (6) on account  of  payments  made before that date but
after June 1, 1988;
     (b)  any Sub-loan or Investment  which shall be presented for
financing under Categories  (1)  to  (4)  in  paragraph  1 of this
Schedule, unless  the  PB  concerned  has  signed  a Participation
Agreement;
     (c)  Investment  Projects   under   Category   (3)   in  said
paragraph, unless CBN has  prepared  and  furnished  to the Bank a
statement  on  procedures  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  for micro-
enterprises to utilize the proceeds  of the Loan allocated to said
Category (3);
     (d)  expenditures  under  Category  (5)  (a)  in  paragraph 1
above,  unless  the  PB   concerned  has  signed  a  Participation
Agreement in respect of the studies  included in Part E (1) of the
Project; and
     (e)  consultants' services under Category  (6) (b) unless the
NBCI Agreement has been signed.
3.   Withdrawals to  be  made  under  Categories  (1)  to (4) with
respect to Investment Projects  shall  be  made in accordance with
the procedures set  forth  in  Schedules  1  and  2 to the Project
Agreement.
4.   Withdrawals to  be  made  under  Category  (5)  (a) shall not
exceed for any one SME  or  entrepreneur an amount of Naira 15,000
in constant 1988 prices.
Page  12
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to: (a) assist in financing
such productive facilities and  resources  in the Federal Republic
of Nigeria as will contribute  to the economic and social develop-
ment of the country;  (b)  support  private small and medium scale
enterprises to become more  competitive; (c) revive production and
improve  economic  viability  of  selected  firms;  (d)  support a
program of assistance to  micro-enterprises; (e) provide long-term
financing to SMEs;  (f)  support  the Entrepreneurship Development
Programs; (g) make the delivery of technical support services more
demand driven and responsive  to  the  needs of Beneficiaries; and
(h) strengthen the  policy  framework  for  small and medium scale
enterprises.
     The Project consists of the  following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Line of Credit
     The financing,  through  CBN  and  PBs  of fixed investments,
including services and  working  capital  needs  of private sector
small and medium scale enterprises.
Part B:   Pilot Financial Restructuring
     The provision, through CBN  and  PBs,  of financing and tech-
nical assistance to Beneficiaries  in  need  of such assistance to
enable them  to  prepare  and  carry  out  financial restructuring
programs, including  refinancing  and/or  rescheduling of existing
debts, swaps of debt into  equity or quasi-equity instruments, and
injection of new money for fresh working capital and fixed assets.
Part C:   Pilot Mutualist Credit Guarantee Scheme
(1)  The establishment,  through  CBN,  PBs  and  MGAs  of a Pilot
Mutualist Credit Guarantee Scheme.
(2)  The provision of Sub-loans  to eligible micro-enterprises for
financing fixed assets and  working  capital, such Sub-loans to be
guaranteed by MGAs such  as  MAN,  NASSI or other non-governmental
organizations.
Part D:   Equipment Leasing
     The provision, through CBN and  PBs of long-term financing to
Beneficiaries to enable them to lease the necessary industrial and
business equipment.
Part E:   Assistance to SMEs, Entrepreneurs and CBN
(1)  The establishment  by  CBN  of  a  Pilot  Studies Facility to
provide financing to SMEs  and  entrepreneurs  through PBs on loan
terms to enable such SMEs and entrepreneurs:
     (a)  to   carry   out    pre-feasibility,   feasibility   and
implementation studies;
     (b)  to obtain expertise, services and management counselling
for the acquisition of technological know-how; and
     (c)  to solve operational problems.
(2)  The  provision  of   vehicles   and  equipment,  consultants'
services and training to CBN to enable it to:
     (a)  administer the  line  of  credit  provided  under Part A
above and other Beneficiary  credit  programs through the SME Apex
Page  13
Unit;
     (b)  carry out orientation seminars for the staff of PBs;
     (c)  improve the expertise  of  the  staff  of PBs in project
appraisal, supervision and monitoring;
     (d)  train staff of PBs in  the preparation and evaluation of
programs related to financial restructuring of Beneficiaries;
     (e)  formulate  procedures  for  the  Pilot  Mutualist Credit
Guarantee Scheme;
     (f)  carry out a study  to develop appropriate regulatory and
policy framework for equipment leasing;
     (g)  carry out a  study  for  the  establishment  of a Mutual
Investment Fund;
     (h)  carry out periodic  reviews  of  the economic and social
impact of Investment Projects; and
     (i)  undertake policy  and  project  preparation  work in the
industrial and financial sectors.
Part F:   Technical Assistance to FMI and NBCI
(1)  Arrangements by FMI for staff of SMEs and entrepreneurs to be
trained by training specialists  or at appropriate institutions in
simple business skills with full cost recovery features.
(2)  The carrying out by FMI of the following reviews, studies and
activities:  (i)   periodic   reviews   of   the  Entrepreneurship
Development Programs; (ii) a study for developing linkages between
SMEs  and  larger  enterprises  through  sub-contracting;  (iii) a
technology development study on linkages between SMEs and research
institutions; (iv) sub-sector surveys  and development of profiles
for different industries; (v) a study to evaluate alternative ways
of implementing  an  industrial  estates  program  on a commercial
basis with  the  participation  of  the  private  sector; and (vi)
strengthening  of  FMI's   capacity   to  formulate  policies  for
development of SMEs.
(3)  Strengthening of NBCI's operations in the areas of appraisal,
supervision, portfolio management,  equipment leasing and merchant
banking.
                 *               *               *
     The Project is  expected  to  be  completed  by September 30,
1995.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (Expressed in dollars)
February 15, 1994                                4,930,000
August 15, 1994                                  5,120,000
February 15, 1995                                5,315,000
August 15, 1995                                  5,520,000
February 15, 1996                                5,735,000
August 15, 1996                                  5,955,000
February 15, 1997                                6,185,000
August 15, 1997                                  6,425,000
February 15, 1998                                6,670,000
August 15, 1998                                  6,930,000
February 15, 1999                                7,195,000
August 15, 1999                                  7,475,000
February 15, 2000                                7,765,000
Page  14
August 15, 2000                                  8,065,000
February 15, 2001                                8,375,000
August 15, 2001                                  8,695,000
February 15, 2002                                9,035,000
August 15, 2002                                  9,380,000
February 15, 2003                                9,745,000
August 15, 2003                                 10,120,000
February 15, 2004                               10,510,000
August 15, 2004                                 10,915,000
February 15, 2005                               11,335,000
August 15, 2005                                 11,775,000
February 15, 2006                               12,230,000
August 15, 2006                                 12,700,000
February 15, 2007                               13,190,000
August 15, 2007                                 13,700,000
February 15,2008                                14,230,000
August 15, 2008                                 14,780,000
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.O4 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                          Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.55
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                       0.80
     more than sixteen years
     before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                      0.90
     more than eighteen years
     before maturity
More than eighteen years before                      1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
              Modifications of the General Conditions
     For the purposes  of  this  Agreement,  the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
     (1)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (2)  The words "the Bank may,  by  notice to the Borrower and
the Guarantor, terminate the right  of  the Borrower to make with-
drawals with respect  to  such  amount.  Upon  the  giving of such
notice, such amount of the  Loan  shall be cancelled" set forth at
the end of Section 6.03  are  deleted and the following provisions
are substituted therefor:
               "or (f) by the date specified in paragraph 2 (c) of
          Part A of Schedule 2  to the Project Agreement, the Bank
Page  15
          shall, in respect of any  portion  of the Loan: (i) have
          received no applications or requests under subparagraphs
          (a) or (b) of paragraph 2 of the said Part; or (ii) have
          denied any such applications  or requests, the Bank may,
          by notice to  the  Borrower  terminate  the right of the
          Borrower to submit such  applications  or requests or to
          make withdrawals from the Loan  Account, as the case may
          be, with respect to such  amount or portion of the Loan.
          Upon the giving of  such  notice, such amount or portion
          of the Loan shall be cancelled."
                            SCHEDULE 5
                         Special Account B
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Category"  means Category (6) (a) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
Part F (2) of the Project  and  to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan allocated from  time  to time to the eligible Category
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $100,000 to be  withdrawn  from the Loan Account and depo-
sited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Account shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible expendi-
tures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish theSpecial Account may 
be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Bank  shall,  on behalf of the Bor-
rower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as  the  Borrower  shall  have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the Bank shall with-
draw from the Loan  Account  and  deposit into the Special Account
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount  of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall
be withdrawn by the Bank from  the Loan Account under the eligible
Category, and in the respective  equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by  the  evidence  supporting  the request for such
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
Page  16
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from the Loan Account  in  accordance with the pro-
               visions of Article V  of the General Conditions and
               paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to the eligible  Category  minus  the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Bank  pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of  the  General
               Conditions  with  respect  to  Part  F  (2)  of the
               Project, shall be equal  to the equivalent of twice
               the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the  Loan Account of the re-
maining unwithdrawn amount of  the  Loan allocated to the eligible
Category shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by
notice to the  Borrower.  Such  further  withdrawals shall be made
only after  and  to  the  extent  that  the  Bank  shall have been
satisfied that  all  such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit  in the
Special Account as of the date  of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account:  (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not  justified  by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall,  promptly upon notice from the Bank,
deposit into  the  Special  Account  (or,  if  the  Bank  shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion  thereof  not  so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
