Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 2995 UNI
     (Private Small and Medium Enterprise Development Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                      CENTRAL BANK OF NIGERIA
                      Dated December 22, 1988
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  December  22,  1988,  between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank) and CENTRAL
BANK OF NIGERIA (CBN).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between Federal Republic of  Nigeria  (the Borrower) and the Bank,
the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various  currencies  equivalent  to  two  hundred  seventy million
dollars ($270,000,000), on the  terms  and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement,  but  only  on  condition  that  CBN agrees to
undertake such obligations toward  the  Bank  as  are set forth in
this Agreement;
     (B)  by a subsidiary  administration  agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower  and  CBN,  part  of the proceeds of the
loan provided for under the  Loan Agreement will be made available
to CBN on the  terms  and  conditions  set forth in the Subsidiary
Administration Agreement; and
     WHEREAS CBN, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with  the  Borrower,  has  agreed  to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, wherever
used in this  Agreement,  the  several  terms  defined in the Loan
Agreement,  the  Preamble  to   this  Agreement  and  the  General
Conditions (as so  defined)  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. CBN declares  its  commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth  in  Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out or cause to be carried out Parts
A to E of the  Project  with  due  diligence and efficiency and in
conformity   with   appropriate    administrative,   financial,
engineering, management  and  environmental  practices,  and shall
provide, or cause to be  provided,  promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and  other  resources  required  for the said
Parts of the Project.
     Section 2.02. For the purpose  of  carrying  out Parts A to D
and E (1) of the Project, CBN shall:
     (a)  relend to PBs the  equivalent  of  the Loan allocated to
Parts A  to  D  and  E  (1)  of  the  Project  under Participation
Agreements to be entered into between CBN and each PB, under terms
and conditions which shall  have  been  approved  by the Bank, and
which shall include those set forth  in  Schedules 1 and 2 to this
Agreement; and
     (b)  without limitation or restrictions upon any of its other
obligations under this Agreement,  take  all action, including the
provisions of  funds,  facilities,  services  or  other resources,
necessary or appropriate to  enable  PBs  to perform in accordance
with the provisions  of  their respective Participation Agreements
all the obligations of PBs therein  set forth, and not to take any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     Section 2.03.  CBN  undertakes  that,  unless  the Bank shall
otherwise agree, Sub-loans  and  Investments  and loans made under
Part E (1) of  the  Project  will  be  made in accordance with the
procedures and on the terms  and  conditions set forth or referred
to in Schedules 1 and 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.04. In order to  assist  CBN in carrying out Part E
of the Project:
     (a)  CBN shall employ or  cause  to be employed  consultants,
whose  qualifications,  experience  and  terms  and  conditions of
employment shall be  satisfactory  to  the  Bank. Such consultants
shall be selected  in  accordance  with  principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on  the  basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers and by The World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981; and
     (b)  CBN  shall   procure   vehicles   and   equipment  under
Part E (2) of the  Project  under  contracts  to be awarded on the
basis of comparison of price  quotations  solicited from a list of
at  least  three  suppliers  from  countries  eligible  under  the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in  May 1985 (the Guidelines), in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 2.05. CBN shall  carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04 through 9.09  of the General Conditions (relating
Page  3
to insurance, use  of  goods  and  services,  plans and schedules,
records and  reports,  maintenance  and  land acquisition, respec-
tively) in respect of the  Project  Agreement  and Parts A to E of
the Project.
     Section 2.06.  CBN  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Administration  Agreement. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, CBN shall not  take or concur in any action
which would have the effect  of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary  Administration  Agreement or any provision
thereof.
     Section 2.07.  (a)  CBN  shall,  together  with the Borrower,
review with  the  Bank,  at  least  once  every  year, progress in
carrying out Parts A  through  E  of  the  Project, with a view to
determining and  effecting  such  changes  as  may  be required to
ensure the successful implementation of the Project, including any
adjustment required in the onlending terms and conditions. To that
end, CBN shall furnish to  the  Borrower  and the Bank a report on
the progress achieved in carrying  out  said Parts of the Project,
in such detail and at such times as the Borrower or the Bank shall
reasonably request.
     (b)  CBN shall promptly inform  the  Borrower and the Bank of
any condition which interferes or  threatens to interfere with the
progress of Parts A through  E  of the Project, the accomplishment
of the purposes of  the  Loan,  or  the  performance by CBN of its
obligations  under  this   Agreement   and  under  the  Subsidiary
Administration Agreement.
     Section 2.08. For  the  purpose  of  carrying  out Parts A to
E of the Project, CBN shall:
     (a)  establish, and maintain at least until the completion of
the Project,  the  SME  Apex  Unit  which  shall  be  staffed with
qualified and experienced persons in adequate numbers satisfactory
to the Bank; and
     (b)  coordinate and monitor the  overall execution of Parts A
to E of the Project and  supervise  the carrying out by PBs of the
provisions  of  their   respective   Participation  Agreements  in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
     Section 2.09. CBN shall: (a)  not  later than March 31, 1989,
carry out and complete  a  study  under  terms of reference satis-
factory to  the  Bank,  to  formulate  policies and implementation
procedures  for  the  Pilot   Mutualist  Credit  Guarantee  Scheme
included in Part C (1) of  the Project and to identify prospective
non-governmental organizations to participate  in the said Scheme;
and (b) take appropriate measures soon thereafter to establish the
Pilot Mutualist Credit Guarantee  Scheme,  taking into account the
views of the Bank.
     Section 2.10. (a)  CBN  shall:  (a)  not  later than June 30,
1989, carry out and  complete  a  study,  under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, to develop an appropriate regulatory and
policy framework  for  equipment  leasing;  and  (b) implement the
findings of said study after  obtaining  the views of the Borrower
and the Bank.
     Section 2.11. CBN shall:
     (a)  not later than December 31,  1989, carry out under terms
of reference acceptable to  the  Bank,  the Mutual Investment Fund
study included in Part E (2) (g) of the Project;
     (b)  exchange views with  the  Borrower  and  the Bank on the
conclusions and recommendations of the study; and
     (c)  taking into account  the  views  expressed  by the Bank,
implement such recommendations  within  a  timetable acceptable to
the Bank.
Page  4
     Section 2.12. CBN  shall:  (i)  not  later  than December 31,
1988, establish the Pilot Studies  Facility included in Part E (1)
of the Project  in  a  form  satisfactory  to  the  Bank; and (ii)
through PBs extend, out of the said Facility, financial assistance
on  loan  terms  to  SMEs  and  entrepreneurs  under  arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank for  the  purposes  of  Part E (1) of the
Project.
     Section 2.13. CBN shall, under  terms of reference and within
a timetable  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  carry  out  the following
training programs for staff of CBN and the PBs: (a) an orientation
program  in  term  lending   procedures;  (b)  project  appraisal,
supervision and monitoring; and  (c) preparation and evaluation of
financial restructuring workouts.
     Section 2.14.  CBN  shall:  (a)  carry  out,  under  terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank,  an  annual review of the social
and economic impact of Investment  Projects; and (b) submit to the
Bank the findings of  every  such  review; provided, however, that
the findings of the first  such  review  shall be submitted to the
Bank not later than December 31, 1990.
                            ARTICLE III
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) CBN shall maintain accounts, procedures and
records adequate to monitor and record  the progress of Parts A to
E of the Project (including  the  costs and benefits to be derived
from said Parts of the Project)  and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound  accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of CBN  with  respect to the said Parts of
the Project.
     (b)  CBN shall:
          (i)  have  the  records,   accounts  (including  Special
               Account  A  and   any  Sub-account)  and  financial
               statements (balance  sheets,  statements  of income
               and  expenses  and  related  statements)  for  each
               fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
               auditing   principles   consistently   applied,  by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each  such  year:  (A)   certified  copies  of  the
               accounts and  financial  statements  referred to in
               Section 3.01 (a) above for such year as so audited,
               and (B) the reports of  such audit by said auditors
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have  reasonably  requested  including  a  separate
               opinion by said auditors  on  the operation of Sub-
               accounts  and  showing  whether  the  statements of
               expenditures  submitted  during  such  fiscal year,
               together with the  procedures and internal controls
               involved in their preparation can be relied upon to
               support the related withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records, accounts and financial statements
               as well as  the  audit  thereof,  as the Bank shall
               from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures under Parts  A  to E of the Project
with respect to which withdrawals  from the Loan Account were made
on the basis of statements of expenditures, CBN shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be  maintained in accordance
               with  sound   accounting   practices,  records  and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
Page  5
         (ii)  ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts   or  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures  are retained until at
               least one  year  after  the  Bank  has received the
               audit report for the fiscal  year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Loan Account was made; and
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 4.O2. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of CBN thereunder  shall  terminate  on  the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate  in  accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify CBN thereof.
     Section 4.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For CBN:
          Central Bank of Nigeria
          Tinubu Square
          P.M.B. 12194
          Lagos, Nigeria
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               CENBANK                         21350 Cebank NG
               Lagos
     Section 5.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on  behalf  of  CBN  may  be  taken  or  executed by the
Page  6
Governor of the Central Bank  of  Nigeria  or such other person or
persons as CBN shall designate  in  writing, and CBN shall furnish
to the Bank sufficient evidence  of  the authority and the authen-
ticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 5.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                    CENTRAL BANK OF NIGERIA
                    By /s/ Hamzat Ahmadu
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
           Principal Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans,
             Investments and Participation Agreements
     Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the principal terms
and conditions set  forth  in  this  Schedule  shall apply for the
purposes of Section 2.02  (a)  of  this  Agreement with respect to
Participation Agreements.
A.   Terms
1.   Currency
     All Sub-loans and Investments and loans made under Part E (1)
of the Project shall be denominated in Naira. The aggregate amount
(the PB Subsidiary Loan) to be made available by CBN to a PB under
its respective Participation Agreement  shall be the equivalent in
Naira (determined as of the respective date or dates of withdrawal
from the Loan Account using the market determined rate of the most
recent foreign exchange auction  system  or any other lawful rates
acceptable to the Bank) of the value of the currency or currencies
so withdrawn or paid out on  account  of the cost of the goods and
services to be incurred  with  respect  to  the carrying out of an
Investment Project.
2.   Interest Rates
     (a)  Interest on a PB Subsidiary Loan shall be charged on the
principal amount  thereof  outstanding  from  time  to  time  at a
variable interest rate  which  shall  correspond to the prevailing
CBN Rediscount Rate.
     (b)  Interest on Sub-loans  to  Beneficiaries  and loans made
under Part E (1) of  the  Project  shall  be determined by PBs and
shall be  variable  and  be  adjusted  by  PBs  in accordance with
changes in the CBN Rediscount Rate.
Page  7
     (c)  Interest on Sub-loans  made  by PBs to micro-enterprises
under Part C (2) of  the  Project  shall  be determined by PBs and
shall be  variable  in  accordance  with  the  changes  in the CBN
Rediscount Rate, provided, however, that the sharing of the spread
among PBs, MGAs and the funds  established by MGAs under the Pilot
Mutualist Credit Guarantee Scheme shall be determined on the basis
of recommendations of the Study referred to in Section 2.09 of the
Project Agreement and be satisfactory to the Bank.
3.   Commitment Charge
     Each PB shall be  required  to  pay  a commitment charge at a
rate of three-fourths  of  one  percent  (0.75%)  per annum on the
principal amount of the PB Subsidiary Loan not withdrawn from time
to time. Such  commitment  charge  shall  accrue  from the date on
which CBN shall notify  the  PB  that  an Investment Project or an
application for a loan under  Part  E (1) of the Project presented
by it to CBN has been approved  by the Bank and withdrawals may be
made  from  the  PB  Subsidiary  Loan.  The  PB  may  pass  on the
commitment charge to the Beneficiary or the entrepreneur.
4.   Maturities
     (a)  Sub-loans under Parts A and  B  of the Project for fixed
assets and free-standing working  capital shall have maturities of
up to 12  years  and  three  years,  respectively, including grace
periods of up to three years, and one year respectively.
     (b)  Sub-loans for the preparation of financial restructuring
workouts by Beneficiaries under  Part  B  of the Project and loans
made under Part E (1) of  the  Project shall have maturities of up
to three years including grace periods of up to one year.
     (c)  Sub-loans for  fixed  assets  and  free-standing working
capital under Part C (2)  of  the Project shall have maturities of
up to five  years  and  two  years,  respectively, including grace
periods of up to 12 months and six months, respectively.
     (d)  Sub-loans for  equipment  leasing  under  Part  D of the
Project shall have maturities of  up  to 10 years, including grace
periods of up to two years.
     (e)  For PBs making equity investments under Parts A and B of
the Project, the  PBs  shall  adopt  a  flexible divestment policy
satisfactory to CBN  and  the  Bank.  The  divestment policy shall
include a buy-back option for the enterprise owner to purchase the
PBs' equity at its estimated market or pre-determined value.
5.   Repayments
     (a)  The aggregate amount  of  PB  Subsidiary Loans and loans
made under Part E (1) of  the  Project  to be repaid by PBs to CBN
shall be in Naira.
     (b)  PB Subsidiary Loans and loans  made  under Part E (1) of
the Project shall be repaid  in accordance with fixed amortization
schedules which shall  be  an  aggregate of amortization schedules
for the said loans.
     (c)  Repayments of Investments from a PB to CBN under Parts A
and B of  the  Project  shall  be  based  on  a  fixed schedule of
payments for a period of up to 10 years.
6.   Pre-payment
     (a)  If a Sub-loan or  a  loan  made  under Part E (1) of the
Project or any part of any  such  Sub-loan or loan shall be repaid
to a PB in advance of  maturity  or  if  a Sub-loan or a loan made
under Part E (1) of the  Project  or any part of any such Sub-loan
or loan shall be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise disposed
of for value by a PB,  the  PB shall promptly notify CBN and shall
Page  8
repay to CBN  on  the  next  following  interest payment date, the
amount withdrawn in  respect  of  any  such  Sub-loan or loan made
under Part E (1) of the Project or part thereof.
     (b)  If a  PB  divests  its  Investment  or sells, transfers,
assigns or otherwise  disposes  of  its  Investment,  the PB shall
promptly notify CBN and shall  repay  to CBN on the next following
interest payment date for the  Investment, the amount withdrawn in
respect of such Investment or part thereof.
     (c)  Any amount so repaid by  the  PB shall be applied by CBN
to the maturity or  maturities  of  the  PB Subsidiary Loan or the
loan made under Part E (1) of  the Project (as the case may be) in
amounts corresponding to the  outstanding  amounts of the maturity
or  maturities of the Sub-loan  or  the loan made under Part E (1)
of the Project so repaid or disposed of.
B.   Conditions
1.   Each  Participation   Agreement   shall   contain  provisions
pursuant to which each PB shall continue to:
     (a)  be duly established and operating  under the laws of the
Borrower;
     (b)  maintain  a   sound   financial   structure,  a  healthy
portfolio,  and  the  organization,  management,  staff  and other
resources  required  for  the   efficient   carrying  out  of  its
activities;
     (c)  conduct its  operations  and  affairs including interest
rate policies in  accordance  with  sound financial principles and
practices;
     (d)  maintain a lending  and  investment policy acceptable to
the Bank and CBN and suitable procedures and an adequate number of
suitably qualified staff to enable it effectively to:
             (i)   appraise     the      financial,     technical,
                   environmental    and  economic  feasibility  of
                   Investment Projects and  to  make Sub-loans and
                   loans under  Part  E  (1)  of  the  Project and
                   Investments to  Beneficiaries and entrepreneurs
                   in accordance with  said lending and investment
                   policy  and  on  the  basis  of  the  criteria,
                   procedures and  principal  terms and conditions
                   set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
            (ii)   supervise, monitor and  report  on the carrying
                   out  by:   (A)   Beneficiaries   of  Investment
                   Projects;  and  (B)  Beneficiaries  and  entre-
                   preneurs of studies  under  Part  E  (1) of the
                   Project, including the procurement of goods and
                   services, costs and benefits therefor.
2.   Each Participation  Agreement  shall  also contain provisions
requiring each PB to:
     (a)  exercise  its  rights   in   respect  of  Sub-loans  and
Investments and loans made  under  Part  E  (1) of the Project, in
such a manner as  to  protect  the  interests of the Borrower, the
Bank  and  CBN  and  to  comply  with  its  obligations  under its
Participation  Agreement  in  order  to  achieve  the  purposes of
Parts A to D and E (1) of the Project;
     (b)  undertake not to assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of
its  agreements  providing  for  Sub-loans  or  loans  made  under
Part E (1) of the Project  or Investments or any provision thereof
without the approval of CBN;
     (c)   (i)  maintain records and  accounts adequate to monitor
                and record the operations, resources, expenditures
Page  9
                and progress of  each  Investment  Project and the
                studies to be carried out  under Part E (1) of the
                Project and withdrawals  from the Sub-accounts and
                to  reflect   in   accordance   with  consistently
                maintained   sound    accounting   practices   its
                operations and financial conditions;
          (ii)  have   its   records,   accounts   and   financial
                statements (balance  sheets,  statements of income
                and  expenses  and  related  statements) including
                Sub-accounts  for  each  fiscal  year  audited, in
                accordance  with  appropriate  auditing principles
                consistently  applied,   by  independent  auditors
                acceptable to the Bank;
         (iii)  furnish to CBN as  soon  as  available, but in any
                case not later than  six  months  after the end of
                each  such  year:  (A)  certified  copies  of  its
                financial statements and accounts for such year as
                so audited; and (B)  the  report  of such audit by
                said auditors of  such  scope  and in such detail,
                including   the   status   of   Sub-accounts   and
                compliance by  PBs  with  eligibility  criteria of
                Investment Projects, as CBN or the Bank shall have
                reasonably requested;
          (iv)  within six weeks of the  end  of the first and the
                second six months of  the calendar year furnish to
                CBN  Semi-Annual  Progress  Reports  outlining the
                progress of  each  Investment  Project and studies
                under Part E (1) of the Project; and
           (v)  furnish to CBN monthly reports on the operation of
                the Sub-accounts.
3.   Procurement
     (a)  With respect to the procurement of goods and services to
be financed  under  Sub-loans,  Investments  and  loans made under
Part E (1)  of  the  Project,  each  Participation Agreement shall
contain provisions requiring each PB  to comply with the following
procedures:
          (i)  Goods and services shall  be purchased at a reason-
               able  price,  account  being  taken  also  of other
               relevant  factors  such  as  time  of  delivery and
               efficiency  and  reliability   of   the  goods  and
               availability of  maintenance  facilities  and spare
               parts therefor, and,  in  the  case of services, of
               their quality  and  the  competence  of the parties
               rendering them;
         (ii)  Goods estimated to cost more than the equivalent of
               $250,000 per contract:  (A)  may  be procured under
               contracts awarded  on  the  basis  of comparison of
               price quotations solicited from  a list of at least
               three suppliers from  countries  eligible under the
               Guidelines,   in    accordance    with   procedures
               acceptable to the Bank;  and  (B) all contracts for
               such goods shall be reviewed by PBs prior to award.
        (iii)  Consultants shall  have qualifications, experience,
               and be  employed  on  terms  and conditions, satis-
               factory to  the  Bank.  Such  consultants  shall be
               selected in accordance  with  principles and proce-
               dures satisfactory to the Bank  on the basis of the
               "Guidelines for  the  Use  of  Consultants by World
               Bank Borrowers and by  The  World Bank as Executing
               Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
     (b)  Each PB shall  undertake  that  such  goods and services
shall be used exclusively  in  the  carrying out of the Investment
Page  10
Project or, as the case may be, Part E (1) of the Project.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                Procedures for Terms and Conditions
                   of Sub-loans and Investments
A.   Terms and conditions
1.   No  expenditures  for  goods  or  services  required  for  an
Investment Project shall  be  eligible  for  financing  out of the
proceeds of the Loan unless:
     (a)  the Sub-loan or  Investment  for such Investment Project
shall have been approved by  the  Bank and such expenditures shall
have been made not  earlier  than  180  days  prior to the date on
which the Bank shall have received the application and information
required under paragraph 2  (a)  of  this  Part in respect of such
Sub-loan or Investment; or
     (b)  the Sub-loan or  Investment  for such Investment Project
shall have been a free-limit  Sub-loan or Investment for which the
Bank has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Loan Account and such
expenditures shall have been made  not earlier than 180 days prior
to the date on which the  Bank shall have received the request and
information required under paragraph 2 (b) of this Part in respect
of such free-limit Sub-loan or Investment. For the purpose of this
Agreement, the Bank shall establish the amounts for the free-limit
Sub-loans, Investments  and  lease  financing  for  each  PB after
reviewing  the  first  three   appraisal  reports  for  Investment
Projects submitted by  PBs  under  Parts  A  to  D of the Project.
Thereafter, PBs may extend financing  under  the Project up to the
free-limits so established.
2.   (a)  When presenting a Sub-loan  or  Investment (other than a
free-limit Sub-loan or Investment)  to  the Bank for approval, CBN
shall furnish to the Bank  an application, in form satisfactory to
the Bank, together with: (i)  a description of the Beneficiary and
an appraisal  of  the  Investment  Project,  including procurement
procedures and a description  of  the  expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms
and  conditions  of  the  Sub-loan  or  Investment,  including the
schedule of amortization of  the  Sub-loan or schedule of payments
of the Investment; (iii) in  the case of Investment Projects under
Part B of the Project,  a  restructuring plan; and (iv) such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
     (b)  Each  request   by   CBN   for   authorization  to  make
withdrawals from the Loan Account  in respect of a free-limit Sub-
loan or Investment shall contain: (i) a summary description of the
Beneficiary  and  the  Investment  Project,  including procurement
procedures and a description  of  the  expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the  Loan; and (ii) the terms and
conditions of the Sub-loan  or  Investment, including the schedule
of amortization of the Sub-loan or the schedule of payments of the
Investment.
     (c)  Applications and requests  made  pursuant  to the provi-
sions of sub-paragraphs (a)  and  (b)  of  this paragraph shall be
presented to the Bank on or before September 30, 1992.
3.   Sub-loans and  Investments  shall  be  made  on terms whereby
CBN shall cause each  PB  to  obtain  by written contract with the
Beneficiary or by other  appropriate  legal means, rights adequate
to protect  the  interests  of  the  Borrower,  the  Bank and CBN,
including the right to:
     (a)  require the Beneficiary  to  carry  out  and operate the
Investment  Project  with  due  diligence  and  efficiency  and in
accordance  with  sound  technical,  financial,  environmental and
managerial  standards  and   to   maintain  adequate  records  and
accounts;
Page  11
     (b)  inspect, by itself  or  jointly  with representatives of
the Bank if the Bank shall  so  request, such goods and the sites,
works, plants and construction included in the Investment Project,
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
     (c)  require that: (i)  the  Beneficiary  shall  take out and
maintain with responsible  insurers  such  insurance, against such
risks and in  such  amounts,  as  shall  be  consistent with sound
business  practice;  and  (ii)  without  any  limitation  upon the
foregoing, such  insurance  shall  cover  hazards  incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery  of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan to  the place of use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder  to  be  made  payable  in  a currency freely
usable by the Beneficiary to replace or repair such goods;
     (d)  obtain all such  information  as  the  Bank or CBN shall
reasonably  request  relating   to   the   foregoing  and  to  the
administration,  operations   and   financial   condition  of  the
Beneficiary and to the benefits  to be derived from the Investment
Projects; and
     (e)  suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the
use of the proceeds of  the  Loan upon failure by such Beneficiary
to perform its obligations under its contract with PBs.
B.   Eligibility Criteria for Beneficiaries and Investment
     Projects - General Procedures
1.   With  the  exception  of  subsistence  agriculture, commerce,
real estate, finance and  insurance,  hotels and construction, all
SMEs  and  micro-enterprises  engaged  in  other  economic sectors
(including   manufacturing,   agro-related   industries,   mining,
quarrying, industrial  support  services,  equipment  leasing, and
other  service  activities  ancillary  thereto)  are  eligible  to
receive Sub-loans and Investments from PBs to carry out Investment
Projects.
2.   Sub-loans and Investments shall  be  used by Beneficiaries to
finance rehabilitation, expansion and energy saving investments of
existing enterprises, as well as for establishing new enterprises.
In particular Sub-loans and Investments shall be used to finance:
     (a)  fixed assets  (machinery,  equipment,  factory buildings
and related civil works), technical know-how, consultancy services
and training;
     (b)  permanent working capital  (initial  stocks or increases
in stocks of raw materials, spare parts and components);
     (c)  free-standing  working  capital  (raw  materials,  spare
parts and components) to  expand  capacity utilization of existing
firms;
     (d)  preparation of restructuring workouts; and
     (e)  leasing of industrial and business equipment.
C.   Specific Procedures
1.   For Part A of the Project
     CBN shall ensure that PBs adopt the following procedures when
processing Investment Projects:
     (a)  Beneficiaries  shall  contribute  at  least  25%  of the
Investment Project  cost  in  equity  or from internally-generated
resources.
     (b)  The equity participation of  a  PB  shall  be such as to
maintain at all times a minority equity holding in a Beneficiary.
Page  12
     (c)  During implementation and for  five-years after start up
of operations, Beneficiaries shall be required to maintain a long-
term debt to equity ratio of not more than 3:1; a current ratio of
at least 1.2; and a debt service coverage of at least 1.4.
     (d)  Appraisal of Investment Projects
          PBs shall carry out the appraisal of Investment Projects
in accordance with procedures acceptable  to the Bank, which shall
include the following:
          (i)  to calculate the financial rate of return (FRR) for
               all  Investment  Projects  with  costs  over  N 0.8
               million in constant 1988 prices;
         (ii)  to calculate the economic  rate of return (ERR) for
               all Investment Projects with costs over N 4 million
               in constant 1988 prices;
        (iii)  FRR (after tax) under  (d)  (i) above and ERR under
               (d) (ii)  above  shall  each  be  at  least  12% in
               constant prices for each Investment Project; and
         (iv)  to carry out  a  cash-flow  analysis for Investment
               Projects with costs below N 0.8 million in constant
               1988 prices.
     PBs shall actively  promote,  encourage  and give priority to
those SMEs which  make  the  maximum  use  of local raw materials;
provided,  however,  that  in   the   case  of  new  manufacturing
enterprises, the share  of  locally  sourced  raw materials of the
total raw materials shall be  at  least 40%, with the objective of
reaching 60% by September 30, 1992.
     (e)  Sub-loan Limits
          (i)  Maximum financing from  the  proceeds  of the  Loan
               shall be 70% of the Investment Project cost.
         (ii)  Maximum Sub-loan for  free-standing working capital
               shall be N 2 million in 1988 constant prices.
        (iii)  Maximum  outstanding   amounts   of  Sub-loans  and
               Investments  to  any  individual  Beneficiary  or a
               group of related  beneficiary  enterprises shall be
               N 7 million in 1988 constant prices.
2.   For Part B of the Project
     CBN shall ensure that  PBs  adopt the following procedures in
processing Investments and Sub-loans under Part B of the Project:
     (a)  The equity participation of  a  PB  shall  be such as to
maintain at all times a  minority equity holding in a restructured
company.
     (b)  The proceeds of the Loan under the Project shall be used
only to finance  preparation  of restructuring programs, increases
in working capital  (raw  materials,  spare parts and components),
fixed assets, consultancy services and training.
     (c)  Maximum outstanding amount  of Sub-loans and Investments
to any individual Beneficiary  or  a  group of related Beneficiary
enterprises shall be N 7 million in 1988 constant prices.
     (d)  The Investment Projects would  be financed only if their
incremental financial rate of return (after tax) and economic rate
of return each exceed 12% in constant prices.
     (e)  The Beneficiary shall have  debt service coverage ratios
of not less than  1.0  in  every  year  of the Investment Project,
averaging not less than 1.2  during  the period of the Sub-loan or
Page  13
Investment with the projected current  ratios of not less than 1.2
at any time.
4.   For Part C of the Project
     CBN shall ensure that PBs  adopt the following procedures and
criteria in processing Sub-loans under Part C of the Project:
     (a)  The PB shall carry out a simplified form of appraisal of
the Investment Project;
     (b)  MGAs should agree  to  fully  guarantee  a Sub-loan to a
Beneficiary and to maintain  the  funds  established by MGAs under
the Pilot Mutualist  Credit  Guarantee  Scheme  in accordance with
procedures and on terms  and  conditions satisfactory to the Bank;
and
     (c)  the  maximum  outstanding  amount   of  Sub-loans  to  a
Beneficiary shall be N 100,000 in constant 1988 prices.
5.   For Part D of the Project.
     CBN shall ensure that  PBs  adopt the following procedures in
processing Sub-loans under Part D of the Project:
     (a)  The maximum pay-back  period  for leased equipment shall
be six years, calculated on the basis of the installed cost of the
equipment and the estimated  annual  net  cash flow generated from
the equipment.
     (b)  The maximum lease amount  financed  from the proceeds of
the Loan shall be N 2.5 million in constant 1988 prices.
     (c)  The  overall  maximum  book  value  of  leased equipment
financed from proceeds of the Loan and outstanding with respect to
a Beneficiary or a group  of related beneficiary enterprises shall
be N 2.5 million in constant 1988 prices.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                         Special Account A
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible  Categories"  means Categories (1) to
(5) set forth in the  table  in  paragraph  1 of Schedule 1 to the
Loan Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
Parts A to E of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the  provisions  of  Schedules  1 and 2 to this
Agreement, provided, however,  that notwithstanding the provisions
of paragraph 1 (b) of  Schedule  2 to this Agreement, payments for
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of free-limit Sub-
loans and Investments  may  be  made  out  of  the Special Account
before the Bank shall  have  authorized  withdrawals from the Loan
Account in  respect  thereof.  Such  expenditures,  however, shall
qualify as eligible  expenditures  only  if  the Bank shall subse-
quently authorize such withdrawals; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $15,000,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Account shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible expendi-
tures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
Page  14
the Special Account or a  Sub-account  has been duly opened, with-
drawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special  Account  or  a  Sub-account  may be made as
follows:
     (a)  On the basis  of  a  request  or  requests  by CBN for a
deposit or deposits which add  up  to  the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation, the Bank shall,  on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  into  the Special
Account such amount or amounts as CBN shall have requested.
     (b)  CBN shall furnish to the Bank requests for replenishment
of the  Special  Account  at  such  intervals  as  the  Bank shall
specify. On the basis  of  such  requests, the Bank shall withdraw
from the Loan Account  and  deposit  into the Special Account such
amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with
amounts not exceeding  the  amount  of  payments  made  out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall
be withdrawn by the Bank  from  the Loan Account under the respec-
tive  eligible  Categories,  and   in  the  respective  equivalent
amounts, as shall have  been  justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit  furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by  CBN  out  of the Special Account or
any Sub-account for which  CBN  requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this  Schedule,  CBN shall furnish to the Bank,
prior to or at the time  of such request, such documents and other
evidence as the Bank  shall  reasonably request, showing that such
payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by CBN directly from the
               Loan Account in  accordance  with the provisions of
               Article V of  the  General Conditions and paragraph
               (a) of Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to the eligible Categories for  Parts A to E of the
               Project,  minus  the   amount  of  any  outstanding
               special commitment entered  into  by  the Bank pur-
               suant to  Section  5.02  of  the General Conditions
               with respect to Parts A  to E of the Project, shall
               be equal to the  equivalent  of twice the amount of
               the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the  Loan Account of the re-
maining unwithdrawn amount of  the  Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories for Parts A to E  of the Project shall follow such pro-
cedures as the Bank shall  specify  by notice to CBN. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only  after  and  to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied  that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account  or  any Sub-account as of the date
of such notice will  be  utilized  in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the  Special  Account  or  any Sub-account: (i) was
made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the  Bank,  CBN  shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, deposit into  the  Special Account (or, if the Bank
shall so request,  refund  to  the  Bank)  an  amount equal to the
amount of such payment or  the  portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. No further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account
shall be made until CBN has made such deposit or refund.
Page  15
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account or any Sub-account will
not be required to  cover  further  payments for eligible expendi-
tures, CBN shall, promptly  upon  notice  from the Bank, refund to
the  Bank  such  outstanding  amount  for  crediting  to  the Loan
Account.
