Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 20003
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ST KITTS AND NEVIS
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3332/CREDIT NO. 2248-SC)
January 7, 2000
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Country Unit: Caribbean
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by
recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may
not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = East Caribbean Dollar (EC)
Average Exchange Rate for 1999
US$1.00 = EC$ 2.70
EC$1.00 = US$ 0.37
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF THE BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEMACO         Central Marketing Corporation
CHA            Central Housing Authority
CPU            Central Planning Unit
DOA            Department of Agriculture
EU             European Union
FAO            Food and Agriculture Organization
LDC            Land Development Corporation
MALH           Ministry of Agriculture Lands and Housing (St. Kitts)
MALC           Ministry of Agriculture Lands and Cooperatives (Nevis)
NACO           National Agricultural Corporation
NAFTA          North American Free Trade Agreement
OECS           Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
SKN            St. Kitts and Nevis
SSMC           St. .Kitts Sugar Manufacturing Corporation
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:        David de Ferranti
Country Director:      Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Director:       John Redwood
Task Manager:          Samuel G. Wedderburn



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3332/CREDIT NO. 2248-SC)
ST KITTS AND NEVIS
TABLE OF CONTENTS                                 Page No.
PREFACE ..............................................................              i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..............................................................  ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction ........................................................  
A.    Project Objectives and Decription.                                    I
B.    Achievement of Project Objectives.                                   3
C.       Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the
Project.                                                          6
D.  Project Sustainability.                                                9
E.  Bank Performance .10
F.  Borrower Performance .11
G.       Assessment of Outcome.                                               2
H.       Future Operation ..............   . ......................        12
I.       Key Lessons Learned .............. ......................         12
PART II - STATISTICAL ANNEX
Table 1  -  Summary of Assessments                        .1 5
Table 2  -  Related Bank Loans/Credits .16
Table 3 -  Project Timetable .16
Table 4    -    Credit/Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated
and Actual .16
Table 5    -    Key Indicators of Development Outcome .17
Table 6  -  Studies Included in Project .17
Table 7 - Project Costs .18
Table 8 - Project Financing .19
Table 9  -  Economic cost and Benefits .19
Table 10 -  Status of Legal Covenants .20
Table 11   -    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .22
Table 12A -  Status for Credit 22480 .22
Table 12B -  Status for Loan 33320 .22
Table 12C -  Status for Loan 3332S .23
Table 12D -  Status for Loan 3332A .23
Table 13  -  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .23
Table 14 -  Bank Resources: Missions .24
APPENDICES
A.   Mission Aide Memoir .........................................................  25
B.   Borrower Contributions to ICR .................................................  31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ST KITTS AND NEVIS
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3332/CREDIT NO. 2248-SC)
Preface
1.   This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural
Development Support Project, for which Loan 3332 in the amount of US$1.5 million
equivalent and Credit 2248-SC in the amount of SDRI. I million were approved on June
14, 1991 and made effective on February 27, 1992.
2.   The Loan/Credit closing date was June 30, 1999. The Credit was fully disbursed
and on October 31, 1999 the undisbursed amount of US$439,166 of the Loan was
canceled.
3.   The ICR was prepared by Samuel Wedderburn, Natural Resources Management
Specialist, Environment and Socially Sustainable Development Unit, Latin America and
the Caribbean Region. The ICR was reviewed by Thomas Wiens, Lead Specialist,
Environment and Socially Sustainable Development Unit, Latin American and Caribbean
Region, and Maria Donoso Clark, Sector Leader, Caribbean Country Management Unit.
4,  Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission in June 1999. It is also based on material in the project file and discussions with
the Borrower's staff and beneficiaries. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of
the ICR with its own evaluation of the project, which is attached as Annex B.






ST KITTS AND NEVIS
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3332/CREDIT NO. 2248-SC)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A. Introduction
1.   The Agricultural Development Support Project was the first Bank group operation
in St. Kitts and Nevis (SKN). It was designed during a period of structural change in the
country's economy with the Government seeking to lessen dependence on the sugar
industry. The industry, which was government owned and operated, was the main
contributor to GDP and employed about one-third of the workforce but it had been in
decline for several years, being faced with a number of problems including chronic
weaknesses in management and organization. Government's development strategy,
supported by the Bank, was to diversify the agriculture sector and to withdraw from
ownership of the sugar industry by divesting the sugar mill and providing a long term
lease for the sugar lands.
B. PROJECr OBJECTIVES
2.  The overall project objective was to improve the pace and diversity of SKN's
agricultural development through: (i) changes in the incentive framework, which are
aimed at providing security of land ownership and migrant labor to work in agriculture
(particularly in the sugar industry); (ii) improvements in agricultural support services and
the Government's agricultural planning capacity; and (iii) changes in the operations of the
sugar industry, including its divestiture in the second year of the project.
3.   The objectives clearly reflected the Borrower's development priorities but with a
flawed project design their achievement was unrealistic. The sugar industry needed
intervention to prevent its collapse, while the opportunities for non-sugar agriculture
seemed positive especially with the bourgeoning tourism industry. However, a number of
significant constraints were identified during project preparation, which were not
addressed in the design, namely: (a) given the absence of a tradition of non-sugar
agriculture fostering interest in this sub-sector posed a major challenge; (b) the ability of
such entrepreneurs to secure market niches for agricultural products; and (c) the
timeframe needed for sale of the sugar industry. Furthermore, project design was
weakened by inadequate provisions for organization and management and lack of
consultation with proposed project participants on their interest in non-sugar agriculture.
The outcome of the project was significantly affected by these "quality at entry" issues.
C. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
4.   The project did not achieve its main objective of restructuring the agricultural
sector, although many of the planned activities toward this goal were implemented. For



iii
non-sugar agriculture, only 12 long term leases were issued and there is no evidence of
expansion in the cultivated area. The key indices, including the sector's contribution to
GDP, domestic output of the main crops and agricultural exports were either unchanged
or declined marginally during the project.
5.   As planned changes were made in the incentives framework through enactment of a
new Land Development Act which introduced 35 year renewable leases. In addition
technical assistance was provided to improve land administration. Nevertheless, there
was limited demand for long-term leases principally because there was little interest in
expansion of non-sugar agriculture. Among the factors mitigating against agricultural
expansion were: (a) unfavorable agro-ecological conditions which required irrigation to
support meaningful year-round cultivation; (b) limited availability of improved or more
appropriate crop technology packages; and (c) there was limited impact from the sub-
sector studies and technical assistance provided by the project. In addition, farmers had a
perception of adequate security under existing rental arrangements, annual rents were
low compared with much higher transaction and annual costs of leasing and the lease
agreement prevented erection of permanent structures.
6.   On the sugar side, the objective was to either divest or close the industry, the latter
option to be accompanied by a mitigation plan. Neither action was achieved as the
industry remains in operation and continues to incur losses. The project introduced
changes which initially improved the industry's efficiency but the private sector showed
little interest in purchasing the mill due to: (i) the large capital injection required to
replace aged plant and machinery; (ii) the high cost structure of the industry; and (iii)
uncertainty at the time about the future of preferential access to EU and US markets.
When divestment was not achieved government did not close the mill mainly because of
political concerns. The main conclusion of a future strategy study undertaken to provide
government with more information on which to take a decision, was that even under the
most optimistic scenario the industry would not be profitable
7.   At appraisal, total project cost was estimated at US$4.3 million. The loan and
credit of US$1.5 million each would finance 100% of foreign exchange costs. It was
estimated that GoSKN, would provide US$0.5 million out of the US$0.6 million of local
costs. Other donors, principally UNDP and USAID were to contribute US$0.9 million.
At closure, total project cost was US$2.6 million, almost entirely provided from the loan
and credit. Government's contribution was minimal because the expected incremental
national staff were not hired, instead existing staff were assigned additional
responsibilities. Donor agencies decided to finance their own projects instead of
contributing to this project.
8.   The key factors affecting performance of the project were the flawed overall
design and more specifically, the following factors: (i) the lack of adequate
organizational arrangements for implementing the project; (ii) misunderstanding of what
was required to achieve a shift from sugar to non-sugar agriculture; (iii) the loss of
ownership and commitment by the Borrower, which led to limited impact of the project's
main intervention strategy, which was technical assistance, and little interest from the
participating agencies; and (iv) poor coordination with the authorities in Nevis as a result



iv
of the political environment, causing some project activities targeted for Nevis not being
implemented.
9.   The issue of sustainability is questionable because the main objective was not
achieved and neither sugar nor non-sugar agriculture appears to be profitable. GoSKN
has not provided a clear indication of how it intends to proceed with the continued
operation of the sugar industry. In non-sugar agriculture, lack of secure markets is still a
major constraint. In addition, the increasing average age of farmers and the preference
among younger persons for work in the tourism industry, are further concerns. The first
step would be to conduct a thorough review of the agricultural sector. Additionally,
through on-going dialogue, the Bank needs to continue drawing government's attention
to the unsustainability of continued operation of the sugar industry.
10.  Overall Bank performance was rated unsatisfactory At identification the project
concept was consistent with the government's development priorities. However, during
preparation and appraisal a number of limitations to the project were not adequately
assessed, resulting in several flaws in project design. During implementation the Bank
often gave good advice but it's key failure was the lack of a mid-term review of the
project. The Bank also failed to recognize early enough during implementation the
weaknesses in the project's organizational structure and failed to take decisive actions
once other problems were identified. The Borrower's overall performance was rated
unsatisfactory due to lack of ownership and commitment during project implementation,
delays in taking key policy and procurement decisions, and in compliance with loan
covenants, and limited monitoring and evaluation.
11.  The overall project outcome was rated unsatisfactory as the development
objective has not been attained.
D. FUTuRE OPERATIONS, AND KEY LESSONs LEARNED
12. Plans for the future operation of the project have not been presented by GoSKN.
13. The key lessons learnt from this project, which confirm a number of lessons the
Bank has learned are the following:
- the effect of ignoring important constraints identified during project preparation
that are fundamental in achieving the project's objectives, was very evident in this
project, such issues (for example the structural weakness of the sugar industry and
lack of history of non-sugar agriculture) must be subject to rigorous analysis and
if they cannot be addressed through the project's design then consideration must
be given to designi}ig a different project;
*  although this project was designed before full acknowledgement of the
importance of beneficiary consultation and participation, a sound assessment of
the social and political environment (such as the significance of trade unions in
the sugar industry and national politics) and the interests of potential beneficiaries
(for example asking farmers if they were interested in long term leases or in



v
expanding non-sugar agriculture) was never carried out during preparation and
would have helped to clarify a number of issues,
* in addition to the previous comment, the project also provides confirmation of the
need to continuously evaluate the effect of exogenous factors on a project,
including the political environment and the effect of other sectors, in this case,
tourism;
* the absence of an effective monitoring and evaluation system (including design of
relevant and practical indicators of project performance) together with a mid-term
review provides good confirmation of the importance the Bank now attaches to
these activities; during implementation management was not adequately alerted to
some of the failings of the project (such as the need to examine why leases were
not being provided, or that non-sugar agriculture was not expanding) and with the
exception of during Bank missions there were no regular forums for reviewing
implementation progress;
• the threat of sanctions for lack of enforcement of loan covenants could be more
effective if explicitly linked to other aspects of the loan portfolio or pipeline
projects, in cases where these sanctions might be less meaningful to the
implementing agency directly concerned, such as when implementation is
significantly advanced or if there is limited ownership of the project or if there is
little interest in a follow-on project; again this is an area the Bank now recognizes
as being very important.



ST KITTS AND NEVIS
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2248/LOAN 3332-SC)
PART I - IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction
1.   Throughout the 1980's St. Kitts and Nevis (SKN) experienced good economic
performance with an average annual growth rate of 5%. Traditionally, the economy had
been based on the sugar industry, which in 1981 accounted for 18% of foreign exchange
eamings and employed 27% of the national labor force. By the end of the 1980's, however,
significant structural changes were beginning to occur in the economy with tourism
increasing in importance together with a rise in small scale manufacturing. Against this
background, the share of agriculture in GDP declined from 16.7% in 1981 to 10.1% in 1988
as a result of poor performance in the dominant sugar industry. The industry suffered from
the chronic weaknesses of managerial and organizational inefficiencies often associated
with publicly owned companies (both the sugar mill and the lands for cultivating sugar
cane were state owned), and from a decline in US sugar prices in the mid-1980's. In
addition, the availability of labor for harvesting was being constrained by alternative
employment opportunities in the tourism sector, and labor productivity was low as a result
of poorly maintained mechanical handling and transportation equipment.
2.   With these problems facing the sugar industry and in order to lessen dependence on
the volatile tourism sector as the main foreign exchange eamer, Government adopted a
strategy of diversifying the agricultural sector, together with improving efficiency in sugar
production .
A. Project Objectives and Description
3.   The project was the first Bank group operation in St. Kitts and Nevis. Its overall
objective was to improve the pace and diversity of SKN's agricultural development
through: (i) changes in the incentive framework, which are aimed at providing security of
land ownership and migrant labor to work in agriculture (particularly in the sugar
industry); (ii) improvements in agricultural support services and the Government's
agricultural planning capacity; and (iii) changes in the operations of the sugar industry,
including its divestiture in the second year of the project.
4.  The objectives represented a clear agreement between the Bank and the Borrower
and were consistent with its declared development priorities to diversify agriculture.
However, the overall objective of restructuring the agricultural sector was unrealistic given
the magnitude of existing constraints, identified during preparation but not addressed in
the project design. Furthermore, the narrow timeframe for divestment of the sugar industry
together with the assumption of potential private sector interests in the industry were
optimistic given the abandonment of sugar in the mid 1980's in neighboring islands such as
St. Vincent and the Grenadines and Antigua, together with other constraints discussed



2
below. The land tenure system was considered the major obstacle to expansion of non-
sugar agriculture. The project design was characterized by three main limitations,
identified as risks in the SAR, which eventually affected its outcome: (a) fostering interest
in non-sugar agriculture; (b) the ability of such entrepreneurs to secure market niches for
agricultural products; and (c) the timeframe needed for sale of the sugar industry. During
preparation other constraints had been identified: (i) the absence of a tradition of non-sugar
agriculture and specifically small-scale commercial farming; (ii) the small size of the
domestic market and the lack of export competitiveness for non-sugar agricultural
products, compounded for Nevis by the need to transit through St. Kitts; (iii) high average
age of farmers, who were mostly part-time; and (iv) the limited capacity of the agricultural
support services. The success of the project was predicated on overcoming these quite
substantial limitations, suggesting that from the beginning the likelihood of achieving the
objectives was small.
5.   The project, to be implemented over eight years comprised two components:
*  Part A. Agricultural Development: land administration,
strengthening agricultural support services and upgrading agricultural
planning capacity;
*  Part B. Sugar Industry: improved management of the sugar
manufacturing corporation followed by sale of the mill, or closure in
the event of inability to sell.
6.   The project components comprising mainly technical assistance, were geared
towards institutional strengthening, which was not a sufficient condition for achieving the
objectives of agricultural diversification. However, the major flaw in the project design
was the lack of adequate organizational arrangements. A dedicated project management
unit was not included, instead the office of the Minister of Agriculture was to be
responsible for overall coordination. The agricultural development component would be
coordinated by the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture, Lands and Housing
(MALH), St. Kitts, while the Ministry of Finance would oversee the sugar component,
which would be managed by the St. Kitts Sugar Manufacturing Corporation (SSMC).
Management responsibility for each sub-component of Part A was delegated to the five
functional departments of MALH and the Ministry of Agriculture, Lands and
Cooperatives, Nevis (MALC): the Departments of Agriculture (DOA) in each island, the
Central Housing Authority, St. Kitts (CHA) the Land Development Corporation, Nevis
(LDC) and the Central Planning Unit (CPU) of MALH, which was later merged into the
Ministry of Finance and Planning. In addition, the office of the Minister of Agriculture was
to be assisted with overall coordination by the technical advisor to the complementary
UINDP/FAO Agricultural Diversification Project. However, the management capability of
MALH was constrained by limited availability of staff. Soon afler the project became
effective, the Bank agreed that the Borrower could engage UNDP (Barbados) in managing
the agricultural development component.



3
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
7.   The o,erall objective of increasing  the pace and  diversity  of agricultural
development has not been achieved, although many of the planned activities were
implemented, and most of the key indicators achieved, which suggests that the indicators
were inappropriate for measuring achievement of the project objective. The main reasons
for this disjunction was the flawed project design which reflected a misunderstanding of
what was required to replace sugar with non-sugar and inadequate organizational
arrangements resulting in ineffective project coordination. The project produced the
following planned outputs:
* Changes were made in the incentives framework through enactment of a new
Land Development Act that introduced 35 year renewable leases to replace the
existing one-year agricultural land leasing.
* Agricultural support services were improved through the provision of technical
assistance, equipment and infrastructure development and agricultural planning
capacity was partly improved; and
* the performance of the sugar industry was improved during the first two years of
the implementation period.
8.   Changes in the incentives framework: The establishment of a legal framework for
security of land tenure was achieved through the enactment of a Land Development Act,
which was wrongly expected to lead to demand for long term leases. The framework was
supported by provision of technical assistance to improve the system for classification of
land and demarcation of boundaries. This involved preparation of specifications for the
design of cadastral maps and undertaking land capability studies to develop zoning
strategies for land use. In spite of the framework being in place, only twelve long term
leases were issued for agricultural land in St. Kitts.' The general unprofitability of farming
together with the absence of a history of non-sugar agriculture were the major reasons
limiting the demand for leases, but individuals were discouraged from obtaining leases for
a number of other reasons: (i) farmers had a perception of adequate security under the
existing rental arrangements for there was no history of individuals being evicted from
land rented from the government; (ii) the lease applicant was responsible for the cost of a
boundary survey (EC$800), together with the annual cost of the lease of EC$600 per acre,
significantly higher costs than the annual rental of EC$20 per acre; (iii) provisions in the
lease agreement which prevented erection of permanent structures; (iv) limited post harvest
facilities and marketing opportunities dampened incentive for investment; (v) part-time
interest in agriculture because of job opportunities elsewhere, and (vi) long bureaucratic
process in obtaining approval for leases. Some potential beneficiaries also mentioned the
fact that the best agricultural land was under sugar and they were not prepared to invest in
what was perceived as marginal areas.
9.   Improved agricultural services:  The project strengthened agricultural services, in
both islands through the following interventions: (i) the provision of technical assistance
through which strategic plans were prepared to enhance operations of the two DOAs, the
' Specific targets were not included in the SAR but there were about 3.400 agricultural holdings in St. Kitts
and Nevis, 36% of those in St. Kitts and 65% in Nevis were held under freehold tenure. The remaining land
was leased from the state, which controlled the majority of land.



4
CHA in St. Kitts and the LDC in Nevis; (ii) the provision of vehicles to improve the
mobility of extension staff and land surveyors; (iii) the provision of extension
communication equipment for better dissemination of messages to farmers, and (iv)
rehabilitation and equipping two extension outreach centers in St. Kitts (five were planned
covering both islands). In spite of these achievements, there is little evidence of the
expected impact leading to expansion of agriculture and increased production.
10.  There is no evidence of expansion in the cultivated area. Although project specific
beneficiary evaluation surveys were not conducted the project area was national, hence
trends in country level data are indicative, which do not show improvements in the key
indicators of agricultural performance.2 For St. Kitts between 1992 and 1996 there was no
structural shift in the economy toward non-sugar agriculture. The area in non-sugar
agriculture remained relatively stable and there was virtually no change in the sub-sector's
contribution to GDP, which was 1.13% in 1992 and 1.15% in 1996. For the national
agriculture sector as a whole, including sugar, there is a long term declining trend, its
contribution to GDP declining from 18.9 percent in 1977 to 10.6 percent in 1987 and 4.6
percent in 1998. Between 1992 and 1996 there was a small decline in the value of exports
of food (and live animals) from EC$36 million to EC$34 million, conversely imports rose
from EC$46 million to EC$67million. Comparing output of the main crops in 1992 and
1998 production increased for carrot and onion, but decreased for peanut, sweet pepper,
tomato and white potato. Anecdotal evidence suggests that some increases occurred in
vegetable production for the tourism market in Nevis.
11.  In addition to the factors discussed in paragraph (8) above, there are a number of
other reasons for the above outcome. First, agro-ecological conditions are such that
irrigation is required to support year round cultivation. In St. Kitts, however, the most
suitable lands for irrigation are leased to the sugar industry and not available to private
individuals. Assessments of a number of other areas presently under non-sugar cultivation
have shown irrigation not to be technically viable. At present, in both islands a few
individual farmers use various methods of trickle irrigation.
12.  Secondly, agricultural expansion was constrained by the limited availability of
appropriate crop technology packages. These were to be developed under the
complementary UNDP/FAO project. Dissemination of improved technology generated
under this project was to be facilitated by the extension service strengthened under the
ADSP. However, the UNDPJFAO project (mentioned in paragraph 6 above) developed
very few technologies and these made little contribution to the ADSP as activities under
the two projects were not sequenced as expected.
13.  Thirdly, there was limited impact from the studies and analyses executed through
technical assistance. The studies and sub-sector strategies which were intended to strength
agricultural planning and support services comprised the following: land use planning to
strengthen the CPU, CHA and LDC; organization and management to improve the
functioning of the two DOAs, the LDC and the CHA; agricultural investment promotions,
and a marketing strategy to improve agricultural planning.
2 St. Kitts Department of Agriculture: Annual Agricultural Statistics Digest. 1996: 1998 Annual Review.
Agricultual statistics for Nevis were not available.



5
14. With the exception of the study on investment promotions where the consultant did
not submit an acceptable report, the other studies were completed and the
recommendations accepted. The most significant impact was made by the organization and
management study where implementation of the recommendations led to more efficient
organization of the DOAs and the LDC. The limited impact of the other studies was due to
poor coordination of consultant inputs (including with the UNDP/FAO project as discussed
in paragraph 12 above), lack of ownership of the results by the line agencies and limited
government support resulting in inadequate application of the recommendations (see
paragraphs 23 and 24 below).
15. For example, the marketing plan was discussed in a workshop by the key
stakeholders. It identified potential export markets mainly in the tourism sector of 'the
eastern Caribbean sub-region and recommended appropriate strategies. However, the
government marketing agency expected to play a major role in implementing this strategy,
Central Marketing Corporation (CEMACO), operated inefficiently and never fulfilled its
produce marketing functions, but no alternative arrangements were put in place. The
expected emergence of private exporters was limited to a single exporter of peppers to the
Canadian market, but price competition from Mexico as a result of NAFTA soon eroded
this market. Some peppers are now being exported to regional markets. Government also
failed to act upon the Bank's recommendation of combining the findings of the consultant
studies with the results of the UNDPJFAO project and outputs from other similar programs
into an agricultural policy paper that could have provided an action plan for future
agricultural development.
16. The Sugar Industry: During the first two years, the project introduced improved
operational, administrative and financial management of the sugar industry thereby helping
to stabilize its financial condition, which had been deteriorating for several years. A small
management team was engaged to maintain operation of the sugar mill, which
implemented measures such as rationalization of staff, strengthened operational
management and cost accounting. These helped to stem the drain on SSMC's resources
and for the first time in many years a break-even on cash-flow was achieved in 1992. The
management team also generated financial and operational information needed for the
planned sale of the sugar mill. However, these improvements turned out to be temporary.
The ultimate objective was divestment of the industry, which was not achieved, and after
the second year of the project, the financial performance of the industry deteriorated
Govemment also took the agreed actions to improve the policy framework by modifying
immigration laws to allow for the inflow of migrant labor for sugar cane harvesting,
eliminated the levy imposed on the sugar industry; and eliminated the special cess on the
industry. A prospectus for divestment was also prepared and made available to potential
buyers, but only one prospective buyer showed interest. This firm entered prolonged
negotiations with government, but final agreement was not reached. Purchase of the sugar
mill remained an unattractive investment also because of the large capital injection
required to replace the aged plant and machinery, the high cost structure of the industry,
particularly labor costs, and uncertainty at the time about continued preferential access to
EU and US markets.
17.  After the second project year the industry continued to incur losses requiring the
provision of subsidies to SSMC. Government, however, did not take a formal stance on
closure of the industry as required in the Loan covenants. The issues involved in taking



6
this decision were perhaps more complex than assessed at appraisal. For example, there
had been little if any consultations with the trade unions, and hence an under-appreciation
of the political significance of closure. The importance of sugarcane in environmental
protection of a large portion of the island was also not adequately evaluated. The social
impact of closure was rightly identified as a major concern. Realizing the difficult decision
faced by Government, in 1995, the Bank proposed that a sugar strategy study be conducted
that would provide government with a detailed analysis of the options for the future of the
industry. The study, however, never received local ownership, being perceived as an
imposition by the Bank. As a result its execution was delayed and ultimately government
did not accept its main recommendation of closing the industry.
18.  The study analyzed the following options: (i) closure of the industry and disposal of
assets together with fully costed mitigating measures, including redundancy payments to
staff, retraining of workers, allocation of divested sugar lands to interested workers for
non-sugar agriculture, social safety nets, etc.; (ii) maintaining the industry in a functional
state, without major rehabilitation and modernization; (iii) reduction in the sugar cane area,
presently 10,000 acres, by 2000 acres which would be planted with peanut, onion, potato
and hot pepper, and production of by-products such as molasses, the reduction is based on
the minimum area required to fulfill existing sugar quotas and to optimize capacity in the
mill; and (iv) introduction of mechanization and new technology. Each of the options for
continuation of the industry (ii to iv) results in annual financial losses, which means
continued provision of subsidies (see paragraph 35 for a discussion of the financial
implications). Government appears to have chosen a combination of options (iii) and (iv).
19.  As either sale or closure of the industry was envisaged by the end of project year
two, a prolonged direct impact by the project on the performance of the industry was not
anticipated. The indicators show a long term decline in SSMC's financial condition and the
evidence suggests that in the absence of the project this trend would have been accelerated.
SSMC's financial losses declined from EC$9.5 million in 1991 to EC$2.9 million in 1992
(end of the first project year), but increased to EC$4.8 million in 1993 and has continued to
increase since then, reaching EC$15.8 million for 1997. In the year prior to the project,
sugar production was at its lowest level for 25 years as a result of Hurricane Hugo, 1 5,000
tons compared with the peak during the 1980's of 35,000 tons in 1984. Rehabilitation
through the project restored production to 19,000 tons in the following year, but with the
exception of 1997, average cane production for the eight years of implementation was
below that of the previous eight years, 22,000 tons compared with 26,000 tons. Average
cane yields also followed a similar pattern. The cane to sugar ratio, however, improved
from 11.10 before the project to 9.03 in 1994 and 1995, which indicates some
improvements in the operation of the mill, but slipped to 9.77 in 1998.
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting Implementation and
Outcome
20. Project effectiveness was delayed until February 27, 1992, eight months after Loan
signing. Implementation of activities under Part A, agricultural development, was further
delayed until the appointment of UNDP in November 1992 to manage the component.
Consultant studies, which comprised the main activities under this component, began in
April 1993 when the Survey Practices Specialist was hired, and although the consultants



7
were expected to work as a team, procurement delays resulted in the final consultant being
hired in July 1994. The renovation of extension outreach centers was completed only in
1999, but no candidates were nominated by the LDC for training. Implementation of Part
B was underway before effectiveness through the provision of a PPF which allowed for
appointment of the management consultant team. Preparation of the prospectus for sale
was timely and completed in January 1993. However, once it was apparent that the sugar
mill could not be sold, government did not prepare an action plan and timetable for closure
and the study to help determine the future of the industry was delayed by two years.
21. Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency: The
competitiveness of non-sugar agricultural products in export markets did not improve
during implementation. Increased competition especially in the marketing of non-
traditional crops came from the banana producing countries in the Windward islands who
sought to diversify their agricultural sectors in response to the change in preferential access
to the EU market. In the main regional market, Trinidad and Tobago, local producers were
able to displace imported products, while other islands such as St. Vincent and the
Grenadines employed aggressive marketing strategies. In the North American market
competition came from Jamaica and with the creation of NAFTA from lower priced
Mexican products. St. Kitts and Nevis also faces the problem of being a small island and
therefore subject to high marginal cost of freight because of low volumes.
22. Fears regarding continued preferential access of sugar to US and EU markets did not
materialize as in 1995 quotas to these markets were increased for Caribbean producers.
This was not a sufficient incentive, however, to encourage private sector interest in
acquiring the mill.
23. Factors generally subject to government control: Project   performance   was
affected by weak ownership, limited commitment and lack of political will. At the onset of
the project there was a high level of interest particularly in the agricultural development
component which was an integral part of government's agricultural diversification
program. Ownership was also high because local officials were actively involved in project
preparation. However, soon after implementation commenced commitment lessened due to
the absence of a clear definition of roles for the DOAs and other agencies, together with
blurred lines of management responsibility and coordination. Furthermore, ownership
diminished after UNDP's appointment to manage the component. UNDP did not make
adequate arrangements for in-country coordination and tended to manage the project from
Barbados, which alienated national officials. Although Bank supervision missions
recognized this problem and raised the management shortcomings with UNDP and
GOSKN the situation did not improve. This alienation from the project contributed to the
lack of ownership of the strategies prepared by the consultants leading to their limited use
by the agencies concerned.
24. Another factor subject to government control was the coordination of other projects
and programs in the agricultural sector. In addition to the ADSP and the UNDP/FAO
project which included overlapping activities, IICA prepared a detailed agricultural sector
strategy, presented in 1993, which covered a number of the areas already included in the
aforementioned projects. These projects were not effectively coordinated. At times staff of
the line agencies were uncertain about their roles in these different programs.



8
25. Implementation of the sugar inidustry component was affected by lack of political
will. Although there was less ownership of this component, the need for change in the
industry was recognized by the government of the day and earnest attempts were made for
divestment during the early years of the project. After it became apparent that there was
little private sector interest in buying the mill government's commitment to take the
alternative action of closure was weakened by the outcome of the 1993 elections which
returned an evenly balanced parliament. When the government changed after the 1995
elections the new Labor government, with its support base in the trade unions, who were
mainly represented by sugar workers, found it politically infeasible to close the industry.
Although Government agreed to undertake the sugar strategy study there was little local
ownership, the study being viewed as an imposition by the Bank. Once the study was
completed continued delays in holding open consultations (recommended by the Bank) on
the findings made it increasingly less likely that Government would accept the
recommendations to close the industry. Eventually, government informed the Bank that it
would keep the industry open.
26. Political considerations also affected implementation of project activities in Nevis.
The two islands, maintain separate civil service administrations. The project period
coincided with heightened debate on the future of the union culminating in a referendum in
Nevis during 1998 on the question of secession. The effect on the project was that some
activities were never implemented. For example, the nomination of staff from the LDC for
training did not occur. Similarly, project funds allocated for construction of an extension
outreach center were not used, instead external funds were obtained from an alternative
source.
27. Factors generally subject to implementing agency control: The sugar industry
component was well managed by SSMC under the direction of its Board of Directors.
Decision making was timely and the project was administered according to the
implementation plan. By the end of 1993 all the actions towards sale had been undertaken.
On the other hand, management of the non-sugar component was unsatisfactory for most
of the implementation period. Soon after project effectiveness, it was evident that the
organizational arrangements were complicated and impractical. There were no clear TOR
for the permanent secretary or for his support staff, resulting in poor coordination, little
interest by the functional departments and slow start-up of the project.
28. The Management Services Agreement (MSA) signed with UNDP provided for in-
country coordination by the chief technical advisor (CTA) for the complementary
UNDP/FAO project. However, this arrangement was not effective. The first CTA
completed his assignment before the MSA became effective, there was a delay in finding a
replacement, who then left before all the activities were implemented. The roles of the
permanent secretary (MALH) and other staff were still not clearly defined, while the
responsibilities of the line agencies remained uncertain and they became less involved in
the project. As a result, the consultant team was poorly managed. The UNDP contract was
eventually terminated in 1997 and MALH resumed direct responsibility for the project,
managing the contracts for the sugar strategy study and construction of the extension
outreach centers. MALH itself experienced staff turnover as during the period there were
two permanent secretaries and two assistant secretaries (designated project coordinators),
and similar changes occurred in MALC.



9
29. Procurement delays occurred under both management arrangements. The joint
involvement of UNDP's office in Barbados and UNOPS in New York caused delays in the
hiring of consultants as mentioned above in paragraph 20., and in the procurement of
vehicles, extension communication equipment and construction of the extension outreach
centers. Procurement managed by MALH was also subject to significant delays.
30.  The project did not provide regular progress reports or undertake evaluation studies.
The absence of a mid-term review was very critical. The CPU was responsible for
monitoring and evaluation but when it was merged with the Ministry of Finance and
Planning this function reverted to the office of the permanenit secretary (MALH). This
issue was raised by several Bank missions but was never adequately addressed.
31. Project costs were US$2.6 million compared with US$4.2 million estimated at
appraisal. The IDA Credit of US$1.5 million was fully disbursed while US$0.4 million
remained in the Loan account when the project closed and was cancelled. The lower costs
were mainly due to the reduction in consultant inputs, only two of five extension outreach
centers planned were constructed, and instead of providing incr-emelntal staff, government
utilized existing staff for both project and other responsibilities. Funds expected from
other donors were not provided as it appears that agencies such as UNDP/FAO and
USAID decided to implement separate projects.
D. Project Sustainability
32.  Because the project did not achieve its primary objective the issue of sustainability is
applicable mainly in respect of (i) the likelihood of the key issues affecting restructuring of
the agriculture sector being addressed in the future; and (ii) the extent to which those
results that were achieved by the project are sustainable. The apparent unprofitability of
both sugar and non-sugar agriculture together with government's failure to provide a clear
indication of how it intends to address a number of outstanding issues suggests that at least
in the near future there is little likelihood that the key issues involved in restructuring
would be addressed. The first step would be to undertake a comprehensive sector analysis
that would assess a number of technical, institutional and social factors including: (i)
export potential possibly based on the penetration of regional markets such as St. Maarten,
Antigua and Anguila, which import most of their foodstuff; (ii) potential for supplying the
domestic tourism market; (iii) significance of the increasing average age of farmers and the
preference among younger persons for work in the tourism industry; and (iv) factors
affecting the demand for leases other than the profitability of agriculture.
33. Among the sustainable achievements of the project was improvements of the
agricultural extension service such as the construction and equipping of extension outreach
centers and the provision of extension communication equipment. The extension centers in
St. Kitts are already being used for farmer demonstrations, and the extension
communication equipment has been utilized, for example in Nevis, to create weeklv
extension radio broadcasts and dissemination of information through other media. If
agriculture should become more attractive, farmers interests in acquiring long term leases
would also depend on several policy decisions that government would need to take. In
addition to the points raised in para. 32 above, the existing low annual rent compared with
the cost of obtaining a lease needs to be revised, otherwise farmers will be content with the
present arrangement. The present provisions of the lease agreement which prevent erection



10
of permanent structures would also have to be amended, and some of the more suitable
lands currently under sugar cane need to be divested.
34.  The analyses presented in the sugar strategy study, using 1997 as a base year,
showed that any of the options for continued operation of the industry would result in
SSMC incurring annual deficits of between EC$28 million and EC$51 million by the year
2007 while the accumulated overdraft would be between EC$240 million and EC$330
million (the figures for 1997 were EC$15.8 million and EC$169.47 respectively).
35.  Government has chosen to keep the industry in operation and SSMC has already
began introduction of some operational changes. Government has also suggested the
possibility of reducing the area under sugar cane, but substantial problems remain. Capital
injection is required to replace cane grinders, locomotive engines, railway tracks and other
equipment, otherwise there will be further deterioration in. operation capacity. Several
agronomic problems are also unresolved. Furthermore, although SSMC has been
unsuccessful in its past attempts at managing additional areas of other crops, government
seems to favor this approach rather than encouraging private ownership of land for
expansion of commercial non-sugar agriculture. GOSKN has also not presented a plan for
the future operation of the project, but considering the analyses summarized in para. 35
above and the structural problems that remain, continued operation of the industry is not
sustainable.
E. Bank Performance
36.  At identification the project concept prepared was consistent with the government's
agricultural diversification program. The Borrower was assisted in preparation by the
FAO-CP whose performance was rated satisfactory. The preparation report showed the
need for capital injection to revive the sugar industry, it analyzed the environmental
significance of the sugar crop and identified a number of the risks and constraints to non-
sugar agricultural development. Its main shortcoming were the failure to assess the
beneficiaries' interest in participation together with recommendation of a top-down
approach by the DOAs, who would "select" farmers for participation and help form
cooperatives. Given the major flaws in project design the Bank's performance at both
preparation and appraisal are rated deficient. The constraints raised during preparation
were not adequately evaluated at appraisal. As mentioned above, the political significance
of the sugar industry was overlooked, and the interest of the private sector was
overestimated in the face of the capital needs of the industry, uncertainty about quotas and
closure of the industry in other islands. The commitment of potential beneficiaries to
participate was also not adequately assessed, an important omission given the absence of a
history of either non-sugar agriculture or  cooperatives. An accurate assessment of
Government ownership and commitment to the non-sugar component was made, and at the
time, it also seems that there was commitment to the sugar component. However, the
capacity of the implementing agency and other participating organizations was incorrectly
estimated, and similarly the need for a more formal coordinating mechanism with the
ITNDP/FAO project and other on-going interventions was not considered. The alternative
organizational arrangement should have been to use project funds to strengthen MALH's
capacity to manage the project.



I1
37.  The Bank's performance during supervision is also unsatisfactory. The major
deficiency was the absence of a mid-term review, which would have involved a
comprehensive analysis of the project's problems and provide a basis for restructurilng.
Supervision missions accurately reported the progress of project implementation, identified
issues as they arose, and provided relevant recommendations. Examples of the advice
provided included the need to integrate the results of the consultants input into an
agricultural policy paper, the need to hold open consultations on the recommendations of
the sugar strategy study, and concern was frequently raised about the lack of ownership of
the agriculture component by the Borrower and poor record keeping. These issues were
consistently raised at the highest levels of government, including at the CGCED meetings.
However, particularly during the first half of the project when it was most significant, the
Bank was not decisive in taking further action. The Bank also wrongly agreed to the
deployment of UNDP in managing the project, instead of strengthening MALH, then once
the shortcomings in UNDP's stewardship was realized, including the loss of local
ownership, the Bank waited too long before advising that MALH retrieve management of
the project. The Bank also underestimated the impact on the project of the political
changes that occurred in 1993 and 1995. Later missions tried to engage the Nevisian
authorities in more active participation in the project (prior to 1997 missions did not meet
with the Nevis authorities) and regularly provided technical advice to MALH as key staff
changed. An important lesson is the need to take full account of exogenous factors that
impacted on the project, such as the political environment and developments in the tourism
sector.
F. Borrower Performance
38.  The Borrower's performance during preparation of the project was satisfactory
There was commitment to the objectives and staff of the key agencies actively participated
in the design. However, potential beneficiaries were not adequately consulted although at
that time the importance of participation had not yet been fully recognized. During project
implementation the Borrower's performance was unsatisfactory. The high level of initial
ownership and commitment was lost soon after implementation began and was never
restored. Given the number of agricultural interventions occurring at the same time MALH
was unable to establish an effective inter-agency coordination mechanism. The Ministry
also did not adequately monitor and supervise UNDP's performance for example by
requiring regular financial and progress reports, following up procurement and supervising
the consultant's inputs. MALH frequently depended on the Bank for information on the
agriculture component. Although agreements would be reached with Bank missions project
management did not always carry out the agreed actions. Delays were experienced in
procurement, for example, for the sugar strategy study and the outreach centers. Overall
monitoring and evaluation of the project was also inadequate. Counterpart funds were
provided, and the technical staff required by the line agencies were also appointed.
Compliance with loan covenants was deficient, most notably closure of the sugar industry
and preparation of a mitigation plan. Compliance with audit requirements was often late,
and quality was affected by the high turnover in project managemlielnt. The borrower
provided its own evaluation of the project but has not yet made adequate plans for the
operation phase.



12
G. Assessment of Outcome
39.  The project did not achieve its key objectives although it met most of the
performance indicators by putting in place many of the factors that could contribute to
achievement of the objectives, and it has not established the requirements for sustainability
of some of those aspects that were achieved. This being so there is little basis for
consideration of sustainability. The project is therefore rated unsatisfactory. The project
changed the incentive framework through the provision of security of landownership and
opening entry for migrant workers, it strengthened agricultural support services and partly
improved agricultural planning, and it brought about some initial improvements in the
operations of the sugar industry. Establishment of these measures, however, was not
sufficient to achieve improvement in the pace and diversity of agricultural production,
hence the unsatisfactory rating. As discussed in previous paragraphs, the project was
unable to overcome a weak design that included significant risks and constraints. It also
suffered from weak management and coordination, limited ownership and commitment,
and lack of political will, which prevented key policy decisions affecting the sugar industry
from being taken.
HI. Future Operation
40.  The Borrower has not provided a plan for the operation phase. The first step during
the operation phase should be to undertake a sector analysis. For non-sugar agriculture a
first step is to assess stakeholders interest in commercial agriculture through public
consultations. Government would then need to demonstrate how it intends to remove the
existing bottlenecks to obtaining long term leases, including the divestment of at least a
portion of sugar lands as a basis of agricultural expansion. A fresh assessment of internal
(tourism industry) and external intra-regional markets would also have to precede any
thrust towards agricultural development. In the long term, operation of the sugar industry
appears to be unsustainable. Government needs to make a thorough assessment of all
possible alternative uses of the cane lands and consider also the social, economic and
environmental impact already analyzed in the sugar strategy study, in preparing for
closure. It would be useful to examine the experience of neighboring countries who have
closed their sugar industries.
I. Key Lessons Learned
41.  The key lessons learnt from this project, which confirm a number of lessons the
Bank has learned are the following:
X  the effect of ignoring important constraints identified during project preparation
that are fundamental in achieving the project's objectives, was very evident in this
project, such issues (for example the structural weakness of the sugar industry and
lack of history of non-sugar agriculture) must be subject to rigorous analysis and if
they cannot be addressed through the project's design then consideration must be
given to designing a different project;
*  although this project was designed before full acknowledgement of the importance
of beneficiary consultation and participation, a sound assessment of the social and
political environment (such as the significance of trade unions in the sugar industry
and national politics) and the interests of potential beneficiaries (for example



13
asking farmers if they were interested in long term leases or in expanding non-
sugar agriculture) was never carried out during preparation and would have helped
to clarify a number of issues;
•  in addition to the previous comment, the project also provides confirmation of the
need to continuously evaluate the effect of exogenous factors on a project,
including the political environment and the effect of other sectors, in this case,
tourism;
*  the absence of an effective monitoring and evaluation system (including design of
relevant and practical indicators of project performance) together with a mid-term
review provides good confirmation of the importance the Bank now attaches to
these activities; during implementation management was not adequately alerted to
some of the failings of the project (such as the need to examine why leases were
not being provided, or that non-sugar agriculture was not expanding) and with the
exception of during Bank missions there were no regular forums for reviewing
implementation progress;
•  in addition to the previous comment, the project also provides confirmation of the
need to continuously evaluate the effect of exogenous factors on a project,
including the political environment and the effect of other sectors, in this case,
tourism;
* the threat of sanctions for lack of enforcement of loan covenants could be more
effective if explicitly linked to other aspects of the loan portfolio or pipeline
projects, in cases where these sanctions might be less meaningful to the
implementing agency directly concerned, such as when implementation is
significantly advanced or if there is limited ownership of the project or if there is
little interest in a follow-on project; again this is an area the Bank now recognizes
as being very important.



14
PART II - STATISTICAL ANNEX
Table 1   -    Summary of Assessments
Table 2    -    Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3    -    Project Timetable
Table 4    -    Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5    -    Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
Table 6    -    Studies Included in Project
Table 7    -    Project Costs
Table 8    -    Project Financing
Table 9    -    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 10  -    Status for Credit 2216-BO
Table 11   -    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 12  -    Bank Resources: Missions



15
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
--Substantl  P_ i -. Negi a ible    Not Applicable
Macro policies
Sector policies                                                     I/
Financial objectives                                                /
Institutional development
Physical objectives 
Poverty reduction 
Gender issues 
Othler social objectives
.~~~~~~~~~
Environmental objectives                                /
Public sector management                                /
Private sector development                                           /
.. Proi : Stistah.   i -        ;k :-l  Uhkely                                    Uncertain
/
,            '        ;'ank    .':',.'n,nc  :"',.'l ''      ''tisfaer'or  Stistory  Deficient
Identification
Preparation assistance                                                             /
Appraisal
Supervision
D 'B                               Ht-hly ::tisfac~tory    Sati:factog          Deficient
''-*'..@.   G. .,   ;., ...- .    .. .
Preparation                                                             _
Implementation                                                                     /
Covenant compliance                           .
Operation                                                                         /
E~ Asessent f OucomeHi~1v Stisfctor    Satsfacory Unsatisfactory      Highly
unsatisfacton,
/



16
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
~ /dtWi                         Pu              Yea of;; Approval       Statffus:  ;
Preceding o erations:
None
Following operations:
None
Table 3: Project Timetable
Dat ?a   Actual Date
Identification                       July 1988                 July 1988
Preparation                        January 1989               January 1989
Appraisal                          March 1990                  March 1990
Negotiations                        March 1991                 March 1991
Board Presentation                 May 28, 1991               May 28, 1991
Signing                            June 14, 1991              June 14, 1991
Effectiveness                   September 15, 1991          February 27, 1992
Midterm Review                          n/a                        n/a
Project Completion                 June 30, 1999              June 30, 1999
Loan Closing                       June 30, 1999            October 3 1, 1999
Table 4: Credit/Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
{F91>'i/   i    i93   -,    95       96       97       98        99  1
Appraisal     0.5     0.8      0.9      0.6     0.05     0.05     0.05     0.05
Estimate
Actual        0.6     0.3      0.8      0.8      0.0      0.0      0.1     0.05
Actual as %    120     38      89       133       0       0        200      100
of Estimate                                           I_ _ I              _ _
Date of Final Disbursement: October 29, 1999



17
Table 5: Key Indicators of Developmeint Outcomehnipaat
Id'. WI-         .    .. .............   .....  =                             ===_. =t
tEy, 0_1d d-4    iii F4 ReRu. --t   tet Aey                           D            Entity
.XXI,kFooi>    fi ,   g  >-      t: iciatr          ___ -_|-_____ ____________               
Act of Parliamerkt passed to  Parliamentary    Act gazetted        December    GOSKYK                  Completed
allow long term leasing of  approval                                  1991
land from government                           A  p                Dc _r __ _                          C__
Migrant labor entering     SSMC recniiting     Act passedand   |Decerpber          OSKN               Corapleted
country for cane harvesting   migrant workers  gazetted               1991
Recommendations from       Land zoning         National land      January 1994   CHAJL.DC         Studies eompleted.
technical studies being    strategies prepared   use plan;                                         reccmimendatiois
used for improved land use                     improved survey                                          iaparly  upbmenited
planning                                       regulations       ___               _
Management capability      SSMC financial      Management          Decemnber    SSMC                  Completed
rating increased.          situation stabilizes   consultant team     1991
_   engaged  _      _________
Prospectus for divestment   Bids for purchase    Prospectus for        _     _ __                     Comld
prepared and made          of sugar mill       divestment
available.                 received.           circulated.
SSMC's Future Strategy     GOSKN informs    Final report           June 1997   t3AIAIJ.H/SShM5C       Compled
Study Completed            Bank of its         submitted by
(notplanned at appraisal)   decision on the    consultants
______________.__industry's future __.__ _________.
Agricultural planning      Marketing strategy   Reports           Jainuary 1994   h4ALH           NarkePnig Strateg)
capacity enhanced          prepared.           produced                                                prepared
Investment
promotion package
prepared                                   ___      _       __.__
Staff trained and in place    Improved staff   Courses financed   January 1996   CHA/LDC              No1 Done
Outreach centersperformnance                                            -                       opee
Outreach centers           Better for access   Contracts          January 1994   MALH/DOAsompted
rehabilitated, equipped and  for farmers to    executed,
functioning.               obtain advice.      equipment
provided, staff
Iengaged      .  ____ __=_.
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
_____________        ina acto Stxirty
Cadastral Mapping             Produce casastral map series     Comiipleted     T Being used to help design national
cadastral s sterm1
Survey Practices              Review existing practices for land  Completed    T Recommendations incorporated in neu    1
surveying and recommend                           suirveYs bill to be presented to parliamient
improvements
Land Use Planning             Land use capability study of both   Completed      Findings not being utilized
islands and preparation of plans
for existing and future land use    L__________11
Organization and Management  Review organization and           Completed          ine agencies restructured
management structures in DOAs,                   I
CHA and LDC .
Marketing                     Prepare marketing strategies     Completed        Strategies not implemienited
Investment Promotions         Prepare high quality promotional   Not Completed   Report inot finalized
____________________________________________________   __________________________________________________________  _____________________________  __________________________  ________________ I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_  _ ____-__



18
Table 7: Project Costs
(US$ thousand)
~~~~~~~~~.. . . ...........              . . ...  .   ..   .. ...   .     ..     .. ..........  ....   i $l| culW$).. .
Appasag9l tifiat (US)Actual (USSM) ____
~~~~~~~~~~..,::'.!:!..'.:::..,,:, .::,....    ......    ........     ...   .     . i  4.. . St .'''',i
,.,,....... ., .. .......! .....        rLocn                   a       Foreign
........             t....                        C''''::'t"i          Costs       Costs     Total
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
Land Administration:                                                                                     l
Consultants                                         202      202                      119      119
Local Staff                              326                 326
Training                                             35        35
Vehicles                                    5        40        45
Office Equipment and Supplies               1          7        8 1
Operating Costs                            1 1        15       26                                   l
Sub-total                                 343       299       642                     119       119
Support Services (DOAs):
Civil Works -Outreach Centers              62        86       148       19             29        48
Vehicles                                    7        67        74                      91        9 1
Extension Equipment                         9        33        42       75             28       103
Local Staff                               166                 166                  T_            75
Sub-total                                 244        186       430      94             1I5t      249
Agricultural Planning
Land Use Planner                                     323       323                     119       119
Economic Planner                                     323       323                        _          11
Market Research                                      235       235                     171       171
Investment Promotion                                 326       326                      88        88
Sub-total                             _             1,207    1,207                     3 78      3 78
Miscellaneous'                                                                              R7        87 8
TOTAL: AGRICULTURAL                            587      1,692    2,279      94             739      833
DEVELOPMENT
SUGAR INDUSTRY
Management Contract                                 1,297    1,297                   1.627     1,627
Fixed Assets                                66       245       311  _
Sub-total                                   66      1,542    1,608                   1,627     1,627
PPF                                                      360      360                     145       145
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                            653   3,595    4,248         94          2,51  1  2,605
3 Govermnent made existing staff available for project activities instead of hirilg incremental staff. and contnibuted to vehicle operatOi
costs, but historical records are not available.
4 Cost of national DOA staff travel to attend overseas workshops.
5 Cost of national DOA staff travel to attend overseas workshops.
6 Includes UNDP management fees and audits; and MALH staff training in Bank procedures.



19
-Table 8: Project Financing
........ ... ...... ...... ' ''':':S                    ,TuS$                 )
Local:      Fi ore ign                     Local         Foreign
..  ...  . .   .  ................. ..........   ,    - ...  ...    ........
S     .   :    -::: - Cost$    :Costk                                o sts         Costs           Total
Government                         0.5           0.0           0.5            0.05            0.0            0.05
Donors                              0.0          0.8            0.8            00             0.0             0.0
IBRD                               0.05          1.45          1.50           0.04       _        _1.02       1.06
| IDA                              0.05          1.45          1.50           0.0              1.5             1.
TOTAL                              0.06          3.7           4.3            0.1       [     2.5             2.6
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
N.A.



20
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~to'OE 3i,itX:m                                                                    Co,jUuentsz
3.03 and       F         C                               Project account established and minimum balance of      Done
2.01 (b)                                                 EC$ 100,000 maintained
7.01 (c)       T         C                              Experts contracted, satisfactory to IDA, to comiienice work  IDonce
On a draft prospectus for the sale of the sugar mill.
7.01 (d)       M         C                              IThe subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and
SSMC, satisfactory to IDA, has been entered into.
7.01(d)        F         C                              The special cess irnposed on the sugar industry has beeni
eliminated.
3.09         M          C      12/31/91    Annually   The Borrower shall, commnencing on 03/31/92, and each    Reviewed in
year subsequentlv exchange views and review the PSIP    conjunctioni with CG
with the Bank, IDA and CDB                              meeting
2.02(b)        F        NC                              Borrower to open Special Account with US$200,000 in     Not required due-to
National Bank.                                          UNDP managinLg the   l
non-sugar componenit
3.04(a)       M         CP      12/31/92    01/31/94   Borrowerto employ, no laterthan 12/31/91, a senior       The land use specialist
economic specialist and land use specialist to assist il the    N as I cruiLed andl hais
economic and physical planning and in the               completed thie
implementation of Part A(iv) of the project.            assigmnent. ''he Ag
Economist was not
recruited GSKN was
asked to use this input
to prepare a sector
polie- paper
incorpor ating thteI
findings of the Future
Sugar Strategy Study,
but did not compl     l
3.04(b)        T        CD      12/31/92    01/31/94   Borrower to employ through MALH, no later than           All assigiuioents
12/31/91, consultants to assist in the implemiienitaitioni of  completedl
Part A (1), paras. (a) and (b) and part A (ii), para (a) (as
provided in Schedule 2( (cadastral mapping. survey
practices and organization and managmeenit)
3.040         T         CD      03131/92    01/31/94   Borrower to employ through MAS, no later than 03/31/92,   Consultants complctedl
consultants to assist in markeint and investunient promooioll  Lhe assignmetl in 1)9
under Part A(iv) of the Project.
3.05         M          C      12/31/91    01/31/94   The Borrower shall no later than 12/31/92: (a) provide the    a) The necessan  stall'
necessary staff for MAS in the DOA, Central i lousing   has becn prox :ded
Authority and OfiEce of Registrar of Titles to undertake
these flinctions, field assessment, report prepartition and  b) Onc sen1ior
follow-up of lanid use recommendations; surveying of    agronomiiist has been
agricultural land anud crtaography; and administrative  appointed full-time to
duties, includinig registration of title, (b) provide a senior    the project
agronomist for DOA in sT. Kitts and a senior agronomist
for DOA inNevis; (c) provide satisfactory extension     cO Tlis is beiitg done
services and adequate funds for operations and staffing  by existino stalf in the
extension division
3.06         M         NC      12/31/95                The Borrower shall, no later than 12/31/95, cease to    No progress due to
ooperate and divest themselves of the Agricultural      lack of private sector
Machinery Pool.                                         alternatie c
3.07(a)       M         CD      12/31/91                The Borrower shall, no later than 12/31/91, cause SSMC to  P'rospectus distrubutcd
offer for sale its sugar mill together with the benefit of a  01/93
long term lease from the Borrower of its sugar prodticing
land, by way of issue of shares, joint venture, or under  Oine purchaser lost
other arrangemetets previously approved by and          interest mi 1994. No
satisfactory to the Association                         other purchasers
showed intlerest
3.07(b)       M         NC      12/31191                In the event of closure of the sugar mill, no later thaii  GOSKN decided
03/31/92, prepare an action plan aimed at mitigating the  against closure
economic and social welfare problems that could arise as a
result of closure.



21
3.07C)       M        NC      09/30/92               If no sale has been made by 09/30/92, or if sale is in the  See above.
process of being made other than in a manner satisfactor,
to IDA, and the industry continues to incur substantial
losses, the Borrower should consult with IDA to establish a
timetable to close down the sugar mill.
3.07(d)       M        NA                            No later than three months after the factory closing occurs,  Not applicable
the Borrower should implement the action plan rferreTed to
in para 3.07(b)
3.08(a)       M        CP                            The Borrower shall cause the Central Planning Unit    Three progress reports
(MAS) to: (i) maintain data, information records and  were provided.
procedures adequate to record and monitor progress of all
parts of the Project; (ii) prepare progress reports based on
(i); and (iii) submit such reports to the Bank on an annual
basis beginning 02/28/92
3.08(b)       N        NC                             The Borrower shall monitor project implementation,   No reports were
evaluate results, and comment on progress of the project    prepared
each year in its report to the Bank (3.08) (aXiii).
3.10         T        NA                            Borrower will ensure that LDC obtains a legally binding  No candidates were
contract from LDC employees prior to commencement of   selected Cor traiilng
training to provide a minimum of two months of service
for each month of training required.
4.01(a)       F         C                             Borrower shall maintain adequate records and separate  lJNOPS maintainLs
accounts to review the project and its constituent parts.  records for agricultural
development
component and
provided regular
financial statements.
SSMC provided
financial statements
for the sugar
componelnt
4.01(bXl)-      F      SOON                            The Borrower should have the records and accounts    Audit report for the
,1   (iii)                                          referred to in Section 4.0 1(a) including those Ior Special    linal six months ol the
Account and the Project Account for each fiscal year  project due September
audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Supply  30f 1999
these audit reports to IDA within six months after the end
of the fiscal year and furnish information, relating to the
records, accounts and audits which IDA might reasonably
request.
4.010         F        NA                            The Borrower should maintain records relating to SOEs,    No speclial aiccotLtl or
have them audited and kept for at least one year after IDA    SOEs.
has received the audit report, keep bills, receipts, invoices
and other supporting documents and facihtate 1DA stafl to
examine such documents. Audit reports should contain
separate opinion on SOE records and accounts.
4.02(a)       F         C                             SSMC should maintain records and accounts adequalte to    Records andi accounts
reflect its operation and financial condition.       reviewed found to be
in order
4.02(b)       F        NC                             SSMC should have its accounts audited by midependenit  Audit report for final
auditors and furnished to IDA, not later than six months  six months due
after the end of each fiscal year.                   September 30Ui I 9'J)
4.02C0        F       NA                             Where SSMC has drawn from the Credit Account on the    No special acunLiit in
basis of SOEs, it should maintain records, bills, invoices  use
relating to these, enable IDA staff to examinie such records
and ensurre that the SSMC audit report has a separate
opinion by the auditors relating to the SOEs submitted
I _________   _______   ______   ________    ________   during   the  fiscal year.
Covenint Types:                                              Present Status:
E  = Economic                                                C   Complied with
F  = Financial                                               CP = Partially complied with
M   = Management aspects of the project or executing agency  NC  = Not Complied with.
T   = Technical                                              Soon = Compliance Expected in a reasonably Short ITitie



22
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements :Not Applicable
Table 12A: Status for Credit: IDA 22480
Disb Officer:       DAOUD, EDWARD            Task Manager:             [WEDDDERBURN. SAM*iEL. G
Disb Analyst:       TAN KUONG, VIOLETA JManaging Division:              LCSES
Sector:                                      Loan Type:                !Standard IDA
Currency:           XDR                      Restrictions:              Disbursements Allowed
Amounts in XDR                                                 Date
Original Principal               1,100,000.00                                  Approval  28-May-91
Disbursed                        1,100,000.00                                   Signing  14-Jun-91
% Disbursed                            100.00                                  Effective  27-Feb-92
Cancelled                                0.00                                   Closing  30-Jun-99
Undisbursed                              0.00                   Latest Disb/Refuind/Recov   8-Apr-94
Committed                                0.00                           Last Cancellation
Free                                     0.00                          I
Pipeline Application                     0.00
Table 12B: Status for Loan: IBRD 33320
Disb Officer:       DAOUD, EDWARD            'Task Manager:             WEDDDERBURN. SAMUEL G
Disb Analyst:       TAN KUONG, VIOLETA  Managing Division:              LCSES
_ __Sector:         --                       Loan Type:                 Currcncc Pool
Currency:           USD                      'Restrictions :            Dlsbursenments Allow,ed        I
Anounts in USD                                                 Date
Original Principal                 130.000.00                                  Approval  28-Mav-91
Disbursed                          130.000.00                                   Signing  14-Jun-91
% Disbursed                            100.00                                  Effective  27-Feb-92
Cancelled                                0.0O                                    Closing  30-Jun-99
lUndisbursed                             0.00                   Latest Disb/RefundlRecov   21-Sep-95
ICommitted                               0.00                           Last Cancellation
IFree          o                           oo                          !
|Pipeline Application                    OmC                   



23
Table 12C: Status for Loan: IBRD 3332S
Disb Officer:       DAOUD, EDWARD            Task Manager:              WEDDDERBURN. SAMUEL G
Disb Analyst:       TAN KUONG, VIOLETA  Managing Division:              LCSES
Sector:                                      Loan Type:                 SingleCurrency Pool
Currency:           USD                     |Restrictions:             lDisbursements Allowed
Amounts in USD                                                  Date
Original Principal                 962,106.33                                   Approval   28-May-91
Disbursed                          726,559.33                                    Signing   14-Jun-91
% Disbursed                             75.51                                   Effective   27-Fcb-92
Cancelled                          235,547.00                                    Closing   30-Jun-99
Undisbursed                              0.00                    Latest Disb/Refund/Recov   29-Oct-98
Committed                                0.00                           Last Cancellation    3 1-Oct-99
Free                                     0.00
Pipeline Application                     0.00 
Table 12D: Status for Loan: 3332A
Disb Officer:      [DAOUD, EDWARD            Task Manager:              WEDDDERBURN. SAMUEL G
Disb Analyst: _     TAN KUONG, VIOLETA  Managing Division:              LCSES
Sector:                                      Loan Type:                 Singe Currency 
Currency:           fUSD                     Restrictions:             lDisbursements Allov ed
Amounts in USD                                                 Date
Original Principal                 407,893.67                                  Approval  28-May-91
Disbursed                          204,274.58                                   Signing  14-Jun-91
% Disbursed                             50.08                                  Effective  27-Feb-92
Cancelled                          203,619.09                                   Closing  30-Jun-99
Undisbursed                              0.00                   Latest Disb/Refund/Recov  26-Oct-99
Committed                                0.00                           Last Cancellation  3 1 -Oct-99
Free                                     0.00                                                          l
Pipeline Application                     0.00.
Table 13: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Revised~~~           Actual
,OjedCy4-k    ?e~s   ?LIS-    .W:.:                 U.S-         Weeks            us$
Preparation to Appraisal                                      _               47.6            138.9
Appraisal                                                                     35.5            89.2
Negotiations through Board                                                     12 7           41.5
Approval
Supervision                 _          _                                      65.9            161.0
Completion                                        _           _                 4             4 0
TOTAL                                                                       165.7          434.6
7 Historical infonnation not available
a Idem



24
Table 14: - Bank Resources: Missions
Performance
~ ~i~I~er  ays 1Sp~iaizedS~ffSkl1s    MPi.   Deel.   Typ of
PtoX'~$bIear   fPrSos  i Fild, re  esetedStatus   Ob.s.   Problems
Identification    7/88     .
Preparation       11/88                                                                              l
Appraisal         4/90           5         12         Fa,ec,ss,ag, Is                                l
Supervision       5/92           1         6               fa               2        2        M
9/92          1          4               fa              2        2         M
4/93          1          4               fa              2        2        MNPR
12/93          1         3               fa              2        2
6/94          1          4               fa              2        2
6/95          2          2             Ag, ec            2        2
5/96          1          3              Ag               S        S         M
7/96          2          2             Ag; nr            U        S        MP
1/97          1          3              nr               U        S
____________       8/97          1          4               nr              S        S
__________=__      9/98          1          3               nr              S        U _
L ____________     3/99          1          1               nr              S        S
Completion        7/99           1          8       =      nr               U        S
Coding:   ec  = economist                              ag = agriculturalist
eng = engineer                              fa = financial analyst
nrm = natural resources management          ss = sugar specialist
soc = social scientist                     Is =  land specialist



25                                 Appendix A
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
(LN. 3332/CR. 2248-SC)
AIDE MEMOIR
1.       A World Bank mission comprising Mr. Samuel Wedderburn, visited St. Kitts
and Nevis during the period June 30 to July 8, 1999. The purpose of the mission was to
undertake final supervision of the project and to begin preparation of the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR). The mission met with a number of officials in both islands,
who were involved in implementation of the project, made site visits to extension
outreach centers, and interviewed farmers who were expected to benefit. This Aide-
Memoir summarizes the main findings of the mission and was discussed at a wrap-up
meeting with Hon. Minister Timothy Harris, Minister of Agriculture, Lands and Housing
and Mr. Henry Mills, Acting Perianent Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, Lands and
Housing (MALK)H It is subject to confirmation by Bank Management in Washington
D.C. The mission wishes to thankl Mr. Mills and Mr. Elvin Bailey, Permnanent Secretary,
Mlinistry of Agiculture, Lands, Housing and Cooperatives (MALHC), for their assistance
and hospitality, and all officials met for their cooperation (Attachment I).
Current Project Status
2.       The project closed on schedule on June 30,1999 having completed the
remaining tasks agreed during the last supervision mission. Activities under the sugar
industry component were completed earlier in June of this year with the presentation by
the consultants of the final report on the sugar industry strategy study. The mission was
informed that although the-report addressed some of the concerns raised by MALH in its
response to an earlier draft, in Government's view it still did not provide sufficient
evidenceto justify closure of the industry. GOSKN had formnally notified the Bank of its
intention not to close the industry and rather to seek ways of improving its operation.
However, the prospects for achieving this are uncertain. The financial and operational
performance of SSMC remains precarious as an operating loss is expected for 1998, and
for the medium term continued losses are projected.
3.       The remaining activity under the agricultural development component,
construction of the two outreach centers in St. Kitts, has been completed and with the
recent provision of equipment, the centers are now ready for use. Their use is expected to
improve the effectiveness of the Department of Agriculture's (DOA) outreach program
through their location in the main farming communities, which also saves farmers and
extension officers travel time and cost. The authorities in Nevis decided not to use project
funds for construction of the outreach center there as funds were obtained from other
sources to finance construction of headquarters facilities for MALHC, which would also
house the DOA.
4.       Two programmed activities were not undertaken. In 1995 it was agreed that
the Bank would provide technical support to MALH in carrying out the agricultural



26                                 Appendix A
policy strategy study that would have consolidated the findings of the consultants reports.
However, in spite of recommendations made by subsequent Bank missions MALH
showed little interest in conducting the study (also see para. 18 below). Similarly, neither
MALH nor its counterpart in Nevis was able to identify staff for training in land economy
and valuation.
Ovenriew of Project Implementation Experience
5.       After some delay, the project became effective on February 27, 1992 and
continued to experience delays at various times during its seven year implementation
period. It has partially achieved the main development objectives of improving the pace
and diversity of SKN's agricultural development. It has effected some changes in the
incentive framework, aimed at providing security of land ownership and availabilitv of
migrant work-ers to work in the sugar industry. Improvements have also been made in
agricultural support services but the project did not make the expected conmibution to
strengthening government's agricultural planning capability. Although nearly all of the
planned activities have been implemented based on the key performance indicators, there
is limited evidence of the project's contribution to substanrive changes in the rate of
agricultural development and its diversity.
6.       The pace and effectiveness of project implementation was greatly affected by
weak arran2gements for organization and management. The project comprised two
components that were to be managed separately. As planned, SSMC was responsible for
implementation of the sugar industry component. On the other hand, a Coordinator based
in MALH was expected to have overall responsibility for the agricultural development
component. Implementation roles were to be distributed among the two DOAs, the
Department of Lands and Housing (DLH) and the Central Planning Unit in St. Kitts, and
the Land Development Corporation (LDC) in Nevis. Early in implementation, however,
UNDP (Barbados) was assigned coordination responsibility for the component under a
Management 5ervices Contract (MSA). This change had a significant effect on the
project's outcome. The new roles of the national institutions were not clearly defined, and
on several occasions MALH expressed dissatisfaction with UNDP's performance.
Subsequently, GOSKN lost ownership of the project and eventually terminated the
contract in 1997.
7.       Another important factor which affected the project's outcome was the high
turnover of key staff. There were two Chief Technical Advisors from the FAO, with
initial responsibility for technical coordination of the project, during the first two years.
The key staff in MALH and MALHC also changed at different occasions, which
contributed to discontinuity and limited coordination with other projects and institutions.
Sugar Industry Component
8.       The consultant management team employed during the first few years of the
project introduced several measures at both factory and field operations in an attempt to
improve efficiency in the sugar industry. Although some changes were effected the main
success was in the introduction of a financial management system which improved
budgetary and financial control. Given the existence of aged plant and machinery, which



27                                 Appendix A
implies the need for capital injection, together with the high cost structure and concerns
regarding the stability of preferential agreements, the industry did not exhibit strong
potential for long-terrn profitability. This made it unattractive for private investors.
Although SSMC's financial losses declined from EC$9.5 million in 1991 to EC$2.9
million in 1992, they increased to EC$4.8 million in 1993, and were incurred every year
throughout the project period. The most recent audited accounts (for 1997) indicated an
operating loss for that year of ECS 15.8 million and an accumulated deficit of ECS 169.47
million.
9.        A prospectus for the sale of the sugar mill was prepared but serious interest
was shown bv only one company, which eventually declined purchase. The attempts at
divestment were being made with limited public support and in the context of a changing
political environment. Successive government administrations became less willing to
consider closure of the industry as required by para. 3.07 of the covenants to the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA). The mitigatory measures that would be required
in the event of closure also appeared far more complex than envisaged at appraisal,
involving social, environmental, economic and political considerations. Eventually the
Bank recommerided that a sugar strategy study be undertaken to provide gover-iment with
sufficient information for taking a decision on the future of the industry. The study,
which examined the options of closure or continued operation of the industry, concluded
that even under the most optimistic scenario the industry was likely to remain
unprofitable and would require further subsidies.
10.      GOSKN has given as the main reasons for deciding to maintain the industry
its confidence that greater productivity can be achieved in cane production from
introduction of irrigation and mechanized harvesting, and that value added can be
increased through better utilization of by-products. However, the benefits of these
measures have not yet been clearly demonstrated. The mission advised that further testing
and thorough cost-benefit analyses are required. Furthermore, the mission has observed
that sinificant constraints remain principally the need for capital injection to replace old
plant and machinery that are presently subject to frequent breakdown, particularly
grinders, locomotive engines, and railway tracts which cause frequent derailment of
railway cars. Agronomic problems include weed control, and labor costs remain at a high
level. GOSKN is clearly faced with a difficult situation. The mission was informed that
the program for rehabilitation of the industry would be included in the Plan for the
Operation Phase that would accompany the Borrower's ICR.
Agricultural Development Component
11.      Land Administration Program: Enactnent of the Land Development Act
(for St. Kitts) prior to the start of the project, which allowed for 35 year leases, put in
place the key piece of legislation required for the acquisition of agricultural land with
secure tenure (in Nevis, private ownership of land already existed but a demand for long
term leases was expected during the project). As planned, the project introduced a
number of measures aimed at strengthening the institutional framework for land
administration. The mission was informed that in spite of these actions onlv a few 35 year
leases have been issued since the project began, which means that the lynchpin for
diversification as envisaged at Appraisal, has been ineffective. Several reasons have been



28                                 Appendix A
given for the virtual lack of provision-of leases: (a) limited incentive because there is
adequate security under existing rental arrangements; (b) cost to farmer of canrying out
boundary services (EC$800 per acre), together with annual cost of lease ECS600
compared with annual rental of less than EC$20 per acre; (c) limited interest in
agricultural expansion because of marketing constraints; (d) part-time interest in
agriculture because ofjob opportunities in other sectors; (e) delays in obtaining approval;
and (f) older age of farmers.
12.      Under the project, consultants were engaged to prepare reference cadastral
maps, to undertake land use surveys and to review survey practices for both islands.
Institutional strengthening was also provided for the DLH in St. Kitts and the LDC in
Nevis, based on recommendations of the O&M study. Vehicles were also provided. The
greatest impact occurred from applying the findings of the O&M study. As a result the
LDC adopted a strategic pIanning approach, which has helped to better focus its work
program. Although the survey interventions were well received, there has been mixed
application of their findings. For example, the reference cadastral maps have been useful
in locating the boundaries of govzrnment lands, but their real potential is for use as the
basis of a cadastral system. This is required for a national land registration system which
is still needed in the Federation. Similarly, the recommendations on survey practices and
standards were not applied. The mission was informed that a new Surveys Bill has been
dra*ed and presented in Parliament that would improve the regulatory framework for
surveying, including updating of standards, etc. However, it is not clear if the findings of
the study were consider in drafting the Bill.
13.      Agaricultural Support Services:  The two DOAs have been provided with
vehicles and audio-visual equipment, and two extension outreach centers were
const-ucted in St. Kitts. Consultants were employed to conduct studies on marketing,
organization and management and investment promotion. The main success of the project
intervention has been in strengthening extension communication in both islands through
the provision_of audio-visual equipment For example, radio programs targeted at farmers
are being broadcast regularly, while a number of brochures and newsletter have been
produced and disseminated.
14.      All the planned studies have been executed but as described above for the
land administration sub-component, their impact has been mixed. Many of the
recommendations made by the O&M study have also been adopted by the DOAs. For
example, the organizational structure of the DOA (St. Kitts) was rationalized to comprise
three departments instead of eight, which has been a more effective arrangement. While
the results of the marketing study were endorsed in a workshop comprising the key
stakeholders they have not been implemented in St Kitts. This was largely due to the
limited participation in the project of the Central Marketing Company (CEMACO). In
Nevis, however, a marketing unit was established in the DOA as recommended by the
O&M study, which implemented some of the recommendations from the marketing study
and was instrumental in encouraging farmers to increase production for the local tourism
industry. The overall limited achievement in identifying and promoting domestic, intra
regional, and other export mark-ets, together with the absence of strong institutional
support (private organizations have also not emerged) were major disincentives for



29                                 Appendix A
diversification and increased production, especially in St. Kitts. The report on investment
promotion was never completed by the consultant.
15.      A factor which particularly affected the outcome of this sub-component was
the failure to adequately coordinate and link implementation with the complementary
UNDP/FAO AQricultural Diversification Project. There was a need for close coordination
to ensure proper sequencing of several consultant inputs, and to avoid duplication.
16.      Although there were no monitoring indicators identified for measuring
impact, and evaluation surveys have not been conducted, some data are available that
could indicate possible trends. Also, while the project cannot be held solely responsible
for influencing the performance of the agricultural sector during this period it was
expected to make an indirect contribution. Between 1992 and 1996, there was virtually
no change in the contribution to GDP of the crops subsector, 1.10% and 1.11%
respectively. 1 During the same period, the value of exports of fruits and vegetables
showed a declining trend while imports rose nearly 50%. Domestic production increased
for some crops such as yam and onions but stagnated or declined for others such as
tomato and white pbtato. However, the mission was informed that in Nevis some
expansion in domestic production occurred in response to demand from the local tourism
sector.
17.      Agricultural Planning:    An agricultural economist was never provided
under the UNDP management contract, although it was later decided to use the resources
allocated to finance a consultant to pull together the findings of the consultant studies and
assist GOSKN in preparing an agricultural policy paper. As mentioned previously MALH
showed little interest in,undertaldng this task.
18.      Disbursements: The Credit was fully disbursed in 1994 and it is now
expected that about US$450,000 will remain unutilized from loan fumds.
19.      Borrower's ICR and Plan for the Operation Phase:    The mission
discussed with officials of MALH the initial draft of the Borrower's ICR, including the
Plan for the Operation Phase. The Plan is expected to describe GOSNs proposals for
improving the perfornance of the sugar industry. The mission emphasized the
importance of including monitoring indicators. It was agreed that the report would be
forwarded to the Bank by July 31,1999.
Information in this section was obtained from the Department of Agriculture's Annual Agriculture
Statistical Digest, 1996, the most current information.



30                                 Appendix A
20.       Audits:   The audit report for SSMC and for the project for 1998 were due
on June 30h.The mission was informed that the delay resulted from the audit firm's tight
schedule and the delayed completion of financial statements for SSMC. The mission
advised GOSKN on the importance of the requirement to fulfill these covenants and also
provided advice to the audit firm preparing the reports on the Bank's detailed
requirements. It was agreed that the audit report for the project would now be forwarded
to the Bank by July 30, 1999, and the report for SSMC by. It was further agreed that the
audit report for the final six months for the project would be forwarded to the Bank by
August 30, 1999.
FoP the Goverpme     . tts and Nevis:         For the Word Bank:
Hen,ry M-ils rSamuel Wedderbumn
Acting Permanent Secretary/                   Task Manager
Project Coordinator
Basseterre, July 8, 1999



31                            Appendix B
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Prepared by the Government of St. Kitts and Nevis
with the assistance of Charles Reid
July 12, 1999



32                                 Appendix B
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1.   Introduction
The Agricultural Development Support Project was initiated at the request of the
Government of St. Kitts and Nevis (GOSKN), with the assistance of the FAO / IBRD
Cooperative Programme. Subsequently, United Nation Development Programme (UNDP)
financed a study of the sugar industry to assist in designing a project component to rectify
the problems of the industry. The World Bank Group missions of January 1989 and
November 1989 guided project preparations and initiated discussions of main project issues.
The project became a reality with the signing of the loan agreement between the
Govermnent of St. Kitts and Nevis and the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (the World Bank) on March 1991. Actual implementation of the project
commenced on February 1992 and terminated on June 30, 1999.
The following report is the contribution of the Government of St. Kitts and Nevis, the
Borrower, to the Implementation Completion Report and is in compliance with the
Government's responsibilities in closing out this Project. The purpose of this report is to
provide a retrospective evaluation of the Project design and objectives, and assess the
implementation and achievements of the project from the Borrower's perspective.
1I.   Project Execution and Initial Operation
A.   Objectives
The key objectives of the project were to improve the pace and diversity of St. Kitts and
Nevis asricultural development through:
*    changes in the incentive framework, which are aimed at providing security of land
ownership and migrant labor to work in agriculture (particularly in the sugar industry).
*    Improvements in agricultural support services and Government's agricultural planning
capacity.
*    Changes in the sugar industry, including its divestiture in the second year of the
project which if not successful would culminate in the closure of the sugar mills.



33                                 Appendix B
B.   Project Components
There were two (2) main components of the project, namely:
I) Agricultural Development Component
2) The Sugar Industry Component
Agricultural Development Component
The main features under this component are as follows:
- A land administration programme (divestiture of state-owned lands)
- The strengthening of the support services of the DOAs
- The upgrading of the agricultural planning capacity of the Central Planning
Unit in the department of Planning and Development.
- Market Development.
The Sugar Industry Component
The activities under this component mainly involve:
E Engaaing the services of a small management team to keep the mill running and to
improve the financial and operational systems of the sugar factory in an effort to
improve its financial status in preparation for its sale.
- Engage the services of a management consultant for a 12 man month period to assist
the management team in implementing a management accounting system.
- Engaging the services of investment consultants on a short-term basis to prepare a
prospectus in preparation for the sale of the mill.
- Engaging the services of short-term consultants to plan actions to mitigate against
economic and social welfare problems that will arise in the event that there are no
successful bidders resulting in the eventual closure of the mills.
Project Organization and Administration
The Agricultural Development component Project was executed by UNDP up until march,
1997 through its FAO / UNDP Diversification sub-project. This arrangement differed from
the initial project design which stipulated that the Ministry of Agriculture, Lands. Housing
and Development of St. Kitts (MAS) was to be the executing agency of this component with
overall responsibility for the project while the manager of the UNDP-/FAO project would



34                                 Appendix B
serve as technical advisor to the Coordinator in the office of MAS.
A Project Management Unit was never established because of the relatively small size of the
agricultural development component so the existing functional departments of MAS and
MAN was designated with the responsibility to implement the non-sugar activities of the
project.
The St. Kitts Sugar Manufacturing Corporation (SSMC) executed the sugar component of
the project. Booker Tate Ltd. was retained on a short terrn basis to manage the day to day
activities in an effort to improve the operations including the reporting and accounting
systems.
The Ministry of Agriculture, Lands, Housing and Development, St. Kitts was dissatisfied
with the performance of UNDP and had their Management Services Agreement terninated
on March 31, 1997, after which MAS commenced executing the project through to its
completion. Termination of the management services contract was effected on the grounds
of poor performance in the maintenance of accurate financial records and not fulfilling the
Banks requirements for documentation of advances and failure to provide statement of
expenditures detailing payments actually made from the funds advanced.
Project Relevance
The concept of the project was definitely in harmony with the policy direction of the
Government of St. Kitts and Nevis. It supported the government's policy of agricultural
diversificationr the divestiture of the state-owned sugar mill and the strengthening of various
departments within MAS and MAN towards a stronger agricultural sector in general. The
project outputs were also complementary to many of the activities of the UNDP/FAO
diversification project being implemented at the time.
Project Design and Management
The project's design was not complicated but there were obvious inadequacies in its design
in that it would have been a much better arrangement to have established a Project
Management Unit. Instead an outside organization (UNDP) based in Barbados was retained
to manage the project. This arrangement was not conducive to the full participation of
Ministr's staff and led to ineffective coordination and management of the program activities.
This resulted in MAS and MAN eventually losing ownership of the project which culminated
in very few progress reports being produced and even non existent particularly prior to 1997
certain periods of project implementation. MAS did not monitor adequately the expenditure
of its funds by UNDP and at times were unaware of available funds not yet expended.



35                                 Appendix B
Coordination of project activities was weak and the consultants contracted by UNDP on
behalf of the Ministry were poorly supervised. All the short comings mentioned above can
be attributed to the non existence of a Project Management Unit led by a full-time
Coordinator reporting to the office of the Minister. He/she would be responsible for
coordinating the activities of the project on behalf of the Ministry and should be held
accountable for achieving same
Project activities should have been implemented by the various departments within MAS and
KAN.
Such an arrangement would encourage ownership of the project by the Ministry officials
thereby facilitating greater input from the staff members within the Ministry.
The contracting and supervising of consultants by UNDP from its Barbados office to
undertak-e certain tasks, further exacerbated the problem, with the distancing further of the
Ministry,'s direct involvement.
Risks and Constraints
T1he main risks envisaged was the extent to which the Ministry would be able to device and
implement strategies to mitigate against the social and environmental problems that are
expected following the. closure of the mills in the event that the divestment did not
materialize. There is risk in relation to the extent to which small farmers and business people
can be encouraged to participate in a diversified non sugar program and the ability to market
the products resulting from this effort by securing regional and extra regional markets. The
other risk envtsaged is the extent to which the agricultural support services will be upgraded,
equipped and prepared to provide an improved service to an expanded and sophisticated
clientele on a sustained basis.
Additionally, there was the concern as to we the the administrative capacity existed within
the Ministry to adequately handle the added responsibilities of the new land reform program.
Risk Aversion strategies in the project design
To minimize the ill effects which the closure of the mills would have had on the economy,
the project design spoke to the preparation. of an action plan no later than march 31, 1992 to
mitigate against the economic, environmental and social welfare problems associated with
a closure of the mills. There was also the assurance that the plan should be operationalised
no later than three months after closing the mills.



36                                 Appendix B
The concern as to whether interest would have been generated among small farmners and
entrepreneurs to participate (invest) in the diversification process was also accounted for in
the projects effort to have land administration reorganized to facilitate greater access to land
and to acquire secured land tenure ship.
The issue of securing markets for crops to be grown under the diversification program was
to be researched under the project where consultants were to be contracted to develop a
marketing plan and the recommendations would be effected by the Ministry of Agriculture,
Lands, Housing and Development.
In its design, the project also sought to minimize the risk of the various departments being
ill equipped and prepared to adequately provide the administrative and technical support on
a sustained basis to the diversification process. The project assisted in this effort by the
provision of vehicles, extension equipment, Outreach Centers and contracting a Organization
and Management specialist to review the existing organizational structures and management
systems in the Departnent of Agriculture and the Central Housing Authority in St. Kitts and
the Department of Agriculture and the Land Development Corporation in Nevis. Training
in the area of Land Economy and Evaluation for two officers in the Land Development
Corporation in Nevis was budgeted for.
A constraint to the diversification process is the unsecured tenure ship arrangements which
mritigates against farmers seriously investing in agriculture and the fact that the domestic
market for non sugar crops is very limited. This situation is further compounded by an aging
farming commhunity, the unavailability of non-sugar lands suitable for mechanization with
available water for irrigation and inadequate post harvest and marketing infrastructure and
credit financing services .



37                                 Appendix B
Project Relevance
The project was relevant in providing critical support to the Government of St. Kitts and
Nevis in its drive to stabilize the financial condition of the ailing sugar industry and to
diversify the agricultural sector as defined in its 1987-1990 National Development Plan.
Additionally, the concept of the project was in harmony with the objectives of the UNDP's
Agricultural Diversification Project implemented by FAO and was complementary to many
of its activities.
Project Execution
There were delays in the start-up of the agricultural development component of the project
which maybe attributed partly to inertia generally experienced with any new project and
partly due to the process involved in contracting qualified consultants in addition to the
deliberations preceding the decision to contract the services of UNDP to execute the project
which differed from the arrangement outlined in the proposal document. There were inherent
problems with this arrangement as critical decisions were made out of Barbados where the
UNDP representative was based.
In the case of the sugar component there were no major delays in the start-up of its activities.
a Project Preparation Facility advance (US$0.3 million) was provided to enable Government
to put into immediate effect a number of reforms to stabilize the financial conditions of St.
Kitts Sugar Manufacturing Corporation (SSMC).
Project Manigement and Organization Structure
The sugar component was executed by SSMC, employing the services of a management team
to manage the day to day activities of the company. SSMC's Board supervised the contract
with the management team and handled all corporate issues.
The office of the Minister of Agriculture, Lands and Housing of St. Kitts was responsible for
the overall coordination of the non-sugar component of the project. The coordinator with
assistance from the technical advisor of the UNDP-financed project implemented by FAO
was responsible for all matters relating to disbursement and procurement, and to coordinate
the work programme and progress report for MAS under the project. The actual
implementation of the project would be the responsibility of the functional departments of
MAS and MAN as outlined:
The Central Housing Authority (CHA) was responsible for producing a Cadastral
map, to prescribe procedures for progressive updating of the maps and review existing



38                                Appendix B
practices for land surveying. The consultants responsible for cadastral map
preparation and land survey practices were assigned to this department and provided
the needed technical assistance.
*    The Central Planning Unit (CPU) was responsible for the agricultural planning
activities and consultants in economic planning, land use planning and marketing
development would be assigned to this department.
*    The Department of Lands and Housing was responsible for carrying out an
organization and management review of the departnents of agriculture in St.Kitts and
Nevis and a consultant in organization and management would be assigned to this
department.
The Land Development Corporation will be responsible for organizing the training
of two of its staff in Land Economy and Evaluation.
The project management arrangement outlined above was never operationalised, instead
UNDP was given a Management Services Contract to execute the project which meant that
critical decisions were made in Barbados which was an untenable situation resulting in the
beneficiaries (MAS and.MAN) losing ownership of the project. With UNDP playing such
a major role in both projects being executed simultaneously, it became increasingly evident
that officers within the various Ministry departments had difficulty differentiating between
the activities of the FAO executed project and the World Bank financed diversification
project.
The project suffered greatly from the involvement of UJNDP as the executing agency, this
resulted in many of the recommendations documented in the reports of the consultants not
being followed through on by MAS and MAN as they lost ownership of project along the
way. A better management structure would have been the establishment of a three man
project management unit, led by a full time Project Coordinator and supported by the
functional departments within MAS and MAN in executing programme activities. The
coordinator, with the approval of the Permanent Secretary would be responsible for all
matters relating to procurement and disbursement. A full time coordinator responsible for
achieving all project objectives and ensuring follow through actions by MAS and MAN on
the recommendations of the consultants would have had a greater chance of achieving all that
had been set out in the project document.



39                                 Appendix B
Project Achievements
The expected outcome are as follows:
Sugar Component
Goals
i)  Improvements in the management of operations of the sugar mill and fields.
ii) stabilize the financial condition of the ailing industry while seeking to divest the entity
as a going concern, thereby relieving the Goverrnent of the financial burden.
iii) Closure of the mills in the event that divestment of the entity was unsuccessful.
Under the project some complementary activities were undertaken in support of the
realization of the above mentioned outcomes and are as follows:
Activities
i) The preparation and issue of a prospectus to facilitate the sale of the sugar mills to
potential buyers and simultaneously plan for the closure of the mill in the event there
are no satisfactory bids.
Results
i) The prospectus was prepared and issued but the sale of the mills did not materialize
and as such, a study was proposed by the Bank to help the Government of St. Kitts
and Nevis to arrive at a decision regarding the future of the industry.
ii) The study was prepared and the Government expressed dissatisfaction with the quality
of the study, stating that it was not comprehensive enough to arrive at a decision in
relation to the future of the sugar company.
iii) Booker Tate ltd., were retained as a management team on a short term basis to keep
the mill operating, and to introduce much needed operational improvement. The team
were able to improve the reporting and accounting systems which involved
computerizing the system, putting in place financial control systems and general
improvement in budget preparation. Generally, the field operations were improved
which resulted in the Tons cane / Tons sugar ratio declining from an average of 10.5
to 9.03 over the period 1991 to 1995. Productivity has since declined for a number of
reasons. The efficiencies realized in the operation of the mills'was short lived and



40                                 Appendix B
cannot be sustained without serious capital injection to purchase new equipment for
the factory. Other areas of efficiencies can be achieved in changing the labor
arrangements were various tasks could be contracted out and the number of work days
reduce from in five to three days per week during out of crop season. The use of
SSMC vehicle and equipment for non sugar activities is another area where costs can
be reduced drastically. To date, the mills have not been closed for various reasons
relating to environmental, economic and social implications.
Without sound and viable altematives with strategies articulated to mitigate against
the social fallout, the Government has decided to keep the mills operating..
Agricultural Development Component
Goals
1) A land administration programme to facilitate increase access to land and to provide
secure tenure ship.
Complementary activities were undertaken by the project in facilitating the above outcome,
namely:
Activities
i) Produce a Cadastral map showing boundaries of estates and Govenment and private
owned lands.
ii) Drafting regulations/directives with a view to standardize and improve survey
procedures.
iii) Land Use Capability study for St. Kitts and Nevis for the purpose of a zoning policy
in the context of strategic planning for agricultural development.
iv) Organization and Management Review of the Departments of Agriculture and Central
Housing Authority to facilitate efficient implementation of the lease program.
v) Training for the officers of the Land Development Corporation in Nevis.
vi) Vehicles and office equipment, two four-wheel drive vehicles and office equipment
(laser printer, filing cabinets and surveying equipment) was provided to the Central
Housing Authority for surveying agricultural leases.
vii) Local staff would be provided under the project to assist with the implementation of
the leasing program.
Results
All the complementary activities mentioned above were achieved with the exception
of the provision of local staff to strengthen the various departments in MAS and
MAN, and the training of two officers from the Land Development Corporation in
Nevis.



41                                 Appendix B
The reason the training component was not undertaken was that the department was under
staffed at the time and the department could not afford to release personnel.
Despite the fact that the most of the complementary activities to the lease program were
accomplished and the consultants produced their reports, to date, twelve (12) lease
agreements have been finalized (signed) out of 17 agricultural lots have been surveyed under
the UNDP-financed project. In some instances, farmers refused to sign the lease agreement
because permission was granted only to build temporary structures on the land instead of
pernanent ones.
This may be an indication that generally, the intended use of the land may not be for
agricultural purposes but rather for residential use and status.
In Nevis where no lease agreement have yet been signed but for different reasons. It is the
experience of the farmers of Nevis that when paying rent for state owned land over a long
period of time, it is very unlikely that the Governrnent of Nevis will disturb such an
arrangement. In light of this situation, farmers are not keen to lease land which is much more
costly than the present arrangement of paying rent to Government.
Goals
2) Strengthening of the Departments of Agriculture to facilitate an improvement in the
quality and delivery of service on a sustained basis to the beneficiaries of the lease
program.
Complementary activities were undertaken by the project in facilitating the achievement of
the above stated outcome and these are:
Activities
i) Provide four vehicles for extension staff (two for each of the DOA's)
ii) Provide extension equipment, including audio visuals aids, overhead projectors,
publication costs and other promotional aids.
iii) Undertake civil works for the construction and/or renovation of five outreach centers
(three in St. Kitts and Two in Nevis).
iv) Provide local salary support to employ two senior agriculturalist for the DOAs one
each for St. Kitts and Nevis
Results
i) The vehicles and equipment were provided, but limited success were achieved in the
construction of the outreach centers as only two were constructed in St. Kitts. The



42                                 Appendix B
reason proffered for Nevis failure to construct its outreach centre was that they
obtained funds from another source to construct one large facility to house the entire
Ministry to service the entire farming cormmunity.
ii) The two senior agriculturist were never employed.
Goals
i) Strengthening of the Agricultural Planning and monitoring capabilities of the Central
Plannine Unit.
The complementary activities undertaken by the project to facilitate the achievement of the
above mentioned outcome involves:
Activities
i) The contracting of consultants in Economic Planning, Land Use Planning and
Marketing Development to support the diversification program.
ii) A comprehensive marketing plan was prepared and a work shop was held to present
the findings and,'the recommendations discussed among a wide cross section of
professionals involved in the sector.
iii) Reports were prepared by the Land Use Planner, zoning the entire island according
to land-use patterns.
There has been no action to date in operationalising the findings.
Evaluation of the Borrower's Performance
During the life of the projection a number of factors militated against government achieving
all the benefits expected. These factors included changes in government, changes in
personnel, the changes in structure of Ministry will develop being removed from agriculture.
The lack of continuity and loss of organization learning unfavourably impacted project.
Since 1997 a consorted effort was made to exact as many benefits as possible. The end of
UNDP involvement and appointment of the Senior Project Officer to manage the project led
to several beneficial outcomes including the outreach centres being built, audit reports being
submitted etc.



43                                  Appendix B
Evaluation of the Banks Performance
Since late 1996, the supervision and monitoring support provided by the Bank has
strengthened considerably where problems encountered have been dealt with promptly. There
has been considerable improvement in communication between the Task Manager of the
Bank and the Senior Project Officer responsible for coordinating the activities of project. In
seeking to achieve as much as possible in the later stages of the project life,and with time
running out, the Task Manager was instrumental in facitating many of the outcomes of the
project.
Impact
The impact of the project on the diversification process was very limited as a number of
issues would first have to be addressed. The land reform programme was expected to
stirnulate interest and create more productive, commercially oriented farms which did not
materialize due to inadequate marketing infrastructure, a limited domestic market and no
export market development.
The Ministry of Agriculture has benefitted from the involvement of the consultants and the
various departmnents have been strengthened from the activities undertaken by the consultants
contracted by the project.
The impact of these activities could have been far greater if the recommendations in many
of the reports produced were implemented. This may have been the case if a project
management unit was established to ensure or facilitate the operationalisation of the
recommendations within the various departments.
Lessons Learned
To illicit ownership and full participation of Government officials and staff members in a
project, it is advisable to employ the strategy whereby the program activities are executed by
departments within the collaborating agency. This results in the improvement of the
management capabilities and institutional strengthening within the Ministry itself.
The establishment of a Project Management Unit to coordinate project activities is useful if
one is to have accountability, effective monitoring and follow-up on recommendations
generated from various studies and reports. An effective Project Management Unit also
serves to facilitate timely reporting and the maintenance of accurate accounting records as
is required by the funding agencies.



44                                   Appendix B
For diversification of the agricultural sector to proceed, marketing infrastructure needs to be
in place to develop external markets as well as domestic markets to absorb increases in
production resulting from this process. Investments have to be made in feeder roads,
irrigation facilities, farm inputs, storage facilities and cheap source of farm audit must be
available.
Recommended Follow up Actions
The following are some of the follow up actions that are considered necessary after project
completion.
- The establishmnent of marketing infrastructure and the implementation of the
recommendations in the marketing plan produced by the consultants under the project.
- Furnish the outreach centers and have them operating so as improve the accessibility of
extension services to farmers.
- Continue the process of registration of leases
- Devise a plan to diversify within the sugar industry itself.
- Strengthen the planningrnonitoring and evaluation system within the Ministry of Agricultue
- Incorporate the reports generated by the consultants into a strategic plan and operationalise
it.
Conclusion
The project did not have the expected impact on agricultural diversification. The overall pace
of the diversification process has been slow. This has been attributed to the fact that very
inadequate investments in the sector., inadequate credit and incentive framework, small
market access.
The sugar industry reamins open although it is not profitable because of the socio-economic
consequences of closure with no viable alternative source of gainful employment for over
ten percent (10%) of the population.



IBRD 19241 RI
62'W                                                                     62-40'
ST.KITTS AND NEVIS
T.   --                    ST. KITTS
S T. A N N E           JON,X,
',S T.   " C H U R C H t/ S T .  - >  j  .                                                      Main Roads
-17-20' \2O M A                     S                                      <_ M At;<Y )>C t  Airports       17-20
…PorisIh Bmouridres
/   RINITY                         GOLDEN ROCK
O N_
o       2        4        o        8
o     1       2      3      4      5
N"maltI
62-60'                                                                                        Cotn~K,
.                                      II                                        '' XJ I-0
.C L     ) 8 A_ -  U_--                                          -17-10'                                    !      O A        \  0
JAMAICA                                       NEVIS  OeNrSsRAs                                                 1                    ¶ ~          a
DOAtttsilCA                   ~~~~CHARLESTOWN   s T    P)          IST      C 
t DOMItilCAN4C                                                                         -                           io
'.E,!To '  mST. WCNA                                     E  VTIOC,   GEORGE
MUM                               SAMADOS      1I,,e moA Too  bepMteAiby
D$CAO  KZtA                    A wt                             r
-A"JA      -                MA    MO  WEA .- Tnd IN   Ado             for  Ako rinteo              ST    JOHN
onT.o WCeWA                                                          i GEORGEop
ARUBA                 .-        TklD           Thi dnophotio nse prepd yth
:  Wood So k. fro on,Iodgn=nt*
_11RA'Nfon the JegolGtOt of teo
S O U T H    A M E R I C A                                 of b     Wound'Mrte5
b..d.,4.o Ao- or20i.-
APRIL 1992



