Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL UISE ONLY
A A 3 3 -3 L - S
5 t          g   z   /<j    i  C-Report No. 8977-SC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
MAY 1, 1991
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit - East Caribbean Dollar
EC$ 1.00 - US$0.37
US$1.00 - EC$ 2.70
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 inch - 2.5 centimeters (cm)
1 foot - 30.5 cm
I mile - 1.609 kilometers (km)
1 acre - 0.405 hectares (ha)
1 acre-foot  = 1,233 cubic meters (m3)
1 pound - 0.454 kilogram (kg)
ABBREVIATIONS
CARDI     - Caribbean Agricultural Research and Development
Institute
CARICOM   - Caribbean Community
CATCO     - Caribbean Agricultural Trading Company
CDB       - Caribbean Development Bank
DBSKN     - Development Bank of St. Kitts and Nevis
DOA       - Department of Agriculture
EEC       - European Economic Community
EIB       - European Investment Bank
LDC       - Land Development Corporation
MAN       - Ministry of Agriculture, Lands, Labor
and Tourism, Nevis
MAS       - Ministry of Agriculture, Lands, Housing
and Development, St. Kitts
NACO      - National Agricultural Corporation
SKN       - St. Kitts and Nevis
SSMC      - St. Kitts Sugar Manufacturing Corporation
UNDP      - United Nations Development Programme
USAID     - U.S. Aid for International Development
GOVERNMENT OF ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICUL UK ONLY
fT. KITTS AND lEVIS
A9RICULTURAL DGEL mMRT8PYOR  PROJECS
STAll APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contet
laUe NV,
I.    LOA  AND CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .. .....................    I
II. t                                       ... ....    4
B    - kgrouAd ....... 0..................... o.........       4
Agriculture and the Econ ¢ooy.......oo.o.........t......        4
Agricultural Potential and Constraints                         5
Institutional Setting............                              6
The Sugsr Industvy. ..... oooo..o........**4*0**** * ...       8
Government Development Strategy and Policies ..............    9
Rationale for Bank/IDA Involvement ..........                  C
Objectives and Description .....                              10
Agricultural Development Co mponent......... o.............   10
The Sugar Induatry Componen .............................   14
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)........................   16
Cost and linsnuig.... o......316
Procurement........................................... .*,0  17
Diabursbuerts e m a nt........................................   17
Organization and .8....A.  ...........................   18
Environmental impact ..............   20
Progress Reporting, Monitoring and  vutlon..................*   20
Accounts and Audits ............................ .........   20
Benefits end ..........a.2..............................      21
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
St. Kitts and Nevis in March/April 1990. The mission comprised
Messrs.I/Nme. A. L. Velarde (Team Leader/Financial Analyst), 0. Price
(Consultantifconomist), M. Blakeley (Consultant/Sugar Specialist),
L. Falvey (Consultant/Agriculturalist) and W. Kennedy (Consultant/Land
Specialist). Messrs. R. Siraj (Operations Adviser) and A. Mateus (Sr.
Economist) reviewed the report. The Department Director end Sector
Division Chief are Mesors. Ping-Cheung Loh and D. A. Porno, respectively.
This document has a rostricted dbtributon and may be usod by recipients only in the performance
of thir offlcW duties. Its contents may not othewise be disclosed without Worid Bank authoritiaon.



Table of Contents (coat)
IV.      ASUMqlRS UBA&M    AND                         liXRDDSO ...........................21
Detailed Weatures of the proj et ........... .......... .......  25
Table 1 - Pzoject Cost Suary ................................... ..  29
Table 2 - Retimated Schedule of Zxpenditure ........................  30
TWblA 3 - tstiznted Schedule of Disbuseaents .....................       32
Cbar  I1 - Project lplemmtation Schedule ........................ *.  33
ANNEX 2:
The Susar Industry* St. Kitts Susxr Nanufacturing
CorporatioU (SMC) ....................................****..****    34
Table 1 - Cane and Sugar Production Statistics (1968-19S9)*...i...  41
Table 2 - lactory Performsace (1983-1988) .........................  42
Table 3 - Audited Financial Statement. (1982-1989) ................  43
Table 4 - Projected PFnancial Statemmet  (Without Project) ........  46
ableU  S - Projected Financial Statement. (With Project).......*...  49
ARME 3i
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project Fil. .........  52
Maps: IBID Nos. 22358 and 22586



ST. KITTS AND NEVIs
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPHE!IT SUPPORT PROJCT
1. LOANR An   RD PROJECT A            Y
Borrowers           4overnment of St.  itte and Nevis (GOSRN)
Beneficiaries:      Ministry of Agriculture, Lands, Housing and Development,
St* Kitts (MAS)g Ministry of Agriculture, Land., Housing,
Labor and Tourlsm, Nevie (NAO)I and St. Kitte Sugar
Manufacturing Corporation (SSWC)
Amounts             Loan:   US$1.5 dillion equivalent
Credits SDR 1.1 million (US$1.5 millicn equivalent)
Terms:              Loans     17 years, including 5 years of grace at the
standard varisble interest rate
Credit:   Standard, vith 35 years maturity
On-lendina Terms:   GOSRN would on-lend US$1.9 million of the loan and credit
to SSC on the eame term. and conditions as the lank loan
(plus 1S per annum premium and with SSWC aseumlng the
foreign and cross-currency exchange risks.) the balance
of US$1.1 million would be used by 005JK to finance the
activities under the agricultural development component.
Co-financin:       US$0.8 million from potential bilateral donors
Prolect
Dgge  iatoMt        The project is deegned to asesit SKR-in iproving the
pace and diversity of its agricultural development
through: (i) changee in the incentive framework, which
are almed at providing security of landownership and
migrant labor to work in agriculture (particularly in the
suar induetry)# (:Li) improvement. In agrVicultural
support services aad the Government's agricultural
planning capacity; and (i1i) major changes in the
operation of the state-run sugar industry, including its
divestiture in the second year of the project. Key
agricultural development coaponents comprise a land
administration program, consisting of a new leasehold
titling system, cadastral mapping and land surveyingt
strengthening of DOAW extension and land servicess and
agricultural planning, including arket rosearch and
investment promotion. The sugar Industry component would
support the engaBement of a small management team to keep
the mill operatin8, and to introduce much-neede
operational improvements, while a prospectus is put
together to facilitate the sale of the sugar mill no
later than September 30, 1992. MAS would have overall
responsibility for the proposed project. The existing
functional department of HAS and MAN would implement the



agricultural development component. The management of
the sugar industry, prior to the sale of the sugar mill,
Bould be contracted to a private management team.
Beneflts
and Risk.:          The main benefits would come from the establishment of
efficient conditions for agricultural development,
particularly by replacing the one-year agricultural les"e
system with 35-year renewable leases, thereby removing a
major deterrent to the development of the agricultural
sector in SM. The project would help to provide the
policies and legal framework for the orderly management
and future development of land resources. Direct
beneficiaries would be small farmers and business people
who may be attracted into agricultural development, for
whom access to land, agricultural support services and
market Information and assistance would be provided. The
proposed project would also help stabilixe the fiancals
condition of the ailing sugar lndustry while seeking to
sell it off as a going concern, thebrby relieving the
Government of the financial burden of the industry that
has been losing money due to poor management. The new
leasing program, including the land use planning study
and zoning work to be initiated under the project, would
lay the framework for more orderly and enviromentaUlly
sound development; and the iprovements in the management
and operation of the sugar mill and fields being provided
under the project would further enbance the positive
environmentally stabilizing aspects of the crop. The
main risks would be the extent to which Interest can be
fostered in the agricultural sector outside of the sugar
industry, and the ability of such entreprenaurs to secure
market niches for agricultural products, both within the
growing domestic touristihotel market and abroad.
Another important risk relates to the timeframe needed
for the sale of the Industry and transfer to the private
sector. To m4nim4ze the first set of risks, the project
design includes considerable techcalcl assistance for
upgrading agricultural support services, and for
assisting farmer groups and entrepreneurs to seek out and
supply new market niches. The latter risk is safeguarded
by the provision of investment bankLng advitory services
for the divestiture. The sugar mill would be put up for
sale by December 31, 1991, and sale shell take place by
September 30, 1992. In the event that no satisfactory
proposals are received, agreement would be reached on a
timetable to close down the industry and to implement a
social action program to mitigate the impact on the
employees, unless othewise agreed with the Bank and IDA.
The Government has demonstrated its strong comaitmet to
the project by Indicating its williagness to enact



- 3 -
legislation allowing 35-year renewable leases, as well as
the engagement of a management team before negotiations.
Proiect Cost:
Local      Poreign        Dial
----------- (Us$ million)--------
Atricultural Develooment
Land Administration                              0.3          0.2           0.5
Support Services (DOAs)                          0.2          0.2           0.4
Agricultural Planning                            0.           LQ           1A
0.5          1.4           1.9
Suaar Industry                                   0.0          1.4           1.4
Project Pregration Facility Advance              0.0          0.            0.
Base                                     0.5           3.1          3.6
Physical Contingencies                 0.0           0.3          0.3
Price Contingencies                    0.           0Y3           0.4
Total                                    0.6           3.7          4.3
Financin: Plan
Government                                   0.5           0.0          0.5
Donors                                       0.0           0.8          0.8
Bank                                         0.05          1.45          1.5
'IDA                                         0.05          1.4          L
Total                                    0.60          3.70         4.3
ammmm
Estimated Disbursements:    ---------------Bank Fiscal Year-------------------
199    199   I9   199        199     1997   199     1999
--------------(US$  illion)---------------- ---
Annual                        0.5   0.8   0.9   0.6   0.05   0.05   0.05   0.05
Cumulative                    0.5   1.3   2.2   2.8   2.85   2.90   2.95   3.00
Economic Rate of Return: n.a.
Have: IBRD Nos. 22358 and 22586



- 4 -
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Back round
2.01      St. Kitts and Nevis (SRN), which attained its independence from the
United Kingdom in 1983, consists of two small Eastern Caribbean islands, with
a total land area of 269 eq km and a population of 46,000.   The islands,
which have a total cultivable area of about 22OOO acres, of which 13,000 are
actually cropped, are separated from each other by a strait about 3.2 km wide.
The climatic and agricultural condition. make the islands suited for a large
variety of crops. Sugarcane, however, is by far the most important crop,
occupying 802 of the cropped area, and is grown exclusively on the island of
St. Kitts. The cane area has, however, declined from some 15,000 acres in
1955 to the present 10,500 acres. Von-sugar agriculture consists largely of
part-time subsistence-oriented farmers dedicated to mixed cropping of root
crops sad vegetables. Some 92Z of farmers in St. Kitts and 852 of those in
Nevis operate farms of less than three acres. Livestock production has been
significantly depleted as a result of a tick-borne disease (dermatophilosis).
Major crops include potatoes, carrots, yams, dasheens, eddoes and tannisa.
Since there is no strong tradition of farming in the country, other than with
sugar estates, production has not been market-oriented, with the result that
SKN imports some US$12.0 million a year in food (302 of total domestic food
requirements) and has no agricultural exports other than sugar. In Nevis,
Government-run livestock and crop production estates are being used as
demonotration plots to ncourage farmers to engage in profitable farming, but
to little effect.
2.02      Government administration in SRN is carried out by two separate
civil service structures bsed in Bassetorre (St. Kitts) and Charlestown
(Nevis). There are, for example, separate Ministries of Agriculture for each
island. External matters are handled through the appropriate federal ministry
in Basseterre. The land tenure arrangement. in the two islands are also
different. Almost all of the agricultural land in St. Kitts is owned by the
state. When the Government acquired the sugar estates from their private
owners in 1975, land leased by the estates to the small farmers also reverted
to the state. Until the time of formulating the proposed project, there has
been no permanent system allNowing long-term leases of agricultural land in
St. Kitts. Instead, the Government makes land available to farmers under
yearly leases. In Nevis, however, 302 of land is state-owned and the balance
is covered by long-term leases and freehold titles. Enactment of a Land
Development Act, which would provide for 35-year renewable leases, is a key
aspect of a proposed land administration program under the project
(pare. 3.04).
Anriculture and the Economy
2.03      Since the beginning of the 1980., the economy of SUN has performed
well, with GDP growin* at an annual rate of 52. Both the trade regime and
financial sector are relatively free of distortions, but the economy has beei
undergoing significant structural changes. SKNIs economic activity has
historically centered around the sugar industry. In recent years, however,



Ws -
tourism hs become lcreasigly lportsat, now matchifg agriculture in terms
of value added. The growth of tourism hs served woll tbe private sector,
mainly a few long-eotablished families that have developed significant
commercial enterprises. They are lvolved either Individually or as 
consortium in most major local tiwestmnt projects. The manufacturing sector,
which hoe also become a significant componemt of SR's economy, Is largely
based on a few smell-scale asombly plants producing mainly electronic parts
and 8armento for export.
2.04      Against the above setting, agriculture remains a key component of
the economy, generating 422 of merchandise exports, and employing about 351 of
the labor force. Agricultural GDP, however, declined from 16.71 in 1981 to
10.12 in 1988, resulting from the eask performace of the sugar industry,
which is a key component of SIN's economy, as a major employer (701 of
agricultural labor) and a significant foreign exchang earner (US$13.0 million
per year, or 18S of foreign exchange araings). About 901 of sugar produced
is exported uo quota marketo in the United Kingdom and the United ftates at
prices significantly above world market levels. The main issue for the sugar
industry is Its critical financial condition brought on by managerial and
organizational weaknesses of the kind commonly found in public sector-run
enterprises, and the substantial decrease in the US sugar Import quota and
prices for sugar in 1983-1985. Compounding the problem has been the more
attractive alternative employment opportunities in tourism and related
construction, which bave adversely affected the company's ability to recruit
sufficient cane cutters. This bae meant that only 901 of the cultivated area
can be harvested, and, more importantly, that n extended grinding period Is
neoded, thereby lowering sugar yields and raising operating costs.
Aaricultual Potential and Cogstraints
2.05      In an attempt to mitigate problms associated with the sugar
industry, and recognizing the volatility of tourism as a main source of
foreign exchang earnings, the Government has examdned the possibilities for
diversifying the agricultural sector. Several studies, however, have
emphasized that SKI would need to overcome a number of serious constraints:
(a) the absence of land tenure policy, particularly in St. Ritt.; (b) the
absence of a non-sugar, commercial farming traditiong (c) the advamced age of
farmers who operate mostly part-time, subsistence farm plots; (d) a limited
internal market, combined with the "chicken and egg" problems resulting from
the preference by the hotel industry to import quality products on a
regular/guaranteed basis from abroad; (e) no apparent export competitiveness
in other agricultural products; end (f) weak agricultural institutions.
2.06      The scope for stimulating more rapid agricultural development in
SKI would depend on the provision of appropriate incentives and services to
support development of private sector initiative In farming, development of
market niches and improved utilization and managemout of the country's limited
land resources. It is noteworthy that, even if domestic agriculture were
devoted to meeting all of local demand for fruits-and vegetables, icluding
that of tourism, the area required for this purpose would only amount to about
200 acres (less than 12 of the agricultural area). While some 501 of the



- 6 -
agricultural land to under sugarcane, this ha. been declainig from around
15,000 acres in 1955 to lO,500 acre now.  Should the plight of the sugar
industty continue to deteriorate, further agricultural lands may become
avallable, but with very limited market opportunities for alternative crops.
Given the small else of the domestic market, exports should be the loading
*ource of agricultural growth In spite of uncertain market prospects. With
strong support from bilateral and international donor ageniss, the Government
h. initiated efforts to develop policy Initiatives and investment
opportunities, which would be supported under the project.
ITntUationl Setting
2.07      The Ministry of Agriculture, Lands, Housing and Development (HAS)
has the overall responsibility for agriculture and lmad administration in St.
litt8, and the Mtnistry of Agriculture, Lands, Housing, Labor and Tourism
(MAO) In Nevis. MAS and MAN perform their functions through various line
agencies, including their respective Departments of Agriculture (DOAs).
2.08      Land ServLce_.  The Central Housing Autbority of MAS has the
overall responsibility 'or land administration in St. litts. The other
aspects of land administration rest vith the DOA (land allocation and control
of leases), the Comptroller Inland Revenue (land valuation) and the Registrar
of Titles (title registration). Ts Nevis, the DOA administers public land,
and the Land Development Corporation (LDC) develops Government land for sale
for housing, Industry and other purposes. Based on the DOA's recommendations,
the Minister of Agriculture approves all lease applications usually oan an
annual basis. Title registration, to the limited extent it exists, is
patterned on the Torrens system. Valuations are carried out under the
country's Land and House Tax Act, which provides annusl tax rates ranging from
RC$ 1 to EC$ 4 per acre of cultivable land in SIN.
2.09      The dispersal of functions between Government agencies results in
many deficiencies in the distribution and security of land leases, Incomplete
cadastral information and poor land use planning. Recognising this, the
Government has established the National Agricultural Planning Committee (NAPC)
under a USAID-funded Caribbean Agricultural Extension Project (CARP) to review
the land use planning activities in SRNI and a Land Use Committee (LUC),
chaired by the Chief Technical Officer, Central Housing Authority, to develop
a land use program under the new long-term leasehold system. To complement
these efforts, the project would support the procedural and institutional
mecbanisms needed to enhance SKI's land planning and administration
capabilities, as well as convert the annual leasehold system for agricultural
land to 35-year renewable leases to improve security of land holding, and
therefore foster agricultural development.
2.10      Anricultural Sunport Sarvices. The work of the respective DOAs of
HAS and MAN is supported by a number of external agencies, including the
Caribbean Agricultural Research and Development Institute (CARDI), with a
research station for adaptive research; the Caribbean Rural Development
Advisory and Training Services (CARDATS), with a progrsam for liveatock



10 7 m
development; and a Taivanse Goverument missio, with agricltural research
through d.mcontration farme. Donor inputs Include substantial consultant and
traing l assita*tAce.  External as4sitance, however, hb  not boon wvll utilized
eud coordinted, tending to operate In isolation from the DOA' activites.
Moreover there to a ned to re-eamline tho activitie, of the DOAs, lncluding
the practice of providing contract sevlces to farer througsh a machnery
pool. Government services of this nature teod to discourage the entry of the
privato sector Into this activity. The DCA need to concentrato more on
agricultural pollcy, agricultural market development and farm management
aSssitance.
2.11      4 racultuE  Pl#na.  The Central Planning Unit (CPU) of the
Department of Plauning and Development, In close consultation with the DOAs,
prpares and monitors the Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP) for
agriculture. It receives technical assistance from the Caribbean Development
Bank (CDB) In the annual update of 8SK*s annual three-year rolling PSIP.  The
bulk of iuvestmnts under the PSIP for 1989-1991 are devoted to smaliholder
agriculture almed largely at food Import substitution. By focusing an the
domestic markot, the PSIP hs failed to recognize tho very A5mited domestic
market opportunities. There Is a need to seek out and develop export market
nicbes, togetber with the develop mt of a long-term strategy for 8SM,
including the movemet of land out of sugar into other foreign exachnge
earning pursult. Coupled with this is the need to carry out broad land use
classification and zoning.
2 12     AricultUl Craid1l. Agricultural fluancing in 811 is made
available through commercial banks and the Goverment-owned Develop met Bank
of St. Kitts and Nevis (DBSRN). A cooperative credit union and a development
foundation also provide financial and tecnica assistance services to small
farmers. Altbough sufficient credit funds are available for agricultural
financing, the traditonal demand for agricultural cetdit bh beea very
limited. Ihe share of agriculture In commercil bank lending has not exceeded
0.51 in any one year during 1983-86, reaching about 1.5S in 1987 (US$0.9
million equivalent). The agricultural loan portfolio of DBSKI, which is the
main source of term lending for the agricultural sector, bas also been small,
representing about 51 of Its total loan portfolio since its inception In 1981
(about US$233,000 equivalent). This situation resulted maiuly from a nuiber
of interrelated factors: (a) part-time farmers whose Income from employment
at SSMC or at hotels, as well as remittances from abroad provides sufficient
funds to finance their farm production, obviating the need to borrow;
(b) aging farming population whose investment initiatives have been declining;
and (c) lack of permanence to the fareQrs' tenancy on the land they cultivate,
discouraging on-farm improvements and investments  Small farmers  ith yearly
leases have difficulty in obtaining credit, and thi has tended to limit
investments in farm development. The new leasing program, which the project
would support, would provide small farmers with formal land rights they could
use as collateral to obtain credit for on-farm investments.
2.13      The annual interest rate for lending in agriculture is 112, which
remains fairly stable and un_form among the financial Institutions, as well as
positive compared to lnflation rate of 3.41. Commercial bank lending rate



- SW
rages from 82 to 122, depending on loan maturity and collateral offerod.
Meximum repayment teroms ang. up to 10 yearts iAluding 3 years of grace
Cost of funds to commercial banks rangos from 42 to 62. DBSRN'o operations
are financed mainly with long-term loans from CD8 and RIB, which carry an
Interest rate of 42 per annum. CDB provides continuing fiasncial and
teconical assistance to DBSRN. An agricultural credit specialist to a"ssit In
upgrading DBISN's capacity to deliver agricultural credit would be included
under a proposed UMDP-financed project, which would support the activities
associated with the project.
The SuLa  ldiugtry
2.14      Until 1975, the sugar Industry consisted of 52 privately-owned
estates sad one sugar factory. Because of severe financial difficulties then
facitg the Industry, stemming mainly from low production levels and world
market prices, the Government took over the estates aad factory. Until 19eZ,
the industry was run by two Government corporations--the National Agricultural
Corporation (NACO) for cane production and the St. Kitts Sugar Manufacturing
Corporation (SSMC) for manufacture and sale of sugar. The assets and
liabilities of NACO were transferred to SOC in 1986, leaving the entire sugar
Industry under the control of SSMC. In recent years, SSMC has been
experiencsng institutional and financial difficulties, a full discussion of
which is included in Annex 2, with the essential features discussed below.
2.15      The period 1950-1964 sar the highest levels of sugar production in
SIB both in terms of area and yield, with production averaging 400,000 ton of
cane, yielding 45,900 tons of sugar. Sugar production, however, declined from
50,000 tons in 1960 to 27,000 tons in 1970, recovering in 1977 to 41,000 tons.
Ta a 1979 review of sugar industries world-wide, SKY ranked the fifth most
efficient producer. But slice the early 1980s, production has declined
steadily from an average of 31,000 tons in 1981-1985 to 26,000 tons In 1986-
1989. A further reduction in production to 16,000 tons was expected in 1990,
which would fall considerably short of SKN's sugar export quotas. This
abnormally low level of production is due to the effects of Hurricane Hugo,
which caused considerable damage to the country in September 1989. The UK and
US markets currently provide an allowable volume of 32,000 tons of sugar for
SK (16,000 tons each market).
2.16      The finanmial decline of SSMC accelerated over the last four years
(1986-1989) with low sugar production and rising production costs, stemming
mainly from SSMC's organiaational and managerial problems. SSMC's current
problems are similar to those commonly found in Government parastatals, i.e.,
excessive staffing, weak management at various levels and poor cost accounting
systems. It has continued to operate at a loss, using an overdraft fron the
St. Ritts-Nevis-Anguilla National Bank to cover its operating costs, which
amounted to KC$ 21.0 million as of end March 1990, from EC$ 8.1 million in
1988 and SC$ 18.9 million in 1989. In 1987, an overdraft, amounting to
SC$ 56.2 million, was converted to equity when the Government assumed the
responsibility for the repayment of the overdraft. SSMC's financial
difficulties were exacerbated by the hurricane losses in 1989.



- 9 -
2.17      The critical financial condition of the sugar industry is a key
concern of the Government. It has carried out several studies to explore
various possibilities for divesting itself of the management and/or ownership
of the sugar industry, and has taken some steps to implemnt the
recommendations of the 1984 Booker sugar Industry study, including the merger
of cane and sugar operations, the refinancing of accumulated debts and the
partial introduction of mechanical harvesting. These measures, however,
proved inadequate to achieve the required turnaround for the industry.
Additional work was, therefore, carried out during project preparation
(including the Bank-administered, UNDP-funded study) to determine the best
solution for the present financial difficulties of the sugar industry. It is
apparent from the financial projections carried out for SSG that to close
down the industry under its present financial status would yield a salvage
value equal to only a fraction of its current worth. The imediate closure
option is not a feasible alternative because of the huge labor and economic
disruption that could result from abruptly closing out the sugar industry,
with the disruption of 35X of the country's labor force and the lose of 18X of
its foreign exchange earnings. However, the study showed that the earliest
possible sale of the sugar mill, albeit as a going concern, would be the most
cost-efficient option for the Government. It would relieve the Government of
financing future financial losses and the direct responsibility for the
recovery of the sugar industry.
2.18      Assuming that the equity base of the new company would be EC$ 20.0
million, and that the purchaser would provide better management, increasing
sugar production in the fifth year to 32,000 tons (from the long-tine average
of 25,000 tons) at US$0.18I1b, the return on equity would amount to 302. The
IU to the new owner is calculated at 18.32. Labor costs applied in the
projections were based on S8SM's 1988 accounts and 1990 budget and adjusted to
a comparable level with compensation rates in the tourism industry.
Goverrment Develoiment Strateav and Policest
2.19      Recognizing the need for fundamental changes in the operation of
the sugar industry, the Government has embarked on a series of short-term
measures to improve its efficiency. As part of project preparation, the
Government has initiated actions to address the immediate needs relating to
the financial condition of 98MC (par&. 3.16), while developing a longer-term
strategy to accelerate agricultural growth and diversification. In the
context of this strategy, the Government has started to fomalize a land
tenure policy, including mechanisms for the adaminstration of tenure
provisions for agricultural land, and to address a number of issues relating
mainly to the sugar industry, including the employment of off-island laborers
to satisfy needs unfilled by Kittitian workers, the adjustment of domestic
sugar price to border price and enforcement of existing retirement age
regulations to reduce labor costs. The Government has also given priority
attention to alternative export crop development in the PSIP.



- 10 _
Rationale for Bank and IDA Involvement
2.20      In developing the Bank's assistance strategy for SKR, the main
focus has been to help develop efficient conditions for agricultural
development. In the context of preparing the proposed project, the Bank
Group, in conjunction with CDB, has helped the Government with an agricultural
sector analysis and the identification of priority investments in the sector
over the next three years, channelling livestments into export crop market and
investment promotion and agricultural supporting activities. The proposed
project would form the centerpiece of SKN's PSIP for agriculture. The Bank
Group involvement in the PSIP helped mobilise support for the agricultural
investment program, subject to conclusion of bilateral discussions.
2.21      The proposed blend operation for SKY would be in line with the
current IDA proposal for lending to small Island economies graduating from
IDA, but which could only be considered creditworthy for a limited amount of
Bank lending. It would be the first Bank and IDA operation for SKI; future
operations would be made through CDB.
IIT. THE PROJECT
3.01      The project was prepared at the request of the Government of SKI,
with the assistance of the PAOIIBRD Cooperative Programme, through missions In
July 1988 and January 1989. Subsequently, UNDP financed a study of the sugar
industry to assist in designing a project component to rectify the problem of
the industry. The Bank Group missions of January 1989 and November 1989
guided project preparation and initiated discussion of main project issues.
The proposed project was appraised in MarchlAprll 1990. Negotiations were
held in Washington, D.C. during March 1991. The delegation of SIR was led by
The Honorable Richard Caines, Minister in the Ministry of imnance.
Obisctlvs- and Description
3.02      The key objectives of the proposed project are to improve the pace
and diversity of SKI's agricultural development through: (i) changes In the
Incentive framework, which are almed at providing security of landownership
and migrant labor to work In agriculture (particularly in the sugar industry)t
(ii) improvements in agricultural support services and the Government's
agricultural planning capacity; and (iII) changes in the operations of the
sugar industry, including its divestiture in the second year of the project.
The proposed project would have two major components, the main features of
which are described below.
Aaricultural Develoument Com2onent
3.03      The agricultural development component would involve a land
admainstration program, the strengthening of the support services of the DOAs
and the upgrading of the agricultural planning capacity of CPU in the
Department of Planning and Development. A proposed UWDP-financed project,



- 11 -
with PAO as executing agency, would complement many of these activities,
focusing on provision of training and techanical advisers for land
administration, livestock development, export crop market and livestment
promotion and credit promotion. The manager of the above UNDP technical
assistance project, which is scheduled for approval during the first balf of
1991, would also serve as the technical advisor to the Coordinator in the
Office of HAS, who would have overall responsibility for the non-sugar aspects
of the project (para. 3.24).
3.04      Land Administration ProIram.  In the context of the project design,
the Government would make agricultural land available under long-term lease
arrangements to help develop non-sugar production. It would enact legislation
to replace the one-year agricultural land leasing system with 35-year
renewable leases. Essential features of the new legislative system ares
(a) allocation of land by the Minister for Agriculture, Leads, Housing and
Development for agricultural purposes tot (i) persons who are citixens of
SKN; (1.) companies incorporated in SRK and (lit) cooperatives, farmers'
associations and similar bodies incorporated In MKM; (b) leses to be issued
for periods of 35 years, subject to compliane with the lease conditions to
persons, companies or organizations with experience In agriculture s d/or
ability to contribute to the sector; (c) registration of the lease with the
Registrar of Titles and issue of a certificate of leasehold tltle;
5d) definition of the agricultural purposes for which the lease is issued and
prescription of the conditions under which the tenant my hold the lease;
(e) determination of annual rentals to be paid by lessees based on an
established mechanism; (f) payment of compensation to tenants for approved
improvements where renewal of the lease is terminated or not renewed for
reasons other than non-compliance with the conditions of the lease; (g) the
Minister to take power to prescribe conditions under which tenants may hold
leases; enter into lease agreements with tenants; delegate authority under the
Act; and make regulations on matters incidental to the Act; and (h) an appeal
system by arbitration.
3.05      The Government hass  (a) enacted a new Land Development Act and put
into full force and effect its provislons, as well as introduced the standard
format for 35-year renewable leases (parm. 4.01(a)); and (b) established
tenant selection criteria and implementation procedures for the leasing
progras, and agreed to establish a committee to determine annual land rentals,
all satisfactory to the Bank end IDA (para. 4.01(b)).
3.06      Complementary actions to be taken under the project would comprises
(a) the design of specifications and procedures for producing cadastral maps
at a scale of 1:2500 and drafting regulationsidirectives for standards and
procedures to be followed for land boundary surveys for the purpose of
connecting previously survey parcels to the national control system to



- 12 -
eliminate duplication of titles. and (b) land use capability studies for SUR
and development of zoning strategies for land use. To achieve this, SNI's
land administration capabilities would be strengthened by providing the
necessary staff for St. Kitts' DOA, the Central Housing Authority and the
Office of the Registrar of Titles, together with an organization and
management review of the DOAs and the Central Housing Authority, involving
10.5 man-months of consultancy services, 75 man-months of training, vehicles
and office equipment and seven local staff (US$0.6 million), the details of
which are summarized below.
(a) Cadastral Mapping. The cadastral map would be an overlay to the
existing 1:2500 scale topographic series of SKY. This series
covers most of the developed areas of St. Kitts and some areas of
Nevis. Technical assistance, involving 7.5 man-months of
consultancy services (US$0.1 million), would be provided under the
project for des'gning standards and procedures to produce the
cadastral map (6 man-months) and for formulating survey practice
regulations to control procedures and standards for cadastral (land
boundary) surveys (1.5 man-months). The consultants would be
attached to the Central Housing Authority.
(b)  Land Cavabilltv and Land Use Planning.  To develop a land use
zoninS policy for SKN, a land use capability study would be carried
out under the project, which would include a compilation of a land
use zoning plan for St. Kitts and a review of the preliminary
zoning map for Nevis. For this purpose, a land use planner would
be engaged for 18 man-months (US$0.3 million), who would be
responsible to the Permanent Secretary of the Department of
Planning and Development. (For cost allocation purposes, the
agricultural planning component (para. 3.09) includes the cost of
this assignment).
(c) Ortanixatlon and Mansiement Review. To help ensure the efficient
implementation of the leasing program, consultancy services for
three man-months (US$0.05 million) ould be provided under the
project to undertake an organization and management study of the
DOAs and the Central Housing Authority, for the purpose of
conducting a thorough review of the organization structure and
management s7stem of the DOA and the Central Housing Authority to
ensure the efficient implementation of the leasing program. The
appointee would be responsible to the Permanent Secretary of Lands
and Housing.
(d)  Tralnlnt. A training program for the officers of LDC in Nevis
would be provided under the project, includingS (a) a three-month
Land Economy and Evaluation Appreciation Course in Jamaica for the
General Manager; and (b) a three-year Land Economy and Valuation
Diploma Course in Jamaica for two officers of the LDC. The first
would commence in Year 1 of the project and the second in Year 3 to
provide some continuity of qualified staff (US$0.05 million).



- is -
(e) Vehicl. and Office Riumegt. Two four-wheel drive vWehles end
office equipmnt (laser printer, digitiser, plotter, copier and
cabinets) vould be provided to the Central Sousing Autbority for
susveying agricultural lesses (U8$0.04 ullion).
(f) StaffiU. Local staff vould be provided under the project to
sel.t with the implementation of the leasig program. (1) one for
the Departmnt of Agriculture (ft. KItte), for field "asesmt of
land applied for fersmr profiling, report prperstion and following
up lend use recammdations (11) five for the Central lousing
Authority, for the surveying of agricultural leese (4), end for
compilation and updatitg of the cadatral maps (1); and (ILL) on
for the Offlce of Registrar of Titles, for administrative services,
ieludn  registration of title  (US$0.3 million).
3.07      During negotiation, assurances were obtaind thats (a) MS would
employ consultauts in cadastral mapping, srvey practices, end organixation
and management, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and iDA, not
later the December 31, 1991 (pare. 4.02(a)); and, in accordance with the
recaomendation. made by the consultauts under th  organization and  managemet
review in pare. 3.06(c) above, provide the neoesary staff for the DA, the
Central Housing Authority nd tho Office of Registrar of Titlet with
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank and IDA, not later than December 31,
1991 (pare. 3.06(f) and 4.02(b))l and (b) LDC would put into effect a policy
requiring employees receiving training under the training program in pare.
3.06(d) above to provide two months of service for each month of training
received (pare. 4.02(c)).
3.08      Aricultural Synnort Services. The proposed project ould ssiLst
in uparading the support services of the DOAs by providing vehicles, extension
equipment, outreach centers and additional local staff, which would complement
the bilateral and multilateral inputs for various agricultural services. The
proposed project would provide four vehicles for extension staff (two for each
of the DOh.)I extension equipment, including audiovisual aids, overhead
projectors, publication costs and othor promotional alds (allocation for these
items would be divided between St. Ritte (60S) and levis (401) civAil works
for the construction andlor renovation of outreach centers (three In St. Kitts
and two in levis)l end local salary support (a senior agriculturalist for the
DOA in St. Kitts and a senior agriculturalist for the DOA in levis). The cost
for thi  subcoiponset i eatimated at US$0.3 million. During negotiations,
surances were obtained that HU and IAN would hire a seior agriculturalist
for the DOA in St. litts and a senior agriculturalist for the DA in levis,
with qualifications satisfactory to the lank and IDA, not later than
December 31, 1991 (pare. 4.02d))  and that the DOAs would divest tbemselves
of the operation of the agricultural machinery pool not later thba
December 31, 1995 (pare. 4.02(e)).
3.09      Agricultural Ploan   . To strengthen the preparation and
monitoring of the PSIP, toehnical assistance, involving 36 ma-months of
consultancy services In economic plannfing nd pbysical planning
(US$0.6 million), would be provided to CPU. The senior economic planner would



- 14 -
be cocerved with long-t.rm development strateSy for the tslends; and the
physial plannr, who ha  a key role In the mplementation of the bove land
adminitration program with broad land us, classifioation and zoning. During
negotiations, ssureces were obtained that the GoverrnAt wuld either caoply
or mak satisfactory  arat to finaes vith bilateral asistane or
other means a se*io  soonamic planner and a pbysical planr; and that HAS
would provide CPU with such consultants, with qualifications satisfactory to
the Bank end TDA, not later thsn Daeeber 31, 1991 (para. 4.02(f)).
3.10                        *rke t loo t* The project wold support sarket research for
agricultural products and the Identification of potentl forign inestors by
financing cosutency inputs and asociated promotional measures (Involving
lS$0.6 milion for 38 mn-mnth.  The conultnts, who would be attached to
CPU, vould britg together potentall local producers entrepreneurs ad foreign
buyers, modeld somewhat along the line of action undertaken by the Caribbean
Agricultural Trading Co. (CATCM) in Barbados. During negotiation, assurances
were obtained that WAS would engage consultant in marketing and investment
promotion, under term and conditions acceptable to the boak and IDA, not
later than March 31, 1992 (para. 4.02(g)).
The Sugar Indutry CoMgen
3.11      The Governmet would need to take a series of actions to address
the umediate neds of the sugr industry rlating to its current financi
condition, and to preet its futhr deterioration before bids could be
solicited from potential buyers Interested in taking ower the sugar industry
" a going concern.  Thes  include  the engagement of a smll mgemet team
to help stabilize the financial condition of Sow, end the  plementation of a
management  accounting system, covering all aspects of budgetary and fincal
control, which would allow the ildentification of relevant end fuantal cost
and profit centers of operations of $SWC. To this effect, and as a condition
of effectiveness, the Government would sign a Subsidiary Agreement,
satisfactory to the lank and IDA, with SOWC (para 4.03(a)).
3*.12     The proposed project would support the engagement of a small
manegemnt team to keep the mill operatifgt ,nd to introduce some much-needed
managemnt improvemets, whl  a prospectus is put together to faciltate the
sale of the sUgar  ill no later than September 30, 1992. The sml management
team, consisting of a general maager and a financial specilist, would be
ngaged under a two-year contract, but the contract would contain a
compensation clause In case of early termination. The management team would
be charged with carrying on the operations of SSMC to ensure that thore is no
further drait on the company'0 resources, and to tmplement a managemnt
accounting system and to determine up-to-date actual costs of the various
operations. The manaement toam would belp generate financial and operational
information for the sale of the sugar mill. A management accountant would be
provided for 12 man-months to assist the management team ti the introduction
and implementation of a mnagmssent accountlg system. Short-term conasultants
(possibly from an lvestment banking Institution) would be provided to assist
in preparting a prospectus for potential buyers. Short-term consultants would
also be provided to asist In planning actions related to the closure of the



- 15 -
mill In the event that there are no satifactory bids. Such actions would
include stqps to mitigate the economc and *ocial velfare problems that would
rosult, sopoecally from the considerable loss of jobs. The managmnt team,
licludtng the short-term consultants, would cost US$1.4 million. The only
major capital expenditures to be fin-aced under the project would be factory
knives and other minor equipment for the ill (U8$0.2 million), which are
essential to improve cane preparation in the mill, and tents for migrant
workers (US$0.03  illion). The GovernmeAt bha  siged a two-year contract with
smanoement couultnts, under ter  mad condtions acceptable to the Boak and
IDA, for managing the sugar industry (pare. 4.01(c))  The nagement teem
Includes a financial specelist lagm     accoutant. As a condition of
effectivenesss, the Goverment would contract exprts under ten. and
conitions satisfactory to the Bank and IDA, for preparing a prospectus for
the sale of the sugar m111 (pare. 4.03(b)).
3.13      Before the sugar mill is put up for sale, the Government would need
to introduce several policy reforms related to long-term land leases, use of
migrant labor In the sugar fields and elluniation of various sugar levies.
The Government has agreed to allow emplcyumt of migrant laborers to work in
the sugar Industry (pare. 4.01(d))l and has elsinated the levy nposed on the
ugar industry (para. 4.01(e)). As a condition of effectiveness, the
Government would eliminate the speial cess imposed on the sugar Industry
(para. 4.03(c)).
3 14      Alternative rrangments for the sale of the sugar mill would be
considered, includitg the issue of sbares allowing for majority private sector
participation. The outright purchase of the sugar mill, however, would not be
discouraged, includting the standing cropt all factory and field buildings and
equipment; the right to use all existing facilities and beneficial contract
associated with the sugar industry (railway, pipeline, wharf fcilities and
markets); the right to renegotiatc any unfavorable contracts for supply of
cane, molasses, sugar and any otber product of the business; the right to
lease and crop approximately 11,000 acres; and the rlght to lease the land on
which the factory Is built. The potential buyer would not be expected to
purchase the sugar mill until the Government has provided a prior sttement
that It would write off the debts of SUHC, including the portion of the Bank
loan and IDA credit on-lent to S85c, and met any costs of staff retrenchmets
Introduced by the buyer. Joint venture proposals would be considered on a
buy-in bsis if no outright purcbase proposal is acesptable. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that SSC would offer the sugar mill
for sale, together with a long-term lesse of the sugar lands, by way of Issue
of shares, joint venture or other arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank and
IDA, not later than December 31, 1991; and, by September 30, 1992, establish a
timetable in accordance with the action plan In para. 3 15 below, satisfactory
to the Bank and IDA, to close down the sugar mll in the event no satisfactory
arrangement has been made to sell the mill and if the industry continues to
incur substantial loses, unless the Sank and IDA shall otherwise agree
(pare. 4.02(h)).



- 16 _
3. 1S     During negotiations, asourances vev. obtained that th. 0overnmnt
would, not later than March 31, 1992, propere an action plan, satisfactory to
the ank and IDA, aied at mitigating economi and social  lfar. problem
asoociated with the closure of the mills ad if a decision is mad, to close
down the sugar milll, c encmm e inploentatiom of uch action pla  not later
than three months after closing (pare. 4.02(i)).
Pro4ect Prenaratmin pacilLSt IPPIF
3.16     A Project Preparation Facility (PP1) advance (US$0.3 million) was
provided to enable the Governent to put Into 4m-diate effect a number of
reforms to stabilize the financial condition of 8SMC, introduce financial
controls and take operational seasures to ensure the maximu  benefit from the
1990 crop. The PPF covered the costs of: (a) technical assistance, involving
17 man-month. of consultancy services In four main areas (accounting and
finance (including the updating of SS*C's 1988 and 1989 accounts),
organization and staffin8, cane barvesting and transport, and preparation for
private ounership of the industry)i and (b) equipment for the setting of tents
for off-island cane cutters as well as the transportation costs of such cane
cuttero.  SOC has prowided the Bank and IDA with its audited financial
statemnto for 1988 and 1989 (para. 4.01(f)).
Cost Mad Financina
3.17      The estinated cost of the proposed project, not of taxes, is about
US$4.3 million, with a foreign exchange component of about US$3.7 million or
862. The base coot was calculated using projected end-1990 prices.
Allowances for expected price incroases on the local and foreign exchange
components havo been computed uaing the Bank'  projection for international
inflation of 4.42. Physical contingencieo have been computed at 102.
3.18     A Bank loan and an IDA credit of US$3.0 million is proposed (50-50
split), which would finance 702 of the total project cost. The Government and
donor agencies would finance the remainder of the project cost. The
Government would on-lend the amount of US$1.9 umllion equivalent,
corresponding to the sugar industry, to SSOC on the sam torms and conditions
as the Bank loan, with a premium of 12 per annum  and SOW bering the foreign
and cross-currency exchange risks thereon. Under these terms, the on-lending
rate is expected to be compatible with LIBO. The Government wvuld bear the
foreign exchange risk on the remaining US$1.1 milllon, corresponding to the
support being given to non-sugar agricultural development. The Gavernment
would use the proceods of tbe Bank loan and IDA eredit to pay the costs of
consultancy services, training, local salary support, audit fee and minor
works; and to purchase equipment, vehicles and office equipment and supplies.
Incremental local salaries would be finnced on a declining basis, with the
Government assuming 1002 of costs by project completion.



- 17 -
Procurement
3.19      Since procurement under the proposed project would be for a
diversity of goods and services which are individually small, they would be
procured through International shopping, following comparison of three price
quotations from at least two countries  These would include equipment and
vehicles (a total cost of US$0.5 million) and minor works and supplies (a
total cost of US$0.15 million). Estimated contract size for goods and works
is expected to be less then US$50,000. Consultants (involving US$2.9 million)
would be recruited in accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Rank as Executing
Agency." The technical adviser for the Implementation of the proposed UD1P-
financed project would assist the Government in the recruitment of consultants
under the non-sugar component; the proposed management teem under the sugar
industry component would help select the short-term consultants for SSMC.
Disbursement
3.20      The proposed Bank loan and IDA credit would be disbursed over
7.5 years, based on the disbursement profile for agricultural projects in the
Latin America and Caribbean Region, and as revised to take into account the
PPF Advance, Special Account and the initial heavy expenditures on
consultants. Disbursement requests for xpenditures in respect of cansultant
services, equipment and vehicles would be fully documented, except for
expenditures for contracts and purchase orders of less than US$20,000
equivalent, and training, local salary support, minor works and supplies,
which vould be made on the basis of statements of expenditures (SOB.), subject
to Independent audits. The documentation would be retained by implementing
agencies and made available to Bank and IDA staff during supervision. Under
the agricultural development component of US$1.1 million, disburements would
be made for lOO  of total cost for  sonsult   ervices (up to US$0.3 million
under the Bank loan and US$0.3 million under the IDA credit); 1OOS of foreign
cost and 10OZ of local cost (se-factory cost) for equipment and vehicles (up
to US$0.14 million under the Bank loan and US$0.06 mllion under the IDA
credit); 1001 of total cost far training (up to US$0.03 milion under the Bank
loan and US$0.02 million under the IDA eredit); 1OO1 of total cost until the
amounts disbursed reah an amount of US$30,000 equivalent, 502 until
withdrawals hve reached US$30,OOO wuivalent and 352 therefter for
Incremental salries (up to US$0.03 million under the Boak loan and US$0.03
million under the IDA credit); and 1OO1 of foreign cost and 602 of local cost
for minor works and supplies (up to US$0.03 million under the bank loan and
US$0.02 million under the IDA credit). Disbursemaets under the sugar industry
component of US$1.9 million would be made for 1001 of total cost for
consultancy services (up to US$0.6 million under the Bank loan 4nd US$0.6
million under the IDA credit); 1001 for total cost of equipment (up to US$0.05
million under the Bank loan and US$0.15 million under the IDA credit), and 5S
for total cost of SSIC's audit (up to US$0.002 million under the Bank loan and
US$0.002 miion under the IDA credit).  In addition, there would be an amount
of US$0.3 million to recovor the PmP advance (up to US$0.15 million under the
Bank losa and US$0.15 million under the IDA credit). A total of US$0.336



- 18 -
(US$0.168 million under the Bank loan and US$0.168 million under the Bank
credit) would cover price contingenciese.
3.21      The loan and credit closing date vould be June 30, 1999.
Retroactive financing in an amount not exceedtig US$0.3 million (10 of Bank
loan and IDA credit) would be provided in respect of payments made for
expenditures after August 31, 1990 on the consultant services and fixed asset
investments under the sugar industry component. Bank and IDA approval would
be sought for all retroactive contracts to ensure conformity vith Bank and IDA
guidelines.
3.22      Establishment by the Borrower in the St. Ritts-aevis-Anguilla
National Bank of a Project Account, with an initial deposit of EC$ 100,000, to
cover counterpart expenditures would be a condition of effectiveness
(para. 4.03(d)). In order to expedite project execution, a Special Account
would be opened and maintainetd in US dollars at the St. Kitta-Nevis-Anguilla
National Bank to cover eligible expenditures under the loan and credit. An
initial deposit of US$200,000 would be made by tbh Bank and IDA upon receipt
and approval of a satisfactory withdrawal application. Subsequent
replenishment by the Bank and IDA of the Special Account would follow normal
procedures (with IDA funds to be drawn first). During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the Borrower would maintain the Project Account
to cover counterpart expenditures throughout the proposed project's
Implementation period (para. 4.02(j)).
OrLanization and Management
3.23      Pr-oiect NYmmement. The Minister of Agriculture, Lands,  ouing
and Development, St. Kitta (MAS) would have the overall responsibility for the
project. Because of the relatively small size of the agricultural development
component, no special project management unit would be required. Rather, the
existing functional departmento of MAS and MN would be responsible for
lmplementing the non-sugar aspects of the project, according to their
respective responsibilities, and the Board of SEMC would be responsible for
the sugar industry aects of the project. Details are discussed below.
3.24      The Office of the MiEister of MAS would coordinate the non-sugar
componant of the project. The Coordinator would be assited by a technical
advisor who would simultaneously be the project manager of a UUDP-financed
technical assistance project, which would support the proposed Bank and IDA
project. The Coordinator, with the assistance of the technical advisor, would
be responsible for all matters relating to disbursememt and procurement, and
coordinate the work program and progress reports for the NA under the
project. The actual implementation of the project would be the responsibility
of the functional departmnts of NAS and MAN, as follows: (a) the Central
Housing Authority would produce a cadastral map series and prescribe
procedures for progressive updating of the maps and review existing practices
for land surveying. The consultants in ceadstral mapping and land survey
practices would provide the needed technical assistance; (b) the Department of
Planning and Development would implement the agricultural planning
subcomponent, and consultants In economic planning, land use planning and



- 19 -
market development would be ass igned to CPU; and (a) the Department of Land
and Housing would carry out an organization and management review of the DOAs
and the Central Housing Authority, and a consultant in organization and
management would be attached to the Department of Land and Rousing. LDC vould
manage the training program for its staff. Coordination and review of the
non-sugar component of the project and its relationship with the UBDP-finaced
project would be effeoted primarily through trvipartite review mechanisms and
regular Bank and IDA supervision mission.  The Government has designated the
Project Coordinator in the Office of the Minister of ma (para. 4.01(g)).
3.25      The sugar industry component would be in the hands of 8SC, using
the services of a private management team. SSNC's Board of Directors would
supervise the contract with the management toam, which would be responsible
for managing all aspects of 88MG. It would carry out the Individual activities
of SSMC on a day-to-day basis, referritg corporate issues to the Board of
Directors. It would have the authority to import cane cutters, as required,
and reorganize SSMC's resources, licluding steffitg, to carry out its term of
reference (Annex 1). It would ensure the optimal operation of the mill and
implement an accounting system, assisted by a short-ter, management
accountant, to identify transfers and payments essential to the central
purpose of SSNC. Outputs from the preparatory work carried out under the PPF,
including the management accounting system designed by the PPF-financed
consultants, would be used by the management team In developing its work plan.
3.26      Land Allocation.  It is estimated that 3,000 acres of land In SK
(2,000 in St. Kitts and 1,000 in Nevis) are now available for agricultural
leasing. The DOAs would evaluate the potential lessees of agricultural land
in terms of the criteria set for tenant selection, charging rents based on an
established system, as provided In the leas, documents.
3.27      Etensln 8iervices.  The DOAs would provide extension services to
beneficiaries. At preosent, there are ten extenslon agents between the two
DOAs, which have been receiving assistance In upgrading their extension
services under various external programs, icluditg the USAID-financed CARP.
The proposod project would provide better access to extension services through
additional vehiles and construction and/or renovation of outreach centers of
the DOAs, which would be complemented by the extension service program
envisaged under the proposed UNDP-financed project. During negotlations,
assurances were obtained that MAS and MAN vould provide agricultural extension
services, satisfactory to the Bank and IDA, ensure that the DOAs have adequate
funds for the provision of extension services, and maintain an adequate wumber
of agricultural extension staff, satisfactory to the Bank and IDA
(par&. 4.02(k)).
3.28      A"raltural Credit.  This would continue to be provtided by the
commercial banks and by DBS  (funded mainly by CDB, particularly for the
small farmer loans). The Incremental demand for agricultural credit, hbwever,
is .xpected to be low. Warmers usually prefer to use their own resources
first (i.e., from other employment and remttances from abroad) and borrow



- 20 -
only as a last resortI and benef iciaries would be expected to emphsize
initially their firm hold on leased lad before increasing their indebtedness.
3.29      Prolect Imolementation Tlmeframe.  Overall project Implementation
would be over the five-year period 1991-1995. The recruitment of consultants
and local staff sand purchase of equipment end vehicles would be completed
during the first year (1991-1992)   The sugar industry component wuuld be
implemented during the first two years of the project. The land
administration program would commence In Year 1 and would be carried out
throughout tho project period.  The project implementation schedule is
provided in Chart 1, Annex 1.
Enlironmental Impact
3.30      The project would assist in formulating environmentally sound land
use policies and plans. In particular, the new leasing program would Increase
awareness of need for soil conservation, with the DOAs working with the
farmers to promote proper land use. The land use planning study and zoning
work to be initiated under the project would also lay the frsaework for more
orderly and environuentally sound development. Sugarcane will, however,
continue to be an important ecological stabilizing force on the island base of
St. Kitts.  Still, the Improvements in the management and operation of the
mill and fields being provided under the project would further enhance the
positiv environmentally stabilizing aspects of the crop.
Proaress lnortgna. Monitoring and Evaluation
3.31      CPU would coordinate the preparation of the reports and consolidate
the sme for submission to the Bank Group. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that CPU would submit to the Bank and IDA necessary data and
information on the project through annual progress reports, beginning
February 28, 1992 (pars. 4.02(1)). CPU would monitor project implementation
and evaluate the results. Assuraces wet  also obtained that CPU would
annually review with CDB and the Bank and IDA the PSIP, beginning March 31,
1992, in terms of the resources available for various sectors relative to
development priorities and adequacy of financing, including any proposed
changes in the timing and composition of the agreed investmet program for
agriculture,  s wll as the Implementation of investments executed during the
period (para. 4.02(m)).
Accounts and Audits
3.32      Separate project accounts would be maintained by the implementing
agencies. The project accounts as well as the Project and Special Accounts in
the St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla National Dunk, and relatod financial Information,
including those supporting the statements of expenditures (801s) to claim
reimbursements from the Bank and IDA, would be audited by              audependent aditors
acceptable to the Bank and IDA. CPU would coordinate such audits as well as
the submission of audited financial statemnts. SSWC would provide yearly
audit reports. During negotiations, asouraces were obtalned that certified
copies of the: (a) audited consolidated project accounts;-(b) audited Project



- 21 -
and Special Accounts In the St. Kitte-Nevi-Anguilla National Bank, icluding
a separate opainon on the use of Socs; and (a) audited finuacial statomta of
551C would be submitted annually to the  ank Group not later than six months
after the close of the Governmnt'o fiscal year, starting with the audit
report for the flaol year ending December 31, 1991 (parz. 4.02(a)).
Benefits ad Risk.
3 33      The main beefits vould come from the stabliAs ot of efficient
conditions for agricultural development, particularly by replacing tbh one-
year agricultural leae system with 35-year reonwable leaes, tbhreby removing
a major deterrent to the development of the agricultural sector In SKI. The
project would help to provide the policies and legal framework for the orderly
management and future development of land resourcess Direct beneficitries
would be small farmers and buswtess people who may be attracted into
agricultural development for whom access to land, agricultural support
services and market Information and assistance would be provided. The
proposed project would also help stabilize the financial condition of the
ailitg sugar industry while seeking to soell it off as a going concern, thereby
relieving the Government of the financial burden of the industry that has been
losing money due to poor management. The now leasing program, Including the
land use planning study and zoning work to be Initiated under the project,
would lay the framework for more orderly and environmenally sound
development; and the improvements in the management and operation of the ugar
mill and fields being provided under the project would further enhance the
positive environmentally stabilizing aspects of the crop. As It would be
difficult to quantify the benefits of the technlcal assistance and related
support for inproving agricultural planning capacity as well as support
services under the project, the economic rate of return has not been
calculated.
3 34      The main risks would be the extent to which interest can be
fostered in the agricultural sector outside of the sugar tndustry, and the
ability of such entrepreneurs to secure market niches for agricultural
products, both within tho growing dom stic touristlhotel market and abroad.
Another important risk relates to the tixeframe needed for the sale of the
industry and transfer to the private sector. To ilniiize the first set of
risks, the project design includes considerable technical assistance for
upgrading agricultural support services, and for assisting farmer groups and
entrepreneurs to seek out and supply new market niches. The latter risk is
safeguarded by the provision of investment banking advisory services for the
divestiture.
IV. ADRKEHENTS REACMED AND REC9M92MDATiO=
4 01      The Borrower hass  (a) enacted a Aew Land Development Act and put
into full force and effect its provisions, as well as introduced che standard
format for 35-year renwable leases (pars. 3.05); (b) established tenant
selection criteria and isplementation procedures for the leasing program, and



- 22 -
a"red to establish a committoe to detovrmi  annual rentals, all satisfactory
to thb lank and IDA (paws,. 3.05); (c) sinepd a two-year management contract
vith a fgrm, under trns and conditions acceptable to the Boak and IDA, for
managing the sugar Industry (pars. 3.12)t (d) agreed to 4lov employment of
mWgrant lAborers to work in the sugar iudustry (parw. 3.13); (.) *l.minated
the levy Imposed on the sugar industry (pars. 3013); (f) submitted SSMC's
audited financial statements for 1988 and 1989 (para. 3.16); end (8)
designated the Projeot Coordinator In the Office of the Minister of MAS
(pawa. 3.24).
4.02     Duwilg nagotiations, esuranoes were obtained from the Borrower
thatt
(a) MAS would employ consultants In cedastral mapping, survey practices
and organisation and management, under t.rma and conditions
acceptable to the Bank and IDA, not later than December 31, 1991
(pars. 3.07);
(b) WAS vould provide the necessary staff for the DOA, the Central
Housing Authority and the Office of Registrar of Titles, all with
qualificatious satisfactory to the lank and IDA, not later than
December 31, 1991 (para. 3.07);
(a) LDC would develop sad enter into contractual arwangement
satisfactory to the Bank and IDA, which would bind employee
receiving training under the training progra to provide not le88
than two months of service to LDC for each month of training
received (para. 3.07);
(d) MAS and MAN would hire a senior agriculturalist for the DO& in St.
Klitte and a senior agriculturalist for the DOA in Nevis, with
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank and IDA, not later than
December 31, 1991 (para. 3.08);
(e) DQAs would divest themselves of the operation of the agricultural
machinery pool not later than December 31, 1995 (para. 3.08);
(f) it would either employ or make satisfactory arrangements to f'unrice
with bilateral assistsnce or otber aeans consultants in econouLu
and physical planaing under the agricultural planning component u-
the project; and MAS would provide CPU with such consultants, with
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank and IDA, not later than
December 31, 1991 (par*. 3.09);
(g) MAS would engage consultants in marketing and investment promotion,
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and IDA, not
later than March 31, 1992 (para. 3.10);



- 23 -
(h) SOW would offer for *al. the suga  mill together vith a log-tom
leae of the sugar lands, by way of teau  of shares* jolut veture
or other           as, satisfctory to the Bank sad IDA, not later
than Deobet 31, 19911 and, by September 30, 1992, establsh a
timtable in accordane with the action ple  In (i) below,
satisfactory to the lank sad IDA, to close down the sugr mil in
the event that no satisfactory anegm_t h1 been =ade to sell
the mill and if the industry continues to incur substatil loss,
unless the Bank ad IDA  hall otherwise agre  (pars. 3.14);
(1) It would, not late: than Matc 31, 1992, prepare an action plVa,
satisfactory to the Bank and UDA, aimed at mitigating economic ad
social welfe problems asocited with the closure of the mll
and if a decision is made to close down the sar mill, cameee
mplemettion of such action plan not later than three mths
after closing (pare 3.15);
(j) it would maintain the Project Account to cover coutet¢psrt
Axpendlture. throughout the proposd project's implemenattion
Period (pars. 3.22)t
(k) MAS and NAN would provide agricultural eztension services,
satisfactory to the BIak and IDA, ensure that the DOAs bave
adequate funds for tha provision of extension services, and
maintain an adequate number of agricultural extension staff,
satisfactory to the Bank and IDA (pare. 3.27);
(1) CPU would submit to the Bank end IDA the ancessar data and
nformation on  the project throug  annual progress reports,
begtuning Pebruary 28, 1992. CPU would also monitor project
implementation and evaluate the result (pars. 3.31)s
(m) CPU would annually review  ith CDB and the lank and IDA the P8IP
begisning March 31, 1992, In terms of the volume of resources
available for various sectors relative to development priorities
and adequacy of finacing, lncluding say proposed chnges in the
timing sad composition of the agreed investment progrsa for
agriculture, as well as the implem ntation of investmeAts eecuted
during the period (para. 3.31); and
(n) CPU would submit certified copies of i ($) audited consolidated
project accounts; (iL) audited Project and Specil Accounts in the
National Sankt ticluding a separate opinion on the use of 8BSes and
audited financial statements of S1C0, annually to the lank Group
not later than six months after close of the Government's fiscal
year, starting with the audit for the fiscal year eading
December 31, 1991 (pars. 3.32).



- 24 -
4.03     Condititon of eff.ct*vnaaas of the proposed loan and credit would
be& (a) *18S1Dg of a Subsidlary Ap'eeat, satisfactowy to the Bank and IDA,
between the Government and 6511 (pora. 3.11); (b) contracting of expert.,
under tow and conditions satisfactory to the Bask and IDA, to prpar, a
prospectus for the sale of SOM0 (para. 3.12); (c) eliminattio of the spocial
coos Uposed on the sugar Industry (pare. 3.13); ed (d) *tablisbhmst by the
Borrower in thb St. Kitt-aNevis-Anguill, National Boak of a Project Account,
vith an Initial deposit of RC$ 100,000, to cover couerpart expenditues
(pasm. 3.22).
4.04     With the alome agreements and  ssurane.t the proposed project
would be suitable for a Sank loan of US$1.5 million equivalent for 17 years,
including five years of grace, at the standard variable interet rate, sad an
IDA credit of SDX 1.1 mllion (US$1.5 million equivalent) on the standar  IDA
tsrmo, ith 35 years maturity.



-25-
Page 1 of 4
ST. KIm AMD NEVIS
LGRCULTURAL DEVEOPMENT $UP0R PROJECT
Detailed Features of the Progect
1.        This annex deals with the organization of the project, focusing on
the organization of the land administration, agricultural planning and sugar
industry components.
Land Administratio
2.        Two expatriate consultants (cadastral map specialist and survey
practice. specialist) would be attached to the Central Rousing Authority;
another consultant (land use planner), to the Department of Planning and
Development; and an organization and management specialist, to the Department
of Land and Housing, with the following qualifications and responsibilities:
(a) Cadastral Map Soecialist. The specialist would be a qualified
surveyor or cartographer with experience in cadastral mapping in
developing countries, preferably in the Caribbean. He or she would
produce a cadastral map series on which existing parcels of
agricultural land are charted and prescribe procedures for
progressive updating of the maps. The ssignment vould be for six
man-months, and the appolntee would be responsible to the Senior
Technical Officer of the Central Housing Authority. The specialist
would consult with Government and private agencies, which are
likely to be users of the cadastral maps, to assess their
requirements; review the existing data comprising cadastral survey
plans, land title., etc.  in SM design procedures to be adopted in
charting land parcels on cadestral maps, particularly the extent to
which the existing topographic map base can be used to position
land parcels on the maps and to which existing and future surveys
of land parcels should be connected to the national survey control;
investigate and recommend a system of unique parcel numbering and
procedures for converting existing parcel numbers to any new
system; and develop standards for charting cadastral information on
the maps which are to be prepared as overlays to the existing
1:2500 scale topograhic maps.
(b) Survey Practices Snecialist. The survey practices specialist would
be a qualified land surveyor with considerable experience in land
survey practices in the Caribbean and, preferably, some knowledge
of the land survey requirements of SIN. The appointment would be
for 1.5 man-months. The specialist, who would be responsible to
the Senior Technical Offiaer of the Central Housing Authority,
would review the existing practices for surveying boundaries of
land; consult vith Governmt and private surveyors on the
regulation of survey practices and the proposed regulations;



-26-
AM    I
Page 2 of 4
consult with the Registrar of Titles, Director of Agriculture,
Comptroller of Inland Revenue and the Parliamentary Draftsman
concerning their requirements in a system of fixed boundaries; and
draft regulations on directions, as appropriate, specifying the
standards to be adopted for land boundary surveys, procedures to be
followed by surveyors appointed under the Land Surveyors Ordinance
(Cap. 267) in surveying land boundaries and penalties for breaches
of the regulations or directions.
(c) Land Use Planner. The land use planner vould have a degree in
agricultural economics or a similar discipline, with a background
in agronomy and considerable experience in analyzing agricultural
land use and the planning/zoning use of land in smaller developing
countries, preferably in the Caribbean. The assignment vould be
for 18 man-months.  Under the general direction of the Permanent
Secretary of the Department of Planning and Developmont, and in
consultation with the Directors of Agriculture in St. Kitts and
Nevis, the General Manager of the Land Development Corporation in
Nevis and the Senior Technical Officer of the Central Housing
Authority in St. Kitts, the specialist would carry out a land use
capability study of both St. Kltts and Nevis; prepawe plans showing
existing land use of both islands and develop policies and plans
for future land use. In the case of Nevis, this would consist of a
revision of the preliminary zoning map; and prepare a zoning plan
for agricultural land on both Islands and develop procedures and
legislation, as necessary, to implement the zoning plans.
(e)  Orzanizltion and Manazement Snecialist. The consultant would have
tertiary qualifications in management, commerce, accounting or
similar disciplines, and experienc in reviewing Government
organizations and makinu recomendations on structures and
management syatems In developing countries. The specialist,
against the background of Gbverament policies and public
administration, would review the existing organization structures
and management systems in the Department of Agriculture and the
Central Rousing Authority tn St. Kitts and the Department of
Agriculture and the Land Development Corporation in Nevis; analyze
those structures and systems against the existing workflows and the
workloads likely to be generated by the project; take into account
the Government's views on reports by international agencies on
agricultural development in SKI and recommend to appropriate
Ministers organization structures, management systems, staffing and
training programs suited to the functions, workloads and
constraiuts of public administration in SR".
ASCriclturl Pann
3.        Consultants, inwolving a market research team (14 man-months) and
an iavestment officer (24 man-months) would be responsible to the Permanent
Secretary of the Department of Planntng and Development. The market research



-27-
Page 3 of 4
team would comprise an agricultural economist, an export trader, a market
researcher and a research assistant. It would review available data and
experience in the production of crops for which an export market exists and
compare this information with CARICOI/CATCO market Information and projects.
An investment officer would utilize the Information generated by the market
research tesm to prepare high quality promotional packagea almed at buth local
and foreign investors. The investment promotion officer would have no direct
links to investments in promoted activitis.
Sumar Industry
4         &anaaement Team. The managoemnt tosa for SSWC culd comprise a
general manager and financial specialist. The general manager would assume
overall responsibility for SSMC in accordance with the existing
responsibilities of that position, and be responsible to the Board of
Directors   In addition, he would oversee efficiencies in personnel allocation
and recruitment/retrenchement; oversee the financial specialist and agree on
his/her work program; advise the Government of any anticipated caneo/ugar
industry costs that would not be born  by SSC under the iUproved management
system; and prepare work plans and targets for the team for agreement with
S$HC's Board.  The candidate for this position would be familiar with the
sugar industrvy and wuld have demonstrated high-level management skills during
periods of reorganization and effiency improvement, le sould be familiar with
financial systems, agricultural field practices and barvesting procedures.
5.        The financial specialist would assume responsibility as head of
finance and administration in parallel with the present incumbent with similar
responsibilites, and would ensure the early Implementation of the improved
management accounting system (assisted by a short-term managment accouatant),
generating financial reports on a timely basis; work with Individual managers
to assist them in accurately recording information, preparing budgets and in
the use of accounting reports for managemt decision-makngt; ensure that all
transfer payments and any payments not directly related to the production of
sugar are separated out in the account.; keep the general manager informed of
developments and problems; and manage foreign exchange risks. The candidate
would be familiar with the development and introduction of accounting and
financial management systems for enterprises.
6.*       Prosuectus Consultants   The consulting firm (preferably an
investment banking institution) would provide ssistance in the preparation of
a prospectus for the sale of the sugar mill. It would have experience in the
sugar industry and In international advertising and assessment of proposals.
Skills would be required In agricultural and industrial crop processing,
economics, accounting and inventory preparation. The assignment would involve
five man-months, including two man-months for asessment of proposals.



-28-
ANNDXLI
Page 4 of 4
7.        Documents for the preparation of the prospectus would use as points
of reference the information generated from prior studies.,1 It is assumed
that serious potential bu7era would conduct their own detailed investigations.
The consultants would include additional information enerated by the
management team during the initial investigation. The prospectus would
Include, among other things, a summary history of the industry; SSWC's
financial performance; inventory of capital itemat leasehold or other
agreements covering sugar lands, factory and related items; market contracts;
GOSRIN requirements of the purchaser including, but not limited to, retention
of a productive industry and taxation (if any); GOSUR assurances allowing the
importation of labor; and details of assessment procedures.
8.        The prospectus would be printed for distribution to all identified
potential purchasers by December 31, 1991. Prospective purchasers would have
been identified during the three-month consultancy through industry contacts,
advertising in industry publications and identification of Interested general
investors  It is expected that the list of interested parties would Include
entities from most sugar production regions and markets in the world. No
short listing process would be conducted; potential purchases who made the
commitment to visit St. litts and gain additional information would be
considered eligible to submit the proposals. The consultants would assist the
GOSKI in liaising with potential purchasers during their field visit.
9.        Responsive proposals would be those that demonstrate interest by
conducting site visits; agree to meet any conditions that are set out in the
prospectus  highlight any area for legal agreemnt not Included in the
prospectus; and offer a 1002 purchase for the iudustry on either a set payment
or part payment.
10.       In the event that no 100l purchase offer is considered eligible,
joint venture proposals would be assessed in accordance with the preceding
criteria and campared on tha basis of the financial and economic benefits
accruing to SIN. The consultancy would assist in the assessment by specifying
weights for the components of the proposals and in preparing comparisons
between proposals in financial and economic terms on a confidential bais.
The issue of sharos, allowing for majority private sector participation, would
also be considered as an alternative rran ent
)j   Booker Report, 1984; Project Preparation Report, 1989; Appraisal Report,
1990; Resource Industries Consultancy, 1990.



-29-
?- iw -AMM
LNA a _ama
td
m= -
LWd 4b4PA4460%
co zo ume                                                                      in      m
ot sun                                                                         a"        a  
o _ ~ ~ ~~~~~~1                     s o     ao               so       so      nus
0mmh1e.3a                            0      445      445       0      1I*  s   W        "0
_m" apa.              u0 0u    300                                  4                   Su
344.s                        73         7   1.4,       *0   V54          5*       403
b                                                S* Cs    W  0    4      so       as
YebSa3.s       - astmea owsI 17             as       *7        4        7       4 
w4d_"                     13       W       in         7      W                 9 
Laeal.k SunS0                                 0      SSQ     3*         0      n*0        a
--- -1   -1 7U1 S 0
6.bsal                            0      43      0la      a0    15          an       an3
g" .    e7                                      n4        0 _7  I_                 10
3.6m    *3an                         0       40      740       0      374      *7      1003
W  Ibs Seog                          0      *40-    so         0      m        *        no
1_4.t  P.SS..                        0      74       7         0       7U     O 7      a100
ftb-sesl                     0   S*44      3.76        0   1.*       3.03      1"0X
|_uL                  e~~~~~ M"7    SIM         O    hls      1,4        null
Nu"                            1I"    S.u70    5           41    3.47    1,0          74
M.   CCAOs                           0   3,050    S.u          0   1.00      ",00       10
4m Sam  .am                               *.S sul            S              $,o         a
3teSal                             A"       70       all      5       274      S1O       on
Wu*sm4  liSa. w"emus".     238     741      070       4      274      X         1s 4
Sd*tft~~oas o          S    I'       1,08        "      S
Su-oa                         7     1,430    1.6*       340     54       44        0
=* 0                                1       oil ".70    11.470  53   S.SS   4.54*         US
selume                     -       -om



-30-                                  AMX I
Table 2
Page I of 2.
]1   s--1 1 p 1! 1 t  v~~~~0 * "It 11 It i   e  tt   | *00 I e I  I
0*001'01 S     2  @ 0  "-11        @00 eel In   00001 0 1 I
ut  ~ ~ ~ ooI    IIll    I    jj11"lh   Goo   an 0 I   P. I 01o 00 0  1  I
000j0  "12 sI 2  002          '1          1 I 000        1  t    oe  '1
**** 10 e  | |*0j  'j  *           -0 0 3  1  e   ala la 0   00001  1 1
000101 1p*1 1 2t I     ' 0 r 1j II         Ej *Ij I i I g   I0 1
00101 *.0j0j is 00   soI A1 Al    0*G  g    j II      '0" 11  
eO 1' I 2¢3p I* I is 00 e 'li i" IA    Soo 0 0 g1 3 I  eee2 I  a I
*''j0 aaji             'rP1  z          ^iS |1 3 Z  ' 1 |  ggt  t if 
000101 MP0jj 1 21  0   *0   01 I  1         as I|I 'a  1 aI 13
e              0as   e   * I I e       aJ 'I r1   11
°pjvj Rpji3j 2  £ a  SotAl 3|1  3e  't1 '1   ""31 '1 2
|it        veejej *e;e  a  * e  *-ri ti   a          je eel   I£II tfij !
I1       *eelol a0 1I.  e   00  OGl  1           00 ll1 Gi   1v  I   1 1
if          J  *Ojoj               I1       000010    00-00J   lO
| t   ffie 13g 1 eee lIII t 0'  41"I I       'i'llI  I      i  I  I
IP i I "P  1                   I   1  2  2  I  am I  I  al   I  i
Ojj e11eel1    2i e  ei   00000101                       1  I
'1  001'1 '  ' ' 0''1-   1'i i *-- '    *    ''''I U      1
t ~~~~~~~~000  0010  0  0l i110  0 1i  00ill!I 1                004001 0 10  1 
IhI    1111 In; JId ~~~~~~~~~~~~!.1



HIM          a r  - ws mrn
4-
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                             -             
s e~~~~~~~~~~9"                       W1412            "W               MO-t1."                            NOS."°"°
ne"u_s~~~ to *ss  ai i_T.__._; ;°i_.o__;
o ., .. o . . . - . . . . . . . . .~~V"P ftL   s"i,Eww
AMU f"  ---- 0        0           0           5~~~S     's    0    S                                   0    0 
_~~~~~~               a.u *.S _    _.0 1158            s.       405    0    0        *--*    *    0    0    0    0
1_   o 45   ets   12  is      1     0    0     5    0 0    0    0    0    0          0        0    S
- -   - - -     -    -     -     -    -     -            -~      ~    ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -----  ---
"~~  u        142~~~ 1.S12si     11.S .1          S E    40    0    0    0   0            0    0                  o  
s _                      m    aM s         0    0    0   410         a1             0 *        *    *    *    * a
1551. sE  uwna  s.o=  a,oso  Su  *.gI  4.411   m   a.su                so05us    m    Su    as  an   Su8   a8 
# U7~~~~~~~~~~~~ t                    4 90               #                            4    e    R  a * 4  "1W1"UJ7""* F"
a_     a    a   -       a    a    -             a    -    a    -            a    a    a       -
__ "~~~1   ul s   ap  t4   EN   EN    608                      45  t5    40  X12    75    51    0             0 
"maw               as?46  85S  14    300  4.5   SM    VA  1.06   *I   m    au   514  256 10         up   26    a   En
us , .1) $,1,*Sau te *W 441a.
_ _ _ _ . _ _ _   _    _     _    _     _    _     _    _            _ _~~~'E
d = ,_. _ , o_ ..,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
z _ NC t ;,..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
4    - - - - - - -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4



-32-
AM= I
Table 3
8T. IMTTS AND UmS
ARCL1~3AL DBY           SUPPORT PROJCT
etimated Schedule of Disbursem t.
(1in 8$ '000.)
BarDklIA Fiscal Yew sr                t-yearly             Cumultive
and Semster                        Disbursemt.            Disbursement
1992
December 31, 1991                         300                   300
June 30, 1992                             200                   S00
1993
December 31, 1992                         400                   900
June 30, 1993                             400                 1,300
1994
December 31, 1993                         500                 1,800
June 30, 1994                             400                 2,200
1995
December 31, 1994                         300                 2,500
June 30, 1995                             300                 2,800
1996
December 31, 1995                          25                 2,825
June 30, 1996                              25                 2,850
1997
December 31, 1996                          25                 2,875
June 30, 1997                              25                 2,900
1998
December 31, 1997                          25                 2,925
June 30, 1998                              25                 2,950
1999
December 31, 1998                          25                 2,975
June 30, 1999                              23.                3,000



-33-
MWEX1
4~~ .
_ .. 
I-            N 8-s8   tgX8
_~~~s  sqf Nx11}   f



-34-
AMI 2
Page 1 of 7
ST. RUzTS ND 11128
LQGRtCLtIA DEM LOlWT 9UPPORT PRWJCT
Tno Suaar IndustryI
St. titts Suyar Vanufacturina Cornoration 1SSMC)
1.         This annex reviews in greater detail the overall performance of
the sugar industry, including a financial analysis of the St. Kitts Sugar
Manufacturing Corporation (SSNC).
Maneasment and Stafflgg
2.         Major decisions on 8SMC's operations are taken by a seven-member
Board of Directors, comprising the Minister of Finance as Chairman, the
Financial Secretary as Deputy Chairman, the Director of Agriculture, the
Attorney General and thr"e representatives from the private sector. The day-
to-day operations of SSMC are managed by a General Mnager.
3.          In 1983, the Industry had nearly 3,400 employees during the crop
season, including 103 monthly paid staff and 2,523 daIly paid vorkers in cane
production and 731 workers In the factory. This was a reduction of some 332
from the number employed in 1976. As of and of 1989, manpower of SOMC dropped
further to 2,136 field workers, 135 field staff and 821 distributed among the
other operating units. Thirty-five percent of the field workers were over S0
years old; 342 vere within the 26- and 40-year old age bracket; and the rest
below 26 years.
4           8SMC has been experiencing organUiational and managerial problems.
Mhile most of the individual activities of SSC have been reasonably carried
out on a day-to-day basis, it bhs not ben well managed as a corporation. The
Board of Director. has not taken an 'ative part In addressing strategic
corporate issuesq although, hsving appreciated the sorious financial problems
facing the SSW,, is actively seeking ways and means to address them snd has
now become icreasingly involved In the day-to-day management  This,
obviously, has not streogthened line management's position and it is
increasingly the practice to refer routino matters to the Board for a
decision. Although this may be understandable in the context of the very
difficult cash flow problems tbo Company now faces apd the fact that it has
been unsuccessful In appoiating a strong and effective Genral Manager, it has
not helped to improve the morale, of soeor managers nor their effectiveness.
5          Staff morale has continued to be low. This reflects a number of
specific issues, licluding wage rates relative to no-sugar alternatives;
jealousy and conflict arisn  furom the f st that SSMC and N&CO operations have
not been fully integrated despite their official merger; no common staff or
wage policyr and Inadequate managent and supervision of field operations.
The ned for ome professional belp In this area of personnel management is
very apparent and is part of the terms of reference for the management team.



-35-
AmX2
Page 2 of 7
6.          Hsnagement Systems. Of major importance to the successful
management of SSMC is the introduction and implementation of a management
accounting system, covering all aspects of the budgetary and fia ncial
control. In particular, such a system would identify the relevant and
fundamental cost centers of the operations, so that, in future, it would be
possible to identify the cost of specific functions, such as the cultivation
of plant cane, ratoon canm, harvesting, etc. To acbieve this in a speedy and
satisfactory manner, the management team would oversee the installation of a
management accounting system, assisted by a full-time appointed management
accountant for a minimum period of one year.
Asricultural Onerations
7.          Cane Areas and Yields. Came is grown under rainfed conditions on
10,500 acres of Government-owned land. Cane yields have varied between a low
25.9 tons in 1985 to 35.8 tons in 1988 and an estimated 28.7 tons in 1989, as
compared to an average yield of 30.3 tons of cane per acre (tclacre) over
1981-1989. The main factor for these fluctuations in cane yields is the
variation in rainfall. Improved agronomic managememt practices, however, are
expected to maintain the average cane yield of 30-32 tons.
8.          Cane Harvestint and Transoort. Cane is harvested principally by
band. The average area harvested was estimated at 9,400 acres In 1981-1989,
and cane harvested averaged 267,900 tons in the period 1984-1989, compared to
321,000 tons over 1981-1983. The decline In cane harvested resulted mainly
from the scarcity of labor for harvesting given the rising opportunities for
employment in the country's economy. The number of registered cutters fell
from 1,350 in 1983 to 731 and 450 in 1989 and 1990, respectively. Sufficient
equipment is on hand to harvest the required tonnage, although there is a need
to replace majority of the agricultural equipmaet and vehicles. In 1989
Hurricane Hugo created major setbacks to planned improvements in harvesting
procedures.
9.          In an attempt to compensate for reduced manual cutting, mechanical
harvesters were introduced during the 1988 crop sea"on. (The area suited to
mechanization total 6,000-7,500 acres). A total of six mechanical harvesters
have been introduced since 1988. The performance of these barvesters,
however, has not been satisfactory, either in terms of area harvested or yield
per acre. Due to significant breakdown delays, tonnage harvested amounted to
only 100 tons per machine-day versus their maximum capacity of 200 tons.
10.         Cane is loaded onto cane carts by mechanical loaders, and
delivered to the factory in rail trucks on 32 miles of track, using 20
locomotives and 850 rail trucks with 12 mobile cranes. The rail system is
also used to transport sugar and molasses to the bulk store-and storage tanks.
The existing investment in rails, locomotives and wagons could not be replaced
at any reasonable cost; however, given their condition and the extent tbey
have been depreciated, the railway system represents an advantage of SSCM over
competitors using other means of transport.



-36-
Page 3 of 7
Factory Ocerations
11.        The factory is capable of griuding at its rated capacity of 125
tons of cane per hour, and requires 3,000 tons of cane per day to operate at
full capacity. Capacity utilization, however, has been very poor in recent
years. The factory performance has been adversely affected by poor cane
quality and erratic and inadequate cane supply. Actual grinding time amounted
to an average of 60S over 1984-1989, due mainly to the shortage of cane
supply. Sugar production averaged 27,000 tons for the period 1984-1989,
compared to 32,000 tons over 198l-1983, a reduction of 18.5S. Production
between 1987 and 1989 averaged at 25,200 one. The ratio of cane to sugar has
been unusually high, averaging 9.97 during 1981-1989, vith 10.40 for the last
two crops. During the same period, after reaching a high of 3.61 in 1982,
tons of sugar per acre have been fluctuating from 2.6 In 1985 to 3.3 in 1988
and to 2.8 in 1989.
12*        The factory is well maintained and generally well-balanced.
However, although the technical performance of the factory is considered
satisfactory, there are necessary investments In factory equipment that have
to be made to sustain performance at its rated capacity. The major capital
expenditure needed immediately is expected to increase the power at the cane
knife station in order to improve cane preparation.
13*        Main indicators of SSMC's performance In cane and sugar production
are provided below.  Further details aro presented in Tables 1 and 2.
Xe 1b=Ma Indca te. in C9e d us  il.1,8
l- 10s  1983  1"   15  1it"  1"?7  1948  a9
dAx  e  cultivate 0  e)  10.4  1043  10.7  11.7  11.4  11.1  11.1  10.0  U.e.
Ue of e" bamted (eO0e eae)   10.0  9.9  10.2  10.4  104.  9.7  0.8  7.7  8.0
Asuntt of cne wIld ("000  to)  33?7.    34.6    276.3   2"8  243.1   260.4    I$.7   274*.3  .6
C=ae ,te14 (tone meleore  a1eted)  33.7    35.1    17.2    26.5    35.9    27.0    31.5  35.0   26.7
Supr prduatSe  ('000' to")  32.4  36.0  27.8  31.0  86.9  26.$  25.3  25.5    24.8
S%Wr YWA (ton euWrlec)   3.2  3.4  3.7  5.0  2.4  3.0  S.1   $S  2.6
C1seleur ntie MMS)      10.4  9.7  10.0  94 g 9.8  *.1  10.2  10.6  10.2
Sunar Markets and Prices
14.        SSMC's marketing arrangements, practices and performance are,
generally, commercially sound. It sells approximately 90 percent of its sugar
to quota markets in the the United Kingdom (UK) under Lome Convention
arrangements, and to the United States (US). These export sales to quota
markets are handled by Booker Sugar Co. Ltd. under an agency agreement. The
remaining 101 of sugar produced is sold through agents domesticall or to
neighboring islands. The facilities available for the storage and shipping of
sugar are in good condition and are sufficient for anticipated future needs.
15*        As shown below, sugar prices into the NBC have increased by 63M,
when expressed in KC$, over the period 1984-1988 (from US$0.16 to US$0.26/lb).
US prices hav remained static, falling substantially in 1982 (US$0.14/lb),
and recovering in 1987 and 1988 to the 1984 level of US$0.2111b. Prices into



-37-
Page 4 of 7
all otber markets have remained &bUost unchanged. Sa1es to the neighboring
Islands averaged 700 tons at about US$0.14/lb in the period 1984-1988.
Domestic consumption mount  to some 2,300 tons per year at prices fixed by
the Government, averaging US$0.1211b over 1984-1988.
Susaa Kaiket Irises. 1981-1090
Year     EEC       US       BsgloDal    Domestic    World Price
-C$----------t- (11t) -
1981      929      1,490      1,197       495        10027
1982      962        836       931        591         510
1983      918      1,148       872        702         513
1984      931      1,153       879        709          315
1965      850      1,093       832        708         247
1986     1,215     1,158       797        731         366
1987     1,475     1,259       600        725         410
1968    1,605      1,187       735        735         619
1989     1,507     1,342       735        735          775
1990 al  1,391     1,342       644        735         393 hI
Averas 1984-1988 1.215   1,208       609        722         391
18$ equiv.I/b    0.20     0.20       0.13      0.12         0.06
ja Estimste
JAs.4karch 1990
16.         The current (1990) sugar price in UC is equivalent to US$0.23/lb,
while the US price is US$0.22/lb. In 1989, 8SMC was obliged to sell sugar on
the domestic and regional markets for US$0.12/lb. This price was raised in
1990 to US$0.14/lb, whilo the world market has reached US$0.15/lb. and is
likely to rise further over the next year or so.
Pinancial Performance of 8SMC
17.         Profitabllitv   Available financial records indicate that SSMC has
been a profitable operation in the past. During 1977-1979, the enterprise was
among the lowest-cost producers of sugar in a study of more than 120
countries, producing at an average cost of US$0.09/lb during the period.
However, as reflected In SSMC's audited financial statements and key financial
ratios for 1982-1989 in Table 3, the company has been in a steady financial
decline since the beginning of the 1980., operating at a loss throughout the
period. The unit cost of sugar production has increased by over 1002 in 1988
over 1980, from US$0.12/lb to US$0.26/lb. The main factors in the significant
cost increase have been low production caused by labor and managerial problems
and the considerable wage increase, particularly in 1988 (13.61 for all
factory and and field workers and 21.8S for the cane cutters). With
significant decrease in sugar production to 16,200 tons (from some 26,000 tons
projected) in 1990, the cost of production is estimated to increase to
US$0.41/lb. A comparison of the cost levels achieved by SMIC from 1986 to
1990 is provided below.



-38-
Pag. 5 of 7
Unit Cost of Buuar Productlon
(EC$Iton)
Actual                 la         Bua1t
1980      1986     1987     1988     1989        1990
Cane               38.06     62.42     65.26     69.47     n/a      109.68
Factory            35.45     72.51     77.92     80.95     n/a      125.16
Total              73.51    134.93    143.18    1S0.42    144.25    234.84
Tons came
tons sugar         10.12      9.14     10.24     10.60     10.20      10.6
cost per ton
of sugar         743.92      1,233    1,466     1,594     1,471     2,489
US$Iton           275.53     456.76  543.02   590.54   544.94        921.96
US$/lb              0.12       0.20     0.24      0.26      0.24      0.41
18.        Limoial Struactur.  Between 1976 and 1986, when 8SMC and WACO
operated as independent enterprises in procesing and cane cultivation,
respectively, NACO cosistently operated at a loss and accumulated a deficlt
of EC$ 49.4 illion. This deficit, which was fiusaced as an overdraft at the
National Bank, was transferred to SSKC st the time of the merger. Interest
expenses were higheot in 1985 and 1986, due mainly to the WACO overdraft.
Because of the MACO overdraft assumed by SSW, its current ratio (current
assets/current liabilities) wa down to 0.2:1 In 1985 from 1.1t1 in 1984. The
RACO overdraft wsa reclassified as additional Government contribution, when
the Government accepted responsibility for repayment of NC$ 56.2 million of
the overdraft, bringing up the current ratio to 1.2sl in 1987. In 1989, with
781 of its current assets tied up to inventories, 88C covered working capital
requirements with overdraft from the ational Bank, which reached EC$ 18.9
million at the end of 1989 from IC$ 8.1 million in 1988. Duties payable to
the Government, amounting to IC$ 10.5 million in 1988, were reclassified as
Government contribution in 1989 to help improve SUNC's financial structure.
The level of overdraft, which has been exacerbated by the losses incurred as a
direct result of Burricane Hugo In 1989 (estimated to be of the order of SC$
10.0 million in 1990 and another IC$ 2.0 million in 1991), reached EC$ 21.0
million as of end March 1990.
19.        Accounts and Audit. SSN's accounts have been audited by Simmonds
and Associates of Basseterre since 1983. Audit reports for 1983-1989 have
been unqualified. Accounting records, however, are not up to date, and
audited financial statements for 1990 are not yet available.
Zlasn¢lal Projo¢tlons
20.         Without Protect. Under the 'without project" case (Table 4), SSUC
shcws a position of continuing losses, so that the company would be
tecbhically bankrupt by the and of 1992. By 1995, the interest charges alone



-39-
ANNEX 
Page 6 of 7
On a EC$ 113 million overdraft would mount to EC$ 11 aillion, and ipe out
projected profit. under say scenario. Undor the project, it is expected that
the eele would be completed immediately after the harvesting of the 1992 crop
in September 1992, this being the most favorable tim in terms of overdraft
levels.
21.        WitahPjro1is.  The flnancial projections in Tables S (with sale
after two years) have been prepared o the followiag assumptions: (a) sugar
quota prices remain at the 1990 levels In real terms; and world market prices
decline slightly, reaching US$0.14/lb. by 1995; (b) the favorable sugar quota.
are satisfied before the local and regional markets; (c) the present levels of
operating efficiency are upgraded so that a certain level of capital
replacements vwuld be required; (d) the required number of cane cutters would
be available and provisio for inmmirsat workers is madet (e) the Board's
decision to reduce the labor force is fully implemented; (f) the 20 houses are
sold; (g) the service station is leased; (h) the level of cost savings is
achieved; (i) the Government cess and levy on the sugar industry were waived;
and (j) the financial structure under the 'new owner' involves an equity base
of EC$ 20.0 million and a medium-term loan of KC$ 18.0 aillion.
22.         The base year for the projections is 19901 the base data has been
taken from the actual results for 1988 or 1989, where available, and the
budget for 1990. It has been difficult to extract from the accounting records
the cost data necessary to project future profits and cash flows. Costs were
analyzed on the basis of sections or departments with no datails of functions
so that it is not possible, for instance, to determine the costs of harvesting
cane. To overcome this difficulty, a detailed analysis of the 1990 budget,
including working papers, was made, from which it was possible to arrive at an
astimated cost of the various operations. The estimated unit costs of the
cultivation operations, where the problms were considerable, have been
compared against the theoretical costs determined by SSMC's research
department and the non-irrigated estate In Jamaica. In both instances, they
compare favorably or the variances understandable. The cost data used in the
projections appear reasonably accurate and that, although the cost levels may
differ in detail, the totals ore in accord with the 1988 accounts, which, in
turn, are compatible with the 1990 budget. The prices for sugar and molasses
are based on the actuals for 1989 or, in the case of the Loms sugar shipments,
the actual for 1990. World prices have been assumed to settle around
US$0.14/lb. (1990 dollars) In the mid-90s and to edge downwards slightly over
the remainder of the decade.
23.        Previous studies and SSNCs Board of Directors have recognixed
that there Is a considerable potential for cost savings. With no specific
cost data, it is difficult to identify any precise savings that could be
expected from improvements in agricultural practices, factory manning levels
or administrative costs, following the engagement of the management tesam. On
the basis of an analysis of the available records, however, and the
investigations carried out by the consultants, it seems likely that savings of
ZC$ 2.0 million are possible.
24.         In addition to the identifiable cost savings, there are two
further areas which appear to be excessively costly. These are first,



-40-
AM 2
Page 7 of 7
have"ting osem by hand vher. the estimted cost to UCS 40/ton compared to
EC$ 16/ton In Jamica, and second, th  under-r.cowverie md. by the service
departmet. (machin  shop, electrical *hop, etc.), amounting to some
EC$ 3.0 million. Both areas hae the appearet potential for significant
savings, but until the true cost ha been astablished and the reson for the
under-recoveries examined, it wuld be difficult to give specific details. So
that the future potential of the company Is not understated, however, Vad to
take account of the possible savings In manttnunce costs, following the sale
of the 20 staff houses, an amount of SC$ 2.0 million has been licluded In the
projections and shown separately on the inome statemnt.
25.        The financi  structure of the new company ha been projected on
the basis of BC$ 20.0 million equity and a medium-term loan at an nnual
interest rate of 112. On the basis that the purcaser would provide an
effective, if not better, mnsgement than professional maagers, resulting in
Increased production and reduced costs, there would be a positive cash flow
after the second year, which would reach EC$ 10.4 million at the end of the
fifth year. The IRR to a new owner, assuming a residual value of
IC$ 30.0 mdllion at the end of the Year 2000, would be 18.3S
4\w;G1\ .SW



ST. KITTS AND NEVIS
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
Cane and Sugar Production Statistics (1960-1989)
e----------_---------------------- _----------.----------_T_--------------------------------------
Average       Average
Cane Tons  Tons Sugar  Cane Sugar   Tons Cane    Tons Sugar         Acres       Acres
Year      Ground     Made 960    Ratio 960       Acre          Acre         Reaped   Cultivated
1960      432,900       50,200        -          31.30         3.59         13,830         -
1961      391,900       47,800       -           31.90         3.77         12,310         -
1962      413,000       43,200       _           34.40         3.57        12,010          -
1963      350,657       39,924       8.78        29.43         3.37         11,850         -
1964      377,495       43,629       8.65        30.11         3.50         12,470         -
1965      342,171       33,920       8.79        30.28         3.41        11,250          -
1966      348,335       38,729       8.99        27.91         3.12        12,570          -
1967      327,779       39,195       8.38        26.89         3.21        12,270          -
1968      321,410       35,390       9.08        26.49         2.90         12,180    12,570                   a
1969      383,819      36,001       10.66        36.45         3.41        10,570    12,624
1970      325,679      27,163       11.99        33.55         2.80          9,700    12.487
1971      271.517       25,371      10.70        27.81         2.60         9,760    11,818
1972      243,295      26,531        9.17        23.09         2.52        10,540    10,809
1973      210,501      23,828        8.83        23.66         2.77         8.600      9,693
1974      217,219       26,101       8.32        21.21         2.91         8,974          -
1975      206,034       25,103       8.60        24.10         2.94         8,525      9,237
1976      320,801       35,551       9.02        32.70         3.54         9,800    10,754
1977      351,924       40,729       8.64        31.48         3.66        11,139    12,000
1978      361,595      38,992        9.27        32.90         3.55        20,933    12,000
1979      384,432       39,709       9.68        40.67         4.20         9,453    11,268
1980      351,542       34,748      10.12        34.18         3.33        10,444    11,790
1981      337,514       32,356      10.43        33.66         3.23        10,026    10,186
1982      349,599       35,95       9.72        35.14         3.61         9,948    10,315
1983      276,207       27,761       9.95        27.20         2.73        10,159    10,680
1984      298,314      30,954        9.64        28.30         2.99        10,359    11,717                    ER
1985      263,098       26,863       9.79        25.90         2.64        10,157    11,427
1986     260,367       28,490        9.14        26.96         2.95         9,654    11,104
1987      258,659      25,255       10.24        31.49         3.07         8,222    11,050
1988      274,300      25,500       10.60        35.00         3.31         7,700    10,000
1989 a/   252,600      24,800       10.20        28.70         2.82         8,800    10,000
a/ Estimate



ST. XITTS AND NEVIS
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
Factor, Performance  1983-1988
Mean
1983      1984        1985      1986      1987       1988    1984188
Days of Crop                         157        159       136        156       176        182        162
Tons Cane                        276,207   298,314   263,098   260,367   258,659    370,824   270,252
Tons 960 super                    27,762    30,904    26,857    28,491    25,256       25,531    27,408
TCITS 960                              9.95       9.64      9.79       9.14     10.24      10.61       9.86
Ton canelhr.                         117.4     119.5      122.6   , 124.5      118.3      112.4      119.5
Pol 2 cane                            11.54     11.89      11.66     12.29      11.08      10.98      11.58
Fibre Z cane                          20.61     20.90      21.60     19.13      15.75      18.11      19.10
Inhibition Z fibre                   141.45    163.22    178.08    199.05    198.75       106.05    129.03
Pol ErtractSon                        90.99     91.01      90.88     92.01      92.59      91.26      91.5S
Reduced Pol Extraction                95.04      95.14     95.27     95.17      94.34      94.73      94.93
Soiling louse Recovery                91.41     91.47      91.79     92.09      90.71      89.52      91.12
Overall Recovery                      83.17     83.25      83.42     84.73      83.99      81.71      83.40
Lost times I G.T.
factory reasons                      2.87      1.82       1.78      2.40       2.03       3.98       2.40
Cleaninglmaintenance                15.44     14.59      14.64     15.53      14.83      15.51      15.02
PredeterSmned                        2.63      4.08       3.00      2.62       2.28       2.24       2.84
Rain                                 1.40       1.02      0.88      -          5.18       0.49       1.51
Out of cane                         15.04     12.93      13.85     23.53      23.81      22.71      19.37
Time grindings Z G.T.                 62.61     65.57      65.83     55.92      51.87      55.08      58.85
Total crop hours                   3,759     3;806      3,260     3,739      4,217      4,374     3,879
Crop dates                             9.2.83   31.1.84   22.1.85    5.2.86    6.2.87    30.1.88    n.a.
Molasses Production (tons)         8,531     8,996      7,359     8,046      8,701      9,807      8,582
Sugar Production bagged brown      2,554     2,730      1,696     1,288      1,200      1,763
bagged washed      nla        nla     1,001      1,133     1,149         793     2,450
export bulk     26,605    27,399    23,462    25,176    22,146       22,695    24,176



-43-
ANNEX 2
ST. KITTS AND NEVIS                                                                           Table 3
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT                                                      Page  1 of 3
St. Kitts SWur Manufacturing Corporation (SWNC)
Audited Financial Statements (1962-198.)
(in thousands of EC)
............. ..........................., ,0_................   ..................
BALANCE SHEET
AS OF DECEKBER 31                     1982     1963     1984     1985     1986     197      1968     1989
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash and Dues                      8,722    5,034    7,528   2,925    2,667   2,461    2,138          4
Receivables                        1.064    1,450    1,2S9    1,372    1.449    1,953    2,239    1,6$5
Inventories
Stocks (Sigar & Molasses)         4,689    5,917    5,309      430      555      460      290      8653
Stores                            6.204   6,212   ?.440   10,833   10.603   11,402   15,247   16,914
Prepaid Expnses                        3        1        1       2?       46        7       32       1S
Total Current Assets           2066S2   18,614   21.54     15,587   15.420   16,263   19,946   19,461
Investments                              0        0        0        0        0        0        0      350
fixed Assts (Net)                   34.758  31,884  29,518  29,242   26,203  2.514   34,500  30,357
Deferrd Assets                           a        0        0   6.915   5S,02   4,53    4,029   4,?Z3
......  ........ ......  ......... ......  ......... ......   ........ .........,.. __.. ...
MOTAL ASSETS                   55,440   50.496   51.095   51,?44  47,125  48,370  58,475  S4,891
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Lfabilities
Overdraft                              0      725   2,761   54,500   56,2    1.000   8,102   18,945
Lonw-tern Loan (Current poreion)       0       .0        0      127      12      S13      512      247
Other Payabtle                     4,708   8,295    9,32    2,363    2,025    2,052    4,45    4,37
overm    t Duties Payable         15.938    9,223    7.672    7,906    8,6S2  10,313   10,504   11,657
Total Current Liabilities    20,646   18,243   20,065   66,896  67,586   13,878  23.463   35,226
Low-t   Louis                            0        0        0      624      525      7      3,935      204
......  ........ ......   ........ ......   ........ ......    ...................................  . 
TOTAL LIABILITIES              20,646   18,243   20,065   65,520  68,111   14,655   27,398   35,430
......  ........ ......   ......... ......  ......... ......  ......... ............ ..... ............
EQUITY
Goverrment Contributions           4,560    4,560    4,560    4,560   4,560   ?11,27   70,801   70,804
Reserves                          35,502  35,599   35,726  45,657   45,766  37.628  39.221   39,294
Retained Earningos (Losses)       (5,270) (7,904)  (9,256) (639M3) (71.312) (75,040) (78,946) (90,637)
......   ........ ......   ......     .     .. ......  ......... ...... .............._... ......... .........
TOTAL EQUITY                   34,79    32,255   31,030  (13.7?6) (20,986) 33,715   31,077  19,461
......   ........ ......  ......... ......  ......... ......   ......... ............ ..... ....... 
TOTAL LUBILITIES AND EQUITY      55,438  S0,498  51,09S   51,744  47,125   48,370   58.475   54.891
Sourusm           msCauu    ANNU                -       -       -
Source: SSNC



-44-
AUX 2
Table 3
Page 2 of 3,
8T. KITU8 AID lEVIS
St. Kitts 8ug: amut ctu4*ng Crspo:atl   (5S0)
Audited 1iaacocl Statements (1982-1989)
(In thousas a W)
... ... ____....._,____............_........_........._.____.__......................
INC01 8TAIUIM
1OR SBE M EM K tIED DECMB 31                  1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
Acres                                        9,948  10,159  10,359  10,157   9,454   8,222   7,862   7,231
Tons Cans                                  349,599 276,207 298,314 263,098 260,367 258,659 274,315 252,29
Tons 8uga                                   35,954  27,761  30,954  26,843  28,490  25,255  24,751  24,780
RODEUC I UOACITI   (tons)
U.K.                                               n.a.       14,*410  18,957  13,975  15,455  16,312  14,873
U.S.                                               n.e.       12,962   4,587  11,185   4,470   5,365   4,830
locauJemaonul                                      n.e.       2,795   2,595   2,415   2,700   1,75   3,077
Nolass4e                                              8,591   8,99    7,359   8,046   8,721   9,859   8,344
SAME                                        34.762  27,735  31,548  25,858  34808  364,241  35,921  32,8462
COST OF SAM1
productlam Coat                          26,027  22,F 14  23,70. 21,100  25,505   27,078  29,143  30,918
DOpnsciatioa & Artisationa                3,195    3  7   3,119   5,17    39,039    2,998   3,325   3,498
29,222  25,201  26,821  26,276  28,544  30,076  32,448  34,416
GROSS PROFIS                                 5,540   2,534   4,72       (418)  6,264   6,185   3*453  (1,554)
Estheting a                                  5aisttos  5,750   4,002   5,094   6,971   7,862    6,512   7,307   6,375
1P01? 1m Oga3TJI.CE                           (210) (1,448)   (367) (7,389) (1,598)   (327) (3,854) (7,929)
-----At Doti"                                2,012   1,24    1,582    1,774    1,891   2,001   2,062   2,500
_.......... ......... ........ _   ...... ...... ..........  ...... .........  ------  ......
PROM11 B1ORB3 I1TDR                         (2,222) (2,734) (1,949) (9,14) 0 ,489)  (2,328)  (5,916) (10,429)
Other ERpansos
Lose on Tood Cet" hoduatLo.                   0        0       0      115       16      a3        0        0
Dlutull*,                                     0        0       0        0        0      217     767      345
latenat                                       44      59     108   3,846    3,952      882    50   1,620
Otbht                                         0        0       0        0       27     635        0        0
._..........  . ... . - ...... ------   -.... . ._ -..... .. -----   ----   --... ___ -- ..... ----. -.......
64      59      108   3v,91    3,995    1,817    1,327   1,945
Otber lac4me                                   248      308     374      521   1,319      180   3,974      955
...  .....    ...    ... .           .    ...
11011 WORS 3I      I TAX                    (2*038)  (2,485)  (1,483) (12,603)  (4,145)  (3,965)  (3,269) (11,439)
ltsVtsionf at l.sTa                            116       61     298        0        0       0        0       0
....   ... .C.....        C...O.        ......        ......
NIT 5011?t (LOSS)                           (2,154) (2,54)  (1,981) (12,603)  (4,145)  (3,965) (3*269) (11,439)
Pior lean' AdJnstnsa                            23        0    (74)  (1,744)  1045    (243)          0       0
Ezxtzaovdiuq Items                               0        0       0        0        0       0   2,858        0
.......  .......... ......  .......... ...........   ..... . ........  ...... *w ......... ...
IIT nail (30)                               (2,177)  (2,44) (1,157) (10,839)  (7,210)  (3,722)   (411) (11,439)
.... ........ ......    _                                                         .-.  
83we,  -SSC



ANIEX 2
-45-                                        Table 3
PT*803 of 3,
T. KITS AM N$S
AzULWTAL SIVLMIST  UPPT POWECT
It. its i  ar U.wftusing Cpotion 
KW  p1riisia  JndicatM (198-196
(In _hmud of ECS)
Ir  n. ,,.t,, *- ---  - - -
aw     bt Deft          19io2    193    1964    19       19J    197    1968    19'9
34,     n,rss  31n,5u   a.6    34.68  361,1  35.921  32.82
Depresatlon          ,3195   S,18     3,119   5,178       9   2.998   3.,    3.49
taet                      4      59      10J   3.866   3,952     an       so    1'0
Net mm                (2,17) (2,546) (1.57) (10.59   (7210) a,2)   (411) (11?44)
W"i86t Asselts        a0.66   1s1   2157r  1,7  15.420  16,33  19,941  19461
find Asets            34.456  31,6S   29,518  29,242  26.2   27514  34,500  30.357
Tout Asts             55,440  50,498  51,0f   51.744  47,135  U43    58.411  540891
Shot TOM Oft          20,646  18.43  2,005  44,86  67.35f   1387   n3,448  35,221
LoneTOM  tit              0        0       0     424     525      m     3.93      204
Toaut Of              20,446  18,243  20,065  65,20  66,111  14.655   ,s3s8  35,430
Not orth              34,M92  32,25   31,60  (13,7) (20,96) 33,715  31.,0    19,461
* T101
liqdditys
wvrent Ratio             1.0     1.0     1.1     0.2     0.2      1.2     0.8     0.6
0*5 to TotalAsts        0.4      0.4     0.4     1.3      1.4     03      0-5     0.6
Dab to llot llorth      0.59    0.57    0.45    4.76   *3.25    0.4    0.88    1.8i2
FixedAst Tunve          10    0.87    1.07    0.88OA 1.3         1.3    1.64    1.08
Tobta   sets unor    0.4        0.55    0.62    0.50    0.74    0.75    0.61    0.60
Prf t  arin on Sales  -0.56   -0.09   -0.0    -0.42   -0.21   -0.10   -0.01    -0.3
Return on Total Aset    0.04  O.0.S    .0.02   -0.21   *0.15   -0.08   .0.01   .0.21
Reun  on Iet llorth    *0.04   -0.06   -0.04    0.79    0.3   -0.11   -0.01    -0.59
......................... ....................................................... ..............
curret  atio * C    t Assets/Currnt L*iabilties
Debt to Total As"s       0 Total Debt4Total Assets
L.t. e t to No i"ty *    0WTe   0DbN    4orth
flxid Asset TuWrnover     s.d Assets .          L
Totl Asts Turnover * Sa0ts/Tot  Asets 
Profit Margln on Sales; * It 00on./Salem
Return on Total Assets a Net l0nus/Total Assets
Return on et oorth a     r et mo rnNt Iortt



4AIEX 2
ST. KiTS     NImI                                                                            Table 4
AOCtLRAL ORILOPINI SUPPR  PROJECT                                                            PA-$ e   of 3
St. xKttt Swe   U"a.tlag Co rtles  SU)
Projoed PIwlel Statements (10-111100) (without Pvoj.et)
INVAIAN   INK!                        Act.   et*    Oudst. 4-           Po    d
AS  oP DIIII 31                        1s"    1"00      ob      11    1002    100*    1004    an
hued Asest Segialag of  teen   all4                     36278   07S2   87622   36272   357    852
AdM  Additisas (Project)                                  o               o       o         
- Ris.mswts                      01   1m           4        000   000    4000    WO0    O000
Low- Oepct ti.                      .42   -am         46      -4100  -43      -400  -4100   -1100
4408 3           32   32  M3   8U72  72  30472
- -
Iaetsas30   UO                                                   160      360     360     310     860
cultivatio   tfrred Crop Ct          40J0  4100        400   420    4U110    40        410    4UO
iavetories - $luer A Molas_e          200   100         no    200       20      20      20      200
G- eserl  ereo          120  15000        1400   1400   100    000          000   1300o
-Proict *                                    0       0       a        0       0       a
Receivables a Prepsymete              102   1000       1000   100    1000    1000    10        1
C b& A look  pesIts                  2024      0         0.      0        0       0       a       0
2807   21200  00    0   1400   10010   16500   1851    1051
Currtn  Labiliti.t.-
Psyablee & Provwlsm                  434    O6M0       3600   4000   4000    4         4000    4
GOvt. Duties &Loie                   1060       0         0      .0       0       0       0       0
I4*    3W00        0    4000  4000   4000    400   40
Not Current Asses                       K    17W0       1640  140    800   14100   1460   140
TOTAL ASST                            41   53U          5m2   6302   5          512   50432        82
EfTY
vernment Coatrlt0on                    l0806          01o0n   8106   61806 0136        13011  6
Res*rves                             3       02213 S  3 8. 381    386         386     315ts   $6s
Retnd Klaeraga  (Losses)           -7004  46010   -0ST54- -11       -320  -146004 -1676  -1418
$1070  394       16g160    1       -13M    -25031  -4254  -41402
Lon Tom                              444t   480           0       0       a       0       0       0
*Ordraft                             0102  lo3         1    0 0    68005   7660    0824  124
TOTAL PINANCE                         4319  5432         8       8402  SM          22   60432 1532



ANNEIC 2
ST. KIM  An lS                                   -47- NdIlVI4
AORZCULIURAL DIVOPNT WJPPT PagCT                                                         jae 2 of 3
St. Kltta Sar Uaonutsoring Coration (SC)
Prej.ot.d FIsanulal Statemmt (1 9 )  (t t Poot)
(tn thoan   of   )
cmI STATIN                           Act.   lt.    sudt.             roj    -
nr e m R V man omR 81            196 1169s    1S         1991    12    19    14   1N
Aos                                    7.7   6.8       6.4    7.9    .11   6.12   6.12   3.11
Tons Came                            24.3 232.       172.2  221.2  243.   243.6  24.6  243.4
Tos 16 Pol Suap                       23.5  24.6    1U.2   21.5   24.4   24.4   34.4   24.4
PRitUCTTS ALLOCATI   ($OCO t*a)
U.K.                                  1.68  14.9      15.4   16.0   16.0   16.0   16.0   16.0
U.S.                                   6.0   6.6       0.0    6.6    6.4    0.4    6.4    6.4
World.                                 0.0   0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Lo.sit/Rgial                           2.1   3.1       0.6    0.0    0.0    0.0               0.0
Molasse                                9.8   0.0       6.1    7-.    6.1    6.1    6.1    6.1
SALES
Suver                               642  150    22061  290   S3?$   1473  3473  8475
Mol_sse                             13       0       749    697    96        M7    967?      W
Other                                  0     0       of    of    973    97M    97           97
TOTAL SLS                            376       10    289   31476  8U4          47  8U3        47
COST OF SALES
Cultlvation                        16779     0      16634  1977M  2061   206    2063   20631
Factry                             11736     0         0  9416   M663    6        94    9OM
oproeIstleo/Amftizatble             3328     0      8612   4100   460   4600   6100   3100
s8386     0    3224   8am    3434  847z1  36s  ss166
GROSS PROFIT                          au   $s160    -3 *l99 11 1n             7       231    25
Marketing A Admin.                    064   -         6769   6163   634    64    64    64
PROFIT FM  OPERATI                   -2      0      -1419  40-   -441   -1    409    -09
Goveruasat Du"tIs                     1710     0      129   13        12 6 12161    1612   1612
Intera* - Lam                                                    0      0       0       0       0
- O.rdrft                                   2*91    460    397    ?276   66  10744
NT Pa  IT M(LOS)                     -447   3130   -I79  -14314 -1312  -14706 -t6   -1660
EzxtaordlGary Item                                       4
NET PROFT (LOSS)                     -4437 31-6    -8   -14314 -12    -14706  -106   -1S6
_ I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



.
-48-                         ~~~~~~~AN=4  2
ST. K2TT1  u 3 Nev i48-                                                                     Table 4
AIcItLFrAL ow ~    SUPPORT PROJeCT                                                       '  Pag33of3
St. Kitts Swq. Uau.tourclo C.rp.rtolo. (SU1C)
proJes. plamwi.g  temat  C100-109?  (Wlthst Prejeot)
(in themaofs e G)
CAS P    STAIUT                      Aet.  bt.         do.  c     -  P 
FOR =  MM IS      M SOICII IID  3St    163   1960     INC   U1   1003  s1n    16"    16
Csh Guolo"0-
Projec Cost -     led Ais                                                             0       0
- lavatocle                                        0       0       0      0       0
-sAgemT  _  Coatcst                        0       0       0       0      O       0
0      0        0       0 @            0       0       0
R.pI.sms  ot Fix" Asst              61   a00         4000   6000   SW00    4000    000   6000
Imoresse Is Curr't Asse_ts-
clatlvatlw  OsWared crop Cot               T0       I"0       0     20       0      10       0
ovaitvr.l.                        8931   In           0       0      0       0       0       a
Retlv.blnes                                           0       0       0      0       0       0
Rsedg4ebl.InPayablem                       4          0       0       0      0       0       0
30         1411  1S0       0 a    20       0     0  0o
Operting Los.                                       11"4  3gm        11   10                 on
Paymat o    v. Cow   Levy           1no  2no0        no    no    12   12    an62    12
TOTAL CASH OULOW                     14172   04       ISM    274   56    6680    61           60
COsh   lomt-
Derwse In Current Asset.-
Culttivatlon 0efrrd         Castt   4                 0       0      0      10       0       0
Inventories                                        1400    600    no0   600          0       0
Ro.svblee                           141 10            0       0      0       0       0
Reduction Is Payable        O                                 O         
3260   1102     140    1000    6'0    51           0       0
Oprting Gal"                        ON05410            a0       0      0       0       0       0
TOTAL CASH NLOW                       NO   421   S 400   10O    go00    no               0       0
CAN INCRLSE (DECREAS)                -6   -502     -156   -54    428   430   -7M 
Othe Csh Outflowes-
IS-hrst  P ay s - Low                                   0       0      0       0       0       0
- Ov derdra       -026 -1645       253    460  S7    75                   10744
Loss ReD/D           r s)           34  4O            460       0      0       0       0       0
TOrAL CASH (CD E (DCRAS)             -5486 -10363   -1454 -14214 -11306  -13656  -17   -130



-49-                                   AN4NEX I
ST. CM  AND MM8                                                                            Table 5
AGRZLIURAL DVELOME  SUPPORT PROEC                                                          Page 1 of 3
St. Kitta Suar Manutasturifg Cerorotion (SNC)
Projected Flnanelal Statement (l900-1O)    (With Project)
(in thuaand  of E6)
AlANC SHEET                          Sudt.            Jlr                        NM Oner
AS OF DECEM    Al                      1000     11    0m        1m    1is"    14    low    1"0
ASSETS
Pixed Assetset Sgining of Year         86m    84U      $146      O9      40    75        67    4#0
Add - Addition  G'roject)              as       II      a            0OM       480     4600   8156
- Repmocemente                   146   19                 29      15      29      16      19
Les - Dprzeatlon                     -C551   -400    4W       -215M   4426   -62    408M   -7286
846   81480   866         460  76TM       627    4626    16
avestmnts                               so    8s6 
Curent Asetst-
Cultivatlon Osered Cop Cost           428     75   7135        0M      626   87        60M 
Inventris - Sugr a Mola              2SW      2of    20         2       2W      2       2       o
- Genrel Stores          14      14_    14W *        W6    2W00    66    5m        a
- Project
Reosivables & Propsyments             l9w    15       2 . *    5gm       as     sW      gm      s
Cah A Book n   eIts                     6       6                 0       0       9       0       6
106   2283    22         146    14226  146    16         14666
Currnt Lablit I ets:-
Payables A Prvisions                  29    25910      W       8OM6   4        4       4       496
Oovt. Dutie & Lovls                         0       0O                0  6            0       0 
Not Current Asosts                     1749   10686  108        2       1M2    1m    U1"   1
TOTAL ASSES                           52226   51674    6674    15596  179    16840  1_6  12U
Cash In e                                                                             I S 2M  to w
Res1e                              11992$ 11s002   11001
Retind Eaenins  L s)                 819 -          -1942             -06  -1248  -126        -04t7
Crret Yars Protlt (Los)            -161     -son   -2125      -56      260     -l86    6W   4726
1M74   178   13476       214   7M                16622  15St B
Low
Lon Tm                               15    64          "4         0   6_ 10       1NM      1W09I
Ovedrat (Deposit)                   824     $8l7  25192        g6    866       426   -6       -1KW
TOTAL FIACE                           5228     574   GW4        15M    176     1646   1666  12856
_ U



ANNEX 2
ST. K         ..m A NM                                                                      - le 2
PLHU ase HUV4               -50-                                ~~~~~~~~Table 5
AGRICULNURAL DEOFI.PMN  SW"'*T PROJECT                                                               f 3
St. Kitte SuPe I bnt r1Pelaage 2onwof  (S3
Projete  Finrnciel Statements (199.9I)    (With Project)
(in thoAns of Ea)
IME  STATEMEN                         Sudt.            Jly                   O- Nw Oe
FMR  HE MYER BEOaECEMBER 8a            i990     10o1   12        1m      108    1604    1003    106
A.c,.                                    6.4     T.0    6.8                0.      5.8    6.0    9.5
Tons Cum                               172.2   11.2   149.0              016.0  206   216.6   Us8.6
Tons 96 Pol Sgar                       10.2   12,1   24.2                26.6    27.1    80.1   31.9
PRODUCTION AU.OCATION ('0W tons)
U.K.                                    15.4   10.0    10.6               10.9   16.0   10.0   16.0
U.S.                                     9.0     5.6     6.2              10.0    11.1    8.0    18.
World                                    0.9    0.9      6.9               0.0     J.O     0.0     2.4
Local/Rogionl                            0.8             0.0               6.0     6.0     0.9    0.9
Molasses                                 0.1     7.4     0.8               8.9    0.0      9.5   19.1
$ALES
Suar                                 220S1   294    821?               8J0426  8S715    46342  42481
Mol_se"                                749 0   07    100                1907    1070 I   11 5.  1227
Other                                  5       0s a6  907                075         m  075      907
TOTAL SALES                            2806   814S7    s11               #146"  81120   48904  44088
COST OPF MS
Cultiavtlo1n I"84 1"751   10282                                S166    19611  1i1S2   1685w  1am51
Factory                               S6    8242    5622        4654   011 9     119 6U9*         6617
Ooue.iattlon/Am.rtlzsties             8561   4005    10M        1690   6420    019   0GM        7280
8S"45  21698  21536        0194   85851   $8882  84455  8S540
I1OSS PROFIT                           -665     4468    0856    -6014    8126    5874    6109   9284
hrkottng A Admin.                       0444   0820   5706       tUN    081    0410   6617   0741
PROFMT FROM OPERATIONS                                          -16944  -8258   -194      10W    2541
Add - Potential Cost SsvIaes           166    5as    56 e        566    10W   212       21W   211
PROI PRO1 OPATIONS                    -16194   -6W      85W      -64    -15       15      41      40
aoornut D 1utIs                         12      1566    1790                 6       9       6       6
Ineres - Lee                                     100    12           9      6      as    10       12
- Overdrat (Depoelt)           817    1468       74        42     7       #4    4W    -187
NEt PROT (LOS)                        -190   -01   -11            40       860 2  ?-1     815    4716
Eatraordinary' Items                    $SW    "
NET PROT (LOUS)                       -10180   -71   -2212          M    -20    -lO       U?   472



-S1-                                    ANNEX 2
ACRICUnRAL PVELOPE  SUPPORT PMOJECT                                                         TableS
St. Kitts Sugar Manufeturing Corporation (UIC)                                              Page 3 of 3
Projected Financial Stateents (1099-19)    (With Project)
(in thousands of ECS)
CASH FLOW STATEMT                    Budgt.           Jly                 c- ae         m Owner -
FOR THE PERItO ENVSHO DOECER  1    159    12         1992      Ui9    598    a"84   legs   19o
Cash Outflows:-
Purchsoet of $SC Assets                                       GM
Project Cost - Fi    Asstet            6       e1       a        0 CO_   488     4SO  *U
- Inventories                                        S
- mln_emt Contra"t    on    I20    588    O              O       O          a
18U    1491    an        OM_O            40   4600    iM
Repleet of Fixed Asset               lOw     26               1m              lOw  Om         SW
lcr"ose In Current Asset:-
Cultivatlon Odefrr  Crop Coot       LU    26       n5       OM         a     gm      2         0
Invntonries                        O               O       °
Reealon en P9 o9 O                            O8 O             O       e                       9
ISO   ans   e8ns       1461              an     ma
Operating Loe                          "   -68         *      79"4       * 
Payment of aev. Cee a Ley             *6"   1m   *            1.            O
TOTAL CASH WOTFLO                      4014    a71    Ms  _0148           M6   I5   577    41J
CaS tnflowss-
Dcreaes In Curren Assetes-
Ctultlon ODeerred Cromp Cos           9       O       9        9    28         9       9    L
Inventerles                        148                      086  *        O              
Receiveblee                           9       9       9                                  
nere ln Payablee                      9       I6      9      Ow      6O        0   O  4
1486    586    586       _686    769        *      *    1se
Operating Gains                              84      8           O   4667        7   115   172
TOTAL CASH INFLOWS                     1486   OM63   8068        "a 6    "86 4?   7667  l1en   15
CASH ICREE (DECREASE)                -1"14   812  -16        -11548  -4658   g617   52   75
other Cas   I1nfw  (otf lews):-
Inje.teoneof Equity                                          2_
Intret PaYMet. -Lea                          -in    -M           0   -8       41     -12     -117
Overdat           -8127  -34669  -2W          .42   -7      -24      840   Us7
LOa P)j1buemest                       g7    $64       649    -4    68    86   am              24
TOTAL CASH INCES  (DECREASE)         -169    16  -272    -5             140    4219   7?  194



-52-
ST. FITTS AND NEVIS
AGRICULTR  RKHABkLU=TI  AND DBV EIOPHEFT POJa
Selected Documents and Data Available In the Proect File
A. RSnorts Relattng to the Pro1ect
A-1.   UMDPIPAOICDB.  St. Kitts and Nevis Agricultural Diversification
Study, January 1988 (3 Volume.)
A-2.     FA0ICP. Agricultural Rehabilitation and Diversification Sector
Loan, Initiating Brief, October 18, 1988
A-3.     System. Caribbean Liitod.  Rationalization of the St. Kltte and
Nevis Sugar Industry and the Retablishment of a lumen Resource
Training and Development Programs, January 1989
A-4.     FAG/C?. Agricultural Rebbilitation and Diversification Sector
Loan, Preparation Report, Match 31, 1989
A-S.    Resource Industries Ltd. (UNDP-fnuanced,  ank-eecuted Sugr
Industry Study). St. Kitte Sugar Manufacturing Company Toward a
corporate Strategy for the 1990'o, January 1990
B. Vkftg Documet
B-1.    Public Sector Investment Program for St. Kitts and Nevis
(1989-1991)
B-2.    Land Use, Land Tenure and Land Adainistration Component



.
MAP SECTION
a
. t



IBRD 22368
T\iSh .z c. . o{w    F X i  5  0' ^ ~~~Tfiso            GRA                      v;
i;   <   <  W  ^  STiZ X |~~~~~~~JLL
:X a\Kg2~~~~OA



.01



