Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16272
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT
(Credit 1967-MAG)
February 6, 1997
Country Departnent 8
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CtJRRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency unit = Malagasv fanc (FMG)
(Average In FMG( per US dollar)
1988       1989        1990        1991        1992        1993       1994        1995        i996
1450       1532        1446        1833        1910        1963       3871        4265       4090*
Note: The FMG began to float on May 1, 1994.
* As of June 30, 1996.
WEIGHTS AND MEASlJRES
Metric system
BORROWER'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 Decernmer 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB             African Development Bank
BDE            Government Database
BNCPP          National Bureau for Coordination of the EMSAP project
CRESAN          Health Sector improvement Project
DGGP           Government Office in Charge of Privatization
DGP             Planning Department
EMSAP           Economic Management and Sociai Action Project
EPM             Permanent Household Survey
FISA            Fianakaviana Sambatra (Family Planning NGO)
HIMO            High Labor Intensity
ILO             International Labour Organization
INSTAT         National Institute of Statistics
MPARA          Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
NGO            Nongovernmental organization
PAIGEP         Public Management Institutional Support Project
PEP            Public Expenditure Program
PFP            Policy Framework Paper
PIP             Public Investment Programin
PRP            Redeployment Program (Programime de Reinsertion Professionnelle)
PSAC           Public Sector Adjustment Credit
SECALINE       Food Security and Nutrition Project
SME            Small and medium-sized enterprises
TAF             Technical Assistance Fund
UNDP            United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF          Ulnited Nations Children's Fund
WFP             World Food Programme
WHO             World Health Organization
Vice President           Mr. Callisto Madavo
Director                 Mr. Michael Sarris
Manager                  Mr. Ok Panneniborg
Staff Member             Mr. Christian Rey, Task Manager



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Introduction ....................................i
Project Evaluation Summary ....................................                                   ii
1. EVALUATION OF PROJECT EXECUTION .....................................1
A. Background ........................................I
Country  Background ................................................................................................................................ .................I
The Economic Management and Social Action Project ............................................................................................3
B. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives                               .4
C. Achievement of Objectives                                    .5
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project                              .9
E. Project Sustainability ...................9
F. Bank Performance .................................. ... I I
G. Borrower Performance                   ..12
H. Assessment of Outcome                  ..12
. Future Operation .13
J. Key Lessons Learned .13
2. STATISTICAL DATA .14
TABLE 1: SUMMARY ASSESSMENTS .14
TABLE 2: OTHER BANK LOANS/CREDITS .16
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE                                       .17
TABLE 4: DISBURSEMENTS: PLANNED AND ACTUAL .17
TABLE 5: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS .18
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR FUTURE OPERATION .18
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT .19
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS .21
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING .22
TABLE 9: COSTS AND ECONOMIC BENEFITS .23
TABLE 10: COMPLIANCE WITH LEGAL COVENANTS .24
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL DIRECTIVES .26
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES - STAFF .26
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES - MISSIONS .27
APPENDICES
A. Mission Aide-Memoire
B. Borrower's Project Evaluation
C. Map of Madagascar
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT
(Credit 1967-MAG)
INTRODUCTION
1.    This document is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Economic
Management and Social Action Project, for which Credit 1967-MAG, in the amount of
US$22 million, was approved on December 6, 1988. The credit became effective on
March 15, 1989.
2.    The credit was closed on June 30, 1996, after the initially established closing date
of June 30, 1994 had been extended twice. The last disbursement of the credit took place
on December 5, 1996, and the undisbursed amount (US$0.33 million, or 1.36 % of the
credit) was canceled on December 15, 1996. The Swiss Development Cooperation
Agency contributed US$4.75 million and the United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP) contributed US$1.00 million to project financing. Other cofinancing agencies
were expected to contribute US$1.80 million (the United Nations Children's Fund
[UNICEF]: US$0.3 million; the World Health Organization [WI-HO]: US$0.1 million;
France: US$0.7 million; Italy: US$0.5 million; Japan: US$0.2 million). Final figures on
the actual amount of other cofinancing are not available.
3.    This report was prepared by Mr. Magaye Gaye (Consultant). Christian Rey, the
Task Manager (AFMMG), contributed to it, and comments were received from Elaine
Hubert (AFTC2) (most recent Country Officer for Madagascar). Preparation of the report
began at the time of the last Bank supervision mission (March 11-16, 1996). Another
mission visited Madagascar (October 1-18, 1996) to gather data and collect information
for this report, which is based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Development Credit
Agreement, supervision reports, the public expenditure review report dated November 10,
1995, the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (June 20, 1994), correspondence between
the Bank and the Borrower, and other documents concerning the project. The Borrower
participated in the preparation of the ICR, commented on the draft and prepared its own
project evaluation, which the Bank received on November 11, 1996 (Appendix B).






PROJECT EVALUATION SUMMARY
Country Background
1.    Since independence in 1960, Madagascar's economic record is one of modest
growth to 1970 followed by stagnation from 1970 to 1980. The disappointing growth
performance of the 1970s stemmed largely from inappropriate economic policies
emphasizing a much increased public sector role.  Between 1978 and 1980, the
Government embarked on an "all-out" public investment policy which included large and
economically non-viable projects and resulted in a large debt accumulation. These
policies, combined with deteriorating terms of trade, led to an 11 % decline in GDP from
1980 to 1982. During the 1983-1985 period, the Government carried out a generally
successful stabilization program with IMF support which succeeded in halting the
economic decline, and GDP grew by 1.4 % p.a. on average between 1983 and 1987.
2.   In 1985, when the fiscal deficit and the inflation rate had  been reduced to
manageable levels, the Government turned its attention to structural adjustment efforts
with the support of the Bank and other donors. The main thrust of the adjustment
program was to correct the large currency overvaluation, reduce price controls, streamline
and reform the inefficient parastatal sector and state-owned banking system, liberalize
domestic and external trade and trim sharply Government interference in private
economic activity. The Bank provided assistance to the program through four IDA
adjustment credits: (i) the Industrial Assistance Credit (1985-US$ 60 million), which
supported some initial price liberalization; (ii) the Agriculture Sector Adjustment Credit
(1986-US$ 100 million including cofinancing), which mainly supported liberalization of
rice marketing; (iii) the Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment Credit (1987-US$ 100
million including cofinancing), which mainly supported reform in the tariff and exchange
regime; and (iv) the Public Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC, 1988-US$ 180 million
including cofinancing), whose objectives were to improve budget procedures and the
preparation of public investments, reform the civil service, improve the effectiveness of
the public enterprise sector, and liberalize and reform the public banking sector. The
Economic Management and Social Action Project (EMSAP) was designed to accompany
and support the PSAC.
3.   In mid-1991, political turmoil swept the country, accelerating the pace of
transition towards a more open society, but disrupting economic activity and, together
with a policy backtrack in 1990, derailing the adjustment process. A transitional power-
sharing arrangement was negotiated and a new coalition government was put in place in
January 1992. Presidential elections took place in February 1993, legislative elections
were held in June and in August the National Assembly chose its leadership and the
prime minister, who announced most of his cabinet at the end of August 1993. The
political transition was peaceful, but political factionalism and ambiguous commitment to
economic reform adversely affected the economy and the adjustment process. In 1990-



93, GDP fell 4 % a year on average. Tax revenues were low and combined with lax
management of expenditure, led to a budget deficit of 11 % of GDP. Foreign investment
collapsed, and external arrears continued to grow.
4.    Against this background, the PSAC, which was signed on July 18, 1988, never
got back on track, and the credit was closed on September 30, 1993. The results of the
project were considered unsatisfactory, their sustainability was regarded as uncertain and
institutional development was viewed as negligible (ICR dated March 14, 1995).
5.    More recently, economic management has haltingly improved. Stabilization
measures contributed to growth in real GDP of 2 % and a drop in the budget deficit to 9
% of GDP in 1995. In parallel, the consensus for reform has gradually increased and the
government has made progress on the adjustment agenda. A Policy Framework Paper
(PFP) for 1996-99 was signed in September 1996, the IMF approved an ESAF in October
1996 and the Bank expects to be able to finalize a SAC in FY97.
The Project
6.    EMSAP was a multisector technical assistance project addressing needs related to:
health, population, agriculture, nutrition, employment, infrastructure, nongovernmental
organizations and economic/financial management. Such a project was considered
crucial as an accompaniment to the PSAC, both to address the social dimensions of
development, as well as to provide support for policy and institutional reform.
7.    The objectives of the EMSAP were to: (a) initiate a program of emergency
actions to reach the poorest and most vulnerable groups; (b) improve the government's
capacity to monitor economic and social conditions and design the social programs and
policies needed to respond to them; and (c) facilitate implementation of the structural
adjustment program by strengthening key institutions responsible for economic
management.
8.    The project comprised the following three major components: Part A - Priority
Social Action Program: malaria control; family planning; food security; studies on
development of irrigation and smallholder livestock; survey on targeted food distribution;
targeted job creation; coordination of nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) engaged in
development activities; redeployment program (PRP); Part B - Actions Related to the
Social Dimensions of Adjustment: creation and operation of a studies unit; permanent
household survey (EPM); Part C - Economic Management: budget reform; reform of
the Government Office in Charge of Privatization (DGGP); establishment of a study fund
for the preparation, analysis and supervision of programs and projects designed to
improve the economic and social database, implement economic adjustment policy, develop
social policies and ensure economic growth. The content of these components is discussed
in more detail in paragraph 1.10.



iv
9.    The Staff Appraisal Report did not define performance indicators for monitoring
implementation or achievement of objectives.
10.   The project financing plan called for the African Development Bank (ADB) to
cover part of the costs of the economic management component, up to US$4 million
(Section 2, Table 8b). This financing was subsequently canceled, but sufficient financing
was available under the IDA credit to cover all required expenditures.
Achievement of Objectives
11.   To assess the achievement of objectives, the project should be considered over
two distinct periods: the time from effectiveness (March 1989) to October 1992 (when
the project was reorganized), and the subsequent period until closing. During the first
period, the rate of disbursements on the credit was low (20% of total funds disbursed) and
little was achieved, owing to the following factors: (a) the confusion created, for both
project and Bank staff, by the many expenditure categories; (b) the sluggish pace of
procurement; and (c) the lack of a central agency for coordinating project activities. As a
result of this last factor, nobody took the initiative or responsibility for setting up an
accounting system, carrying out the initial audits, or forwarding to the Bank the annual
status reports and work plans. The 1991 political turmoil blocked the economy during 12
months, further impeding project implementation.  The second period started in
November 1992, after the project was reorganized to improve implementation. The
number of expenditure categories was cut from 42 to 28, and a National Project
Coordination Bureau (BNCPP) was established for EMSAP with a national coordinator at
its head. Meanwhile, efforts were made to improve procurement procedures for all Bank-
financed projects in Madagascar. Project supervision, which had been coordinated by the
AF3CO Division up to that point, was entrusted to AF3PH. This division stepped up the
pace of supervision. The rate of disbursement jumped from 20 % to 99 % as of
December 5, 1996 (date of last disbursement), and the main achievements of the project
were obtained during this second project period.
12.   Despite the difficulties encountered at the beginning, an important number of the
project's objectives were achieved. Based on their targets, some activities could be
considered as highly successful. These included primarily the emergency malaria control
program, family planning, the cereal banks (under the food security component), labor-
intensive road work, coordination of NGOs, the permanent household survey, budget
reforn, and the study fund. The programs relating to rural saver groups and food for pre-
school age children (under the food security component) both showed slow
implementation under EMSAP, but were subsequently taken up by other Bank-financed
projects. The PRP and DGGP components were problematic, due in part to the uncertain
political and economic climate, but their objectives are now being pursued in other
contexts. The poultry farming and marketing of subsidized food through canteens were
both unsuccessful. Certain activities scheduled under the project proved not to have a
committed constituency or were impossible to implement under the country
circumstances and were never carried out. These included the promotion of new



v
cropping opportunities and new nutritional foods in the food security component, and
most of the studies component (Part A4). A detailed analysis of the results obtained, by
component, is presented in paragraphs 1. 16 to 1.32.
Sustainability and Future Operation
13.   The results achieved during project execution will be sustained under certain
projects currently under way and by ensuring maintenance for -- and improvements on --
what has been accomplished. EMSAP provided a basis for starting up a number of
sectoral projects in the fields of health, rural finance and food security, and activities
scheduled to take place as part of the original project are being carried out under these
new projects. At the end of December 1993, the malaria control component was
transferred to the new and more specialized CRESAN (Health Sector Improvement
project). As a result, it has been possible to train people in the timely use of medication
and to make them aware of the need to take responsibility for buying medicine. The
nutritional interventions for pre-school age children under the food security component
were incorporated into SECALINE (Food Security and Nutrition project, 1993). Work
with rural saver groups is being carried out under the Rural Finance project (1993). The
quality of the rehabilitation of rural roads under EMSAP was good. About 900 km were
rehabilitated in 10 sub-prefectures located in the Toliary and Fianarantsoa Regions.
However, maintenance of these roads is a critical problem that needs to be solved in the
short term to prevent rapid deterioration, especially of those country roads that will
eventually become national routes. Under the Malagasy road charter, local governments
and others, including villages, NGOs and crop companies, are responsible for maintaining
rural roadways. Four villages have joined forces to introduce tolls applicable to plows
and vehicles. One of these villages has been collecting tolls on vehicles since January
1996. This initiative should be encouraged, and villages should be made aware of the
need to maintain roadways. In view of the limited resources of local governments, other
supplementary funds from the central government are needed in the forn of budget
allocations. A National Fund is to be set up for road maintenance with resources coming
from taxes on petroleum products.
14.   Although the PRP and DGGP components of EMSAP suffered problems, due in
part to the uncertain political and economic climate, the gradual development of a
consensus around the need to undertake reform has revived commitment to privatization.
With the completion of EMSAP, a decision was made by the Governrment to keep the
PRP Implementation Unit in existence and to continue its activities using Government
funds, in order to support the new program of privatization in preparation. To ensure a
successful and effective economic development program, starting in 1997 the
Government will launch a program for the gradual privatization, over a five-year period,
of public enterprises, based on the schedule established in the PFP. Following the overall
household survey (EPM), a series of specific surveys is planned, such as one already done
on the poverty profile. These surveys will be conducted under the Public Management
Institutional Support project (PAIGEP), for which Credit 291 1-MAG was signed in
September and became effective in December 1996. The results achieved under the



vi
budget reform component of EMSAP are being maintained with the preparation of the
public investment and public expenditure programs (PIPs/PEPs) for 1997-99 and the
work on the 1997 budget, which was completed in January 1997. Local capacity has
been strengthened so that these outputs are produced by the planning and budget
departments themselves. The various documents to be published in this connection are
produced regularly, and improvements in their content and structure have been made.
PAIGEP will continue to provide support to the planning and budgeting processes.
15.   Overall, the long-term sustainability of the project's achievements will depend to
a great extent on political and economic stability, and on the government's political will
and its allocation of sufficient funds to operate the national services in question and to
maintain rural roads. After a considerable period of political transition and consensus
building, the Government is now showing its commitment to take economic reform
measures. With a PFP signed and an ESAF approved, we expect that a SAC can be
finalized during FY97. The Government has also shown its desire to continue capacity
building, and pushed strongly for the Bank to proceed quickly with PAIGEP. These
developments augur well for the EMSAP project achievements to be sustainable.
Lessons Learned
16.   The primary lessons to be drawn from this project are as follows:
17.   Project structure and design should be simple and manageable. It proved to be
unrealistic to undertake such a diverse project and complicated project structure. In their
haste to attenuate the adverse effects of the structural adjustment program, the Bank and
the Government designed an overly ambitious, multisectoral project that was difficult to
appraise and implement, and costly to supervise. In view of the weak institutional
capacity, the project should have been designed in a simpler fashion, and should have
concentrated on those areas where the political climate and the institutional capacity were
most conducive to success.
18.   Project preparation should be participatory.  Greater participation by the
stakeholders (including the beneficiaries) at the design and preparation stages would have
helped to make some objectives more realistic. Taking into account the interests of the
persons concerned during the design process helps guarantee that they will take
responsibility for the project, that the results will be lasting, and that the project will be
better implemented. This lesson was applied in developing PAIGEP, which was prepared
with broad-based beneficiary participation.
19.   Rural roads rehabilitation should be accompanied by commensurate arrangements
to ensure funding for maintenance.
20.   As regards privatization, the Bank should realistically evaluate the Government's
political will to undertake this action and carry it to a successful conclusion. It should
also make sure that a framework for the privatization process is in place, that there are
institutional mechanisms for ensuring transparency and strict compliance with the law



vii
during the Government's divestiture, and that recovery of privatization proceeds will be
managed rigorously.
21.   Performance indicators should be defined by the Bank and the Government during
project preparation, and they should be monitored during implementation.
22.   During project preparation, the Bank should make sure that the Government's
executing agencies, and especially any newly established ones, have effective financial
management and accounting systems to guarantee that project funds are well managed
and that financial statements are produced promptly.
23.   Finally, operations financed by cofinancing agencies should be reflected in the
project's financial statements, even if the funds in question are not managed by the Bank.
Failure to record these operations is contrary to the principle that records be
comprehensive, with all project resources and expenditures entered in the accounts. In
future, arrangements should be made so that cofinanced operations can be recorded in the
accounts by the project executing agency.



REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT
(Credit 1967-MAG)
1. EVALUATION OF PROJECT EXECUTION
A. BACKGROUND
Country Background
1.1   Madagascar is one of the poorest countries in the world, with a per capita income of $230
in 1995. It covers an area of 587,000 km2, and, according to the 1993 census, its population is
12.7 million and is growing at a rate of 3% per year. Agriculture contributes nearly 33% of the
gross domestic product, and accounts for 80% of employment and 60% of export revenues. The
industrial sector accounts for 14 % of GDP.
1.2   Since independence in 1960, Madagascar's economic record is one of modest growth to
1970 followed by stagnation from 1970 to 1980. The disappointing growth performance of the
1970s stemmed largely from inappropriate economic policies emphasizing a much increased
public sector role, with import substitution in industry as the central objective and agriculture in
a support role and pervasive controls on private economic activity. Between 1978 and 1980, the
Government embarked on an "all-out" public investment policy which included large and
economically non-viable projects and resulted in a large debt accumulation. These policies,
combined with deteriorating terms of trade, led to an 11 % decline in GDP from 1980 to 1982.
1.3   During the 1980s, the focus of economic management moved from the urgent need for
financial stabilization with IMF assistance in the first part of the decade to supply-oriented
measures supported by the Bank and the Fund in the second part. Between 1983 and 1987, the
economic decline of the preceding three years was arrested and the economy grew at a modest
rate of 1.4 % per annum. The improved policy environment contributed to an acceleration of
economic growth starting in 1988, when GDP grew faster than population at 3.4 %. The
economy continued to grow by another 4.1 % in 1989 and by 3.1 % in 1990. In 1990, however,
lax credit policies led to increased inflation and to the depletion of external reserves.
1.4  In 1985, when the fiscal deficit and the inflation rate had been reduced to manageable
levels, the Government turned its attention to structural adjustment efforts with the support of the
Bank and other donors. The main thrust of the adjustment program was to correct the large
currency overvaluation, reduce price controls, streamline and reform the inefficient parastatal
sector and state-owned banking system, liberalize domestic and external trade and trim sharply



2
Government interference in private economic activity The Bank provided assistance to the
program through four IDA adjustment credits: (i) the Industrial Assistance Credit (1985-US$ 60
million), which supported some initial price liberalization; (ii) the Agriculture Sector Adjustment
Credit (1986-US$ 100 million including cofinancing), which mainly supported liberalization of
rice marketing; (iii) the Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment Credit (1987-US$ 100 million
including cofinancing), which mainly supported reform in the tariff and exchange regime; and
(iv) the Public Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC, 1988-US$ 180 million including cofinancing),
whose objectives were to improve budget procedures and the preparation of public investments,
reform the civil service, improve the effectiveness of the public enterprise sector, and liberalize
and reform the public banking sector.
1.5   There is widespread, extreme poverty in Madagascar, even by the standards of Sub-
Saharan Africa. Social conditions are poor: life expectancy is 51 years of age, the mortality rate
for children under the age of 5 is 15%, the malnutrition rate in some areas is 40%, and certain
infectious diseases, such as malaria and tuberculosis, proliferate. The rate of underemployment
in the country is high, with only 2.7% of the population working in the non-farm sector. Budget
cuts in current expenditures have affected the Government's management and planning, as well
as its capacity for gathering and analyzing key economic data. These circumstances were already
well-recognized by the Government at the time of the adjustment dialogue during the late 1980s,
and it is in this setting that the Government asked for the Bank's assistance both to address the
social dimensions of development, as well as to provide support for the preparation and
implementation of policy and institutional reform. The Economic Management and Social
Action Project (EMSAP) was designed in 1988 to accompany and support the PSAC. EMSAP
was a multisector technical assistance project addressing needs related to: health, population,
agriculture, nutrition, employment, infrastructure, nongovernmental organizations and economic
and financial management
1.6  In mid-1991, political turmoil swept the country, accelerating the pace of transition
towards a more open society, but disrupting economic activity and, together with a policy
backtrack in 1990, derailing the adjustment process. A transitional power-sharing arrangement
was negotiated and a new coalition government was put in place in January 1992. Presidential
elections took place in February 1993, legislative elections were held in June and in August the
National Assembly chose its leadership and the prime minister, who announced most of his
cabinet at the end of August 1993.  The political transition was peaceful, but political
factionalism and ambiguous commitment to economic reform adversely affected the economy
and the adjustment process. In 1990-93, GDP fell 4 % a year on average. Tax revenues were
low and combined with lax management of expenditure, led to a budget deficit of 11 % of GDP.
Foreign investment collapsed, and external arrears continued to grow.
1.7   Against this background, the PSAC, which was signed on July 18, 1988, never got back
on track, and the credit was closed on September 30, 1993. The results of the project were
considered unsatisfactory, their sustainability was regarded as uncertain and institutional
development was viewed as negligible (ICR dated March 14, 1995).



3
1.8   More recently, economic management has haltingly improved. Stabilization measures
contributed to growth in real GDP of 2 % and a drop in the budget deficit to 9 % of GDP in
1995. In parallel, the consensus for reform has gradually increased and the government has made
progress on the adjustment agenda. A Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for 1996-99 was signed in
September 1996, the IMF approved an ESAF in October 1996 and the Bank expects to be able to
finalize a SAC in FY97.
The Economic Management and Social Action Project
1.9   The objectives of the project were to: (a) initiate a program of emergency actions to
reach the poorest and most vulnerable groups; (b) strengthen the Government's capacity to
monitor economic and social conditions and design the social programs and policies necessary
for responding to them; and (c) facilitate implementation of the structural adjustment program by
building the capacity of key institutions responsible for economic management.
1.10 The project comprised the following components:
(a)   Part A1 - Malaria control: A whole series of measures, ranging from improved
distribution of chloroquine to other essential drugs, to put an end to the sharp
increase in mortality and morbidity caused by this disease in recent times.
(b)   Part A2 - Family planning: Communication of family planning messages to 30% of
the population, increase in both the quality and the quantity of the family planning
services provided, ensuring that people were educated and informed as to clinical
aspects of family planning, and support for the introduction of a long-term
population policy.
(c)   Part A3 - Food security: Pilot operations and studies to ensure the provision of
foodstuffs and an adequate, stable income for the poorest segments of the
population.
(d)   Part A4 - Studies: Various studies in the areas of developing irrigation, promoting
small livestock farmers, developing sub-sector industrial strategy, debt conversion
including the feasibility of debt/environment swaps, definition of a structure to
coordinate the identification, appraisal and financing of small socially-oriented
projects, and a survey of targeted distribution of food products.
(e)   Part A5 - Targeted job creation: Construction or repair of rural roads using labor-
intensive methods.
(f)   Part A6 - Coordination of nongovernmental organizations (NGOs): Improvement
of the database on NGOs active in Madagascar, and creation and operation of a
coordination and information system on NGOs.



4
(g)   Part A 7 - Redeployment Program: A redeployment fund and a reemployment
program to assist employees of public enterprises affected by the divestiture of this
sector by accelerating payment of severance benefits and helping prepare for
alternative employment.
(h)   Part B] - Studies unit: Creation of a studies unit in the Directorate of Social
Planning of the Planning Department (DGP) to support the various ministries in
designing and monitoring social programs.
(i)   Part B2 - Permanent household survey: A permanent survey of households to
measure their living conditions, identify target groups requiring assistance, and
evaluate the impact of that assistance.
(I)   Part C1 - Budget reform: Assistance in the preparation of sector strategies, triennial
public investment programs (1989-91 and 1990-92) and public expenditure
programs (1989 and 1990-92), and review of budget procedures.
(k)   Part C2 - DGGP: Implementation of the Government's action program for the
public enterprises that it intended to liquidate or privatize, and support for the
Government's agency for monitoring, rehabilitating and restructuring public
enterprises.
(1)   Part C3 - Study Fund: Undertaking of studies for the preparation, analysis, and
supervision of programs and projects designed to improve the economic and social
database, implement economic adjustment policy, develop social policies and
ensure economic growth.
1.11  The project was to be implemented -- under the general coordination of the DGP -- by
nine executing agencies, including six ministries.
B. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.12  The project's objectives were consistent with the Government's strategy, supported by the
Bank, to promote sustainable economic growth as a means of improving living standards, while
at the same time undertaking targeted programs to protect the disadvantaged, and with the
Government's letter of development policy, in support of which the Executive Directors had
approved the PSAC in June 1988. However, the project's design was complicated, since in a
single operation it provided for action in several sectors in order to achieve short-term results
(i.e. malaria control, food security, targeted job creation, redeployment, and studies), as well as
medium-term results (institutional development, the household survey, coordination of NGOs,
and budget reform). The food security component alone contained seven different programs,
which were sometimes not clearly defined. There were 42 expenditure categories, but there were
no plans to set up an independent structure to coordinate activities under the project. As for the
PRP, grants of equipment were not initially provided for, and it was not until implementation
that it was realized that they were needed.



5
1.13  The tools proposed in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) for monitoring achievement of
the objectives were the accounts, audits and annual status reports. No specific performance
indicators were defined.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
1.14  To assess whether objectives were achieved, the project is divided into two periods: the
time prior to October 1992; and the period subsequent to that date. During the first period, the
disbursement rate was low (20%), owing to the following factors: (a) the confusion created, for
both project and Bank staff, by the many expenditure categories; (b) the sluggish pace of
procurement; and (c) the lack of a central agency for coordinating project activities. As a result
of this last factor, nobody took the initiative or responsibility for setting up an accounting
system, carrying out the initial audits or forwarding to the Bank the annual status reports and
work plans. In October 1992, the project was reorganized to improve implementation. Among
other things, the number of expenditure categories was reduced to 28 and a National Project
Coordination Bureau (BNCPP) was established for the project, with a national coordinator at its
head.
1.15  Despite the difficulties encountered at the beginning, an important number of the
project's objectives were achieved. In general terms, the project has been crucial to the Bank's
ability to pursue economic reform issues in a difficult and changing political situation in
Madagascar, as well as to develop important programs for assistance to the poor. Based on their
targets, some activities could be considered as highly successful. These included primarily the
emergency malaria control program, family planning, the cereal banks (under the food security
component), labor-intensive road work, coordination of NGOs, the permanent household survey,
budget reform, and the study fund. The programs relating to rural saver groups and food for pre-
school age children (under the food security component) both showed slow implementation
under EMSAP, but were subsequently taken up by other Bank-financed projects (the Rural
Finance and SECALINE Projects, respectively -- both 1993). The PRP and DGGP components
were problematic, due in part to the uncertain political and economic climate, but their objectives
are now being pursued through preparation for the Private Sector Capacity Building Project and
macroeconomic dialogue. The poultry farming and marketing of subsidized food through
canteens were both unsuccessful. Certain activities scheduled under the project proved not to
have a committed constituency or were impossible to implement under the country circumstances
and were never carried out. These included the promotion of new cropping opportunities and
new nutritional foods in the food security component, and most of the studies component (Part
A4). A detailed analysis of the results obtained, by component, is presented below.
1.16 Part Al: Malaria Control. This component was to be financed in large part by the Swiss
Development Cooperation Agency, and to a lesser degree by UNDP and UNICEF. The Swiss
Agency financed the purchase of 300,000 boxes of chloroquine containing 1,000 pills each and
essential drugs, in the form of balance of payments assistance. Italy financed the purchase of 45
tons of DDT. IDA defrayed the cost of training trainers of chloroquine dispensers and of paying
the persons responsible for spraying the insecticides. Activities under this component ceased on



6
December 31, 1993, when the new CRESAN project (effective in 1992) assumed responsibility
for them.
1.17 Part A2: Family Planning. This part of the project was to be financed completely by
UNDP, with FISA -- a nongovermmental organization -- acting as executing agency. Most of the
targeted objectives were attained: (i) with 166,000 clients already registered for family planning,
14,000 new clients were added, as compared to the projected 15,000; (ii) three of the four
laboratories planned were prepared and equipped; (iii) 407 health students and professionals
were trained, compared with the intended 750.
1.18 Part A3: Food Security. Of the seven programs in this component, the most successful
one was the cereal bank. Fourteen collective village granaries were built in various parts of the
country, and of those eleven are still in operation. The other three were destroyed by cyclone
Geralda. The rural saver groups component was implemented under the Rural Finance project
(with World Bank financing, 1993), after a study conducted by WCOCU (the World Council of
Credit Unions). The program to market subsidized food through canteens, ten of which were
located in Tananarive and two in Fianarantsoa, operated from 1989 to 1992, before being shut
down. This effort to diversify the nutritional base of the poor failed, among others, due to the
strong preference of the target group for the traditional rice diet and to the higher cost of
alternative foods, even when subsidized. The urban poultry farming component was stopped
after the first grant of laying hens in 1989, following a high death rate. The nutrition-related
initiatives component (children's feeding and promotion of new cropping opportunities) was in
operation only during the first half of 1991. It was impossible to implement the children's
feeding program after that due to the insecurity created by the political situation in the country --
demonstrations and general strikes. Mothers feared to go out with their under-five-year-old
children to get nutritional food. Finally, this component was incorporated into the Bank's
SECALINE project, which was put into operation in 1993. The promotion of new cropping
opportunities and new nutritional foods never became operational.
1.19  Part A4. Studies.  The survey on the targeted distribution of food products was
conducted in late 1990. However, studies on developing irrigation, promoting small livestock
farmers, developing a sub-sector industrial strategy, debt conversion and coordinating small
socially-oriented projects were never carried out.
1.20  Part A5: Targeted Job Creation. HIMO road work is believed to have had a positive
socioeconomic impact. About 900 km of rural roads were rehabilitated, compared to the 700 km
initially planned, certain regions were opened up, jobs (50,719 man-months) and income (FMG
3.5 billion) were created, and 158 small and medium-sized businesses were trained in road
construction and repair.
1.21  Part A6  Coordination of NGOs. The objective was to make an inventory of the NGOs
participating in the country's economic and social development, so as to improve the database in
the Population Ministry. Records were established, and are updated periodically. A liaison
bulletin is published quarterly. In addition, a law on the status of NGOs has been prepared in
consultation with donors and NGOs and is awaiting adoption by the National Assembly.



7
1.22  Part A 7. Redeployment Program. The specific objectives of the PRP were to help
workers who had lost their jobs (as a result of either staff cuts or the shutdown of goverrnent
enterprises) to find gainful employment elsewhere The privatization process was followed by
the distribution of resources from a redeployment fund to be supplied by the Government. The
fund consisted of payments for workers in receipt of advance notice, severance pay, accumulated
leave, one month's wages, and any remaining unpaid wages. These entitlements were meant to
be paid by the Government prior to any recourse to the PRP, which then financed grants and
equipment to set workers up in new jobs Out of' the estimated cost of this component (US$7.49
million), IDA was to provide US$4.17 million in financing (56 %), while the Government was
expected to contribute US$2.88 million (38 %)! and UNDP US$0.44 million (6 %).
1.23  From 1989 to 1996. the number of people who lost employment rose to 6,590 in 23
enterprises. The amounts paid for these lay-offs totaled FMG 8.8 billion, or about US$806,000.
Of the 6,590 persons dismissed (initial estimates put the number of eligible employees at 7,000),
4,948 persons were covered by the PRP. Only 26% of all recipients were successful in finding
remunerative self-employment, and the remaining 74% did not manage to find lasting gainful
employment.
1.24 Part B]. Studies Unit. This unit was established in the Planning Department (DGP), but
was neglected once BNCPP was established and took responsibility for the studies.
1.25  Part B2. Permanent Household Survey. The main report of the survey, dated December
1995, was issued in January 1996. Three workshops were organized in January, March and April
1996 to analyze the data from the survey and disseminate the results Another report entitled
"Training of' Malagasy Women in the Struggle Against Poverty" was published in June 1996,
The original goals of the survey were achieved, in that it increased the institutional capacity of
the Government Database (BDE/INSTAT) bv setting up a database on households that could be
used to prepare a number of specific studies for the Government and lenders. A general
document was published, in addition to theme papers on various subjects such as Women and
Development, Agriculture, Education, Health, Employment and Food Security.
1.26  Part Cl]  Budget Reform. The results accomplished in this area are satisfactory, and
include the following: (i) preparation of annual PIPs starting in 1989 through the present (last
PIP produced covered 1996-98), and PEPs for the same period, using revised methodology; (ii)
revision of budget procedures beginning with the 1993 budget: a new budget and functional
nomenclature was put into practice and budget preparation and execution procedures were
revised, and (iii) preparation of a handbook for budget execution. The Bank's assistance took the
form of financing office furniture and computer hardware, training costs, and the cost of four
technical assistants, two of whom were expatriate and two local. The PIPs, the PEPs and budgets
are published annually, and the Report on Financial and Physical Execution and the Report on
Foreign Aid Disbursements (parts of the PlPs) are published quarterly. In addition, in order to
have information on the status of commitments., settlements, and payment orders under the
operating budget, a budget performance chart is published monthly. This portion of the project
has helped realize major improvements in public finance reform (improved planning and



8
budgeting procedures and composition of expenditures), providing an important underpinning to
the economic dialogue and pursuit of the adjustment agenda.
1.27 The project financing plan called for the African Development Bank (ADB) to cover part
of the costs of the economic management component (budget reform and economic studies), up
to US$4 million (Section 2, Table 8b). This financing was subsequently canceled, but sufficient
financing was available under the IDA credit to cover required expenditures.
1.28 Part C2. DGGP. The objective of this component was to conduct financial, legal and
economic studies to assess the viability of public enterprises, and determine whether to privatize
or restructure them. The objectives were not achieved, since, of the 90 enterprises to be covered,
only 52 were privatized or liquidated, and 22 liquidations that had been announced either have
not been completed or have not begun. After the Government brought the process to a halt in
June 1993, the Bank stopped the line of credit in November 1993. DGGP was dissolved in 1994
and replaced by a Committee for the Refonn of the Public Enterprise Sector. This Committee
could not be operational before the adoption of a privatization law (August 1996) as required by
the new Constitution. In conjunction with preparation of the proposed Private Sector Capacity
Building Project (FY97), an independent privatization committee was set up on November 22,
1994. It was given the task of reviewing the enterprises that had been privatized so far and the
obstacles and problems they had encountered, and of proposing structures and methods that
would guarantee maximum transparency and efficiency to all parties concerned in the
privatization program that the Government intends to resume. This committee was also asked to
draft framework legislation on the privatization of public enterprises, which had never been done
before.
1.29  Part C3: Study Fund. This fund made it possible to carry out various studies important to
the portfolio of projects in Madagascar; several studies also supported the economic dialogue
underway between the Government and the Bank. Among the studies undertaken were: a
participatory assessment of poverty in Madagascar; an evaluation of the socioeconomic impact of
AIDS in Madagascar; a study of national accounts; restructuring of JIRAMA (the water and
electricity company); and evaluation of the beneficiaries of the HIMO and PRP programs. This
last study was truly innovative, since the executing agencies of the two components concerned
took the initiative in evaluating themselves in order to improve the services provided to
beneficiaries.
1.30  Certain activities which were not originally scheduled to take place under the project
were financed out of EMSAP funds. For instance, additional funds were needed to ensure the
transportation of emergency aid, i.e. 15,000 tons of rice, in southern Madagascar. Other
examples are the work to repair the infrastructure destroyed by cyclones Daisy and Geralda, the
farm rehabilitation work following the damage caused by cyclones in Toamasina, and the
program to place farmers on new plots of land, which was cofinanced by UNDP and FAO.
1.31  During implementation of the project, the Bank and UNDP financed the services of seven
technical assistants: four for the budget reform component (a total of 74 months), two for the
HIMO component (16 months), and one for the PRP component (15 months). This technical



9
assistance staff included specialists in:  government planning and finance, management,
procurement, public works, engineering and labor organization.  Generally speaking, the
technical assistance was beneficial to the project, since nationals gradually took over and
continued the work under the program.
1,32  In the area of training, 111 civil servants received training abroad in the following fields:
government budget preparation; enterprises in difficulty; procurement; project management; road
maintenance; survey techniques; processing survey data; and national accounts. The duration of
seminars and courses ranged from one week to three months. Several employees in the Ministries
of Budget and Planning received local training in computers and the use of hardware and
software.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
1.33  Project implementation was affected by a number of factors, both general (i.e. affecting
the entire project) and specific to individual components of the program. General factors
include: (a) poor project design (see para. 1.14.), making it necessary to restructure the project in
October 1992; (b) lack of strong project leadership initially, which was reflected in a lack of
accountability; (c) the Government's failure to provide sufficient counterpart funds; (d)
problems encountered by project managers in gaining access to IDA funds deposited in special
accounts opened with the Central Bank, as any movements in these accounts required a Treasury
signature; and (e) sluggish procurement procedures, as a result of repeated controls by various
central agencies. The situation became worse in July 1991 as the political situation grew
unstable. Large demonstrations and general strikes (which were not predictable) paralyzed the
Government and seriously disrupted the economy.
1.34  In addition to these general factors, there were specific problems that affected some of the
components. In the case of the PRP, a long period of time, up to a year, would sometimes go by
between the time persons were eligible for PRP compensation and the time they actually received
grants of equipment so that they could start up their chosen work. In some cases, the equipment
granted did not match the requests, and added to that were delays in delivery. The PRP, which
was under the authority of the Ministry of Employment, went through a period of floating from
one institution to the next from August 1993, when that Ministry disappeared, until February
1994, when the PRP was placed under the Ministry of Economy and Planning. The DGGP was
beset by financial and legal problems. Financially, recovery of privatization proceeds was not
managed rigorously, and the monitoring and control of liquidators or receivers were especially
lax. From a legal standpoint, the inadequate legal basis for privatization operations and the
weakness of the institutional system for carrying out the process deprived the first round of
privatizations of its legitimacy. No law was passed to establish the rules and the institutional
framework. More importantly, the political commitment was missing.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
1.35  The results achieved during project execution will be sustained under certain projects
currently under way and by ensuring maintenance for -- and improvements on -- what has been



10
accomplished. EMSAP provided a basis for starting up a number of sectoral projects in the
fields of health, rural finance and food security, and activities scheduled to take place as part of
the original project are being carried out under these new projects. At the end of December
1993, the malaria control component was transferred to the new and more specialized CRESAN.
As a result, it has been possible to train people in the timely use of medication and to make them
aware of the need to take responsibility for buying medicine. The nutritional interventions for
pre-school age children under the food security component were incorporated into SECALINE
(1993). Work with rural saver groups is being carried out under the Rural Finance project
(1993). The quality of the rehabilitation of rural roads under EMSAP was good. About 900 km
were rehabilitated in 10 sub-prefectures located in the Toliary and Fianarantsoa Regions.
However, maintenance of these roads is a critical problem that needs to be solved in the short
term to prevent rapid deterioration, especially of those country roads that will eventually become
national routes. Under the Malagasy road charter, local governments and others, including
villages, NGOs and crop companies, are responsible for maintaining rural roadways. Four
villages have joined forces to introduce tolls applicable to plows and vehicles. One of these
villages has been collecting tolls on vehicles since January 1996. This initiative should be
encouraged, and villages should be made aware of the need to maintain roadways. In view of the
limited resources of local governments, other supplementary funds from the central government
are needed in the form of budget allocations. A National Fund is to be set up for road
maintenance with resources coming from taxes on petroleum products.
1.36 Although the PRP and DGGP components of EMSAP suffered problems, due in part to
the uncertain political and economic climate, the gradual development of a consensus around the
need to undertake reform has revived commitment to privatization. With the completion of
EMSAP, a decision was made by the Government to keep the PRP Implementation Unit in
existence and to continue its activities using Government funds, in order to support the new
program of privatization in preparation.  To ensure a successful and effective economic
development program, starting in 1997 the Government will launch a program for the gradual
privatization, over a five-year period, of public enterprises, based on the schedule established in
the PFP. Following the overall household survey (EPM), a series of specific surveys is planned,
such as one already done on the poverty profile. These surveys will be conducted under PAIGEP
(effective in December 1996). The results achieved under the budget reform component are
being maintained with the preparation of the PIPs/PEPs for 1997-99 and the work on the 1997
budget, which was completed in January 1997. Local capacity has been strengthened so that
these outputs are produced by the planning and budget departments themselves. The various
documents to be published in this connection are produced regularly, and improvements in their
content and structure have been made. PAIGEP will continue to provide support to the planning
and budgeting processes.
1.37  Overall, the long-term sustainability of the project's achievements will depend to a great
extent on political and economic stability, and on the government's political will and its
allocation of sufficient funds to operate the national services in question and to maintain rural
roads. After a considerable period of political transition and consensus building, the Government
is now showing its commitment to take economic reform measures. With a PFP signed and an
ESAF approved, we expect that a SAC can be finalized during FY97. The Government has also



11
shown its desire to continue capacity building, and pushed strongly for the Bank to proceed
quickly with PAIGEP. These developments augur well for the EMSAP project achievements to
be sustainable.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
1.38  The project was initially scheduled to be implemented over five years. The closing date
of the credit was postponed on two occasions, which had the effect of prolonging the life of the
project by two and a half years. The Bank devoted considerable resources to the various stages
of the project cycle, for a total of 351 staff weeks (sw) and a cost of about $842,500 (see Section
2, Table 12). The cost of these resources accounts for 3.6% of the funds disbursed ($23.24
million). In terms of time, the Bank's contribution can be broken down as follows: (i) 28 sw for
project preparation; (ii) 61 sw for appraisal; (iii) 25 sw for negotiation and approval by the
Board; (iv) 231 sw for project supervision, spread out over seven years, at the rate of 33 sw per
year in the field and at headquarters; and (v) 6 sw for project completion.
1.39  Project identification and preparation began in February 1988. The Bank's performance
during identification is considered satisfactory overall, because of the efforts to make the
project's objectives consistent with the Government's strategy and letter of development policy in
the relevant sectors. The Bank's performance during preparation is deficient for the following
reasons: a) it did not define indicators for monitoring implementation or achievement of
objectives; b) it did not anticipate the need for a more solid and transparent framework for the
privatization process; c) it designed a project that was too complex; and d) it underestimated the
coordination and management capacity needed to implement such a complex project. Although
the Bank identified three major risks (related to the complexity of the project, the accuracy of the
targeting used in designing the social interventions, and the ability of the Government to ensure
that the assistance went only to the intended beneficiaries), it underestimated their magnitude and
the scope of the measures needed to remedy them.
1.40  The Bank's project appraisal was inadequate because it failed to recognize or address the
above deficiencies in preparation.
1.41  The Bank's performance during the first period of supervision, i.e. before the
reorganization of the project, was unsatisfactory. Due to the multifaceted nature of the project,
the Bank followed a decentralized supervision strategy, using the talents of different
divisions/departments. While this approach had its advantages (flexibility, use of best expertise),
it led to a failure to focus on and resolve the project's problems in a timely fashion. In addition,
project ratings did not reflect the seriousness of the project's problems.  When project
management was given to AF3PH, a mission (including an implementation specialist) was sent
to the field to make an assessment of the situation and recommendations to improve project
implementation. As a result, the project was restructured in October 1992. In view of the
Government's inability to provide the counterpart funds in the amounts and at the times required,
the Bank amended the Credit Agreement on June 10, 1993, increasing its share of the financing
for expenditures on roads (Category 4e) from 85% to 100% (net of taxes). Beginning in July
1994, the Resident Mission played an important role in monitoring activities because the task



12
management for EMSAP was assigned to the field. Based on the positive results after project
restructuring, the Bank's performance during the supervision phase was satisfactory overall.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
1.42  The Borrower's performance during the project identification and preparation phase was
considered satisfactory, in view of the role it played and the initiative it took in identifying the
components of the project. However, greater participation by the stakeholders (including the
beneficiaries) at the design and preparation stages would have helped to make some objectives
more realistic.
1.43  During implementation, the Borrower's performance was considered unsatisfactory
during the first period, due to the problems the project encountered before it was restructured
(October 1992). Once the BNCPP was established, the situation improved: an operational,
computerized system of accounts was set up; audits pending for the years 1989, 1990 and 1991
were completed, and continued for later years; a quarterly audit of statements of expenditures
was introduced in January 1993; nine news bulletins on EMSAP were published by the media;
and the disbursement rate of the IDA credit increased from 20% as of September 30, 1992 to
99%  at the end of the project.  Moreover, by using savings realized due largely to the
depreciation of the Malagasy franc, the Government was able to finance a large part of the work
to restore the infrastructure destroyed by cyclones Daisy and Geralda and the work to rehabilitate
farmlands. Overall, the performance of the Borrower was satisfactory during implementation.
1.44 In view of the dynamic nature and the performance of the BNCPP team, the decision was
made to entrust it with managing PAIGEP.
1.45  The Government's performance fell short with respect to the payment of counterpart and
redeployment funds, and to submitting audit reports at the required times. Audit reports for the
fiscal years from 1991 to 1995 were sent to the Bank late, except for the 1993 report (Section 2,
Table 10). Moreover, operations financed by cofinanciers were not entered in the accounts,
contrary to the principle that all resources and expenditures relating to a project should be
reported in its financial statements.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
1.46  In reference to the summary assessments (Section 2, Table 1), most of the physical
objectives were achieved and even in some cases surpassed: malaria control, cereal banks under
the food security component, labor-intensive road work, and coordination of NGOs. The
objectives linked to institutional development were achieved in the areas of budget reform and
production of the permanent household survey. The objectives in the area of sector policies were
either partially realized or transferred to other projects (including rural saver groups, food for
pre-school age children, public sector management [DGGP] and development of the private
sector [PRP]), or in a few cases were unrealized (poultry farming and the promotion of
subsidized food through canteens). The project had a substantial impact on financial objectives
(disbursements) and helped provide some protection to vulnerable groups during difficult
economic times (poverty objective). The results are likely to be sustainable. The performance of



13
the Bank and the Borrower was satisfactory, except for the Government's failure to comply with
certain conditions and the poor performance of the Bank during the first period. All things
considered, the performance is evaluated as generally satisfactory.
I. FUTURE OPERATION
1.47  To ensure the long-term sustainability of the reforms initiated under EMSAP, the
Government is committed to building its economic management capacity and the capacity of its
public administration. It has requested the Bank's assistance under PAIGEP to continue to
strengthen and develop these capacities. In the area of economic management, PAIGEP will
improve the Government's ability to design and implement an economic reform program, as well
as to target public expenditures in the fight against poverty. As regards public administration,
PAIGEP will help the administration, the civil service, and the judicial system to develop and
start implementing a new vision of government. In addition, some elements of EMSAP are
being carried out under the CRESAN, SECALINE and Rural Finance projects.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
1.48  The primary lessons to be drawn from this project are as follows:
1.49  Project structure and design should be simple and manageable. It proved to be unrealistic
to undertake such a diverse project and complicated project structure. In their haste to attenuate
the effects of the structural adjustment program, the Bank and the Government designed an
overly ambitious, multisectoral project that was difficult to appraise and implement, and costly to
supervise. In view of the weak institutional capacity, the project should have been designed in a
simpler fashion, and should have concentrated on those areas where the political climate and the
institutional capacity were most conducive to success.
1.50  Project preparation should be participatory. Greater participation by the parties involved
(including the beneficiaries) at the design and preparation stages would have helped to make
some objectives more realistic. Taking into account the interests of the persons concerned during
the design process helps guarantee that they will take responsibility for the project, that the
results will be lasting and that project implementation will be more effective. This lesson was
applied in developing PAIGEP, which was prepared with broad-based beneficiary participation.
1.51  Rural roads rehabilitation should be accompanied by commensurate arrangements to
ensure fimding for maintenance.
1.52  In the area of privatization, the Bank should realistically evaluate the Government's
political will to undertake this action and carry it to a successful conclusion. It should also make
sure that there is a proper framework for the privatization process and institutional mechanisms
for ensuring transparency and strict compliance with the law during the Government's
divestiture, and that recovery of privatization proceeds will be managed rigorously.
1.53 Performance indicators should be defined by the Bank and the Government during project
preparation, and monitored during implementation.



14
1.54  During project preparation, the Bank should make sure that the government executing
agencies, and especially newly-established ones, have reliable financial management and
accounting systems to ensure effective planning and procurement procedures, sound management
of the project's resources, and the prompt production of financial statements.
1.55 Finally, operations financed by cofinancing agencies should be reflected in the project's
financial statements, even if the funds in question are not managed by the Bank. Failure to
record these operations is contrary to the principle of comprehensive reporting, according to
which all the resources and expenditures of a project are to be entered in the accounts. In future,
arrangements should be made so that cofinanced operations can be recorded in the accounts by
the project executing agency.
1.56 In the Government's assessment of the project (Appendix B), it confirmed many of the
above lessons learned, and added a few more: (i) assess and agree on clear roles and duties of
each entity involved in the project, including arrangements for project coordination and
organization (the experience with a national coordination bureau has been positive); (ii) use a
more participatory approach during project preparation and implementation; (iii) continue the
labor-intensive works initiative; (iv) take other donor financing into account in the project
accounts and evaluation of the project; (v) maintain Bank decentralization through a resident
specialist in project implementation; and (vi) strengthen seminars on procurement and
disbursement, and portfolio reviews through participation of NGOs, decentralized government
entities and beneficiaries in addition to government ministries and project coordinators.
2. STATISTICAL DATA
Table I. Summary Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives   Substantial  Partial     Negligible    Not applicable
Macroeconomic                    .
Sector policies                               I
Financial objectives             /
Institutional development        /
Physical objectives              /
Poverty alleviation
Gender concerns
Other social objectives
Environmental objectives
Public sector management



15
Private sector development   |l
Other(indicate)              l              l            I              l                l
B. Project Sustainability        Likely       Unlikely   j  Uncertain
C. Bank Performance              Highly     Satisfactory     Deficient
Satisfactory_
Identification                                   /
Preparation assistance                                          .
Appraisal
Supervision
D. Borrower Performance          Highly      Satisfactory     Deficient
___________ ___ _ _  Satisfactory_            ______     ____ ____
Preparation
Implementation
Compliance with covenants
Operation
E. Assessment of Outcome         Highly      Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory
Satisfactory
If



16
Table 2: Other Bank Loans/Credits
i  ?   - -E;  i    - R   X   X  X                :   i:: :Y~~eariot::  : :
Loan/Credit                         Objective                  Appi roval       Status 
Parallel Operations
*  Credit 1941-MAG             To strengthen procedures relating to the  1988        Closing date:
Public Sector Adjustment Project  budget and preparation of public capital           1993
investment; reform public services,
streamline the public enterprise sector;
liberalize and reform the banking system,
*  Credit 2251-MAG             To support the Borrower in the execution of  1991     In progress
Health Sector Improvement      the Health Sector Program in order to
Project                        reduce mortality, morbidity and fertility
levels, increase the efficiency of public
health service delivery, and improve the
responsiveness of the health sector policy
framework to the needs and conditions
prevailing in Madagascar.
*  Credit 2459-MAG             To help rural groups to develop into   1993           In progress
Rural Finance Technical        savings and loan associations which, over
Assistance Project            time, may federate and make links with
formal financial institutions.
*  Credit 2474-MAG             To reduce food insecurity and malnutrition:  1993     In progress
Food Security and Nutrition    preparation and execution of subprojects,
Project                        provision of short-term food transfers, and
implementation of a community nutrition
program and an Information, Education and
Communication program.
*  Credit 2591-MAG             To rehabilite infrastructure in Antananarivo   1994   In progress
Antananarivo Urban Works       and promote small and medium-sized
Project                        entreprises in the areas of construction and
engineering.
Future Operation
*  Credit 2911-MAG             To help the Government strengthen its  1996           Effective
Public Management Institutional   capacity for executing economic reforms            Dec.18, 1996
Support Project                and improving public administration.



17
Table 3. Project Timetable
Stage of Project Cycle                  Planned Date                  Actual Date
Identification                       n.a.                     n.a.
Preparation                          n.a.                     February 1988
Appraisal                            March 1988               April 5-19, 1988
Negotiation                          April 1988               October 6-15, 1988
Board approval                       May 1988                 December 6, 1988
Signature                            n.a.                     December 15, 1988
Effectiveness                        February 1989            March 15, 1989
Midterm review                       Not planned
Project completion                   December 31, 1993        June 30, 1996
Credit closing                       June 30, 1994            December 15, 1996*
*   Date of cancellation of undisbursed balance.
Table 4: Disbursements: Planned and Actual
(in thousands of US$)
FY              1988   1989    1990       1991      1992      1993     1994    1995    1996
Planned (SAR)    -    5,500   12,000   18,500   21,000    22,000         -
Actual            -                                 6,445    10,889   14,597  19,619  23,287
Actual/Planned    -      %        %        %        31%       49%        -
Date of last disbursement: December 5, 1996



18
Table 5: Performance Indicators
The Staff Appraisal Report did  not define performance indicators for monitoring1
|implementation.l
Table 6: Key Indicators for Future Operation
Perforrnance indicators have been identified under PAIGEP that will facilitate the monitoring of
the proposed measures (strengthening of the Secretariat Technique de l'Ajustement, training,
information campaign) with respect to the objectives they are expected to achieve (improved
quality of technical reports, dissemination of information on economic development and policies
within the Government, and internalization of the adjustment program).



19
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Study                             Purpose                        Status                                Impact
1. Studies on the profile of poverty in  Poverty reduction             Studies made between July and  Identification of new poverty indicators
various regions of Madagascar                                          December 1993
2. Survey of beneficiaries of the HIMO and   Improvement of services    Study completed in October    Increased awareness of the importance of the
PRP components of EMSAP                                                 1995                          lessons to be learned from experience
3. Preparation of national accounts for 1993,  Improvements in government   In progress               To be fmalized under PAIGEP
1994 and 1995                            finances
4. Preparation of annotated sector guides for  Improvements in project  Implementation: January 1996   Harmonization of accounting systems for all IDA-
maintaining and monitoring accounts relating  accounting and auditing                                 fianced projects
to projects financed by the World Bank
5. Draft plan for the establishment in   Strengthening of the judicial  Study completed in April 1996   School opened in December 1996
Madagascar of a National School for Judges   system
and Clerks (ENMG)



20
6. Study of the socioeconomic impact of  AIDS control              Study completed in April 1996   A plan for the dissemination of the study's
AIDS in Madagascar                                                                             findings has been prepared, but has not yet been
implemented
7. Audit of support measures for structural   Mitigation of the negative  Completed in May 1996.  The findings are currently being applied in the
adjustment                             effects of structural adjustment                        health and education sectors. To be finalized
under PAIGEP
8. Study of the impact of macroeconomic    Poverty reduction       Completed in June 1996      Enhanced understanding of the impact
and sector policies on poor households in
Madagascar
9. Study of spending and the structure of  Poverty reduction       Completed in June 1996      Enhanced understanding of the impact of taxation
consumption vis-a-vis tax liability                                                            on household living standards
10. Survey on targeted food distribution  Food security improvement  Conducted in late 1990    Unknown
11. Study on development of irrigation  Food security improvement  Not carried out
12. Study on development of smallholder  Food security improvement  Not carried out
livestock
13. Study on industrial sub-sector    Industrial performance       Not carried out
development strategy                   improvement
14. Study on debt conversion          Indebtedness reduction to    Not carried out
commercial banks
15. Study on small socially-oriented projects  Poverty reduction   Not carried out



21
Table 8a: Project Costs
(in millions of US$)
Planned (SAR)                    Actual
Local    Foreign     Total    Local   Foreign    Total
Exchange                     Exchange
Part Al: Malaria control       2.18       7.32      9.50      1.30     4.34      5.64
Part A2: Family planning       0.47       0.36      0.83      0.16     0.12      0.28
Part A3: Food security         1.00       1.50      2.50      1.19      1.79     2.98
Part A5: Job creation in       4.05       2.48      6.53      8.13     4.99      13.12
targeted areas
Part A6: Coordination of       0.05       0.15      0.20      0.08     0.26      0.34
NGOs
Part A7: Employee
redeployment program           6.65       0.84       7.49     5.13     0.64      5.77
Part B2: Permanent household   1.01       1.10      2.11      0.98      1.07     2.05
survey                      _                    C
Part C I: Budget reform        1.94       6.53      8.47      0.48      1.62     2.10
Part C2: Government
divestiture and privatization  0.86       1.60      2.46      0.46     0.85       1.31
PartC3: Studyfund              0.47       0.40      0.87      3.18     2.71      5.89
TOTAL                          18.68     22.28      40.96    21.09     18.39     39.48



22
Table 8b: Project Financing (in millions of US$)
Planned                            ActualC
WSourc      Loeal$Sti-f>00 i;0if  Forcign;f   Tot-al  ; Local    Foreign  Total
Ehsge                       Excange
IDA             11.01     10.99      22.00     11.63      11.61     23.24'
Government      4.60        -        4.60      4.60         -        4.60
ADB             3.07       0.93      4.00        -          -          2
Swiss             -        4.75      4.75        -        4.75       4.75
Cooperation
UNDP                       3.80      3.80        -        1.00       1.00
Other3            -        1.80       1,80       -        0.13       0.134
TOTAL           18.68     22.27      40.95     16.23      17.49      33.72
1     IDA disbursements were larger than planned because of SDR/US$ fluctuations.
2     The ADB contribution (partial financing of budget reforms and economic studies) was canceled
and removed from the PIP in 1994.
3     Including UNICEF (US$0.3 million), WHO (US$0.1 million), France (US$0.7 million), Italy
(US$0.5 million), Japan (US$0.2 million)
4     i.e. UNICEF; information on other cofinancing not available



23
Table 9: Costs and Economic Benefits
Because no attempt was made at Appraisal to calculate a net present value (NPV) or an
economic rate of return (ERR), there are no reference data on which to base a reestimation for
the purposes of evaluation. Moreover, no parameters were provided from which cost-
effectiveness could be calculated.



24
Table 10: Compliance with Legal Covenants
Seti i   ion oft 00    xSubject  Compliance     Date        Date as               Description                          UmarksO
Credit                                                   Amnended
3.01 (a)      Execution          Yes                                     Commitment to the objectives;
carrying out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and
engineering practices.
3.01 (b)      Execution          Yes                                     Carrying out the Project in
accordance with Schedule 4 to the
Agreement.
3.02          Procurement        Yes                                     Procurement of goods, works and   Except for one case of vehicle
consultants' services govemed by  purchases, the cost of which was
the provisions of Schedule 3 to the    reimbursed by the Government.
Agreement.
4.01 (a)      Accounts/Audits    Yes                                     Maintaining records and accounts  No record was kept of cofinancing
adequate to reflect the operations of
the Project.
4.01 (b)(i)   Accounts/Audits    Yes                                     Annual audit of records and       No separate financial statements were
accounts.                         prepared for FY89 & FY90. The
FY91 audit covers these two periods,
in addition to 1991.



25
Table 10: Compliance with Legal Covenants (continued)
Seetion of       Subject       Complianee      Date       Date as              Description                            Remarks
Credit                                                  Amended
Agreement
4.01 (b)(ii)  Accounts/Audits   Partial                                Furnishing to the Association, not
later than six months after the end  Only the 1993 report was forwarded on time
of each year, a copy of the audit
report.
4.01 (b)(iii)    Accounts/Audits    Yes                                Furnishing such other infornation
concerning accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall
request.
4.01 (c)(i)   Accounts/Audits    Yes                                   Maintaining records and accounts
reflecting expenditures.
4.01 (c)(ii-iv)   Accounts/Audits    Yes                               Retaining accounting records until    From January 1993, a quarterly audit of
at least one year after the audit;  statements of expenditure was introduced,
enabling the Association to examine
such records; ensuring that annual
audits contain a separate opinion as
to whether the statements of
expenditure, together with the
internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon.
Annex 4.3     Execution         Yes                                    Submitting an annual work program
to the Association by August 31
each year.
Annex 4.4     Execution         Yes                                    Each year, by June 30 at the latest,
submitting to the Association a
report on the previous year's
activities.



26
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Directives
Dvirective Number andl Title                               Remarks
1. O.D. 13.05: Project Supervision (para. 4)     Performance ratings were not recorded for 20 of the
Bank's 27 supervision missions.
Table 12- Bank Resources - Staff
(weeks)
StageofGtProjectt, Cle          tlanned                 Amended                   Act al
Weeks            US$      Weeks           US$  Weeks              US$
(thousands)             (thousands)             (thousands)
Up to appraisal (preparation  -                                                28.3           70.5
and preappraisal)
Appraisal                   -                                                  60.8          139.1
Negotiation -+ Board        -             -                                    25.4           59.6
Supervision               36.0*         98.5*        41.9**     92.4**        231.0         550.9
Completion                                -             -          -            6.0          22.4
Total       36.0         98.5          41.9       92.4         351.5          842.5
*   For FY95 and FY96.
** For FY95, FY96 and FY97.



27
Table 13: Bank Resources - Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of Project    Month/      No. of      No. of        Specialties        Status        Development        Type of
Cycle           year      persons      daysin                                         (effetiveness)     problem
field
Up to appraisal     04/88         11          15            CO,C,E
Appraisal -        07-08/88       l           t9            CO,C,E
Board
Supervision        02-03/89       6           21           CO,C,DC          No rating         No rating         F,M
Supervision         06/89         5           18             CO,C               2                1               M
Supervision        10-11/89       5           37           E,PHS,DC         No rating        No rating
Supervision         03/90         2           21              E,C           No rating        No rating
Supervision          11/90        4            5            CO,S/D              2                2               M
Supervision        02-03/91       2            7             ENG            No rating         No rating          M
Supervision         07/91         3           10              E,D           No rating         No rating          M
Supervision         02/92         4           Is               E            No rating        No rating           M
Supervision         03/92         2           n.a.           ENG            No rating        No rating           -
Supervision         06/92         1           n.a.            FA            No rating        No rating           M
Supervision          07/92         1                          S/D           No rating         No rating
Supervision          09/92        3           21              E,C           No rating        No rating           M
Supervision          10/92        1            9              ENG           No rating        No rating           F
Supervision        11-12/92       2           21             C,S/D          No rating        No rating           M
Supervision         03/93          I           8              ENG           No rating        No rating           -
Supervision        05-06/93        1          10              PIS               2                2               -
Supervision        06-07/93       2           12              OA            No rating        No rating           -
Supervision        09-10/93       2           18             S/D,C          No rating        No rating           -
Supervision          10/93         1           6              PHS           No rating        No rating           -
Supervision        11-12/93       3            8            PIS,S/D,E           1                2               -
Supervision        03-04/94       1           15              S/D           No rating        No rating           -
Supervision          04/94         1           8              PIS               1                2               -
Supervision         07/94                     17              S/D           No rating        No rating         -



28
Table 14: Bank Resources - Missions (continued)
Performance Rating
~:Stage of   ~Month/   NO. Of    NO. of    Specialties     status     Development   Type of
ProjectUCycle    year    persons   days in                             (effectiveness)   problem
field
Supervision      10-        1        8           S/D        No rating    No rating
11/94
Supervision     04/95      1         6           PIS          HS            HS
Supervision     05/95      3         II        FA,OA        No rating    No rating
Supervision     03/96      2         6         PIS,DO         HS            HS
Completion      10/96       1        18           C            S             S
TYPES OF PROBLEM
C          CONSULTANT                            F    = FINANCING
CO   =    COUNTRY OFFICER                         S    = STUDIES
D    =    DOCTOR
DC   =    DIVISION CHIEF                          M    = MANAGEMENT
DO   =    DISBURSEMENT OFFICER                   0    = OVERALL
E    =    ECONOMIST
ENG  =    ENGINEER                                TA   = TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
FA         FINANCIAL ANALYST
PERFORMANCE RATINGS:
OA         OPERATIONS ASSISTANT
00         OPERATIONS OFFICER
PHS  =    PUBLIC HEALTH SPECIALIST                I    = NO PROBLEMS, OR MINOR
PIS   =    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SPECIALIST      2    = MODERATE PROBLEMS
3    = MAJOR PROBLEMS; SOLUTION IN
S/D   =    STATISTICIANIDEMOGRAPHER              4    = MAJOR PROBLEMS; NO SOLUTION IN
(NONE IN THIS PROGRAM)
HS = HIGHLY SATISFACTORY
S    = SATISFACTORY



APPENDIX A: Mission Aide-Memoire






R6publique de Madagascar
Mission de Suivi du Projet PASAGE
(Cr. 1967-MAG)
du 11 au 16 mars 1996
1.    Une mission de la Banque mondiale a supervise le projet PASAGE (Cr.1967
MAG) dans la semaine du II au 16 Mars 1996. La mission etait composee de M.
Christian Rey, charge du projet et responsable du portefeuille des projets a la Mission
Residente de la Banque mondiale a Antananarivo. Mine Michele Rajaobelina, charg6e
des deboursements a la mission r6sidente, a particip- a la mission pour les aspects de
verification des procedures comptables du projet.
2.     Les principales conclusions de la mission sont les suivantes: (a) le projet sera
cl6ture cormme convenu le 30 Juin 1996; (b) le management du projet est performant et la
cellule ereee servira au projet d'Appui Institutionnel; (c) la finalisation d'un cadre
juridique des ONGs depasse l'objectif initial du projet; (d) l'enquete aupres des
beneficiaires initiee conjointement par la Banque et l'Emprunteur, sur les composantes
HIMO et PRP, a permis de deceler des imperfections d'execution qui sont en cours de
rectification, et perrettra une meilleure evaluation a posteriori de ces deux composantes;
(e) les resultats de l'Enquete aupres des Menages ont 6te publies et sont en cours de
discussion et de dissemination; et, (f) 1'enquete sur la seroprevalence du SIDA pour
1'ensemble des villes principales de Madagascar a jet6 les bases coherentes et necessaires
a tout projet ulterieur dans ce domaine.
3.     Les activites demandant un suivi particulier sont les suivantes: (a) terminer les
travaux HIMO en cours avant la date de cl6ture; (b) preparer un rapport d'execution du
projet; et (c) finaliser la loi sur les ONGs et'la presenter a l'Assemblee Nationale lors de
la session de Mai 1996.
Situation des composantes ou volets d'activites:
4.     Partie A5 -du projet:-Ttfavaux routiers H-IMO: La situation des travaux est la
suivante: (a) DAOI: 161 kin, 142 kmn ont ete receptionnes, le reste est en cours de
finition; (b) DAO2: 33 kin, les 33 km (plus 6 km supplementaires) ont ete realises et
receptionnes; (c) DAO3: 191 kin, 124 km ont ete r6ceptionn6s et le reste est en cours de
finition; (d) DAO4: 168 kin, 135 km ont ete r6ceptionn6s et le reste est en cours de
finition; (e) DAOS: 163 kin; 63 km ont ete r6ceptionn6s et le reste est en cours de
finition; (f) DAO6: 7km, 5 km en cours de reception; (g) DAO7: 56 kin, 13 kin ont ete
receptionnes et 30 sont en cours de reception; (h) DAO8: 85 kin, 70 km  ont ete
receptionnes et le reste est en cours de reception; (h) DAO9 et 10: 37 km en cours de
realisation. Un total de 902 km de routes aura ete rehabilite a la fin des travaux.
L'enquete aupres des beneficiaires a permis de reveler des problemes qui sont en train
d' tre resolus dans les contrats en cours, notarnment en ce qui conceme: (i) les delais de



paiement, (ii) le contr6le des quantites joumalieres de travaux demandees aux ouvriers, et
(iii) la qualite technique des travaux.
5.    Partie A6: Coordination des ONGs: le projet de loi portant statut des ONGs
n'ayant pas ete soumis en 1995 a l'Assembl6e Nationale, une serie d'ateliers a ete
organis6e par le projet pour le discuter en profondeur. Cette large concertation permettra
d'amender le texte et de le proposer pour ratification a I'Assemblee Nationale lors de la
prochaine session. Quatre ateliers ont ete planifies: administration centrale, bailleurs de
fonds, ONGs intemnationales et ONGs nationa-W L-       ^a r-L p   ticiper aux trois
premiers ateliers. L'atelier avec les ONGs nationales est prevu au debut du mois de Mai,
afin d'integrer les cornmentaires issus des discussions entre l'USAID et les ONGs
travaillant dans leurs projets. A cette occasion, une etroite collaboration s'est instaur6e
entre 1'USAID, les ONGs et le projet finance par la Banque mondiale. Un large
concensus s'est degage pour joindre nos efforts et obtenir un projet de loi arnende pour
fin Mai afin de le transmettre a l'Assemblee Nationale. Une comrnission de lecture
comportant une large majorite de representants des ONGs et des administrations
concemees, sera chargee de finaliser le projet de loi. La Banque de son c6te fera
participer une specialiste du siege pour la finalisation de la loi et expliquer la strategie de
la Banque vis-a-vis des ONGs.
6.    Partie A7: Programme de'Reinsertion Professionnelle: le programme continue son
activite aupres de la Regie Nationale'des Chemins de Fer Malgache (RNCFM), de la
societe Sarnangoky et Betampona pour un total de 503 personnes en cours de traitement.
Sur un total de 6093 personnes eligibles, 5098 ont ete effectivement traitees. Une
population de 800 personnes a traiter pour la RNCFM et une partie du personnel du port
de Toamasina ne pourra etre traite que si un financement complementaire, au dela de Juin
1996, sera assure. La Banque mondiale a entame des discussions avec les responsables
d'un fond suedois pour tenter d'assurer ce frnancement. Compte tenu des resultats de
l'enquete aupres des beneficiaires, 1'equipe a ete renforcee et la rapidite de traitement des
dossiers s'est amelioree. Les recommendations de l'enquete sont egalement prises en
compte pour ameliorer la qualite des relations, dotations et formations.
7.    Partie B2: Enquete aupres des menages (EPM): le rapport final de l'enquete a ete
finalise et publie fin Janvier 1996.  Les seminaires d'analyse des donnees et de
dissemination des resultats de 1'enquete ont demarre et s'6taleront jusqu'a fin Mai 1996.
Un premier atelier a ete organ.ise en F6vrier demier sur les themes de l'emploi et du
secteur infornel. La mission regrette que le sp6cialiste en donnees sociales n'ait pu etre
recrute pour aider a l'interpretation des resultats de l'enquete dans ces secteurs.
Cependant, une specialiste en statistique de la Banque mondiale assistera l'organisation
de l'atelier sur les femmes organise debut Avril prochain. Un demier atelier a ete
programme fin Mai sur le profil de la consommation et le calcul d'indice des prix. Les
resultats de cette enquete ont ete tres utiles pour finaliser le Rapport sur la Pauvrete a
Madagascar dont un atelier de discussion est prevu en Juin 1996 a Antananarivo.



8.     Partie  Cl: Reforrne Budgetaire: le consultant national recrute  sur cette
composante a vu son contrat renouvelle jusqu'a fin Juin 1996, date de la fin du projet. Ce
volet sera poursuivi dans le cadre du Projet d'Appui Institutionnel a la Prograrmnation et
a la Gestion des Depenses Publiques.
9.    Partie C2 (i) et (ii): Privatisation des Entreprises et DGGP: la CIP (Commission
Independante de Privatisation) qui avait ete mise en place a la fin de la DGGP, a e1abore
et finalise le projet de loi sur les privatisations. Le projet a particip6 au financement des
activites de la CIP, ce qui a facilite les travaux de cette derniere. Ce projet de loi fait
partie des mesures a mettre en place, dans le cadre des discussions en vue du financement
par la Banque mondiale d'un credit d'ajustement structurel. 11 est pret pour etre presente
au Gouvernement, pour approbation.
10.   Partie C3: Fond d'etudes: le fond d'etudes s'est av6re au fil des mois un outil
indispensable pour le portefeuille des projets a Madagascar. En effet, plusieurs etudes
ont pu etre engagees, et en particulier l'etude sur la prevalence du SIDA. Celle-ci
permettra d'avoir une bas-               sr'information  _ohide s:- !aq 1l  le Gouvernement et les
bailleurs de fonds pourront se baser pour la preparation d'activites dans ce secteur.
L'excellent travail realise par les consultants du FUTURES Group et les homologues
nationaux a permis de mener a bien des enquetes de seroprevalence dans toutes les villes
importantes de Madagascar (Tui6ar, Majunga, Tamatave, Antsiranana, Fianarantsoa et
Antananarivo) et d'equiper le laboratoire central de r6f6rence situe a Antanananivo.
D'autre part, une publication dans la revue scientifique Lancet (annexe 1) a donne
l'occasion a 1'equipe malgache de publier au riveau mondial. Sur cette base, le projet
financera la participation d'une 6quipe malgache a la prochaine Conference Intemationale
sur le SIDA qui se deroulera a Vancouver en Juin 1996.
Coordination Gen6rale du 2rojet. Evaluatian
!i.    Management du projet: Compte tenu de la continuite des activites de la cellule
dans le cadre du projet d'Appui institutionnel, la mission a discute les ameliorations a
apporter a l'organisation de la cellule de projet. En particulier il est important que la
cellule complete son equipement inforrmatique avec: trois ordinateurs de bureau avec
microprocesseur Pentium et un ordinateur portable suppl6mentaires et les versions
recentes des logiciels utilises. En particulier, la personne chargee de la planification des
activites et des passations de marche doit posseder un logiciel de planification de projet
type Microsoft Project.
12.   Finances, Audits, . Une situation financiere du projet au 15 Mars 1996 est
annex6e a l'aide-memoire (annexe 2). La situation des decaissements au 15 mars 1996
est de 86,5 pour cent. Une prevision de depense pour les trois derniers mois du projet est
egalement annexee. It est previsible que le projet sera cloture au 30 juin 1996 avec une
balance positive de 0,8 million de USD environ qui devra etre annulee. La mission a
v6rifi6 par sondage les depenses dont la documentation est retenue au niveau du projet et
a pu constater que toutes les pieces justificatives etaient presentes. Les audits sont faits



sur une base trimestrielle et ['audit annuel pour l'annee 1994 a ete remis avant le 30 Juin
1995.
13. Date de Cl6ture, Rapport de Fin de Projet: la date de cl6ture du projet a ete arrete
au 30 juin 1996. Le projet PAIGEP qui devrait etre negocie en mai 1996 et entrer en
vigueur en octobre 1996 continuera, entre autres, le renforcement administratif entame a
travers le projet PASAGE. Comme il l'a ete mentionne dans le precedent aide-memoire,
la cellule de coordination sera conservee pour assurer un demarrage efficace de ce projet,
ai partir d'une equipe en place deja rodee et connaissant parfaitement les procedures de la
Banque et malgaches. Un rapport de fin de projet sera elabore conjointement par la partie
malgache et la Banque. A cette fin, la partie malgache preparera sa propre evaluation du
projet sur: execution, coats et benefices, performance de la Banque et de la partie
malgache en fonction des obligations contractuelles respectives telles que decrites dans
l'Accord de Credit. Cette evaluation sera annexee a l'evaluation faite par la Banque de
son c6te, lors d'une mission d'achevement du projet qui se tiendra en juillet 1996.
14. Enquete aupres des beneficiaires: Les rapports de l'enquete aupres des
beneficiaires ont ete transmis au projet fin 1995. Les principales reconmmendations pour
les travaux HIMO sont: (i) faciliter la comprehension des dossiers par les petites
entreprises; (ii) encourager la participation de la main-d'oeuvre locale dans les travaux;
Ciii) ameliorer les conditions de travail des ouvriers et leur paiement; et, (iv) arneliorer la
qualite technique des travaux. Pour le PRP, les recommendations sont: (i) amrliorer les
contacts entre la cellule PRP et les personnes traitees; (ii) ameliorer les formations; et,
(iii) arneliorer la qualit6 des dotations; Certaines de ces recommendations sont deja en
cours d'execution dans les volets concemes. L'ensemble des le,ons tirees de cette etude
sera utile pour le design de nouveaux projets.
Fait a Antananarivo, le 16 Mars 1996.
Christian Rey



APPENDIX B: Borrower's Project Evaluation






REPUBLIQUE DE MADAGASCAR
RAPPORT DE FIN D'EXECUTION
Novembre 1996
Projet d'Actions Sociales et d'Appui b la gestion Economique
(1 967-MAG)
PREFACE
1. Le present document constitue le rapport de fin d'execution du Projet d'Actions Sociales et
d'Appui a la Gestion Economique(PASAGE) dont l'Accord de Credit a ete signe entre la Republique
de Madagascar et l'Association Internationale de D6veloppement (IDA) en date du 15 D6cembre
1988.
2. Initialement, la date d'achevement du projet est fixe au 31 Decembre 1993., mais deux
prorogations ont et accordees ce qui a renvoye la date de cloture au 30 Juin 1996. Un credit d'un
montant de 17.1 millions de DTS a ete mis a la disposition du Projet PASAGE.
3. Ce rapport a e  etabli conjointement par les consultants M. RAJOELISON Henri Roger, Ingenieur
en travaux Publics, et, Mr. RATSIMBAZAFY Eric, Economiste, avec la contribution de Mr.
RAPELANORO-RABENJA, Economiste, Coordonnateur National du Projet PASAGE, et Mr.
RATSIMBAZAFY  Philibert, Responsable Administratif et des Marches Publics   charge de
l'Admnistration des programmes au Bureau National de Coordination du Projet. Ce rapport est base
sur le rapport d'evaluation initial, I'Accord de Credit, les rapports des differentes agences
d'execution, les enquetes et interviews entrepris par les consultants.



RESUME DE L'EVALUATION
SITUATION MACRO-ECONOMIQUE
1.    D'une superficie de plus de 587 000 kilometres carres, Madagascar a un environnement
naturel diversifie. L'economie de production est constituee par trois secteurs d'activites classiques:
le primaire, pour 39% environ du PIB et employant plus de 85% de la population active., le
secondaire pour 11% et le tertiaire pour 50%. Avec une population de plus de 12 millions
d'habitants, ayant un accroissement annuel de pres de 3% et un revenu per capita de US$250.
Madagascar fait partie des pays les plus pauvres du monde. Cette situation resulte de la mise en
oeuvre d'une politique economique inappropriee depuis les annees 1970 avec des nationalisations
massives, un important secteur public, un contr6le excessif des activites du secteur prive.
2.    Depuis les annees 1980, Madagascar, avec l'aide du F.M.I., a mis en oeuvre des mesures
drastiques pour tenter de resorber les desequilibres aussi bien externe qu'interne. Le deficit
budgetaire est passe de 15% A 4% du PIB de 1981 a 1986, le taux d'inflation passe de 30% A 13% sur
la meme periode. Bien que le PIB accuse des taux positifs ceux-ci se trouvent en de,A du taux
d'accroissement de la population, sauf pour les annees 1989 et 1990 oui ces taux sont respectivement
de 4,1% et 3,1%. Cette tendance positive a ete annihilee par les evenements politiques de 1991, oui
une baisse de (-)6,4% a et enregistree pour stagner autour de 1% les autres annees. Actuellement,
Madagascar est tombe dans un marasme economique intense, le phenomene de pauperisation est
present au sein de la societe et s'amplifie d'annee en annee.
3.    Les ajustements structurels entrepris dans chaque secteur de l'6conomie mettent plusieurs
annees pour etre implantes et avoir les effets escomptes, entre temps la situation des groupes
vulnerables continuent A pericliter. Des mesures s'imposent donc pour aider ces categories de gens. II
est indeniable que seule une augmentation substantielle du PIB reel par tete serait la solution pour
sortir les malgaches de la pauvrete, augmentation qui dependra du succes qu'aurait les programmes
d'ajustement du Gouvemement. Ces reformes requierent des changements au niveau des instruments
de gestion macro-economique, y compris le systeme de programmation des depenses publiques, la
gestion des investissements au niveau des societes d'Etat et la restructuration du secteur financier.
Au vu de ces besoins, le Gouvemement decida de preparer un programme pour soutenir le processus
d'ajustement en adoptant des politiques sociales transitoires et en renforcant ces capacites
institutionnelles pour etre en mesure de mener a bien ces trains de reformes. De lA est ne le Projet
d'Actions Sociales et d'Appui A la Gestion Economique (PASAGE).
IDENTIFICATION DES GROUPES VULNERABLES
4.    Le Gouvernement et l'IDA avec la cooperation d'autres organismes intemationaux ont etudie
l'evolution du secteur social, particulierement l'impact de la politique economique sur la population,
la sante, la securite alimentaire et l'emploi. Ces etudes ont permis d'identifier les groupes les plus
touches.
5.    En matiere de sanX, 2,5 millions de personnes sont atteints du paludisme, premiere cause de
morbidite a Madagascar. Les causes de la recrudescence du paludisme sont complexes et inclus le
probleme d'acces de la population aux medicaments (prix et distribution) l'insuffisance des
informations concemant la maladie et son traitement, et l'abandon de la pulverisation periodique
d'insecticide.
6.    En matiere de sdcuritd alimentaire, plus de 11 000 personnes (enfants abandonnes,
handicapes...) sont totalement depourvus. Malgre les succes de la liberalisation du riz, des poches de
malnutrition subsistent toujours. A cela s'ajoutent les familles du Sud de Madagascar qui souffrent de
secheresse chronique.



7.    Pres de 7 000 employvs du secteur public seraient au chomage suite au train de reformes. Des
formations et des stages de reconversion ainsi qu'une assistance sur le plan materiel leur sont
necessaires pour leur reinsertion professionnelle.
8.    En sus de ce qui a ete dit plus haut, notons que le taux d'accroissement de la population de
3% est un serieux handicap pour un relevement rapide du revenu par tete.
LES OBJECTIFS DU PROJET
9.    Les objectifs du projet: (i) d'entreprendre un programme d'actions d'urgence pour les groupes
defavorises, (ii) de renforcer l'aptitude du Gouvemement a suivre les conditions sociales et a elaborer
les politiques et programmes sociaux appropries, (iii) de faciliter l'ex6cution du programme
d'ajustement en renfoncant les institutions responsables pour sa mise en oeuvre.
10.   Pour la realisation de ces objectifs, le projet comprend trois parties:
(i).   le programme d'action sociale prioritaire qui comprend: a) un programme d'urgence de lutte
contre le paludisme, b) I'amelioration et l'expansion des programmes et services de planning
familial; c) les operations pilotes pour ameliorer la securite alimentaire; d) la rehabilitation de
routes selon des techniques a haute intensite de main d'oeuvre; e) I'appui au Minist&e de la
Population pour la coordination et l'information des ONGs; f) le programme de
redeploiement pour les salaries du secteur des entreprises publiques ayant perdu leur emploi a
la suite de la rationalisation du secteur;
(ii)   les actions liees a la dimension sociale de l'ajustement qui sont compos6es de: a) la creation
d'une cellule d'analyses a la Direction Generale du Plan pour appuyer les differents
minist&res dans la conception et le suivi des programmes sociaux; b) la realisation d'une
enquete permanente sur les menages afin de mesurer leurs conditions de vie; d'identifier les
groupes cibles necessitant des interventions et evaluer les effets de ces dernieres;
(iii)  I'appui a la gestion dconomique dans le but de faciliter la realisation des programmes
d'ajustement en finan,ant des etudes, des formations, I'assistance technique et les supports
logistiques relatifs a : a) la revision des procddures budgetaires, y compris, la preparation de
strategies sectorielles, de programmes d'investissements publics triennaux glissant et de
programmes des ddpenses publiques; b) la reforme des entreprises publiques; c) la mise en
place d'un fonds d'etudes pour la preparation , I'analyse et la supervision de programmes et
projets visant a l'aamelioration de la base de donnees economiques et sociales, a l'execution de
la politique d'ajustement economique, au ddveloppement de politiques sociales et a la
croissance economique.
11.   L'accord du credit PASAGE (1967-MAG) a ete signe entre la Republique de Madagascar et
l'Association Internationale de Developpement (IDA) en date du 15 D6cembre 1988. Initialement, la
date de l'achevement du projet est fixee au 31 Decembre 1993, mais deux prorogations ont e
accordees ce qui a renvoye la date de cl6ture au 30 Juin 1996. Un credit d'un montant de 17,1
millions de DTS a e  mis a la disposition du projet PASAGE. Les ministeres, departements et
institutions ci-apres sont charges initialement de l'execution des differentes parties du Projet:
- Ministere de la Sante: Partie A. I
- Ministere de l'Agriculture: Parties A.3 et A.4
- Ministeres des Travaux Publics: Partie A.5
- Ministere charge de la Population: Parties A.2 et A.6
- Ministere charge du Travail: Partie A.7
- Ministere charge des Finances: Partie C. I
- Primature: Partie C.2



- Direction Generale du Plan: Parties B.l et C.3
- Banque de Donnee de I'Etat: Partie B.2
EVALUATION DE L'EXECUTION TECHNIQUE ET FINANCIERE
12.   Pour le volet Sante, les objectifs du projet ainsi que les moyens a mettre en oeuvre sont
clairement definis et r6pondent aux priorites du Gouvernement qui veut eradiquer au plus vite
F'epidemie de paludisme. Ainsi, I'achat de 300 000 boites de 1000 comprimes de chloroquine a ete
entrepris sur fonds Suisse, tandis que le projet supporta l'achat de 45 tonnes de DDT., I'acquisition
de materiel de pulverisation au nombre de 500, de materiel bureautique, de 10 camionnettes tout
terrain et de 14 motocyclettes. Le recrutement et la formation des agents benevoles parmi la
population a ete entrepris pour la distribution des medicaments et pour informer la population sur
1'evolution de la maladie et les formes de lutte contre celle-ci. Le recrutement d'un expert pour
diriger les campagnes de pulverisation et d'agents pulverisateurs a ete entrepris.
13.   Le resultat de la campagne de lutte anti-paludique a e  probant, les cas de maladie ont
sensiblement diminue apres seulement deux a trois annees d'effort, baissant ainsi les taux de
mortalite et de morbidite. Grosso modo, les objectifs ont et atteints. Le point fort du programme a
et6 cette implication de la population dans la lutte contre la maladie par le recrutement des agents au
niveau meme des villages ce qui permet un acces plus facile aux medicaments et une facile diffusion
des messages. Pour une allocation de 540.000 DTS, le montant decaiss6 s'eleve a 418.855 DTS soit
un taux de decaissement de 77.6%.
14.   Le volet azriculture conceme la mise en place de l'operation pilote pour la securite
alimentaire par la creation des banques de cereales, I'etablissement d'associations d'epargnants
ruraux et petits elevages avicoles en milieu urbain pauvre, la commercialisation d'aliments
subventionnes, l'intervention nutritionnelle en faveur des enfants d'age prescolaire, la promotion de
nouvelles possibilites de cultures, l'etude sur le developpement de l'irrigation. Certaines realisations
ont eu les impacts voulus comme la creation des banques de cereales, l'appui semencier dans le Sud
de Madagascar (85 tonnes de haricots et 42 tonnes de mais). D'autres ont moins reussi comme
l'etablissement  d'associations d'epargnants ruraux , I'aviculture en   milieu urbain pauvre,
l'intervention nutritionnelle en faveur des enfants d'age prescolaire, les cantines populaires. Certaines
composantes de ce volet n'ont pu etre realisees comme la promotion de nouvelles possibilites de
culture, la promotion de la fabrication d'aliments nutritionnels, des etudes sur le developpement de
l'irrigation et sur la promotion des petits eleveurs, 1'enquete sur la distribution ciblee de produits
alimentaires. Pour une allocation de 1.170.000 DTS, le montant decaisse est de l'ordre de 1.153.139,
soit un taux de 98,6%.
15.   Concernant le volet HIMO, les objectifs de rehabiliter 700km de pistes rurales, la formation
des P.M.E. dans le domaine des travaux publics et gestion des entreprises et la creation d'emplois
temporaires ont et largement atteints puisque 902 km de routes ont 6te r6habilites. 1 545 900H/j
d'emplois temporaires ont ete crees, 189 P.M.E. ont et form6es et ont realise ces 902 kilometres. Ce
volet HIMO a permis aussi la rehabilitation d'infrastructures de base detruites par les cyclones dont
16 a Antananarivo, 7 A Fianarantsoa, 6 a Toamasina. Le projet a aussi finane6, a partir de ce volet, un
projet PNUD/FAO/MAG./88/014 concemant l'insertion professionnelle sur des terres nouvelles de
quelques 900 Ha de 114 Jeunes entrepreneurs. D'une maniere generale, le volet HIMO a eu des
impacts positifs, d'abord sur la qualite des travaux qui sont nettement superieurs par rapport aux
autres de memes contenances, sur le desenclavement des zones isolees, sur la creation d'emplois
temporaires et de distribution de revenu (3,5 milliards de FMG), sur la participation des collectivites
d6centralisees dans l'identification et mise en oeuvre des pistes ainsi que sur le m6canisme
d'entretien apres la rehabilitation, sur l'effet d'entrainement du projet HIMO, sur la formation des
petites entreprises de travaux publics. Le montant alloue A ce volet est de 7.210.000 DTS, les
decaissements s'el&ves a 5.760.365,88 DTS, soit un taux de 79,89%.



16.   Le volet Coordination des ONGs a pour objectifs l'amelioration de la base de donnees sur les
Organisations Non Gouvemementales operant a Madagascar et la creation et mise en fonctionnement
d'un systeme de coordination et d'informations des ONGs. Ces objectifs ont ete atteints au vu des
rdalisations qui concement la publication de manuel d'elaboration et gestion de projet (500
exemplaires), la publication de manuel de procedure de creation d'ONGs (100 exemplaires), la
publication de bulletin de liaison trimestriel pour les ONGs, la mise A jour du repertoire des ONGs,
l'elaboration de texte relatif aux lois sur les ONGs qui sera ratifie par l'Assemblee Nationale en
Novembre 1996. Sur un montant de 175.000 DTS, les decaissements s'elevent A 164.888 DTS soit un
taux de 93,9%.
17.   Le volet Programme de Reinsertion Professionnelle (PRP) prevoit l'etablissement et la mise
en oeuvre d'un fonds de redeploiement pour les 7000 salaries du secteur des entreprises publiques
ayant perdu leur emploi par la rationalisation du secteur, la creation et la mise en service d'un centre
charge d'offrir les services d'orientation, de placement d'information sur les possibilites de formation
pour ces salaries, et la mise en oeuvre de programmes de formation pour les travailleurs cibles. Le
programme a touche 22 entreprises publiques. Sur un public eligible de pres de 6393, 5125 salaries
furent inscrits au programme, 3673 individu ont recu une formation technique, 4219 personnes ont
re,u des dotations en materiel, I'auto-emploi realise est de 4219, tandis que l'emploi salarie ne
concerne que 188 personnes. En ddfinitif, 26% de l'ensemble ont reussi A creer un auto-emploi
remunerateur, le reste n'ont pas reussi A creer une activite remuneratrice durable. le transfert de
competence du projet d'appui MAG 88/015 qui a forme les services d6centralises du Ministere de
l'Emploi en matiere de reinsertion professionnelle a et effectif. Dans le processus de traitement de
ces salaries, 36 differents Centres de formation repartis dans tout Madagascar (agricole, elevage...)
ont travaille avec le PRP pour ameliorer la connaissance et le savoir-faire de ce public. La creation de
la cellule de gestion autonome du PRP , rattache au BNCPP , a permis de regler positivement le
probleme de rattachement institutionnel de cette composante.
L'allocation de credit pour ce volet est de l'ordre de 2.270.000 DTS, le montant decaisse est de
2.593.637,23 DTS soit un taux de decaissement de 114,26%.
18    Le volet Enquete permanente aupres des menages (EPM) est une composante de la partie B:
"Actions liees aux dimensions sociales de l'ajustement" du projet PASAGE. L'objectif etant de doter
le Gouvernement d'une capacite autonome et permanente de collecte, de traitement et d'analyse
statistique des donnees concernant le niveau et les conditions de vie des menages, permettant
d'identifier les groupes-cibles qui necessitent des interventions et evaluer les effets de ces demieres,
et d'observer le profil de la pauvrete. En matiere de realisation l'enqu8te sur terrain a ete terminee en
Septembre 1994.
Les activites d'apurement de la base des donnees de l'EPM ont ete executees et les donnees sont
disponibles. Pour l'etude du panier de la menagere 1993, pour le calcul de l'indice des prix de detail A
la consommation familiale A Antananarivo et les autres centres urbains les travaux ont ete confies au
projet MADIO (DIAL/ORSTOM). En Novembre 1995, la Direction de l'EPM a proced6 a la mise en
forme du Rapport principal de l'Enquete puis trois ateliers se sont succedds pour disseminer les
resultats. Notons la participation au siege de la Banque A Washington, de deux techniciens malgaches
(Directeur national et le Chef de Service traitement et analyse) de l'EPM pour la finalisation du
rapport d'evaluation de la pauvrete a Madagascar et la preparation du seminaire national sur la
pauvrete. Sur un montant alloue de 560.000 DTS, le montant decaisse est de 508.454 soit un taux de
90,8 %.
19    Le volet R6forme Budge taire a pour objectif l'obtention d'un outil de gestion fiable, efficace et
exploitable sur le plan international et qui permet d'avoir le maximum d'informations sur la gestion
financiere et budgetaire de l'etat. La nouvelle circulaire budgetaire, lan,ant la reforme budgetaire, a
ete diffusee en 1992. L'ensemble des gestionnaires a ete forme aux nouvelles techniques de gestion
en Novembre 1992. Des seances d'evaluation ont et organisees au cours de l'annee 1994 pour
detecter les eventuelles defaillances, erreurs ou incomprehensions rencontrees par les utilisateurs et



pour redresser ces defaillances. Sur le plan organisation des services d'ordonnancement, l'ouverture
de trois nouvelles circonscriptions financieres. La mise en application de la Reforme Budgetaire a
necessite une revision du cadre reglementaire regissant les Finances Publiques. Le systeme est
actuellement fonctionnel. II reste son application sur les Fonds de Contre valeur, les dons et aides, et
la mise en place d'un tableau de bord devant permettre son exploitation rationnelle. Son extension
sur les collectivites et les etablissement publics est envisagee. Le montant alloue A ce volet est de
l'ordre de 1.600.000 DTS les decaissements s'61kvent a 1.153.673 DTS soit un taux de 72 %.
20    le volet Delegation Generale du Gouvemement A la Privatisation a pour objectif la
rehabilitation et la restructuration des entreprises publiques. Une premiere campagne de privatisation
a ete menee jusqu'en fin 1993, mais l'absence de transparence et de politique recherchant l'adh&sion
du public a entache cette campagne. Sur les 90 entreprises publiques prevues, seulement 52 ont ete
privatisees ou liquidees et 22 liquidations annoncees ne sont pas encore closes ou meme entamees A
ce jour. Sur 42 milliards de FMG de produits attendus de la privatisation, 21 milliards de FMG
restent A recouvrer aupres des debiteurs; 21 milliards de FMG ont et verses aux liquidateurs, sur
lesquels 4 milliards ont e  reverses au Tresor Public. L'insuffisance de fondement legal des
operations de privatisation et les faiblesses du systeme institutionnel de mise en oeuvre n'ont pas
permis de legitimer cette campagne. Les activites de la DGGP ont ete suspendues en Decembre 1993.
La Commission Independante de Privatisation a pris le relais A partir de Novembre 1994., elle a pour
mission de faire une revue des privatisations dejA realisees, des obstacles et des problemes rencontres,
de proposer les structures et les methodes qui garantiraient A toutes les parties concemrs la plus
grande transparence et Y'efficacit6 maximale dans le programme de privatisation que le gouvernement
entend reprendre. Leurs travaux ont abouti sur des textes de loi relatifs A la privatisation que
l'Assemblee Nationale a ratifie en Juin 1996. Le montant alloue A ce volet est de l'ordre de 755.000
DTS. Le montant decaisse s'eleve A 714.931 DTS soit un taux de 94,69 %.
21.   Le volet Fonds d'Etudes concerne la creation et la mise en fonctionnement d'une cellule
d'analyse a la Direction Generale du Plan pour appuyer les differents Ministeres dans la conception et
le suivi des programmes sociaux, la preparation de strategies sectorielles, de programmes
d'investissements publics triennaux glissants et de programmes de depenses publiques, I'appui A
l'unite chargee de la mise en oeuvre du programme de depenses publiques et au service charge des
deboursements au sein du Ministere charge des Finances, I'etude, I'analyse et la supervision des
programmes et projet, et la formation. Les activites entreprise au niveau de ce volet pourrait &re
classer en cinq categories:
(i) les activites liees au fonctionnement meme du projet PASAGE;
(ii) les travaux d'inventaire et d'audit realises pour le compte de divers institutions et
organismes (BFV, inventaire du stock de vanille...)
(iii) les etudes proprement dites, embrassant plusieurs domaines et secteurs d'activites;
(iv) l'assistance technique et l'appui materiels pour le montage d'un programme
d'investissements publics et de programmes des depenses publiques;
(v) les activites de formation ou l'on distingue aussi bien les complements de formation
acquis A l'exterieur que les programmes de formation dispenses localement.
22.   Malgre les difficultes rencontre dans 1'execution du volet "Fonds d'etudes", des realisations
aux impacts positifs indeniables ont ete accomplies: la rationalisation du programme des
Investissements publics a ete effective; la programmation amelioree et le mecanisme de gestion et de
suivi du programme plus performant, en outre la diffusion de nombreux manuels pedagogiques ont
permis aux differents services de programmation des ministeres d'amnliorer la qualite de leur travail;
par ailleurs, la confection des programmes de Depenses Publiques a permis l'organisation d'une
gestion plus saine et plus rigoureuse des ressources publiques par la Direction Generale du Plan et la
Direction du Budget ; le programme de formation et de perfectionnement a connu un succes dans le
sens oui il a et concu et realise de facon minutieuse de maniere A ce que les connaissances acquises



puissent servir immediatement de base operationnelle aux travaux confies. Notons que 111 personnes
ont re,u une formation A l'etranger et que leurs acquis ont grandement contribue a la realisation des
objectifs du projet. D'une maniere generale, l'assistance technique a ete benefique au projet puisque le
transfert de connaissance a e  effectif, les nationaux ont progressivement pris la releve et continuent
les activites du projet. Le montant de credit alloue au volet "Fonds d'Etudes est de l'ordre de
2.190.000 DTS, le total des montants d6caisses est de 3.267.148,15 DTS soit un taux de
decaissement de' I'ordre de 149, 2 %;
23    Notons que des programmes prevus ont e partiellement ou totalement delaissees:
-(i) la partie B 1 relative A la creation et A la mise en fonctionnement d'une cellule charge de la
conception, de la coordination et du suivi des programmes sociaux A la Direction de la planification
sociale dont les raisons de la non-realisation ne sont pas mentionnees;
-(ii)le programme d'amdlioration des comptes nationaux a pris un retard considerable dans son
demarrage compromettant ainsi son execution;
-(iii)la privatisation de la BTM, malgre un contrat d'etude en cours de finalisation en 1992 n'a
pas ete suivi de realisation;
-(iv)de meme pour 1'etude relative A la liberalisation du transport aerien, les termes de
reference du projet ont etd transmis A la Banque Mondiale pour avis depuis 1992.
EVALUATION DE LA PROGRAMMATION ET DE LA STRUCTURE DE GESTION
24    Bien que l'evaluation initial du Projet a su cemer les differents problemes qui prevalent au
niveau de la societe malgache et que les objectifs du projet sont claires et precis, la conception et la
preparation du programme ont ete jugees moins satisfaisantes du fait de sa complexite, on denombre
9 agences d'execution, 35 composantes, 42 categories de depenses mais suites aux erreurs frequentes
commises dans les imputations des depenses par categories celles-ci furent reduites a 28. Certains
r6alisations sont decides en cours d'execution comme les dotations en materiels du volet PRP, la
rehabilitation des infrastructures de base detruites par les cyclones, le financement des projets
d'appui au PNUD , MAG/88/014 et MAG/88/015 sur l'insertion professionnelle sur des terres
nouvelles et la formation des services decentralises du Ministere de l'emploi.
25    Initialement, la gestion du projet a ete confie au Directeur General du Plan, mais vu ses
attributions habituelles et la complexite du projet, il n'a pu assurer pleinement la coordination des
actions des differents agences d'execution. Apres une suspension de quelques mois (Janvier A Mai
1992), le Bureau National de Coordination du Projet PASAGE (BNCPP)fut cree, il assure la
coordination des differents volets du Projet suivant les methodes administratives, financieres et
techniques appropriees, ainsi que la mise en place du systeme de gestion prive du projet. La creation
du BNCPP a entraine une nette amelioration de la gestion du projet aussi bien dans son execution
physique que dans son rythme de decaissement. Des reunions periodiques ont ete tenues avec les
differentes agences d'execution afin de mettre au point la coordination des actions A entreprendre et
d'evaluer l'avancement du projet en gendral. Un systeme comptable informatise a etd mis en place' au
BNCPP en 1993, mais ce systeme gagne A etre perfectionne. Un audit des comptes est faite chaque
annee. Un audit trimestriel des etats certifies de toutes les depenses engagees dans le cadre du projet,
appuie cet audit annuel.
26    Des le depart, le Projet s'annonce delicat et complexe du fait de sa vocation multisectorielle et
sa diversite dans les actions et dans 1'espace . Mais parmi les facteurs qui ont affecte l'execution du
projet, on peut mentionner , premierement, le contexte politique qui prevalait durant la phase de
demarrage du projet. Des periodes de troubles, marqu6es par des mouvements de contestations
populaires et de greves generales ont illustres I'annee 1991; une periode de transition s'en suivait de
1991 A 1993. Deuxiemement, la lenteur dans les procedures de passation de marche public.
Troisiemement, la defaillance de certains ex6cutants comme ces quelques entrepreneurs en travaux



publics (volet HIMO) et ces fournisseurs de materiels (volet PRP). Quatriemement, le manque de
vonlonte politique et de transparence pour le volet DGGP. Cinquiemement, I'application du
flottement de la monnaie a apporte quelques difficult6s au niveau des partenaires du projet. Pour le
volet HIMO, en particulier, des contraintes dans le mise oeuvre ont e  enregistrees comme la
dispersion des axes rehabilites engendrant des problmes de contr6le, l'insuffisance de formation des
PME sur la methode HIMO, la difficulte dans la gestion des materiels ou engins face au nombre des
PME et la disparite des travaux dans l'espace, les difficulte de recrutement de main d'oeuvre dans
certaines regions, le probleme d'insuffisance de materiels et d'equipements des PME; pour le volet
PRP, le marasme economique a affecte la rentabilite des micro-projets des publics trait6s en auto-
emploi, la disparite dans l'espace des publics traites rend difficile le contact et le suivi de ces publics.
27    Les forces du Projet PASAGE sont de divers ordres. Premierement, les agences d'execution
respectifs sont responsables des composantes du Projet qui leur sont attribuees, de l'identification des
travaux a la realisation, ce qui facilite la mise en oeuvre, le contr6le et le suivi. Deuxemement,
1'existence d'antenne dans les localites decentralises facilite la mise en oeuvre du projet (Directions
Regionales des Travaux Publics a Fianarantsoa et Toliara, cellules du PRP,. au niveau provincial).
Troisiemement, la qualite des prestations du Coordonnateur National du Projet et de son equipe qui
ont su faire face aux differentes contraintes et difficultes, des la creation du Bureau National de
Coordination des changements notables ont ete enregistrees tant sur le plan organisationnel que
technique, permettant le rattrapage des deux annees de retard.
28    D'une mani&re gen&ale, l'assistance technique a eu un impact positif puisque les nationaux
ont progressivement pris la releve et continuent les activites du projet. Neanmoins quelques
problmes meritent d'etre souleves. Premierement, certains experts se comportent comme des etres
superieurs en terres conquises et souvent des frictions apparaissent. Deuxiemement, le systeme de
remuneration des consultants nationaux en comparaison aux expatries est assez frustrant, a
competence egale, I'ecart des remunerations est phenomenal pour ne pas dire honteux, ce n'est pas
parce que le pays est pauvre et que les salaires y sont les plus bas du monde que des responsables de
projet se permettent d'imposer des derisoires remunerations, d6motivant ainsi les competences
nationales qui souvent abattent le gros du travail.
RECOMMANDATIONS
29    Sur le plan structurel et organisationnel, la definition prealable des missions, la stabilite de la
structure  de l'unite de management, ainsi que l'organisation strict du projet lui meme sont
indispensables pour une gestion saine et efficace. La formule Bureau National de coordination s'il
existe plusieurs agences d'execution est assez positive. Le renforcement de la capacite de gestion des
responsables de volets serait benefique au projet.
30    Sur le plan technique, en ce qui conceme le volet HIMO qui merite d'etre maintenu vu les
impacts positifs qu'il a obtenu, l'integration de la demarche participative dans la conception et la mise
en oeuvre des travaux pourrait resoudre bien de probleme socio-culturels et techniques, la capacite de
gestion et de travail des PME gagne a etre ameliore, I'assistance aux collectivites locales pour
l'entretien des pistes rehabilites doit etre renforcee. Pour le volet PRP, le partenariat avec les
entreprises est a developper pour ameliorer la forrnation-emploi, la mise en reseau du PRP avec
d'autres partenaires (autres projets, ONGs) est a renforcer
31    Les operations financees par d'autres organismes (PNUD, Cooperation Suisse, FAO...)
devraient etre refletees dans les etats financiers du Projet meme si ces fonds ne sont pas geres
directement par la Banque Mondiale. A l'avenir, des dispositions seront a prendre pour que les
operations financees conjointement avec les autres organismes puissent &re comptabilisees par
l'agence d'execution.



32    La mise en place d'un expert de la Banque mondiale responsable de l'execution des projets
et residant A Madagascar a ete benefique au projet , bien de problemes ont ete resolus sur place sans
se referer systematiquement au siege de la banque a Washington .Cette decentralisation est a
recommandee pour les projets futurs . De plus, les seminaires thematiques organises par la Banque,
dont la pertinences n'est plus A demontrer pour ameliorer la qualite des prestations, sont A renforcer.
II en est de meme pour les revues de portefeuille qui impliquent les experts de la Banque, les
responsables du projets, les agences d'executions , les ministeres et les collectivites decentralisees,
ainsi que les ben6ficiaires et les ONGs.






IBRD 20035RI
-12-                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12'
2 - Antsiranana
MADAGASCAR
Pov*d roads
Fovtes govoronrJes                                                                          '
__ _AiI.aottr.r noods                                                                |N  I l  
R a,d., eccwsib/le. e tof,e seiso.                                      tOSY4Brq<         h    rbilobe
No__ -p.rnon-.nt roads                                                    Hei..o    | .        4            +  Vshino,no
Roiitoodt                                                                            Abos   
A,"/#. soAoobohre
-   ~Rivers                                                                    K             
/e-0res it rIe                                                                                ' N     I r ANANA
4     Airport vso,
Ailroots f-fu- SJbv
m      Notiosol copitol                                                                             ln                -
Chef-fiotv de feritelv                                               n  ho> .                            noD
FoUonitoy borooritso  cpi                                                  J  Asot Antal'oh
I iomsl ,   oy,i .sO                                     '
_ _ In,ernotond.Sbol jnis                                     X                                             . 2) t < Mo rgonts.tro
Mahola'nao*           '           Pm,                    )I
dK ' n 6 ~Berg. . Mondrirsoro 
r  Son gLl O, it'>Monrpoy                                                              6'
1'r                                                                                                                                            16'~~~'1  4
A            ~~~~Anbotoboeny"  9' 
7'roop                      j Moevotonono              ATsrlomqon.  Soonlerano-Ivongoo       'nrosy;'
4' A,rbod.fototro
/ *                                                                                                             *ooeoeX -- )_{I 4 
)         ,.                                      [               4L~~~~~~~~~"I,
0,   '            /               Ankaiobn      AndozoroArd !...e                         Ats-,o...
\_ Anrsolovo  J             >       s           .L.'.J       mf    I .v
,                                                                  4-    b    d   a r"
4-    And1r-  os no                     Tom rtiosina
I                                 F  t h A         b   lor,
20'                                          2-   -   4- ,f.                  An, od/n
Q,                                                              6~~~~~~~~Tro~nodd  o~ o sitr nl a ivo kohbon
- Soav,nondr,ano                Vnon ory     nod
/                   ' Anisir       obe   e         ,F         - a rMohonorn
-, do-                            b                     '    '4oolorbo
/4-Mld      ohobo          oolbnd   ''-             Fon onz ,on
vj         '          X      >0,       ~~~~~~~Anrboro+,nondrohono0    Ambosltro  'JNosyVorkio
oA'bAmb oh in hos    ' 
t         @i    ~~~~Mon,o4-   *'           ,,,orodon                                     nj r
;,-    0,-                                  FKanaronEsoa                          a ns                       to      IO    2
TT nndvo         ,," 
''  Morombe   =                      B'   oerorono           zixfAmboovoo.d       - *f
24-                                                                                                     2'- ~4c-'                               o
-           Ano-da     -                toon                            o o
.-                             . - hsy  4    -   vohibeB         ,. tipono     KI10METERS 0     50    }00    S50   200
(   nokoroho j                        ~~~~~~~Vond,osoo0 4r5nU             MILBS 0          50          100
a           A.p-~~Soorha                                               Foofogo
this  MOP  dorri mt
TOaon y ru n     ,V -  -                                             tionooindrono 
~~ ~~ t 4           .                 A/,~~~dongr                       7 610r.t,=ANzANIA
oBrtaIniyrSod                            A ACse So
or                                                        Borokto         i         !  *J ) ch                  AFI         1
\   4   '    5                 .;~~~~Monont.nino                    -3bl    rOd:,I           Fq
Tebout,donee.                                                                                                           IS AZe.AND
thi  oor noori  r ixw    '   Xijt   [  >               //                            /         \   t          s~~~t'  ~   F
odrnoInatin on. and  anyr    <  Anipon,hy b            ' o                                                                                 DC       R
o heir inforrnof;on shown  '   '  '  <                                             ~~~~~~~~ZIMBABWE~ <{ O   AntoflonorivO
on ph0JontLi    p ^ort of      '                           Aboryy                                                        }e1         0  MADAC,A.,CAR
.tvhgot :Vhnars,.-  AnbyoiJ SOUTH\ 
or anyi e'oreenene' 
or acceptnc. of joel,XAFIC 
bow,drSiee.                                     <__                                                                     yzZ6N
AFRICA4, ~         DCiMSR  r9









IMAGING
Report No.: 16272    16272
Type:     ICR



