Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
6-   !                                           9  7 4?  Report No. 7410-MAG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT
October 27, 1988
Country Operations Division
South Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Re ion
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance of
their officiai duties. Ifs contents may not otherwlse be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT
CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit                          Malagasy Franc (FMG)
US$ 1.00                               FMG 1,450 (August 3, 1988)
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GOVERNMENT ADMINISTRATION
Fokolona Institutions
Fokotany              =       Village
Firaisam-pokontany    =       Group of Fokotany
(or Firaisana)                (Former Canton)
Fivondronam-pokolona  =       Group of Firaisana
(or Fivondr'nana)     =       (Former Sub-Prefecture)
Faritany              =       Group of Fivondronana
(Former Province)



FOR OMCLCL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADB      African Developmnent Bank
ADF      African Development Fund
BDE      National Statistical Institute (Banque des Données de l'Etat)
CATP     Public Works Training Center
CRI      Internal Reforw Committee
DGP      Directorate General of Planning (Directorate Générale du Plan)
EMSAP    Economic Management and Social Action Project
PAO      Food and Agriculture Organization
FISA     Fianakaviana Sambatra (Family Planning NGO)
FNS      Interagency Food and Nutrition Surveillance Program
HIMO     Haute Intensiti de Main-d'Oeuvre (High Labor Intensity)
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
IEC      Information, Education and Communication
ILO      International Labor Organization
LCB      Local Competitive Bidding
LDP      Letter of Development Policy
mCH      Maternal and Child Health
MGH      Ministry of Health
MPARA    Ministry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform (Ministère de
la Production Agricole et de la Réforme Agraire)
MPCSJS   Ministry of Population, Social Condition, Youth and Sports
MFOP     Ministry of Civil Service and Labor
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
PE       Public Enterprise
PEP      Public Expenditure Program
PIP      Public Investment Program
PPF      Project Preparation Facility
PSAC     Public Sector Adjustaient Credit
SDA      Social Dimensions of Adjustment
SET      Ex0sutive and Technical Secretariat (Secrétariat Exécutif et
Technique)
UNDP     United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF   United Nations Children's Fund
USAID    United States Agency for International Development
WFP      World Food Programme
WHO      World Health Organization
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



i -
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paze No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ......................    ......................       i
PART I.      THE ECONOMV AND THE ADJUSTMENT PROCESS   ...................         1
A.   Background .... ..........   ..... ...                          1
B.   Economic Developments in the 1980s ....1*....o.......           i
C.   Structural Adjustment Policies and Results ...........          3
D.   The Public Sector Adjustment Credit ..................          4
PART II.    IMPROVING THE SUSTAINABILITY 0F THE ADJUSTMENT PROCESS ....           6
A.   Government Policy in the Social Sectors                         6
B.   Identification of Disadvantaged and Vulnerable Groups.          7
C.   The Design of Interventions ....* ......................        8
D.   The Need for Technical Assistance ....................*e        9
PART III.   PROJECT DESCRIPTION . ..................................... .    10
A.   Objectives and Summary Description ....... ....* ......    10
B.   Social Action Program       ..     ......      .....il
(1)  Malaria Control Program ose**1..........o1il
<2)  Family Planning          .............. .      .14
(3)  Food Security ........... . .......    15
<4)  Targeted Employment Generation.................          16
(5)  Support to Non-Governmental Organizations .......    18
(6)  Redeployment Fund and Reemployment Programs              18
C.   Social Dimensions of Adjustment   ..................    20
D.   Economic Management Assistance.          ........              22
(1)  Public Expenditure Reform .......o**.*....o......        22
(2)  Public Enterprise Reform.......................          24
(3)  Study Fund       .. ............. ............    25
PART IV.    PROJECT hDMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION .................    26
A.   Project Cost and Financing. ....................               26
(1)      Cost   .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
(2)  Financing .......  *   ......26
(3)  IDA Financing .... .O.. ........        ............    27
(4)  Retroactive Financing       ..............               27
B.   Project Implementation and Procurement ..............    27
(1)  Project Implementation...........                        27
(2)  Procurement .......................    29
C.   Disbursements ........ . ..............    30
D.   Accounting, Auditing and Reporting Requirements ......    32
(1)  Accounts and Audits........                              32
(2)  Reporting and Monitoring       ............    32



- ii. -
Page No.
PART V.      PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS  .....          ....................       33
A.   Benefits  ......................................** ......    33
B.   Risks      ...... . ..... ........................**. *....    34
PART VI.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ..................             35
ANNEXES
I.   Main Economic Indicators, 1983-87 ...      ..........., ....    37
II.   Expenditures by the Ministry of Health, 1977-87 ......    38
III.   Technical Note on the Social Sectors in Madagascar ...    39
IV.   Letter of Development Policy .........................    50
V.   Projected Population Size and Growth .................    54
VI.   Food Availability ....  ..0  ........55
VII.   List of Documents in the Project File           .....     ..    56
VIII.   Structure of Rural Employment, 1986 ............s.s...    57
IX.   Study Funds Termi of Reference of
Studies AlreaKiy Approved                     .      ..    58
MAP                IBRD No. 20035



iii -
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Beneficiaries:   Ministry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform,
Directorate General of Planning, Ministry of Finance and
Economy, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Civil Service and
Labor, National Statistical Institute, Ministry of
Population, Social Condition, Youth and Sports, Prime
Ministry, and Ministry of Public Works
Amount:           SDR 17.1 million (US$22.0 million)
Terms:            Standard IDA
Oblectives:       The project aims at: (i) initiating a program of emergency
actions for disadvantaged and vulnerable groups; (ii)
reinforcing the capacity of the Government to monitor
social conditions and design social policies and programs;
and (iii) facilitating implementation of the structural
adjustment program by strengthening the capacity of key
institutions for economic management.
Descriptions      The project will have three major componeits.  (i) A
social action progrnm consisting of: (a) vn emergency
malaria control program; (b) expansion ot family planning
services by Fianakaviana Sambatra (FISA), a local non-
governmental organization (NGO); (c) assistance to the
Ministry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform
(MPARA) with the preparation and implementation of pilot
projects in the food security area; (d) financing of
labor-intensive road works in targeted areas; (e) support
to the Ministry of Population for coordinating the NGOs;
and (f) a redeployment program for workers laid off as a
result of public enterprise reform. (ii) A program to
strengthen the Government's administrative capacity for
identifying, preparing, implementing and monii ,ring
medium- and long-term targeted social programs, in
particular by setting up permanent household surveys and
establishing appraisal capabilities for food security and
poverty alleviation projects. This component would be
carried out in cooperation with the Bank's Africa region-
wide Social Dimensions of Adjustment (SDA) project. (iii)
Financing short-term technical assistance, studies,
training and logîstical support fors (a) reform of the
budget process, including civil service expenditures, and
preparation of a broader program of public expenditure
reform; (b) public enterprise reform; and (c)
establishment of a study fund to facilitate preparation of
the next phase of adjustment.



- IV -
Benefitss        The proposed Economic Management and Social Action Project
(EMSAP) would support the Government's efforts to improve
social conditions and facilitate implementation of the
Government's structural adjustment program by addressing
the most pressing social problems and strengthening the
administratior's capacity to manage the economy. The
expected short-term benefits include increased
sustainability of the Government's adjustment policies
until growth achieves momentum by: (i) bett'r meeting the
basic needs of the targeted population in terms of health,
nutrition and employment opportunities; and (ii)
facilitating the redeployment of workers made redundant by
the public enterprise reform, while speeding labor market
adjustment. Over the medium term, the proposed project
would lay the basis for: (i) developing targeting
mechanisms for use in designing and implementing policies
that take both economic and social factors into account;
(ii) redefining the respective roles of the Goveriment and
other institutions (such as NGOs) in the delivery of
social services; (iii) improving the delivery of family
planning services; and (iv) strengthening the Governmert's
capacity for macroeconomic management.
Risks:           The complexity of the program is the mair risk, given the
limited institutional capacity of the Malagasy
administration. Another risk relates to tbe accuracy of
the targeting mechanisms used in designing the project. A
third one is whether the Government will be able to ensure
that program assistance is limited to the intended
beneficiaris.  The first risk is reduced by the project's
design, which entails lndependent components to be
implemented by the agencies that actively participated in
their design and preparation. Necessary technical
assistance has been agreed to and will be financed under
the project. The second risk is minimized by the
diversification of the intervention portfolio and by
built-in provisions to improve the targeting mechan'.sms.
The third risk will be addressed by periodie reviews, both
by the Government and IDA, of the project's activities,
and the reporting and auditing arrangements for each
component of the project.



- v.-
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND SOCIAL ACTION4 PROJECT
COST TABLE/b
USO milliong                  Cofinanoing        Coordlnated Flnonclng
Local  Forex  Total   Gov.  IDA  ADB  ADOITA   Suies   UNa  P   Otheru/à  Total
SOCIAL ACTION PROGRAM       14.41  12.64  27.06   4.46 14.22  0.00   0.0e     4.71   1.82   1.00    27.05
Malaria Componont         2.18   7.32   9.50  1.40  1.0  - -               4.71  0.26    1.80       9.60
Famlly Planning          0.47   0.36  0.8R   -    -    _                   - _.0                    0.88
Food Security             1.00   1.60   2.60   0.16  2.36  -     -         -      -       -         2.60
Targeted Employnwnt      4.06   2.48   6.65   0.02  6.21  -      -         -      0.6    -          6.68
Support to NGO*          0.05   0.16   0.20   0.01  0.19  -      -         -      -       -         0.20
R.deploy. Fund/Roemploy.  6.66   0.84   7.49   2.88  4.17  -     -         -       .44    -         7.49
SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF
ADJUSTIENT                   1.48   1-60   2.98   0.06 0.94  0.00   0.00      0.00   1.90   0.00       2.98
Social Projectu EvLl.    0.47   0.40   0.87   -    -    -        -         -      0.87    -         0.87
Hous.hold Survoys         1.01   1.10   2.11   0.06  0.94  -     -         -      1.11   -          2.11
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT         2.80   8.18  10.92   0.08  6.84  2.00   2.00      0.00   .00   e.00    10.92
Public Finance            1.04   8.73   4.76   0.04  8.10  1.62   -        -      -       -         4.76
Psiblic Ent.rprius      0.86   1.60   2.46  0.08  2.48  -       -         -      -       -         2.46
Economic Studios         0.90   2.80   8.70   0.01  1.81  0.88   2.00      -      -       -         8.70
TOTAL PROJECT COST          18.68  22.27  40.96  4.60 22.00  YaU    EUW       zig   EU    TU" X
FINANCING PLAN
US$
millions        Z
IDA                 22.00         53.7
ADB                   4.00          9.8
Swiss Coop.           4.75        11.6
UNDP                  3.80          9.3
GOM                   4.60        11.2
Othersla              1.80         4.4
TOTAL                40.95       100.0
la Includes WHO (US$0.1 million), UNICEF (US$0.3 million), Italy (US$0.5 million),
Japan (US$0.2 million) and France (US$0.7 million).
lb Net of taxes, which are estimated at US$6.1 million equivalent.



DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT
PART I. THE ECONOMY AND THE ADJUSTMENT PROCESS
A.  BACKGROUND
1.01     With a population of 10 million growing at 3 percent a year and a
per capita income of US$225 in 1987, Madagascar is one of the poorest
countries in the vorld. In terms of its economic record, it experienced
modest growth from independence in 1960 to 1972, stagnation from 1972 to
1980, a sharp deterioration between 1980 and 1982, and finan^ial
stabilization with limited econom4c growth from 1983 to date. (The main
macroeconomie indicators for 1983-87 are shown iti Annex. I.)
1.02     The poor economic performance of the 1970s stemmed largely from
inappropriate economic policies, which emphasized a much increased role for
the public sector, with industrialization as the central objective,
egriculture in a sutpporting role, nationalization of foreign-owned
e.iterprises, extensive consumer subsidies, and pervasive controls over
private economic activity. Nevertheless, until 1978, the Government also
pursued cautious financial policies that kept the fiscal deficit low, held
the balance of payments in approximate equilibrium and resulted in a debt
service ratio of only 4 percunt.
1.03     Between 1978 and 1980, the Government embarked on a policy of
massive public investment. It vas poorly coordinated, concentrated on
economically unviable projects, and was financed mainly with external
borrowing. This policy, combined with declining terms of trade and
stagnant domestic revenues, produced a fiscal deficit of over 18 percent of
gross domestic product (GDP) in 1980, an inflation rate of 30 percent, a
decline of 10 percent in real GDP from 1980 to 1982, and a large increase
in the external debt burden that severely constrains economic recovery.
B. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS IN THE 19809
1.04     In July 1980, the Government initiated measures aimed at financia'
stabilization, and from 1982 onwards it reinforced them, with IMF
assistance. From 1981 to 1986, policy adjustment centered largely on
demand management. During this period, the fiscal deficit was reduced
substantially (from 15 percent of GDP to 4 percent), mainly by lessening
cxpenditures. While increasingly the Government financed that lower
deficit wvth foreign loans, they vere on concessional terms.
1.05     Largely as a result of these developments, the annual expansion of
domestic credit fell sharply, and annual inflation dropped from about 30
percent in 1981-82 to about 13 percent in 1983-86. On the external side,
the current account deficit was cut almost in half from its level of about
US$425 million in 1981. With exports stagnating and scheduled external



- 2 -
interest payments almost doubling, the brunt of the adjustment fell on
importe, which dropped by more than half in real terma since 1982. Real
GDP, which had contracted by 10 percent between 1980 and 1982, started
growing again in 1983, but per capita GDP continued to decline because of
the fast population growth.
1.06     Economic developments in 1987 were disappointing, mainly because
of exogenous factors and in spite ocf considerable policy improvements,
particularly in the external and domestie sectors. Despite good
performance by non-traditiconal exports, exports as a whole fell by about 15
percent in SDR terms, largely because of unfavorable developments in the
world prices for coffee, the country's major export commodity. Imports
also declined for the sixth consecutive year, reaching less than half the
1981 level in real terms. Because of these external developments, fiscal
revenues were lower than foreseen in the stand-by arrangement with the IMF.
However, prudent monetary management led to inflation lower than forecast,
even with a major devaluation in May-June 1988 (46 percent in foreign
currency terms), and the expenditure program remained broadly on track.
The performance criteria of the stand-by arrangement with the IMF were met.
On the other hand, GDP grew by only an estimated 1.4 percent in 1987, and
there was a resultant further decline in per capita income.
1.07     The year 1987 was a period of transition, during which many of the
policy prerequisites for sustained growth were put into place. However,
they produced only a limited initial supply response. The principal
reasons were, in addition to infrastructural bottlenecks and a gen,.al
climate of uncertainty, a further decline in the terms of trade, continued
administrative restrictions and the controls over exports. There were also
problems with limited credit and its inappropriate allocation. The credit
problems in turn derived largely from the poor financial condition of the
public enterprises (PEs) and the ensuing precarious state of the domestic
banking system.
1.08     As a result of the success of the Government's stabilization
policies in the first half of the eighties, the fiscal, monetary ana
external current account situation in Madagascar has been restored to about
the pre-1980 level, with the exception of external debt. However,
Madasgascar has experienced a decline in imports more severe than that of
any other country in the Special Program of Action for heavily indebted
African countries. Other problems include a low level of utilization of
productive capacity, sluggishness of domestic revenue and the worsening of
social indicators. Necessary cuts in real public expenditures have
entailed sharp declines in the real wages of the civil service, in
development expenditures and in the goods and services needed for current
Government operations. What economic growth has occurred since 1983 has
been slower than population growth and has thus failed to compensate for
the deterioration in 1980-82 and stagnation of the 1970s. Social
conditions have continued to worsen. Per capita real income is today about
20 percent lower than in 1980 and about one-third lower than in 1975.



- 3 -
C. STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT POLICIES AND RESULTS
1.09     After several years of progress in stabilizing the economy, the
Government turned its attention to restructuring the economy through
supply-oriented measures after 1985. However, it was not prepared to
undertake structural adjustment simultaneously across all sectors.
Instead, it pursued a more cautious reform strategy addressing structural
distortions sector by sector, based on their importance, beginning with
industry, moving on to agriculture and the trade and exchange rate regimes
and then, with support from the Bank's Public Sector Adjustment Credit
(PSAC) approved by the Executive Directors in June 1988, on to a broader
agenda that lncludes public sector reform.
1.10     In industry, in 1985 the Government eliminated most ex-factory
price controls and reduced the controls on profit margins. It also
improved the quality of public investment in manufacturing; eliminated the
export taxes on manurmctured products; and promulgated a new investment
code. IDA supported this effort with an Industrial Sector Adjustment
Credit (ISAC) in FY86. In 1987, the Government-owned banking sector
tightened credit to loss-making public enterprises, a step that led some
unviable units to close. In parallel, the Government undertook a series of
studies to determine the viability of the public enterprise and financial
sectors.
1-..1    In agriculture, a number of institutional improvements had been
achieved by 1985, with support from IDA project lending. Moreover, in the
context of the IMF-supported stabilization programs, the consumer subsidies
on rice (Madagascar's main staple) had been eliminated. Building on these
improvements, the Government freed rice marketing and eliminated the
monopsony of state agencies in 1986. Partly as a result of these reforms,
and partly as a result of good wetrther, the country moved in two years from
a heavy dependence on rice importa to near self-sufficiency, and, in years
of favorable weather, it may soon become a net exporter of rice once again.
IDA supported these reforme with an Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
(ASAC) in FY86.
1.12     The sectoral policy improvements in industry and agriculture could
not result in a lasting supply response as long as the external trade and
exchanRe regime continued to be dominated by quantitative restrictions and
an overvalued exchange rate.   Thus, in 1987, the Government moved to
establish a market-determined trade and foreign exchange allocation regime.
The measures included: (i) a large devaluation totaling 46 percent in
foreign currency terms (May-June 1987); (ii) replacement of the
quantitative import restrictions, which were being used for protective
purposes, with a simplified tariff structure (January 1988); and (iii)
implementation of a market-determined allocation system for foreign
exchange for importe, called the open general license (OGL) system (July
1988). IDA supported these reforms with the Industry and Trade Policy
Adjustment Credit (ITPAC) in FY87.
1.13     In recent years, the Government has continued to improve the
sectoral allocation of public investment and the quality of projects
selected. The share of public investment for agriculture corresponds more
closely to the economic importance of the sector; expenditures on



- 4 -
rehabilitation and maintenance, particularly of transport, have been
emphasized; and the coordination and management of public investment have
been tightened significantly. In its evaluation of the public investment
programs (PIPs) for 1987 and 1988, the Bank rated them favorablys the
programs are seen as consistent with a realistic and growth-promoting
macroeconomic framework, the sectoral allocation is appropriate, the
quality of investment expenditures is generally good, and the structure of
financing is sound.
1.14     Performance in the social sectors has been less than satisfactory
overall. The 25 percent decline in per capita income over the last 15
years has severely affected ail segments of the population, but most
significantly the vulnerable groups that can least afford a fall in living
conditions. As a result of the high population growth rate and cuts in
public expenditures, per capita public expenditures for social services and
health have fallen 19 percent and 40 percent, respectively, since 1977
(Annex II). Together with a less than optimal allocation of resources
within the social sectors, these cuts have seriously hampered the delivery
of education and health services. In the case of essential drugs,
oligopolistic distribution systems, combined with the substantial
depreciation of the real effective exchange rate, have further limited
access by the population. Rapid shifts in the rural/urban terms of trade
because of increased incentives to producers, together with a sharp decline
in the real wages of civil servants, while benefiting the bulk of the
Malagasy population, have adversely affected urban dwellers. As a result
of these developments, the indicators of human suffering, such as the
incidence of malnutrition, malaria and the number of families without
shelter, have risen in the last decade. (Annex III presents a more detailed
analysîs of the social sectors in Madagascar.) Finally, the public
enterprise reform program now underway is expected to have a further
negative impact on public sector employment in the short term.
D.  THE PUBLIC SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
1.15     The current phase of the Government's adjustment program centers on:
(iM    reform of the budgetary process to raise the efficiency of
allocation and utilization of Governnent resources;
(ii)    streamlining of the parastatal sector to concentrate public
resources on activities that are economically viable and that
belong in the public domain;
(iii)    reform of the cèmmercial banking system, including opening it
to private capital, to improve its competitiveness and
efficiency; and
(iv)    removal of administrative obstacles to the expansion and
diversification of exports, including elimination of the
state monopolies over traditional export crops.



- 5 -
This program is supported by the PSAC, an IMF stand-by arrangement, and
coordinated, quick-disbursing assistance from the African Development Bank
(ADB) (on African Development Fund [ADF] terms) and a large number of
bilateral donors. (The content and phasing of the Government's program are
described in the Report and Recommendation of the President on the PSAC
[Report No. 4780-MAGI of June 10, 1988.)
1.16     The structural reforms outlined above are complex and it will take
three to four years to implement them effectively. During this period, GDP
growth is expected to continue improving gradually and to overtake
population growth. Over the medium term, the reforms now underway will
have an important positive overall social impact. At the same time,
however, initiation of measures to improve, in the short term, the
condition of the groups that have suffeted the most from the 15 years of
economic decline would significantly enhance the sustainability of the
adjustment process. Providing this assistance requires adopting a social
policy to address thc problems of the most disadvantaged and vulnerable
groupa. Moreover, a precondition for improved social conditions over the
medium term is the resumption of growth in GDP and per capita income, which
can only be achieved if the Government's program is implemented
successfully. This requires changes in the administration's core
instruments for macroeconomic management, including in-depth changes in the
system for programming public expenditures, the management of investments
in state-owned enterprises and the structure of the financial sector.
Recognizing these needs, the Government has decided to prepare an action
program to improve the sustainability of the adjustment process by adopting
transitory social policies and by strengthening its institutional capacity
to implement the reform measures effectively. The proposed EMSAP would
support the implementation of the action program.



- 6 -
PART II. IMPROVING THE SUSTAINABILITY OF THE ADJUSTMENT PROCESS
A. GOVERNMENT POLICY IN THE SOCIAL SECTORS
2.01     The Government has detailed the principles, guidelines and
criteria underlying its social policy in the Letter of Development Policy
(LDP) supported by the PSAC (the social section of the LDP is presented in
Annex IV). In the same document, the Government recognizes the need for
technical assistance to implement the adjustment program.
2.02     The Government intends to pursue a combination of appropriate
fiscal, monetary and exchange rate policies to restore sustained growth in
per capita income, a prerequisite for alleviating poverty. However, the
Government recognizes that growth in per capita income will not be
sufficient, in itself, to alleviate poverty in the medium and long term.
Therefore, in parallel with the macroeconomic and sectoral policy reforms,
it intends to implement a social policy designed to stimulate equitable
growth in the medium and long term; it also intends to pursue actions that
will provide the poorest groups with greater access to income-generating
assets and employment opportunities, so as to ir.crease the productivity of
physical assets and human resources. Formulation of a national population
policy and population-related activities are also needed to curb the
population growth to a level that does not wipe out the benefits of
economic recovery. The Government further plans to implement measures to
protect the most vulnerable groups that have been particularly affected by
the shrinking of incomes in the past few years. While these households may
not all fall into the category of most needy at the present time, ignoring
the problems they face could impede the adjustment process.
2.03     To ensure that the actions to assist disadvantaged and vulnerable
groups reinforce the achievements of the adjustment process, the Government
will apply the following principles in implementing its social policy:
(i)   it will examine the outlays for social action as part of the
general review of public expenditures being undertaken under
the PSAC, particularly in the context of the reformulation of
expenditure priorities and allocation of resources.
(ii)   it will develop mechanisms for targeting beneficiary groups as
realistically and specifically as possible, without, however,
creat.4ng a cumbersome administrative structure that impedes
efficiency. Regional social organizations$ non-governmental
organizations (NGOs) and decentralized local authorities will
be employed as implementing agents wherever possible.
(iii)   it will work toward cost minimization by carrying out
costtbenefit analyses of proposed activities. This should
result in activities being limited in time, better programmed
and budgeted, and carefully monitored.



(iv)   it will emphasize complementarity with other programs and
projects in the social sectors and integrate proposed
emergency poverty alleviation actions into medium-term
development programs.
B. IDENTIFICATION OF DISADVANTAGED AND VULNERABLE GROUPS
2.04     Using readily available information, the Government and IDA, in
cooperation with other multilateral and bilateral agencies, have assessed
recent developments in the social sectors, with particular emphasis on the
impact of economic policy on population, health, food security and
employment (Annex III presents a summary of this assessment).
2.05     The assessment suggests that the stabilization and structural
adjustment policies adopted since the early 1980s have succeeded in
restoring GDP growth and improving substantially the terms of trade of the
rural sector, which is the source of income of over 80 percent of the
population. This turnaround in performance has, however, not been
sufficient to improve overall social conditions because per capita GDP has
continued to decline, albeit at a slower pace. As a result, a larger
segment of the population is living in poverty and has insufficient income
to meet its basic needs, as reflected in the high rates of malnutrition,
disease and mortality. In addition, the distributional impact of
adjustment and stabilization policies has noet been uniform, and the
consequences of the adjustment policies have affected different segments of
the population differently. The following paragraphs identify the groups
that are at present considered most vulnerable and most disadvantaged.
2.06     In the health sector, an estimated 2.5 million people (mainly
women, children and certain populations in the high plateaux) are at risk
from malaria, which is the leading cause of mortality and morbidity in
Madagascar and has reached epidemic proportions in parts of the country.
The causes of the resurgence of malaria are complex and include
insufficient access to drugs and problems with distribution, insufficient
public information about the disease and its treatment, and the abandonment
of spraying of insecticide.
2.07     In the area of food security, an estimated 11,000 people (social
cases involving abandoned children, handicapped, etc.) have virtually no
means of income.  In spite of the successful rice liberalization program
adopted by the Government, regional pockets of malnutrition remain, and
there is evidence of a marked decline in the nutritional status of Malagasy
children. In addition, a substantial number of households, mainly in the
arid south, suffer chronic food insecurity because of the poor agricultural
endowment and lack of employment in the off-peak agricultural season.
2.08     An estimated 7,000 public enterprise employees will be laid off by
the public enterprise reform program.  While the IMI' has agreed to provide
specific budgetary resources under the sixth stand-by arrangement to
finance severance pay for these workers, the employment impact is l'&kely to
put an unbearable strain on training facilities if additional assistance is
not forthcoming to facilitate reemployment.



- 8 -
2.09     In addition to the groupe identified above, the high population
growth rate of 3 percent a year is a severe handicap for the restoration of
per capita income growth (Annex V).
2.10     The targeting, based on currently available information, dees not
addres8 a8l the social dimensions of the past decline and present
adjustment. By identifying the most pressing social problems, it is,
however, a significant step in the right direction. The Government is
committed to strengthening systematically, over the next three years, its
capacity to monitor and address social issues, policies and programs within
its overall economic policy.
C. THE DESIGN OF INTERVENTIONS
2.11     Based on the above initial targeting and the principles outlined
in t1'e LDP, the Government, IDA and other multilateral agencies (in
particular the United Nations Development Programme [UNDP], the United
Nations Children's Fund [UNICEF] and the International Labor Organization
[ILO]) ha'-e identified and appraised a preliminary list of social
interventions to address, in the short term, the plight of the most
disadvantaged and vulnerable groups, based on their cost-effectiveness,
their timeliness and their implementability. Part III describes the types
of interventions included in the proposed program, after a careful
screening to discard those that did not meet the agreed upon criteria or
whose implementation would have required major institutional reform.
2.12     The selected interventions are a part of the Governmentes
adjustment strategy and would be supported by the proposed EMSAP. The
project would provide assistance in designing, testing and implementing
pilot actions during the period of transition between old and new policies.
These actions, including some of an experimental nature, would evolve into
medium- and long-term programs, to be integrated into the public
expenditure programming cycle. Some of the measures are targeted to the
groups more directly affected by the transition (lay-offs of public
enterprise employees), while others aim at initiating programs in problem
areas (malaria control and population growth), which, although not
resulting from the adjustment process, have a definite impact on its long-
term success. As part of its atrategy, the Government sees the project as
an important contribution to the sustainability of the adjustment process:
on the social side, by addressing some often-voiced concerns on the
consequences of the new policies; on the technical side, by providing the
necessary expertise to help design and implement key economic and social
measures. All the interventions proposed in the social action program
would ultimately be integrated into IDA operations under implementation
(the Seventh Highways project) or under preparation (population and health,
food security, education and training, and the environment).
2.13     Strengthening of the Government's capacity to target disadvantaged
and vulnerable groups, as well as its capacity to address social issues
within its overall economic policy, would be supported in cooperation with
the Region-wide Social Dimensions of Adjustment (SDA) project.



-9-
D. THE NEED FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
2.14     The Goverrunent recognizes that its institutional capacity for
economic management is relatively weak. Nevertheless, it has been able to
accomplish major macroeconomic improvements since 1982 because the
stabilization and adjustment policies have entailed mainly discretionary
measures whose implementation did not require much technical expertise. In
addition, sectoral adjustment operations supported by IDA have generally
included, where necessary, technical assistance to help the Government with
implementation. Successful implementation of the structural adjustment
policies supported by the recently approved PSAC will, on the other hand,
require a marked improvement in administrative efficiency and a pool of
expertise, some of which is not available in Madagascar. To a large
extent, the foeus of policies is on shifting from stroke-of-the-pen
macroeconomic measures to their long-term implementation in delicate areas
such as public enterprises and budgetary reform that require a more
austained approach.
2.15     This fine-tuning of economie management requires increasingly
accurate economic data. Because of the severe across-the-board cuts in
public expenditures since the early eighties, the Government's capacity to
collect and analyze key economic data has deteriorated markedly.
Particularly in the social sectors, its ability to assess the effects of
past policies as part of the design and implementation of the structural
adjustment program over the medium to long term needs to be reinforced.
2.16     Because Madagascar can count on a satisfactory pool of local
consultants, the need for external experts should be limited to short-term
positions, with a few exceptions. Training of Government staff sould be
integral to the assistance, and equipment and logistical support would be
provided where necessary. To the extent possible, the participation of
local firms will be encouraged.



- 10 -
PART III. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A.  OBJECTIVES AND SUMMARY DESCRIPTION
3.01     Project History.  The January 1988 Consultative Group meeting for
Madagascar praised the country for the achievements of the last five years.
It also expressed concern over the trend in the social indicators, and the
point vas made that the Government needed to strengthen its capacity to
manage the adjustment program. At that time, the Government requested that
the donor community provide it with assistance in identifying and
implementing an emergency social action program to meet the basic needs of
disadvantaged groups and in reinforcing its capacity to manage the
adjustment program. In February 1988, IDA fielded a joint preparation
missior. with the ADB, and in April and August 1988 it carried out, vith
Swiss cooperation, appraisal and post-appraisal missions, respectively.  In
order to speed up the preparation of the various components, a project
preparation facility (PPF) for US$350,O00 vas approved in July 1988. A
second PPF for US$1,150,000 was discussed during negotiations.
3.0;`    Project Objectives.  The proposed Economic Management and Social
Action Project (EMSAP) aims at: (i) initiating a program of emergency
actions for disadvantaged and vulnerable groups; (ii) reinforcing the
capacity of the Government to monitor social conditions and design social
policies and programs; and (iii) facilitating 'mplementation of the
adjustment program by strengthening key institutions.
3.03     Prolect Description.  The EMSAP would have three major componentst
(i)   a s^cial action program consisting of: (a) an emergency
malaria control program; (b) expansion of family planning
services by Fianakaviana Sambatra (FISA), a local NGO; (c)
assistance with the preparation and implementation of a food
security policy; (d) financing of labor-intensive r&.ad works
in targeted areas; (e) suipport to the Ministry of Population
for coordinating NGOs; and (f) a redeployment program for
workers laid off as a result of the public enterprise reform;
(ii)   support for strengthening the administrative capacity for
identifying, preparing, implementing and monitoring medium-
and long-term social programs, in particular through setting
up a system of permanent household surveys and establishing
appraisal capabilities for food security and poverty
alleviation projects; and
(iii)   economic management assistance to support implementation of
the adjustment program by financing short-term technical
assistance, studies, training and logistical support relating
to: (a) reform of the budget process, including civil service
expenditures and preparation of a broader budgetary reform
program; (b) public enterprise reform; and (c) establishment
of a fund for studies needed to prepare the next phase of the
adjustment process.



- il -
B. SOCIAL ACTION PROGRAM
(1) Malaria Control Program
3.04     All forms of malaria are endemic in Madagascar, with widespread
prevalence of the p. falciparum parasite, the greatest health hazard.
Malaria has had a very serious impact on the health of the population.
Overall, it is now the leading cause of death reported to the health
authorities and the leading cause of hospital admissions. In the tropical
coastal areas, transmission is continuous. Although all population groups
in the zone are at risk and may suffer several attacks a year, mortality
rates are highest among children under five years of age and pregnant
women. In the central high plateaux, malaria is seasonal, with a peak
during the November to May rainy season. During the 1950s and the 1960s,
an intensive program of insecticide spraying and drug prophylaxis for
children and pregnant women waa successfully undertaken in this region.
By 1972, this effort had eliminated the principal disease vector and
reduced the incidence of malaria to levels where, according to the World
Health Organization (WHO), it was no longer a public health threat. Since
then insecticide spraying has been abandoned and the chemo-prophylaxis
campaigns sharply reduced. As a result, the vector has returned to its
former habitat. As the population has either lost or never acquired
resistance to malaria, the resurgence of the vector has led to local
outbreaks with high mortality rates in all age groups. The number of cases
reported to the health authorities almost doubled in each of the last five
years, while related mortality in MOH facilities has risen several-fold.
Given that the spread of the disease presents the potential for a serious
epidemic, the Government appealed to the donor community for emergency
assistance in August 1988. In the arid south, transmission is irregular,
vith outbreaks following significant rainfall.
3.05     Treatment of cases of malaria is severely constrained by limited
access (50 percent of the population) to the health infrastructure, a
ahortage of anti-malaria drugs at Ministry of Health (MOH) facilities, and
the short supply and high cost of drugs in private pharmacies and depots
(outside the capital). A high proportion of cases, especially in rural
areas, go untreated, the result being deaths tiat could have been prevented
and longer periods of disability. Recent indicators point to low but
increasing levels of vector resistance to anti-malaria drugs because of the
extensive use of chloroquine for prophylaxis and recourse to insufficient
drug dosages during treatment. The evidence points to the need for prompt,
vigorous efforts to control likely attacks of the disease, to combat the
vector, and to educate people on how to minimize contact with the vector
and on following the complete course of treatment.
3.06     The EMSAP would support the objective of the malaria control
program of reversing the dramatic increase in mortality and morbidity
through: (i) development of an integrated, phased malaria control program
and (ii) implementation of emergency actions to treat and monitor the
disease, combat the vector and inform the population on ways to reduce
exposure. Project activities would be followed up by a national program
for endemic disease control, to be included in a future population, health
and nutrition IDA project, which would address the longer term issues of



- 12 -
malaria control. The principal beneficiaries of the malaria control
program would be children under five and pregnant women throughout
Madagascar and the unprotected populations in the high plateaux.
3.07     Description.  The EMSAP project would support the following
activities:
(i)   Development and supervisi,  of a community-based system for
diagnosing and treating malaria within the context of its
health system, based on the principle of primary health care.
The MOH would request Madagascar's approximately 11,000 local
communities to choose or reconfirm volunteer malaria agents
among members of the village health committees that used to
provide malaria prophylaxis. The MOH would train these
volunteers, all primary school teachers, and paramedical
staff of the nearest health facility, in: (a) the diagnosis
and treatment of malaria attacks with chloroquine as soon as
the first symptoms appear; (b) the referral and reporting of
complicated and non-responsive cases (where chloroquine
resistance is suspected) to a designated health facility; and
(c) management of thj chloroquine stocks and funds recovered
from patients purchasing chloroquine. An initial stock of
chloroquine would be distributed to the malaria agents at the
time of initial training. The MOH would also carry out a
national public information campaign on malaria and on the
community treatment program, and would supervise the medical
activities under the program.
(ii)   Development of a chloroquine distribution system to resupply
the malaria agents. During the project period, the MOH would
purchase the required chloroquine and would award contracts
to commercial distributors to receive, store and distribute
the chloroquine to retail outlets, to be located in the main
town of each of the country's 1,250 sub-districts (Firaisam-
pokontany). These outlets in turn would sell chloroquine to
the malaria agents. Funds for the purchase of chloroquine to
be prescribed by the malaria agents will be generated through
a system of cost recovery. Understandings acceptable to IDA
have been reached between the Government and Switzerland on
the level of cost recovery (about US$0.18 for an adult and a
fraction thereof for children) and on establishing community-
based mechanisms for ensuring that people presenting malaria
symptoms are not denied access to drugs on financial grounds.
Part of the funds recovered would be used to remunerate the
distributor and sales outlets, part would be retained by the
community for subsidizing access to treatment as well as for
other local projects, and the remainder (covering 100 percent
of the cost of procuring the drug) would accrue to the MOH.
Agreement was reached on period reviews of the implementation
of the cost recovery system. Over the medium term, it is
anticipated that the private drug distribution system would
be able to take over the resupply function.



- 13 -
(iii)   Increase in the supply at peripheral MOH facilities of
essential drugs for treating malaria, including complicated
and resistant cases, as well as the other principal diseases.
The MOH would also provide refresher training programs for
paramedical staff at these facilities on the correct use of
the drugs.
(iv)   An emergency program of intra-domiciliary spraying with a
residual pesticide in selected areas of the high plateaux
where a population of about 600,000 is at high risk. This
one-time action would provide additional protection to the
population, pending full implementation of the community
malaria diagnosis and treatment program. The project would
finance the purchase of DDT, the insecticide recommended by
WHO, and of spraying equipment, provide technical assistance
in spraying, cover the operating costs of the spraying, and
evaluate the campaign. In parallal, buffer stocks of
chloroquine would be created in 110H health centers for
emergency distribution in the event of epidemic outbreaks.
(v)   Strengthening of the MOH's institutional capability for
malaria control through: (a) expansion and intensification of
the epidemiological surveillance system, including active and
passive case detection and testing for chloroquine
resistance. The furnishing of an epidemiological survey
acceptable to the Association would be a condition of
disbursement under this component. (b) an operational
research program to adjust the malaria control and treatment
strategies to changing conditions; and (c) a public
information campaign on ways to reduce the risk of
contracting malaria. The project would finance tezhnical
assistance, laboratory and technical equipment, vehicles,
materials and other incremental operating costs. (A separate
research project with Italian financing is supporting
surveillance of the vector.)
3.08     Environmental Impact.  Although this component would use DDT, no
negative environmental impact is foreseen, since the amounts used would be
low in comparison with the pesticides used for agriculture, the areas to be
treated are small, and the use of DDT as a residual indoor insecticide
causes no environmental contamination and is not a health risk. The
Association's guidelines for the use of pesticides in public health
programs would be followed. The program would include activities dealing
with safe spraying techniques and surveillance of pesticide use and
handling.
3.09     Implementation.  The MOH would be responsible for implementing the
malaria control program, for coordinating with the Ministry of the
Interior, the Ministry of Basic Educat.on and the local authorities
responsible for community mobilization and supervision of the community
malaria agents. It would also be responsible for accounting for the use of
the funds generated through cost recovery. An assessment of the program in
the areas facing the highest risk of an epidemic outbreak will be carried
out in early 1989.



- 14 -
(2) Family Planning
3.10     Support provided under this component would permit: (i) reaching
30 percent of the population with family planning messages; (ii) increasing
both the quality and quantity of family planning services provided,
including the recruitment of 15,000 new clients; (iii) training in
information, education and communication for 250 motivators and in family
planning clinical skills for 750 health professionals or students; and (iv)
laying the basis for a long-term population policy.
3.11     Description.  FISA, a NGO that is affiliated with the
International Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF), would be the
implementing agency for this component under the supervision of the
Ministry of Population, Social Condition, Youth and Sports (MPCSJS). FISA
has been active in Madagascar for 25 years, providing information,
education and clinical services to anyone interested in planning their
pregnancies   The Association reviewed FISA's management and concluded that
FISA had the administrative, financial and technical competence to carry
out the proposed program. This component would be financed on grant terms
by UNDP. FISA would undertake four types of activities:
(i)   strengthening of its information, education and communication
(IEC) program through the recruitment of additional staff (an
educator, a printer, an audio-visual technician and a
secretary) and purchase of equipment (offset press, video and
photographic production equipment and video projection
equipment), with the objective of producing 15 video films (6
copies of each), 10 pamphlets (40,000 copies), 10 leaflets
(10,000 copies) and 10 posters (2,000 copies) and of
organizing an information program based on meetings, home
visits and mass media campaigns;
(ii)   improvement of clinical services through additional personnel
(six laboratory technicians, one evaluator and four drivers)
and the construction of buildings for clinics in four
provinces (Antsiranana, Fianarantsoa, Mahajanga and
Toamasina), laboratory equipment (microscopes and other small
laboratory equipment and supplies), vehicles (four Toyota
Land Cruisers), drugs for primary health care, reagents and
some operating expenses;
(iii)   development of teaching activities in IEC and clinical
services, to be achieved through: (a) recruitment of a
training coordinator, 2 short-term international consultants
to assist with the training curriculum, 2 part-time education
consultants to train the trainers, and 26 part-time trainers;
(b) travel expenses for the consultants, trainers and
trainees; (c) IEC training for 250 staff of the MPCSJS, the
Ministry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform
(MPARA), the Ministry of Basic Education, and the Ministry of
Information, and local governments; (d) clinical training for
750 health care professionals and students; and (e) provision
of additional funds for operating expenses;



- 15 -
(iv)   ongoing evaluation of each component and a financial plan to
ensure sustainability of the activities when outaide
financing is ended.
(3) Food Security
3.12     Background.  In spite of recent improvements in the production and
marketing of food in Madagascar, the Government and donors are rightly
concerned about the poor nutritional status and food security of large
segments of the population (Annex VI). Chronic malnutrition is compounded
by the frequency of infectious diseases, and transitory malnutrition recurs
during the annual "Soudure" (inter-harvest period). The interrelationship
among the various health and nutrition factors is complex; these factors
include the high incidence of malaria, poor basic health care, inadequate
water supply, periodic hunger and ignorance about nutrition.
3.13     Oblectives.  The Government is trying to implement a food security
strategy to increase the year-round availability of food and stabilize food
prices, within its overall policy of promoting agricultural output through
greater reliance on market forces. Since 1984, it has encouraged rice
production by curtailing subsidized imports and by freeing domestic trade
and prices.  Since 1986, the Bank has supported the operation of a s,asonal
buffer stock of rice to promote development of the private market. This
policy has worked well: prices have stabilized or fallen in real terms,
year-round availability has improved. domestic production has picked up,
and the country is now essentially self-sufficient in most basic staples.
The country could be a net exporter of rice by 1990.
3.14     At the same time, the real income of many consumers appears to
have declined in recent years, and the food security of some vulnerable
groups has deteriorated. A recent study by the Government, based on a
UNICEF investigation of the problem, has identified a number of vulnerable
groups and proposed different targeting mechanisms to reach the socially
disadvantaged and the urban ànd rural poor. However, the report admits
that, given the complexity of the problem, immediate implementation of the
conclusions of the study on a large scale is not technically or financially
viable.
3.15     The proposed EMSAP would support the design and field-testing of
several of the initiatives recommended by the report (as well as others) on
a pilot basis (para. 3.16). If these initiatives are immediately
successful, they could be expanded promptly. In addition, the Government
and the Bank have agreed to develop a food security strategy and a free-
standing food security operation that would give the Government the
capacity to replicate successful interventions on a national scale.
3.16     Description.  The pilot operations to be supported by the proposed
EMSAP, in collaboration with the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO),
the World Food Programme (WFP) and various donors, are: (i) targeted food
subsidies, to be delivered through outlets for the sale of cooked food;
(ii) development of small livestock-raising in poorer urban areas; (iii)
promotion of new cropping opportunities in poorer rural areas, including
Arabica coffee and groundnuts; (iv) development of small-savers programa
(supported by existing institutions); (v) loans for marketing crope to be



- 16 -
implemented through village-level storage schemes; (vi) targeted feeding of
children betwen one and five years of age in urban areas; and (vii) other
nutritional interventions.
3.17     The proposed project would also finance studies to develop a
coherent food security strategy to guide the proposed food security
operation. Topics would include: irrigation development; analysis of
target groups; food technology and processing; edible oil production; and
expansion of the potable water supply.   Draft terms of reference for these
studies are available in the project file (see Annex VII for a list of the
documents in the project file).
3.18     The nutrition-related initiatives to be supported by the EMSAP aim
at improving consumption by the most-at-risk social groups and geographic
areas. This strategy would not be based solely on improved food intake but
would also include, to the extent possible, related interventions such as
increased access to potable water and primary health care services. In
addition, special emphasis would be given to cash-generating activities and
vocational training for the target groups, as well as to other activities
that could increase food self-sufficiency at the community level.
3.19     The criteria and rationales for selecting and locating food
security projects would be similar to those used for the Haute Intensité de
Main-d'Oeuvre (HIMO, or high labor intensity) projects (paras. 3.26-3.28)
sO that they would complement each other. The same map and methodology for
surveys and targeting could be used, provided that additional research
<combining a variety of socioeconomic indicators) and field work are used
to select appropriate counties.
3.20     Implementation.  The food security component would be implemented
by the Direction de la Sécurité Alimentaire in the MPARA. The targeted
feeding, crop marketing loans and nutritional interventions are ideas that
emerged from the work done by the Government and UNICEF.  In addition, the
proposed project would assist, where needed, speciallied institutions and
NG0 that are feeding disadvantaged children and the handicapped. It is
expected that the NGO network and operational capacity could be
considerably strengthened under the community-based nutrition sub-projects.
The food security activities would be carried out in two phases: Phase I
would consist of rapid technical assessments, short-term trials and
experiments for the preparation of the respective pilot op( rations; Phase
II would consist of the implementation of the pilot operations. Upon
completion of Phase I, the Government would furnish to the Association for
approval a detailed work program to be carried out under each pilot
program, including arrangements to be made for their implementation.
(4) Taraeted Employment Generation
3.21     Backxround.  While there are no hard data on unemployment or
underemployment in Madagascar, underemployment in rural areas is high
(Annex VIII).  There are, however, significant variations among the regions
that stem mainly from the unequal agricultural endowments and diverse
climatic conditions. In addition, short-term increases in unemployment in
some urban areas are expected as a consequence of the Government's public
enterprise reform program.



- 17 -
3.22     Objectives.  In keeping with the overall social and regional
development policy of the Government, the objectives of this component are
tos (i) increase incomes by employment generation in economically
disadvantaged areas; (ii) provide a tempcrary source of income to employees
losing their jobs because of public enterprise closures or restructuring;
(iii) provide jobs through the development of regional economically sound
infrastructure, particularly roads, using HIMO techniques; and (iv) promote
small-scale enterprise development.
3.23     Description.  The proposed EMSAP would finance the construction,
rehabilitation and maintenance of rural roads by labor-intensive techniques
in those counties where the agricultural employment opportunities are
limited by the low availability of arable land per inhabitant. The MPARA,
UNICEF and IDA have jointly identified those counties that meet this
criterion. Most are in the areas hardest hit by the 1986 drought, where
food security problems are endemic. Two counties are also expected to
suffer a sizable employment impact because of the closure of public
enterprises.
3.24     Within those counties, specific roads would be selected.  The
selection criteria would include: (i) technical information that has
already been gathered in the context of the Seventh Highway project
appraisal; and (ii) the criteria used in that project, with special
er.phasis on employment impact and inter-regional equity considerations.
Road segments that meet the above criteria but for which labor in the off-
peak agricultural season is insufficient, road segments that cannot be
grouped into clusters of at least 80 km, and road segments presenting
technical difficulties would be ineligible. Based on the criteria outlined
above, about 300 km, primarily in the Tulear area, would be covered in the
first year of the program. Over the 1989-90 period, the project wou'3d
contribute to the financing of 700 km of rural roads in areas where the
transport network is weak. The detailed work program for the second year
would be agreed to with IDA in the framework of the consolidated work
program (para. 4.15).
3.25     The FMSAP would also support the development of criteria and
parameters for construction of other rural infrastructure, such as
irrigation and well sub-projects, in the targeted counties. The inclusion
of such uub-projects would be discussed with the Goverrment in mid-1989.
3.26     Labor-Intensive Techniques (HIMO).  Over the last three years, the
Ministry of Public Works has set up, in cooperation with ILO and Norwegian
aid (NORAD), an HIMO unit in the Direction des Routes. This unit has
developed: (i) criteria and parameters for HIMO-type road construction and
rehabilitation sub-projects; (ii) a training program for small
entrepreneurs who are responsible for sub-project implementation; and (iii)
a supervision system, based oâ. contracts with local contracting firms, that
would allow the volume of work to be increased without overburdening the
HIMO unit. It is estimated that the HIMO unit now has the capacity to
supervise construction of the 300 km of roads per year identified in para.
3.24.  The EMSAP would finance additional trAining programs to increase its
capacity to 600 km per year by 1991. This volume of work would translate
into employment of over 2 million man-days and an increase in direct
incomes of the lower quartile of households (approximately 70,000
households) in the targated counties amounting to FMG 3.0 billion.



- 18 -
3.27     In terms of the training programs, IDA has provided various
credits to support the Public Works Training Center (CATP), the most recent
being the Seventh Highways project. The EMSAP would provide additional
resources to CATP to expand the training programs on labor-based methods,
quality control, and operation and maintenance of equipment for small
domestic contractors, particularl. in the targeted areas.  The field work
to be undertaken as part of the road rehabilitation and maintenance program
to be supported by the EMSAP would be carried out with short-term
management assistance financed unider the proposed project.
3.28     Implementation.  The component would be implemented by the
Direction des Routes in the Ministry of Public Works with technical
assistance from the ILO. Contracts would be subdivided in lots of 8 to 12
kms and carried out mainly by small contractors. To carry out the agreed
work program, the proposed project would assist the Ministry of Public
Works in strengthening its regional offices, particularly in the Tulear
area. The UNDP and ILO would finance part of the technical assistance
needed for the component, while IDA would finance the training programs for
local entrepreneurs, strengthening of the regional offices of the Ministry
of Public Works, and the construction and rehabîlitation program.
(5) Support to Non-Governmental Organizations
3.29     The Ministry of Population, in coordination w±th IDA, has launched
an extensive survey of the NGOs operating in Madagascar. The firet phase
of the survey (covering Malagasy NGOs only) yielded a list and profiles of
approximately 200 NGOs. The response of the NGOs to the survey has been
excellent as a result of the improving relations between the Government and
NGOs. This inventory allows easy identification of NGOs by activity,
facilitates their coordination and should permit the links between national
and international NGOs to be reinforced.
3.30     The EMSAP would support, for a period of three years, the
strengthening of the NGO unit of the MPCSJS to reinforce its role of
coordinating NGO activities in Madagascar and attracting international NGOs
not yet active in the country.  This component would also assîst the
authorities in defining a structure to identify, appraise and finance sub-
projects to be implemented by NGOs.
3.31     Specifically, the project would finance: (i) strengthening of the
NGO unit to maintain the NGO data base; (ii) the second phase of the NGO
survey, to foeus on international NGOs operating in Madagascar; and (iii)
creation of a newsletter, to be published by the Ministry of Population, to
facilitate the exchange of info mation among NGOs.
(6) Redeployment Fund and Reemployment Program
3.32     The Government's efforts to improve the condition of the public
enterprise sector through a program of divestiture, liquidation and
restructuring will result in a loss of employment in the sector. The EMSAP
would support Government policies aimed at increasing occupational and
geographic-mobility and at facilitating the reemployment of affected
employees in the private sector, in particular through: (i) creation of a



- 19 -
redeployment fund to speed up payment of severance pay; (ii) strengthening
of the Ministry of Civil Service and Labor (MFOP), the objective being to
create an Information Center for referral services for dismissed workers;
and (iii) the organization of reemployment programs.
3.33     Redeployment Fund.  The rede;loyment fund would be managed by the
Ministry of Civil Service and Labor, with input from the MFOP, which has
conducted a survey on the number, regional distribution, qualification,
seniority and salary of employees likely to be affected over the next two
years. The average cost of severance pay per worker (including advance
notice, unemployment benefits and accumulated leave) is estimated at US$350
equivalent. The checks would be prepared by the Ministry of Finance and
Economy and would be distributed to the employees by the regional offices
of the Treasury, which would also be responsible for job referral services.
Total severance pay costs are estimated at US$2.8 millini over the 1988-90
period. The redeployment fund would be financed out cr the Government
budget. The IMF has agreed to a special allocation for this purpose in the
framework of the ongoing stand-by arrangement. Prior to &ny IDA
disbursement on the Information Center and the reemployment programs, the
Government would establish the redeployment fund with an initial deposit of
FMG 1.0 billion.
3.34     Information Center and Referral Services.  The EMSAP would support
the creation and operation of an Information Center and the strengthening
of the regional offices of the MFOP in order to develop a job-related
referral service for workers being laid-off. The referral service would
offer information and orientation services, incluàing training options.
Each worker would be interviewed by experienced sociologists to determine
his/her aptitudes (part of the information and orientation services) and
would be presented with job and/or training options. The creation of the
Information Center would be a condition of disbursement of the redeployment
component.
3.35     Reemployment Programs.  It is estimated that 30 percent of the
laid-off workers would not use the reemployment programs; two-thirds of
tnose would retire or leave to seek different opportunities; and the
remaining one-third would be provided with immediate employment
opportunities fcllowing the interview process. The proposed project would
support the creation and development of two types of reemployment programs
for the remaining workers:
(i)   On-the-lob retraining.  Approximately 15 percent of the
remaining laid-off workers would be placed in enterprises for
retraining for a period not exceeding six months. Their
salaries during retraining would be shared equally by the
enterprises and the MFOP, for a total not to exceed two
minimum salaries. The enterprises would be paid a retraining
fee under a standard retraining contract. The average cost
of retraining per worker, including the salary, is estimated
at US$320, with a maximum of US$480. Given the recent surge
in employment in the labor-intensive clothing business, on-
the-job retraining may well absorb a greater proportion of
the laid-off workers than originally anticipated.



- 20 -
(ii)   Retrainin2 through specialized institutes.  The Government,
in collaboration with IDA nnd ILO, has prepared an action
plan to strengthen the tra ning institutes and programs
offered by the Chambers of Commerce and the professional
schools. The objective of these programs is to help laid-off
employees acquire expertise that increases the likelihood of
their finding employment elsewhere in the economy, including
in the informal sector. These programs would absorb 85
percent of the remaining laid-off workers. The Information
Center would negotiate, with the assistance of ILO,
retraining contracts with the eligible institutes. The
employees would receive the equivalent of a minimum salary
during the retraining period for a maximum of six months.
Eligible training institutes include: National Institute of
Promotion and Training; Centre de Formation des Cadres;
Institut National des Sciences Comptables et de
l'Administration des Entreprises; Chambers of Commerce;
regional university centers; technical schools; and the
training centers of certain NGOs. The average cost of the
retraining program per worker, including the salary, is
estimated at US$520, with a maximum of US$800. The list of
eligible institutions and training programs and el.gibility
criteria for participants were discussed during negotiations,
and are spelled out in Technical Note No. 5 in the Project File.
3.36     Implementation.  The Information Center would be set up by the
Direction de l'Emploi et de la Main-d'Oeuvre in the MFOP and managed as an
autonomous unit under the supervision of a board of representatives of the
Government, private sector and lAbor. The Information Center would
comprises (i) a directorate to coordinate the activities of the
reemployment programs, including preparation of the disbursement requests
for the Treasury; and (ii) six regional offices to manage the activities of
the reemployment programs, provide information and orientation to dismissed
workers, manage on-the-job-retraining agreements with local firms, and
coordinate the preparation and delivery of specific training programs with
the training institutions. In addition to the conditions of disbursement
referred to in paras. 3.33 and 3.34, the effectiveness of the PSAC would be
a condition of disbursement of the redeployment component.
C. SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF ADJUSTMENT
3.37     Oblectives.  The main objective of this comporent is to integrate
the main priorities of the Government into the structural adjustment
process and to strengthen the Government's capacity to design and implement
a social policy for poverty alleviation. In this framework, the Social
Dimerz:ions of Adjustment (SDA) component would develop coordination among
institutions active in the social sectors in the areas of project
identification, socioeconomic studies and data collection.
3.38     The SDA component would assist the Government in achieving the
following objectives: (i) formulate social policies consistent with the
adjustment program; (ii) strengthen the capacity to carry out socioeconomic
studies to identify programs; and (iii) strengthen the capacity to develop
and maintain adequate statistical data bases and permanent survey



- 21 -
mechanisms for identifying disadvantaged and vulnerable groups and for
measuring the evolution of living standards.
3.39     Description.  The SDA component would assist the Governanent in
four areas: (i) design and follow-up of social policies, programs and
projecta; (ii) strengthening of capacities for data analysis and economic
studies; (iii) implementation of a permanent household survey; and (iv)
training of professional staff involved in those areas.
3.40     Desi n and Follow-up of Social Policy Reforms and Projects.  The
SDA component would support strengthening of the DGP through the Analysis
Unit of the Directorate of Social Planning. This unit would review and
integrate the results of socioeconomic studies undertaken by sectoral
ministries and would formulate social policies for the adjustment program.
The SDA component would provide financing for the unit's operation,
equipment, and identification and appraisal of socioeconomic studies and
social projects.
3.41     Data Analysis and Economic Studies.  The SDA component will
support the statistical services of the ministries concerned with the
implementaiton of social programs, such as the Ministry of Population,
MPARA, MOH, the Ministry of Basic Education, and the MFOP, to carry out
statistical analysis and sectoral economic studies aiming at the
formulation of social policies. Specific statistical analysis capacity
would be strengthened in the BDE to carry out household national accounts
and a price consumption survey. This program of studies would be financed
through the study fund managed by the DGP (paras. 3.56-3.58).
3.42     Implementation of a Permanent Household Survev.  A permanent
household survey would be institutionalized within the BDE to collect data
that would allow the Government to monitor the living conditions of
different population groups during the adjustment process, identify target
groups for which special interventions should be implemented. The survey
would be based on a pilot questionnaire on demography, employment, revenue,
consumption, savings, housing, education, health and nutrition. A specific
food and nutrition module would be designed in coordination with the
Interagency Food and Nutrition Surveillance Program. The EMSAP would
finance implementation of the Furvey, including personnel, permanent staff
and local or expatriate consultants, equipment (microcomputers, vehicles
and furniture) and the operating costs of the survey teams throughout the
country. The information to be collected would be discussed at a Users'
Committee, including representatives from the DGP, BDE, the ministries and
NGOs.
3.43     Training of Professional Staff.  A program would be designed to
train all professional staff involved in the SDA component in the areas of
policy design, project identification, economic analysis and survey design.
This program would have two parts: (i) on-site training through the conduct
of studies under groups of local or international consultants; and (ii) the
organization of seminars fo, planners, statisticians and economists in each
of the above-mentioned areas. Some of these seminars would offer intensive
training on specific techniques, while others would be international
meetings for the exchange of experiences.



- 22 -
D. ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANCE
3.44     With the achievement of fiscal stabilization in Madagascar, and
the limited prospects for revenue expansion in the medium term, the
priority macroeconomic management issue is the efficiency of public
resource utilization. This issue is at the center of the program supported
by the PSAC. Accordingly, the economic management component of the
proposed EMSAP includes technical assistance in three areas: (i) public
expenditure reform; (ii) public enterprise reform; and (iii) improvements
in the economic and social data base and in the preparation of the next
phases of the adjustment process.
(1) Public Expenditure Reform
3.45     Major reform of the allocation and budgeting of public
expenditures is needed to improve their efficiency. The EMSAP would help
implement the Government's public expenditure and budgetary reform, as
stated in the LDP supported by the PSAC. The effectiveness of the PSAC
vould be a condition of disbursement of this component. Specifically, the
project would assist the Government in: (i) preparing expenditure programs
for use in the three-year rolling PIP (and eventually in the three-year
rolling public expenditure program [PEP]); (ii) revise the budget
nomenclature and budget preparation procedures so as to achieve a
consolidated budget in the 1990 budget cycle; (iii) carry out a
comprehensive census of public serv'ce employees and update the payroll
files; and (iv) prepare a reform program to improve the management of
public administration. This component would also provide support to the
technical secretariat managing the implementation of the public finance
reform program, and to the disbursement unit responsible for processing
disbursement requesta for IDA- financed projects. The effectiveness of the
PSAC would be a condition of disbursement of this component.
3.46     To improve public expenditure programming, sectoral strategy
papers would be prepared for agriculture, education, health and transport.
Assistance would be provided for each sector (as necessary) in analyzing
the costs and financing of priority activities and programs, evaluating the
performance of programs and identifying and budgeting recurrent costs.
Assistance would also be provided for the evaluation of Madagascar's
experience with program budgeting. Ways of introducing good budgeting
practices into the remaliing technical ministries over the medium term
would be recommended. A further activity would be support in implementing
recommendations and strengthening Government-wide capabilities for
preparing public expenditure programs.
3.47     Several steps would be taken to improve budgetary formulation.
Among other improvements, the budgetary nomenclature would be revised so
that the major types of expenditures are identified and reclassified into
homogeneous categories, and the recurrent cost element in the investment
budget would be identified and properly accounted for in the ordinary
budget. Procedures would be gradually improved to permit the preparation
of a consolidated budget that covers all sources and uses of public funds,
including counterpart funds. Finally, the procedures for budget
preparation, execution and supervisior. would be computerized vithin the
Ministry of Finance and Economy to facilitate financial management and
control on a lasting basis.



- 23 -
3.48     A comprehensive censua of state employees would be carried out to
determine, inter alia, the number of employees actually in posts, their
grades and classifications, levels and modes of compensation, and the post
occupied. The census would be carried out in parallel with the
verification of payrolls. An initial clean-up of the payroll files is
expected by October 1988, and its results would be reflected in the 1989
budget. Final verification would be completed in 1989 and the payroll
adjusted accord!agly in the 1990 budget. Assistance would also be provided
to computerize the payroll information system (Ministry of Finance and
Economy) and basic personnel data base malLaged by the Ministry of Civil
Service and Labor (MFOP).
3.49     The proposed EMSAP would support the preparation of a program to
improve the management of public sector employees. The support would
cover, inter alia, consultant services to analyze country-specific issues
and identify options for Government action and to organize seminars and
workshops for policy-makers and technicians. Support for training would
facilitate introduction of the improved procedures and reform program. The
foeus of these activities would be on preserving the gains made through
payroll verification and on assuring a better match between public
personnel and Government expenditure priorities.
3.50     Operational support would be made available to the Internal Reform
Committee (CRI) within the Ministry of Finance.  CRI is the technical
secretariat responsible for managing implementation of the public finance
reform program. This support would cover a reserve budget for hiring,
consultants as well as equipment, office supplies and training activities.
The proposed EMSAP would finance the technical assistance, studies and
logistical support needed to implement the agreed public finance PSAC
reform program, except for the actions beiL&g financed by other projects.
The CRI would manage the public expenditure and buegetary reform process,
while the MFOP would manage the preparation and implementation of the
program to improve the civil service, with supiort from an interministerial
task force and the CRI.
3.51     Finally, the proposed EMSAP would support the strengthening of the
disbursement unit in the Ministry of Finance and Economy by: (i) evaluating
the current coordination system between the disbursement unit, the
commercial banks and the Central Bank; (ii) financing equipment and
software for the computerization of the main disbursement functions; and
(iii) financing training and seminars for the employees of the disbursement
unit. An action plan for the strengthening of the disbursement unit was
discussed at negotiations (Technical Note No. 10, available in the Project
File).
(2) Public Enterprise Reform
3.52     Background.  The content of the Government's reform program in the
public enterprise sector is summarized in the PSAC documentation. Briefly,
over a period of three years, the Government plans to initiate a
comprehensive reform of its PE sector, to include the preparation of
procedures for divestiture, liquidation or restructuring of approximately
60 PEs (out of a portfolio of 170). It would also develop principles for
improving the efficiency of PEs remaining in the public sector; these
principles would encompass an effective performance monitoring and
evaluation system.



- 24 -
3.53     Qbjective.  The objective of this component is to strengthen the
Government's institutior,al and technical capacity to develop and implemer.t
its PE reform program. The EMSAP would finance technical assistance,
studies, training, equipment and logistical support to assist the
Goverrnment in carrying out its action program. It would also assist with
longer term reforms through support for training of PE managers, financial
restructuring of a priority list of enterprises, and revision of the
institutional and regulatory framework to ensure increased PE autonomy and
accountability. The effectiveness of the PSAC would be a condition of
disbursement of the public enterprise reform component.
3.54     Description.  With respect to the divestiture and liquidation
program, the Government has created a high-level ad hoc committee whose
members, appointed by the Prime Minister, include participants from the
private sector. This committee, supported by a Secrétariat Exécutif et
lechnique (SET), will be responsible for managing and implementing the
Government's program. The EMSAP would support the SET in carrying out the
technical and preparatory work required for the divestiture or liquidation
of PEs by providing: (i) consultancy/advisory services, to include: (a)
auditors and financial analysts to update financial statements and assist
in preparing prospectuses and liquidations; (b) valuators to inventory and
value properties and physical assets; (c) lawyers to advise on legal issues
pertaining to divestiture and liquidation; (d) industry and sector experts
to review market potential and viability and recommend the best modalîties
for divestiture; and (e) investment analysts to advise on potential
investors and investment financing and to assist in evaluating the bids and
negotiations; (ii) training, to include seminars on the divestiture program
and visits to other countries that have implemented similar programs;
(iii) logistical support, to include office equipment, vehicles and
incremental operating expenses (but excluding the salaries of Government
staff); and (iv) studies, to support the diagnoses and assessment of
viability.
3.55     To improve the efficiency and productivity of PEs remaining in the
public sector, the Government has decided to introduce the following
measures: (f) increase theîr managerial autonomy and accountability; (ii)
develop performance contracts for individual PEs; (iii) introduce a
performance-based incentive system; (iv) improve the institutional and
regulatory framework; and (v) initiate restructuring procedures. To
implement these measures, the Government would create, before the end of
1988, an entity to monitor and coordinate these efforts. The composition,
institutional location, functions and powers of this entity would be
discussed and agreed to as part of the policy dialogue under the PSAC, and
the creation of this entity would be a condition of disbursement. The
EMSAP would support the creation and operation of this entity over the
period 1988-90. The proposed assistance would include: (i) consultancy
services in (a) development of performance contracts, (b) improvement of
accounting, budgeting and management information systems. and (c.)
preparation of restructuring programs and assistance in implementing them;
(ii) logistical support, for office equipment and vehicles and incremental
operating expenses (excluding the salaries of Government staff); (iii)
studies on policy and institutional issues tnat affect the operational
efficiency of PEs; and (iv) training, such as seminars for PE managers and
relevant tutelle staff on performance monitoring and evaluation systems,
short executive/management courses, and visits to other countries that have
successfully implemented similar reforms. In addition to the conditions of



- 25 -
disbursement referred to in para. 3.53, the creation of the unit
responsible for performance review, rehabilitation and restructuration of
PEs would be a condition of disbursement of this sub-component.
(3) Study Fund
3.56     Oblectives.  The study fund would provide a framework for
preparing, reviewing, financing and supervising studies on improving the
economic and social information base at the national, sectoral and sub-
sectoral levels so as to facilitate implementation of the structural
adjustment program, particularly with respect to PEs, the financial and
social sectors. This would include the studies by the technical ministries
to prepare and analyze the results of the permanent household survey, as
well as studies to support development of a national population policy and
strategy.
3.57     Description.  The study fund would be managed by the DGP, which
would be responsible for reviewing (and approving) the terms of reference
and the budgets and timetables for the studies proposed by the technical
ministries or the BDE. Individual studies, once approved, would be managed
directly by the concerned entities, which would be responsible for
preparing the disbursement requests to the Treasury. The studies would be
made available to the DGP and IDA upon completion. The Government would
submit to the Association for its approval the terms of reference, cost
estimates and arrangements for implementation of the studies.
3.58     Four grovps of studies have already been approved (for an
estimated US$0.75 million)> (i) improvement of the statistical data base,
in particular with respect to the national accounts system; (ii) industrial
sub-sector development strategy, to be implemented by the Ministry of
Industry and the MPARA; (iii) debt conversion, including the feasibility of
debtlenvironment swaps, and (iv) definition of a structure to coordinate
the identification, appraisal and financing of small socially-oriented
projects. (An outline of the firs three studies appears in Annex IX.)



- 26 -
PART IV. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
(1) Cost
4.01     The total cost of the project, net of taxes and duties but
including contingencies, is estimated at US$40.9 million equivalent, with a
foreign component of US$22.3 million (54 percent) and US$18.7 million in
local costs. The physical contingencies, which vary among the components,
average 7 percent. The price contingencies are based on the guidelines for
international inflation rates, as follows: 3 percent in 1988-90 and
4 percent in 1991-93. The detailed project costs are shown in Table 1.
Table 1: COST ESTIMATES *i
(USS mililons)
Locel   Foreign   Total   Foreign es X
of Tot l
Soclal Action Proarsm               14.41    12.64    27.06       47
Malarla Component               2.18    7.32      9.60        77
Family Planning                 0.47    0.88      0.83        48
Food Sacurlty                   1.00     1.50     2.50        60
Targot.d Roads                  4.06     2.48     8.63        s8
Support to NGOD                 0.05     0.16    0.20         76
Redeploy. Fund/Reemployment     6.866    0.84     7.49        il
Soclal Dimensiona of Adjustment     1.48     1. 60    2.98        S0
Social Project Eval.            0.47     0.40    .0.87        46
Houuehold Surv.ys               1.01     1.10    2.11         62
Economlc Management                 2.80    8. 13    10.92        74
Public Finance                  1.04    3.73      4.76        78
Pubilc Enterprisea              0.88     1.0     2.46        e6
Economic Studios                0.90    2.80     3.70         78
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                18.68    22.27   40.95         64
a/ The coat estimates are net of taxes, which are estimated at USSB.1 million
equivalent.
(2) Financing
4.02     Madagascar is experiencing severe budgetary constraints, arnd the
need for significant Government participation in financing the project could
impair its execution. Therefore, IDA and other institutions would finance
all the foreign costs and a significant proportion of the local costs. The
Government's contribution would involve mainly the routine operating costs
and the severance payments to PE employees. Several donor institutions have
pledged a total of US$14.3 million equivalent: UNDP (US$3.8 million, grant);
Swiss Cooperation (US$4.7 million, grant); ADB (US$4.0 million, uith US$2.0
million on ADF terms and US$2.0 million as a technical assistance grant); and
various UN agencies, France, Japan and Italy (US$1.8 million, grant).



- 27 -
(3) IDA Financing
4.03     IDA's share in the financing of the proposed project would be
US$22.0 million equivalent, with a foreign component of US$11.0 million (50
percent) and US$11.0 million in local costs. Details on IDA financing by
component are presented in Table 2.
Table 2: ALLOCATION OF THE IDA CREDIT
(USSS millions)
Local   For.ign   Total   Foreign as X
Total
Soclal Action Propram                8.69    6.63    14.22        a9
Malaria Control                 0.30     1.00     1.80        77
Familly Planning                -        -        -           -
Food Soeurity                   0.85     1.60     2.35        64
Targeted Roada                  3.78    2.48      6.21        40
Support to NOOs                 0.04     0.16     0.19        79
Renloploy. Fund/Reomployment    3.77    0.40      4.17        10
Soclal Dlmensions of Adiustment     0.84     0.60     0.94        64
Social Proj.ct Eval.            -        -        -           -
Household Surveys               0.84     0.60     0.94        64
Economic Men.ament                  1.98    4.88      6.84        71
Public F;nance                  0.76    2.86      8.10        76
Public Ent .rprises             0.83     1.60     2.48        66
Economia Studies                0.40    0.91      1.81        69
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                11.01    10.99   22.00         60
(4) Retroactive Financing
4.04     To speed up project implementation, retroactive financing for
equipment and material expenditures related to the project prior to
effectiveness but no earlier than July 1, 1988, would be provided for an
amount not exceeding US$2.0 million (9.1 percent of the proposed credit
amount).
B. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATIOIN AND PROCUREMENT
(1) Prolect Implermentation
4.05     The project would be implemented with overall coordination by the
DGP, which reports directly to the Presidency. The social action program
would be coordinated by the recently created Directorate for Social Planning
within the DGP. A manager would be appointed for each component from the
appropriate ministries or entities, as shown in Table 3.



- 28 -
Table 8:  ENTITIES RESPONSIBLE FOR PROJECT COMPONENTS
Overall ProI.ct                                Dlrectorate Cêneral of Planning
Social Action Program
Malaria Control Program                  Minitry of Ho.lth
Famlly Planning                          Ministry of Population end FISA
Food Soecurlty                           Minlstry of Agric. end Agrarlan Reform
Employment Goneration                    MInistry of Public Works
Coordination of NGOs                     Miniltry of Population
Redeployment/Reemployment                Mlnistry of Civil Service and Labor
Social Dlmenslons of Adjustment
Soclal Project Evaluatlon.               Dlrectorate Gêneral of Planning
Household Surveya                        National Statistical Institute
Economlc Management
Public Flnance                           MInistry of Finance and Economy
Public Enterprises
Dlvestlture/Liquldation             Prime Mlnister/Ad hec committee
Monltoring/Rehabllitation           Ministry of Finance and Economy
Study Fund                               Dlrectorate CGneral of Planning
4.06     Given the large number of components in the project, a project
management system based on a centralized agency would slow implementation and
create an unnecessary additional bureaucratic level. It has therefore been
agreed that the role of the DGP, the institution in charge of overall project
coordination, would be limited to ex-ante evaluation of the components and
periodic review of the status of their implementation. The project would
strengthen the DGP's capacity to undertake this task, and the Government
would designate a duly qualified and experienced manager within the DGP to
coordinate the project activities. The responsibilities for implementing,
supervising and managing the components and programs under the EMSAP would
rest with the ministries and agencies according to Table 3. The appointment
of a manager for each of the components by March 31, 1989 has been specified
in the Credit Agreement. The managing agencies would deal directly with the
diabursement unit of the Ministry of Finance and Economy for expenditures
related to programs and projects that have been approved by the DGP and IDA
(para. 4.11). The DGP would be responsible for preparing the progress
reports (para. 4.15).
4.07      Implementation of the main activities under the social action
program is expected to take about three years from the date of Board approval
of the credit, the SDA component would take four years, and the economic
management component would take five years. The project would therefore be
completed by the end of 1994. The timing of each component would vary because
of the nature of the components themselves, as well as the status of
preparation. (The implementation arrangements specific to the various
components are detailed under the component concerned.)



- 29 -
(2) Procurement
4.08     The procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.
Table 4: PROCUREMENT METHOD
(US$ millions)
Not       Total
Project Components         ICB      LCB     Other    Applicable   Cost
Civil Works                         4.6      0.4                     5.0
(4.6)    (0.0)                  (4.6)
Equipment and Vehicles    2.9       1.9      2.8                     7.6
(2.9)   (1.9)    (0.5)                   (5.3)
TA and Studies                              13.6                    13.6
(5.3)                  (5.3)
Operating Costa                                          3.7         3.7
(2.6)      (2.6)
Training & Severance Pay                     7.3                     7.3
(4.2)                  (4.2)
Medicines                                    3.7                     3.7
(0.0)                  (0.0)
Total                 2.9     6.5      27.8         3.7       40.9
(2.9)   (6.5)   (10.0)       (2.6)      (22.0)
Note: The figures in parentheses are IDA shares.
4.09     The procurement includes a limited amount of civil works and the
purchase of goods and services in accordance with Bank guidelines. Civil
works funded under the project (US$4.6 million) would consist of rural road
construction by HIMO techniques (para. 3.23). These contracts are small and
scattered, and it is unlikely that foreign bidders would be interested in
them. They would be procured through local competitive bidding (LCB),
according to Madagascar Decree 70-089 of January 28, 1970, provided thatt (i)
registration of foreign bidders with the Registry of Commerce would not be
required for acceptance of their bids; (ii) no procurement would be made on
the basis of selected tendering or direct contracting unless all bids were
rejected; (iii) bids will be opened in public, i.e., the bidders or their
representatives should be allowed to be present; and (iv) no preference will
be given to local bidders in evaluating the bids. A part of these contracts
costing between US$50,000 and US$100,000 would be reserved for and executed
by small contractors as part of field training. These works would be
procured under LCB, limited to contractors eligible under the training
program, as discussed under the training programs (para. 3.27). The
aggregate value of these contracts is about US$2.0 million (out of the US$4.6
million mentioned above).



- 30 -
4.10     Procurement of consultant services for technical assistance and
studies would be subject to IDA guidelines. Packages of vehicles and of
equipment valued at US$100,000 or more would be procured under international
competitive bidding (ICB). Items valued at less than US$100,000 would be
procured through LCB, with an aggregate value not to exceed US$1.9 million.
Minot items costing US$30,000 or less, in an aggregate amount not to exceed
US$1 million, would be purchased fo}lowing local or international shopping
procedures by obtaining quotations from at least three suppliers. Operating
costs for the ten implem nting units, varying between US$0.1-0.8 million,
would be on the basis ot statements of expenditures, following agreed upon
cost parameters. Goods and services procured under cofinancing and
coordinated financing are included in the other category in Table 4.
C. DISBURSEMENTS
4.11     Disbursement would be adapted to the needs of the project and would
be monitored at the level of each implementing ministry or agency. Each
ministry and/or agency would be responsible for preparing its own
applications for withdrawals, and the Treasury would be responsible for
collecting and reconciling those applications. An action plan to strengthen
the disbursement unit has been discussed and negotiated (para. 3.51).
Equipment, technical assistance and logistical support tc assist the
Government in implementing the action plan would be financed under the
preJect in the public finance component.  Disbursmeents would be made on the
basis of 85 percent of total expenditures for operating costs and 100 percent
of foreign expenditures and 85 percent of local expenditures for all other
goods and services. Diabursement would be fully documented except that
statements of expenditures would be used for disbursement of: (i) all
contracts or single purchases of less than US$30,000 equivalent; and (ii) all
operating costs. Table 5 shows the disbursement percentages for each
component.
4.12     The following would be conditions of dishursement: (i) for the
malaria control program, the furnishing of an epidemiological survey
acceptable to the Association before disbursements under the category of
equipment and vehicles; (ii) for the redeployment component, effectivenesa of
the PSAC and establishment of the redeployment fund with an initial deposit
of FMG 1.0 billion, and establishment of the information center; (iii) for
the public enterprise reform, effectiveness of the PSAC for both divestiture
and monitoring components and the establishment of the unit responsible for
performance review, rehabilitation and restructuring for the monitoring
component; and (iv) for the public finance reform, effectiveness of the PSAC.
4.13     Two special accounts would be opened, one in foreign exchange to be
used for all foreign exchange payments and one in FMG to be used for all
expenditures in FMG. The Treasury would be responsible for operating the
special accounts and submitting requests for replenishment. The initial
deposits into the accounts would be, respectively, US$1.0 million and FMG 1.0
billion (US$0.69 million equivalent).



- 31 -
Table 6: DISBURSEMENTS
(USS millIons)
Categorles                               Amounts         Flns7ced
1. U7nltry of Health                   1.09
Training                                0.'6               100
Equlpment à Veh7cles                    0.86               100
Consultants' Services A Studios         0.18               100
Oporatlng Costa                         0.82                86
2.  A7nlstry  of Anriculture           1.98
Equlpment and Veh7cles                  0.87               100
Consultants' Services A Studies         0.29               100
Operating Conte                         0.80                85
8. Ministry of Public Works            6.47
Training                                0.07               100
Equlpment and Vehieles                   1.00              100
Consultante' Services à Studi.s         0.17               100
Civil Works                             4.12               100
Op.rating Comte                         0.11                86
4.  Mnlstry of Populatlon              0.14
Training                                0.04               100
Consultants' Services à Studios         0.02               100
Equipment & Veh7cles                    0.01               100
Operating Coste                         0.07                86
5. Hin7try of Labor                    8.61
Training                                2.82               100
Equlpmont à Vehicles                    0.24               100
Consultants' Services à Studles         0.89               100
Operating Costa                         0.06                es
6.  Mln7stry of Finance                B.88
A.  Budgptary Reform                  2.88
Training                                0.08               100
Equlpment à Vehicles                    0.88               100
Consultants' Services A Studies         1.21               100
Operating Coste                         0.21                86
B.  Pub. Ent. Rohabilitation          0.96
Tralning                                0.18               100
Equlpment à Veh7cles                    0.12               100
Consultants' Services A Studios         0.62               100
Operat7ng Costa                         0.08                85
7.  PM Office: Ad Hoc Committoe        1.08
Training                                0.06               100
Equlpment A Vehicles                    0.06               100
Consultants' Services A Studios         0.89               100
Operst7ng Costa                         0.08                86
8. Dlrectorate Ceneral of Planninq    1.11
Consultants' Services à Studies         1.11               100
9.  BDE--Social Dim. of Adiustment     0.77
Equipment A Veh7cles                    0.32               100
Oporating Costa                         0.46                85
10.  Refundina of PPF                   1.60
11. Non-Allocatod                       2.06
TOTAL                             22.00
a/ 100% means 100% of foreign and 86% of local expendltures;
86% means 85% of total expondltures.



- 32 -
D. ACCOUNTING, AUDITING AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
(1) Accounts and Audits
4.14     Accounts for the project components would be kept and made available
by the DGP for inspection by the Association at any time. Annually audited
accounts, together with the project amnounts, would be submitted to the
Association no later than six months following the end of each fiscal year.
Auditing would be done by an independent auditing firm acceptable to the
Association and would include an audit of the statements of expenditure and
the special accounts.  The borrower would provide a project completion report
(PCR) no later than six months after the closing date of the credit.
(2)  Reporting and Monitoring
4.15     Every year, concurrently with the preparation of the annual budget,
the DGP would prepare a detailed work program for the project for the
following year, taking into account the likely budgetary allocation. The DGP
would report on progrees with implementation on the same basis used in
preparing the work programn by the end of June of each year (including the
source and application of funds). The entities responsible for
implementation of the components would prepare annual work programs, which
the DGP would consolidate for overall execution of the project. The
consolidated annual work programs would be submitted to IDA for approval by
August 31 of each year.



- 33 -
PART V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.  BENEFITS
5.01     The proposed EMSAP would improve the sustainability and facilitate
implementation of the Goverrment's structural adjustment program by addressing
some of the most pressing social needs and by strengthening its administrative
capacity to manage the program. In the absence of the proposed measures, there
is a substantial risk that the worsening social conditions of the Malagasy
people would pressure the Government to slow the pace of implementation,
particularly in the case *f those reforms that entail a social impact.
5.02     The proposed project wc'uld have important short- and medium-term
benefits. In the short term, the treatment and spraying activities included
under the malaria control program would have a significant impact on stopping
the explosive growth of the disease and therefore in reducing the number of
deaths and the work and school days lost to malaria. The EMSAP would speed up
the design and implementation of the Government's food security policy by
financing small-scale pilot projects aimed at field testing new approaches to
addressing food insecurity without endangering the progress achieved so far by
increased reliance on market prices. The targeted employMent peneration
component would also contribute, in cost-effective fashion, to groater food
security by providing low-income segments of the population with an additional
source of income. It would also improve the network of rural roads ana minimize
the costs and resultant risks of social ur.rest in areas particularly affected by
PE closures. The redeployment component vould facilitate the reemployment of
approximateJy 7,000 PE employees in enterprises or in the informal sector. The
economic nanaRement assistance would provide the support necessary to carry out
the reform program agreed upon under the PSAC, particularly with respect to PEs
and public finance reform. The study fund would provide the Government with a
flexible mechanism for identifying, selecting and financing economic studies
linked to the design of economic and social policies.
5.03     In the medium term, the proposed EMSAP would strengthen the social and
macroeconomic management capacity of the Government in terms of institutions,
systems, procedures and human resources. In the social sectors, the EMSAP
would, within three years, strengthen the BDE and the DGP so that they can
develop targeting mechanisms for use in the design and implementation of
adjustment policies, programs and projects aimed at achieving growth with equity
and at mitigating the transitional costs for vulnerable groups. In addition,
the project would assist the Government in redefining the respective roles of
Government and other institutions (such as NGOs) in the delivery of social
services, such as in the population sector, where the project would support
FISA, a national NGO, in implementing a sounder population policy. In the
health sector, the project would strengthen the capacity of the MOH to control
the malaria vector and to carry out surveillance, and to introduce a cost
recovery mechanism that would improve the sustainability of its policy of
primary health care, including the disease diagnosis and treatment components of
its malaria control program. Similarly, the systems developed to assist workers
being laid off would speed up adjustment of the labor market. With respect to
macroeconomic management, the proposed project would strengthen the capacity of
the Ministry of Finance and Economy, the DGP and the teclnical ministries to
implement a full review of public expenditures, in-depth reform of the budgetary
process, and improved efficiency of the PEs remaining in the public sector.



- 34 -
B. RISKS
5.04     Given the limited institutional capacity of the Malagasy
administration, the complexity of the project is the main risk. This overall
risk is reduced by a project design emphasizing flexibility. In addition, the
project is built around independent components, to be implemented by the
agencies that participated actively in their design and preparation, under the
general coordination of the DGP. Finally, selection criteria and decision-
making processes have been agreed to for the components where specifie
activities have yet to be identified. Necessary technical assistance has been
agreed to and would be financed under the project. Another risk relates to the
accuracy of the targeting used in designing the social interventions. This risk
is minimized by the diversification of the intervention portfolio and by built-
in provisions to improve the targeting mechanisms. A third overall risk is
whether the Government will be able to ensure that the assistance goes only to
the intended beneficiaries. This risk is limited by the periodic reviews of
project activities and reporting and auditing arrangements.
5.05     In addition to the overall project risks, there are risks associated
with specific components.  In the social action pragram, there are inherent
risks in the effort to respond to emergency problems that previous programs have
been unable to address satisfactorily. These risks are far outweighed by the
social and economic costs of not addressing the problems until all the
information is in, particularly in the case of the malaria control program and
assistance to laid-off workers. Additional risks of the malaria control program
are: (i) the correct diagnosis and prescription of chloroquine by the malaria
agents and the possibility of inducing drug- resistant strains of the parasite;
and (ii) effectively addressing the epidemie risk by treating all cases of
malaria referred to the health system. The first risk is being addressed
through the training, supervision and malaria surveillance activities under the
component. The second risk is being addressed through the creation of
chloroquine stocks in health centers and distribution in areas facing epidemic
outbreaks of malaria. A risk in the targeted employment and food security
components is the possibility of an uncontrolled increase in the number of
beneficiaries as a result of political pressures linked to the upeoming
election. This risk is being addressed by the initial programs agreed upon with
the Government, by the review of the overall road program undertaken under the
Seventh Highways project, and by the pilot nature of the sub-projects in the
food security area, which would be cancelled if intended beneficiaries were not
benefiting from the sub-projects.
5.06     With respect to the economie management component, the main risks
relate principally to the complexity of the structural adjustment program
underway, particularly to: (i) the poor condition of the civil service, which
may hinder full implementation of project activities on a sustainable basis;
and (ii) the need to find the right technical expertise to assist the
Government. The Government is cognizant of these risks, and its program is
designed to minimize the complexity by phasing the measures and identifying
needed assistance early on. Moreover, certain essential technical assistance
facilities have been financed under the PPF. The risks have been further
minimized by the close involvement of the implementing agencies in the design of
the reform program, by providing the means and incentives to those responsible
for carrying them out, and by using external consultants only in specialized
areas and generally for short-term assignments.



- 35 -
PART VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01     It was agreed during negotiations that:
(i)  the DGP will be responsible for overall project coordination and will
designate a duly qualified and experienced manager to carry out this
task (para. 4.06);
(ii)  the Governnment would appoint, by March 31, 1989, duly qualified and
experienced managers for each of the project components (para. 4.06);
(iii) the DGP would furnish to the Association, by June 30 of each year, a
progress report on the activities carried out during the preceding
year (para. 4.15);
(iv)  the DGP would furnish to the Association, by August 31 of each year,
an annual work program satisfactory to the Association for all
activities to be carried out under the project during tbe following
year. Each executing agency will be responsible, under the overall
coordination of the DGP, for preparing the part of the annual work
program that it will execute (para. 4.15);
(v)  the food security activities would be carried out in two phases: Phase
I will consist of rapid technical assessment, short-term trials and
experiments for the preparation of the respective pilot operations;
Phase II will consist of the implementation of the pilot operations.
Upon completion of Phase I, the Government will furnish the
Association, for approval, a detailed work program for the activities
to be carried out under each pilot program, including the arrangements
to be made for their implementation (para. 3.20); and
(vi)  the Government would submit to the Association for its approval the
terms of reference, cost estimates and arrangements for the
implementation of the studies under the Study Fund (para. 3.57).
6.02     The following would be conditions of disbursement:
(i)  with respect to the malaria control proRram, the furnishing of an
epidemiological survey acceptable to the Association before
disbursement under the category of equipment and vehicles (para. 3.07);
(ii) with respect to food securitv, the approval by the Association of
the detailed programs for carrying out the pilot programs
(para. 3.20);
(iii) with respect to redeployment, the effectiveness of the Public Sector
Adjustment Credit (para. 3.36); that the Government has made an
initial deposit of FMG 1 billion in a separate Treasury account
(Redeployment Fund) (para. 3.33); the Goverrment has created an
Information Center (para. 3.34);
(iv)  with respect to public finance, the effectiveness of the Public
Sector Adjustment Credit (para. 3.46); and
(v)  with respect to public enterprises, the effectiveness of the Public
Sector Adjustment Credit for both the divestiture and monitoring
sub-components (para. 3.54); an additional condition of disbursement
for the monitoring sub-component is the establishment of a unit
responsible for performance review, rehabilitation and restructuring
of public enterprises (para. 3.55).



- 36 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 1
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT
Main Economlc Ind1cators, 1983-870/
1988      1984       1986        198B      1987
As S of CDP:
Mdse. Exporte tob              10.9      14.0       11.9        12.4      16.0
Mdo.e  Importe fob             18.8      14.8       14.8        12.6      16.2
Current Account                10.9      10.4       10.9         8.7      11.7
External Debt                  71.6      90.1       98.8       101.0     167.8
Cov. Revenues                  16.2      17.8       16.2        1S.6      19.1
Current Expendltures           18.1      18.7       18.B        12.8      18.6
Pubilc Investmont               7.2       7.9        7.1         6.5       8.7
sov. Deflcit                    6.7       4.8        4.7         4.0       4.4
Cross Donestlc Investment      18.2      18.6       14.0        18.8      14.1
As of X of Total Exporte,
Dobt Service (aft.r Rosch.)      81.4      33.4       49.2        46.0      62.0
Tomre of Trnde, X Change       19.7       1.2       -6.7         8.2     -24.7
CDP Orowth, Market Prices (X)    0.9        1.7         2.8        0.8       1.4
a/ Changes in the ratios of external variables to GDP ère heavily Influenced
by the devaluations, partlcularly betwoon 1986 *nd 1987.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 1
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT
Expenditures by the Ministry of Health. 1977-87a/
In FMG billions                    In FMGbI   In SDR
Current           Equipment           Total         Total      Total
___p n er        per
Nominal   Real    Nominal   Real    Nominal   Real  Capita    Capita
1977     8.2       8.2      0.7       0.7       8.9      8.9    1104        3.8
1978     9.0       8.6      0.6       0.5       9.6      9.1    1102        4.1
1979     9.5       8.0      0.9       0.7      10.4      8.7    1029        4.5
1980    11.2       9.7      0.4       0.3      11.6     10.0    1155        4.9
1981     9.4       6.7      0.3       0.2       9.7      6.9    778         3.4
1982     9.2       5.8      0.7       0.4       9.9      6.2    683         2.8
1983    11.7       6.6       1.3      0.6      13.0      7.2    771         3.0
1984    12.2       6.2      2.2       0.8      14.4      7.0    730         2.5
1985    13.7       6.2       1.8      0.7      15.5      6.9    700         2.3
1986    16.0       6.4      2.4       0.8      18.4      7.2    711         2.3
1987    18.0       6.3      2.3       0.6      20.3      6.9    663         1.4
Sources:  J-B Rasera, "Coût et Financement de la Santé à Madagascar,"
February-March 1986, for nominal expenditures through 1985; World
Bank, "Population and Health Sector Report" (No. 6446-MAG), July
1987, for real expenditures through 1985; and staff estimates for
1986 and 1987.
ai Estimated actual expenditures. The sector report does not specify the
deflator used for calculating real expenditures. The implicit deflator
is significantly different from the CPI or GDP deflator for certain
years, but, for the period as a whole, it is broadly in line with lnown
overall price developments. The report uses 1985 prices; for
presentational convenience, real expenditures have been recalculated at
1977 prices.
bi In constant 1977 FMG.



- 38 -                       ANNEX III
Page 1 of 11
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT
Technical Note on
the Social Sectors in Madagascar
A. PCPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION 1
(1)  Population
1.       Population Status.  Few syntematic data have been gathered on
demographic trends in Madagascar. The census carried out in 1975 yielded a
population of 7.6 million, which is presently estimated to have grown to
11.4 million, reflecting a very high rate of growth of 3.0 percent per
annum. This growth rate is derived from estimates of the crude birth and
death rates and a total fertility rate, all of which are high. As in other
sub-Saharan countries, the country has a youthful age structure, with 45
percent of the population under 15.
2.       Based on the above estimates of the population's dynamics and
various assumptions about future fertility and mortality trends, rapid
population growth presents Madagascar with its most serious threat to
steady, long-term social and economic development and to the conservation
of its unique environment. Of particular concern are the implications of
rapid population growth on improving livirg standards, the job creation
needed to raise employment levels, the adequacy of local agricultural and
energy production to meet consumers' needs. and the financial requirements
for providing better access to improved social services.
3.       Historically, the Government of Madagascar has had a pro-natalist
policy even though voluntary family planning services have been available
in the major cities for some time, although under conditions of very
limited access.  As a result, less than 1 percent of the women of
reproductive age are currently family planning acceptors.
4.       Present fertility trends will also result in a rapid growth of the
size of the 'active age group" (the population aged 10 and over): from the
present level of 6.9 million it will reach 18.5 million by 2015. At the
present unsatisfactory rates of labor force participation, additional
employment opportunities for 200,000 jobs seekers per year will be needed
on average over the period 1985-2000. This figure will rise to over
360,000 over the first decades of the twenty-first century. Rapid
population growth will also create enormous pressures on the country in
terms of food energy and protein requirements. Without resorting to
imports, food production may have to triple over the next 30 years, a level
that would require improvements in agricultural yields and development of
1i This section is an update of the "Population and Health Sector Review"
(Report No. 6446-MAG of July 7, 1987).



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 11
au yet uncultivated land, improvements that are constrained by a number of
factors, including an întractable land tenure system. (Annex V summarizes
the projected population size and growth to year 2015.)
5.       About 80 percent of Madagascar's total energy consumption is in
the form of fuelwood and charcoal. While the long-term sustainable annual
yield of forests is estimated at 6.5 million tons of wood equivalent (twe),
and gross national demand in 1985 amounted to 5.6 million twe, large
deficits occurred in the highland provinces, creating serious
deforestation. Over the long term, the projected fuelwood demand under any
population growth assumption would by far outstrip its supply and may
accelerate the deforestation to catastrophic proportions, in an environment
that is considered very fragile. In spite of the increased awareness by
the Government and the international community of the dangers threatening
Madagascar's environnent and biodiversity, measures such as increased
plantation development, demand management a.nd wood substitution would most
likely not be sufficient to resolve the problem unless accompanied by a
slowing of population growth.
6.       Population growth may also affect the Government's ability to
provide adequate social services, such as in education and health. The
results of projections of school-age children indicate that, between the
rapid and no fertility decline scenarios, there would be a difference of
460,000 additional first-graders and 3 million additional compulsory school
students in 2015. A rapid decline in population growth would permit a
substantial reduction in education expenditures amounting, by 2015, to
about 40 percent of the total expenditures projected under the constant
fertility hypothesis. In addition, it is only under the hypothesis of a
rapidly declining fertility rate that growth in primary education
expenditures is projected to grow less rapidly than the overall recurrent
budget, a trend that would facilitate maintenance of universal primary
education and afford scope for improvements in the quality of the education
system.
7.       A large part of the health services in Madagascar is devoted to
maternal and child health services (MCH). If fertility does not decline,
potential MCH clients would increase from the present 4.6 million to 12.6
million in 2015, a number larger than the current total population of
Madagascar. Over the same period, deliveries that should ideally be
supervised at health facilities would increase from 450,000 to 1.2 million
per year. In contrast, the hypothesis of rapid fertility decline would
translate into a drastic reduction in client population: the number of
deliveries would first rise moderately and then decline to current 'evels
by 2015, a shift that would generate savings that could be used to improve
the quality of health services.
8.       Population Policy and Stratezy.  Over the past two years, there
has been an important change in awareness and attitudes among senior
decision-makers regarding the economic an,. social impact of the current
demographic and population dynamics. The Government is supporting a
program to sensitize decision-makers at the national and provincial levels
to the implications of rapid population growth on economic and social
development. These activities are being undertaken to prepare the way for
the promulgation of a National Population Policy before the middle of 1989



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 11
and the preparation of an action plan for its implementation.  The
population policy statement is expected to lead to an overhaul of the
legislative and regulatory framework on a number of population issues, and
in the process abrogate a law, no longer enforced, dating back to colonial
times that prohibits the advertising and distribution of contraceptives.
Technical assistance to the Directorate General of Planning and logistical
support for strengthening population and demographic analysis and its
incorporation into the national planning process is being provided under a
UN Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA) project. The Goveranent has also
recently decided to seek external assistance for the Ministry of
Population, Social Condition, Youth and Sports to support the preparation
of a population action plan and help monitor its implementation.
9.       As regards family planning, over the past two years, Government
policy has evolved from benign neglect to one of strongly supporting the
provision of family planning services by local NGOs, encouraging the
establishment of NGO-run family planning clinics within the confines of MOH
facilities, and formally encouraging child spacing as an integral element
cf the Government's MCH programs. Over the past year, the Government has
begun directly to support the operations of FISA, a local NGO affiliated
with IPPF, and has requested donor assistance for a major development
program to increase FISA's role and capacity for public information and
education on family planning services and to provide health personnel with
field training in family planning. The Government has also indicated its
desire to attract to Madagascar international NGOs, including those
operating in the fields of MCH and family planning.
(2> Health and Nutrition
10.      Data on Madagascar's health and nutrition status are scant and
unreliable. However, they indicate that maternal and infant mortality
rates are high and that treatable communicable and other diseases,
including malaria, diarrhea, malnutrition and perinatal diseases, are the
leading causes of death. Life expectancy has improved significantly over
the past 20 years and is currently estimated at about 51 years; infant
mortality is estimated at 125 per 1,000 live births, not significantly
different from levels in the rest of sub-Saharan Africa. The crude death
rate is presently estimated at 15.5 per 1,000; given the recent virulent
outbreak of malaria, this figure could be an unJerestimation. Children
under one account for about one-quarter of all deaths reported, while those
aged between one and five account for another 20 percent of all deaths.
There are also indications that maternal and neonatal death rates have been
rising in recent years. Major causes of outpatient morbidity include
malaria and respiratory, infectious, parasitic and digestive diseases, most
of which are susceptible to cost-effective treatment and prevention within
the context of primary health care services. Children under five years of
age account for over one-third of outpatient consultations. Malnutrition
hau a compounding effect on mortality and morbidity, particularly among
children and pregnant women.
11.      In recent years, there has been a dramatic increase in mortality
from malaria for two principal reasons. First, the disease has been re-
introduced into the highlands, which had been largely cleared of the vector
and the disease following combined vector control and chemo-prophylaxis



- 41 -
ANNEX III
Page 4 of 11
campaigns in the 1950s and 1960s. Since these populations have since lost
any acquired resistance to the disease, recent trends have the
characteristice of a major epidemic: over the past five years, the number
of malaria cases reported to the authorities has almost doubled, while the
number of deaths and the reported case fatality rate in facilities run by a
doctor have increased several-fold. In a number of hard-hit villages,
annual disease-specifîc death rates in excess of 45 per thousand have been
recorded. Second, a severe shortage of drugs in the public sector and a
combination of an inadequate distribution network and high prices in the
private sector have constrained access to appropriate treatment for the
population suffering from malaria. These conditions and the risk of
catastrophic loss of human lives led the Government to launch an appeal to
the donor community for emergency assistance in August 1988. (The
emergency assistance program and the medium-term malaria control program
are presented under the EMSAP program.)
12.      The nutritional status of the country, which was already poor in
the 1970s, has deteriorated significantly in the last decade, particularly
among children in the age group of two to five years. Inadequate access to
food and poor feeding practices of children appear to be the key areas that
need to be addressed. (Recent data indicative of nutritional trends in the
most vulnerable population groups are presented in the food security
section.) There are also indications of micro-nutrient deficiencies,
although systematic statistical evidence is lacking. Anthropometric and
other indicators of nutritional status will be monitored through the system
of permanent household surveys to be developed under the EMSAP program.
13.      Health Services Organization and Performance.   The Ministry of
Health (MOH) is responsible for health policy and is the most important
provider of modern health services. Other providers of modern health
services include the provincial and communal (local) governments, missions,
NGOs and the private sector. Recourse to traditional practitioners is
still very widespread.  Drug importation and distribution are handled by
both the MOH and a limited number of private operators, whose activities
until recently were closely controlled by the MOH.  There are two major and
two minor pharmaceutical enterprises operating in Madagascar.
14.      The institutional framework for the sector is fairly standard for
developing countries in sub-Saharan Africa and provides for a reasonable
degree of decentralization of MOH operations. However, the inability of
this system to satisfy the basic health needs of the population and to
improve their health and nutritional status significantly ca'ls for further
analysis and bold policy initiatives, particularly to: (i) redefine the
roles of public and private sector care providers and of the beneficiary
population in the management and financing of health services; and (ii)
establish appropriate coordination mechanisms among health care providers
and external donors. Priority also needs to be given to overcoming severe
management weaknesses in the MOH, brought about in part by severe
constraints on operating funds and difficult local conditions that impose
stringent logistical requirements for effective outreach.
15.      Since the mid-1970s, that is, even before the 1978 International
Conference on Primary Realth in Alma-Ata, the Government of Madagascar has



- 42 -                        ANNEX III
Page 5 of 11
given priority to the creation of a primary health care system as the most
appropriate approach to the country's health problems. The period 1975-86
witnessed a vast expansion effort during which about 1,200 basic health
facilities were constructed, essentially through community participation,
and over 4,500 health personnel were trained and deployed, bringing the
total to about 8,500 in 1988. As a result, there are at present almost
2,000 health facilities in operation, for an average ratio of less than
5,000 inhabitants per facility, which is very favorable by African
standards. In practicep over 60 percent of the population has reasonable
access to a MOH facility. As is the case in many African countries,
service at the periphery is the weakest, with little or no time devoted to
community outreach services.
16.      To date, this investment effort has failed to produce the
anticipated improvements in health status. The main reason is a steady
decline in the real level of operating budgets allocated to the MOH: over
the last eight years, they have fallen by over 3.5 percent annually, while
personnel expenditures have doubled in real terms. As a result, the
structure of recurrent public expenditures for health has been seriously
disrupted and has led to an acute shortage of funding for drugs, equipment,
supplies, technical supervision and routine maintenance. Over time, this
shortage of funding has compromised the functioning of all aspects of the
health system and led to a decline in overall rates of facility
utilization.
17.      A major factor constraining improvement in health status is a
severe shortage of drugs, especially in rural areas, and their high cost in
the private distribution system. These problems can be partly explained by
budget constraints on MOH purchases, a lack of competition in the sector,
the scarcity of foreign exchange and the impact of exchange rate
adjustments. Longstanding practices in drug prescription, procurement,
production and distribution that do not adequately take into account cost-
effectiveness and efficiency considerations are probably equally, if not
more, important. The Government now recognizes the need to readjust these
practices to bring them into line with the principles of an essential drugs
policy and has started, with technical collaboration from the Swiss
Government, to prepare an Essential Drugs Action Program that will seek to
encourage more effective drug prescription and use in the private sector,
as well as promote competitive forces in drug importation, production and
distribution.
18.      Given the financial constraints it will be facing over the
foreseeable future, the Government is also exploring the possibilities of
introducing cost recovery, or at least requiring payment for drugs, as a
means of transferring to the beneficiaries a reasonable share of the cost
of basic curative health services. A sector cost and financing study is
being prepared, to include a national survey of household expenditures for
traditional and modern health services. Other studies are underway to
evaluate experience to date with villagelcommunity pharmacies. The
seriousness with which the Goverrunent is treating the cost and financing
issues is reflected in its decision to require cost recovery for the
chloroquine distributed to treat primary malaria cases under the malaria
control program, despite the existence of epidemic conditions in parts of
the country.



- 43 -
ANNEX III
Page 6 of 11
19.      Madagascar faces a number of serious issues in health manpower.
Pre-service training is hampered by the lack of textbooks, teaching
materials and often inadequate command of the French language. Medical
training programs are plagued with gross internal inefficiencies. The
output of both medical and paramedical schools far exceeds the absorptive
capacity of the public and private health systems, a reflection of the
absence of a credible long-term manpower plan. In-service training is
severely lacking and remains underfunded, although the MOH recognizes the
need for this activity.
20.      Total health care expenditures in 1987 are estimated at FMG 20.3
billion, or US$ 14 million. Total funds allocated to the MOH have steadily
declined in real terms, averaging 3.b percent per annum between 1977 and
1986, as well as relative to total public expenditures (from 9.2 percent
in 1976 to 6.7 percent in 1986). In per capita terms, MOH expenditures
have fallen from a high of SDR 4.9 in 1980 to SDR 1.4 in 1987. (Annex II
summarizes the expes;ditures of the MOH between 1977 and 1987.)
21.      National Health Policy.  In the light of the foregoing
developments, the Government now recognizes the need to: (i) increase the
efficiency of public expenditures on heaa.th by giving a higher priority to
preventive and simple curative measures; (ii) develop and re-establish
endemic disease control programs, particularly to control an explosive
resurgence of malaria; (iii) increase the availability of essential drugs;
and (iv) emphasize community participation and introduce cost recovery,
initially for drugs, in order to expand access to health services, promote
better utilization patterns, and shift some of the cost of improved health
services to the beneficiaries. Its current health initiatives are foeused
on national programs of child immunization and oral rehydration therapy for
treating diarrheal diseases, as well as promoting village pharmacies as
part of its essential drugs policy. These policies are being developed
under a comprehensive sector strategy that will be discussed with the
Association in February 1989 in the context of the Public Sector Adjustment
Credit. Support for the implementation of this strategy is envisaged under
the sectoral population, health and nutrition project currently under
preparation.
B. FOOD SECURITY
22.      Historical Perspective.  Until 1984, Goverament policy in
Madagascar had tended to favor the urban and industrial sectors over the
rural and agricultural sectors. In the 1960s, while income growth was
stimulated in urban areas through investments in manufacturing, export
revenues stagnated and traditional agricultural income started to decline.
In the 1970s, the urban sectors continued to be favored through both trade
policies and subsidized food prices, resulting in a further decline in
agricultural rural incomes. Starting in the mid-1970s, the Government's
policy to reduce overall and regional income disparities translated into
increases in some agricultural prices and in the wages of lower-paid urban
workers. However, price increases were not upgraded regularly in response
to real price movements, and, although the fall in real incomes in rural



- 44 -                          ANNEX III
Page 7 of 11
areas did slow, the gap between rural and urban incomes narrowed primarily
because hi,h inflation, poor industrial performance and slow growth in wage
rates caused a dramatic fall in real urban incomes. Throughout the 1980s,
and espectally since the liberalization started in 1983, agricultural
prices of both paddy and an index of export crops have continued to rise
relative to urban wages.
23.      Urban Areas.  The analysis of consumption and expenditures within
urban areas reveals just how serious the situation has become, especially
for the poor. Whlereas average urban rice consumption was 5 percent higher
than in rural areas in 1982/83, urban consumption dropped by a dramatic 18
percent to 128 kg/person/year, wh!le rural consumption remained stable
around 140 kg/person/year. By 1986187, rural consumption was approximately
10 perc,ant higher than urban consumption. When divided into different
categories, the poorest quartile of urban consumera has suffered by far the
most: their per capita consumption fell 31 percent between 1982/83 and
1986187 to only 80 kg/person/year, while the richest quartile only fell 8
percent on average. The two middle quartiles experienced significant drops
in per capita rice consumption of 20 percent but were able to keep their
average per capita consumption close to the 128 kg/person/year that the
Malagasy diet requires. The analysis of families by socioeconomic group
revealed a large decrease in consumption and real expenditures for the
economically inactive.
24.      Rural Areas.  Rural consumption, in contrast to urban consumption,
has, as noted, remained fairly constan- at approximately 140 kg/person
since 1962. Regionally, however, there have been important variations. In
the main rice-growing regions, there was a noticeable trend of increased
rice consumption and real expenditures between 1983 and 1987 that suggested
rising incomes for rice farmers and a higher percent of their income going
to categories other than food. In contrast, the Meridional Plateaux
(Antsirabe and south) experienced a dramatic fall in consumption between
1983 and 1986, although the situation did improve marginally in 1987.
25.      Regional Disparities.  Rice consumption tended to drop
considerably more in the urban centers that relied heavily upon the low-
cost official distribution system and where climatic conditions are not
appropriate for rice production. When prives from the official
distribution system began to climb in the mid-1980s, the production
response was initially unable to fill in the gaps, and consumption dropped
significantly. While the official rice distribution system did benefit the
poor, the largest beneficiaries throughout the period were the richer
households, which obtained 60 percent more rice per person than did the
poor ones, indicative of a need for an improved targeting mechanism. The
capital was the worst affected by the fall in consumption, followed by
Toamasina and Antsiranana. Although FAO estimates that food availability
within the country provides adequate in terms of per capita calorie
availability, protein intake remains deficient and has declined since the
early 1980s. Moreover, regional distribution is not uniform, and pockets
of food deficiencies undoubtedly exist, especially since the poor shape of
the transport network hinders free movement of agricultural goods
throughout the country.



- 45 -
ANNEX III
Page 8 of 11
26.      Child Malnutrition.  Indicators of malnutrition levels show a
marked decline in the nutritional status of Madagascar's children. A
national study in 1983/84 that used anthropometric measures to determine
the nutritional status of children concluded that 11 percent of the
children were classified as severely malnourished in terms of weight for
age, 14 percent in terms of height for age and 3 percent in terms of the
weight-for-height indicator (severe stunting). Nutritional status is
roughly equivalent for urban and rural children. These figures indicate
the presence of a serious child undernourishment problem, both chronic and
transitory. A review of hospital admission records and data provided by
Catholic Relief Services' clinics (based on 45,000 children) show that,
between 1983 and 1987, there has been an average increase of 10-12 percent
ln the number of children affected by moderate and severe malnutrition.
the capital, the number of undernourished children has increased by 16
percent between 1982 and 1986.
27.      Analytical Framework.  In Madagascar, liberalization of the
markets for food staples and for cash crop exports should inject about
US$160 million per annum additional income into the budgets of rural
producers from sales to the urban and external sectors. After accounting
for the multiplier effects--that is, until the US$160 million entirely
leaks back into the urban and external sectors--about US$550 million per
annum will be spent on the output (mostly food) of the rural sector by the
sector itself. This calculation assumes a multiplier of 3.3, given a
propensity to spend 70 percent of additional income on food. The result is
equivalent to a 50 percent increase in rural incomes. It is clear from the
above that the indirect effects the liberalization program will have on
food insecurity will greatly exceed any results that may be obtained from
direct intervention to address specific food insecurities. Liberalization
therefore must be the number one priority from the perspective of food
security, as it will completely change the food security picture. At the
same time, because it will not solve all problems, it is also important to
forecast the nature of the post-liberalization food insecurity problem.
28.      The cash effect of liberalization on rural incomes iL  only one of
a number of potential major influences on food insecurity. The technical
basis for the functioning of markets is very poor in Madagascar. There is
very little capital available for the kind of working stocks that a market
requires for self-correcting behavior, and at the same time the working
stock requirement is abnormally high all across the system because of poor
communication and transport. At any moment, the market in goods registers
large regional and even local price variations that are not arbitraged by
traders, as they do not have the capital or working stocks to do so. The
liberalization program includes interventions in the capital market and in
the provision of infrastructure, which are necessary if liberalization is
to succeed. At the same time, however, interventions to improve the
functioning of markets will have their own effect on food insecurity, in
that about one-third of food insecurity is estimated to arise from market
imperfection or failure. Further, the shift by smallholders from auto-
sufficiency to market entitlement for their food needs improves their food
security on balance.



- 46 -                          ANNEX III
Page 9 of 11
29.      Despite the remarks about the likely impact of liberalization on
global food insecurity, Madagascar will still have a large number of
deprived and vulnerable people, even after liberalization. The analysis,
which shows how the vulnerable cope now, should be extended to specify who
is likely to remain vulnerable and still dependent on chancy and uncettain
instruments, after cash incomes generally have risen. Specific food
security interventions are required to deal with and compensate (to some
extent) for the situation that will still remain after the restructuring of
the rural economy is underway. When it is possible to show how coping
mechanisms fail as a result of chance events and are affected over time by
secular changes, it should be possible to design interventions that enhance
the effectiveness of the mechanisms available to the poor.
C. EMPLOYMENT
30.      The work force in Madagascar was estimated at 6.2 million in 1986.
Of these, 92 percent work in the priaary sector, 3 percent in the secondary
sector, 2 percent in the administration, and 3 percent in the tertiary
sector. Although no formal statistics exist on levels of unemployment, the
number of people officially registered as seeking employment in urban areas
(8 percent of the labor force outside agriculture) suggests severe
unemployment: between 1970 and the mid-1980s, the nur.ber of those
registered as unemployed has tripled. This figure is a gross
underestimation of total unemployment in urban areas. One estimate was
that, in the early 1980s, unemployment in the capital was more than 30
percent. Employment opportunities for students leaving school are also a
major problem: it was estimated in 1975 that only 40 percent of students
leaving school could find jobs that required their formal education. In
rural areas, underemployment is very high in the off-peak agricultural
season.
31.      Permanent employment in the modern sector grew at an average
annual rate of 3 percent between 1983 and 1985, but decreased by 1.1
percent in 1986. It is estimated that employment creation in this sector
provided an average of 900 new permanent jobs per year. Different sized
establishments grew, however, at noticeably different rates, with
employment in small-scale enterprises growing faster than in larger ones.
The employment situation of women, who occupy 11 percent of permanent
positions in the modern sector, improved considerably, growing at 5 percent
per year on average between 1983 and 1985, compared to the 3 percent per
year for all employees. By professional category, females held one-fifth
of jobs in the cadres supérieurs and moyens, 15 percent in the employee
category, and 13 percent in the laborer category.
32.      Accounting for almost one-third of total employment in the modern
sector, the central administration is estimated to have provided 133,000
jobs in 1985. Between 1978 and 1982, employment in this sector grew at
approximately 9 percent per year, but slowed to 2 percent a year between
1982 and 1985, providing an average of 2,000 jobs per year net, but with
only 300 added between 1984 and 1985. Other administrative jobs, such as
local administration, research and training enterprises within the public
domain, accounted for an additional 22,000 jobs in 1985.



- 47 -
ANNEX III
Page 10 of 11
33.      Given the limited opportunities for employment in the modern
sector, the informal sector has become increasingly important as a source
of employment for both those unable to find permanent work and those
seeking to complement family revenues. Many families whose real revenues
have declined during the economic crisis have developed these productive
activities to assure their survival. The majority of the labol in the
informal sector in Antananarivo (93 percent) is from the Faritany of
Antananarivo itself--only 7 percent have migrated from other areas.
Workers in this sector generally have strong ties to the land, which most
cultivate themselves. Typical informal sector employment consiste of
farming, sales of vegetables and charcoal, and driving of non-motorized
vehicles.
34.      Workers in the informal sector tend to be well-educated--over 95
percent can read and write, a level that is up from approximately 90
percent in 1979. Fifty-eight percent went to primary school, and almost 30
percent attended at least some secondary school. Only 2 percent studied at
the university. Revenuas in the informal sector vary from FMG 18,000-
40,000 per month, which is less than the average of FMG 48,200 received by
the two lowest paid categories of Government workers. (The minimum salary
is FMG 33,000 per month.) Growth in the informal sector in Antananarivo
was a high 20 percent between 1983 and 1984. This sector has alsc become
increasingly important as a source of employment in rural areas. A study
in Antsirabe shows strong growth in this sector through both a
proliferation of new enterprises arnd the growth of existing ones: they
provided approximately 500 new jobs per year in Antsirabe between 1978 and
1981. These activities offer stable work opportunities.
35.      The rural sector absorbs 85 percent of the active population and
supplies 75 percent of the entrants into the work force each year.
Agriculture is by far the most important source of employment in the rural
areas of each province, accounting for 94 percent of all employment (86
percent permanent, 11 percent temporary and 3 percent seasonal). The
percentage of temporary workers increases several-fold in areas located
near urban centers. Underemployment constitutes a severe problem in rural
areas: rough estimates show that it amounts to 400-600 million man-days per
year and that during the off-peak agricultural season, 38 percent of
permanent and temporary workers in Antananarivo province are essentially
unemployed. Unemployment in the rural areas varies considerably according
to the regional agricultural endowment and climatic conditions, with the
south of the country being particularly affected in periods of drought.
36.      The Government has attempted to promote employment in both urban
and rural sectors by road construction under high intensity labor (HIMO)
techniques. The Ministry of Public Works has created, within the Directory
of Roada, a HIMO unit, which has developed standards and parameters for
labor-intensive road construction and has implemented, using small private
contractors, approximately 200 kms cf rural roads.  This unit is being
supported by Norwegian aid (NORAD) and the International Labor Organization
(ILO). In parallel, the Ministry of Civil Service and Labor is developing
criteria for the appraisal and implementation of labor-intensive
irrigation, reforestation and social infrastructure projects.



- 48 -                            ANNEX III
Page 11 of 11
37.      With respect to assistance to the unemployed, the legislation is
generally adequate, but the Government lacks the means to implement it.
The likely employment impact of the public enterprise reform process will
put an unbearable strain on the existing structures if assistance over and
above what is already provided is not mobilized.



- 49 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 4
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT
Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Letter of Development Policy
Social Policy Principles, Guidelines and Criteria
1.       The rapid shrinking of GDP in the early eighties brought about a
decline in people's living standards. The low economic growth rate
recorded during the stabilization phase of the adjustment project was
insufficient to reverse this process As a result, at this time when the
Government is embarking on the second phase of its adjustment project,
aimed essentially at structural reforms, large segments of the population
are living in poverty and have an insufficient income to meet their basic
needs, which is being reflected in high rates of malnutrition, disease and
mortality.
2.       Recognizing that restoration of growth in per capita income is an
essential prerequisite for alleviating poverty, the Government incends to
pursue a combination of monetary, fiscal and exchange rate policies
conducive to sustained per capita growth. In addition, the economic policy
measures contemplated in the Government's project will have the effect of
improving income distribution, particularly by redressing the domestic
terms of trade In favor of the rural sector.
3.       However, the Government also recognizes that restoration of growth
in per capita income is not in itself sufficient to alleviate poverty in
the medium and long term. For this reason, in parallel with macroeconomic
and sectoral policies, a social policy designed to stimulate equitable
growth in the medium and long term will be implemented. In this spirit,
the Government intends to pursue actions for the relief of poverty that
will raise the access of the poorest groups to income-generating assets and
to employment opportunities, thereby increasing the productivity of
physical assets and human resources.
4.       This is why, in the short term, the Government intends to take
measures to protect the most vulnerable groups that have been particularly
affected by the shrinking of real income in the past few years. It
proposes to do this by implementing specific projects in the areas of basic
health care, nutrition, protection of homeless children, and job creation.
Population-related activities and the formulation of a national population
policy are also needed to curb population growth and ensure that it does
not ultimately wipe out the benefits of economic recovery.
5.       In general, the Government feels that the financing of the efforts
described below should be regarded as additional to the public expenditure
project to be established within the framework of its macroeconomic policy.
These outlays will, however, be examined as part of the general review of
public expenditure (see Chapter V), and particularly in the context of the
reformulation of expenditure priorities and of resource reallocation.



- 50 -                       ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 4
6.       However, actions to be undertaken in favor of vulnerable groups
should not jeopardize what bas already been achieved through the adjustment
process. All the actions to be undertaken will accordingly be guided by
the following clearly defined fundamental criteria:
-   Determination of mechanisms for targeting the beneficiary groups,
as realistic and specific as possible, while avoiding the creation
of a cumbersome administrative structure that would impede
efficiency. To achieve this goal, the regional social
organizations, non-governmental organizations and the
decentralized local authorities will be employed as implementing
agents.
-   Cost minimization by a cost-benefit calculation for each activity,
implying that the activities would be limited in time and their
management is carefully monitored. This will enable to better
project and budget their financing by applying the rule of
budgetary transparency.
7.       In the health sector, the Government's objective is to reduce
mortality and morbidity rates. Priority wil; be given to improving the
primary health care system, notably by strengthening and speeding up
activities aimed at enst:ring the survival and development of young
children, and protecting the health of pregnant women and nursing mothers.
To this end, the Government will pursue activities currently being
implemented under the Expanded Project for Immunization and the Oral
Rehydration Project, with support from public awareness and health
education campaigns. Efforts to combat endemic and epidemic diseases will
be stepped up, and a national project for malaria prophylaxis implemented.
The Government also proposes to continue its policy for making essential
drugs available to the population. In order to provide better project
guidance for health-related activities, a sectoral strategy will be
prepared by March 1989, taking account of the results of studies on the
cost and financing of health care, drugs, maternal and child health, and
the desirability of encouraging the local production of pharmaceuticals in
the longer tenm.
8.       With regard to the fiscal dimension of this effort, the Government
will--while respecting the principles of fiscal transparency and budgetary
integrity--adopt the following measures. Imports of all medicines will
qualify for the minimum customs duty/import levy. In addition, the
Ministry of Health will receive (through a specific budgetary line) a full
refund of all taxes attributable to imports by the Ministry's Central
Pharmacy, and to imports of drugs under projects financed by foreign aid
agencies.
9.       As regards nutrition, the immediate objective is to provide the
poorest population groups with food, particularly during the inter-harvest
period. Government intervention in this area will, however, be managed in
such a way as to minimize the effect on market prices of foodstuffs and on
producer incentives. In the short term, foodstuffs will be distributed in
accordance with the criteria outlined above.  The targeting mechanism will
be formulated on the basis of either the nature of the products being
distributed or selection of specific geographic areas. During this period,
studies will be conducted to determine a medium.-term food security strategy
for vulnerable groups.



- 51 -                        ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 4
10.      For the protection of homeless chtldren, measures will be taken to
reinsert them into adequate social structures. An instructor-training
project has already been started. To enhance short-term assistance, the
Government has prepared an inventory of the projects and needs of the
social organizations and decentralized communities so that it can extend
the necessary support to those that are already active in this area to
improve the services they offer to children in need. The Government will
also mobilize the Fonds National de l'Enfance (National Children's Fund)
and strengthen its management structures. Studies will also be undertaken
to identify a medium-term strategy for preventing the occurrence of this
problem.
11.      The Government will implement a comprehensive emplovment policy
aimed at promoting the creation of jobs in the productive sectors of the
economy, particularly by establishing appropriate credit facilities, fiscal
measures and adequate incentives. A number of projects are planned under
this heading. With support from certain donors, certain projects using
high labor-intensive techniques have been started, mostly in public works.
A minimum-cost self-help construction project using little more than local
labor and materials will shortly be initiated. Consideration could be
given to establishing a non-governmental contract-saving organization for
the financing of this project, consistent with the general policy on the
financial system and on interest rates. To cushion the effects of the
layoffs expected to result from the coming reorganization of the public
enterprise sector, there are immediate plans to establish temporary
compensation arrangements for the workers who will be affected by these
measures (see Chapter IV). The Government will also continue its
organizational and support measures in favor of the informal sector.
12.      In keeping with its principle of taking into account the human
element in its development policies, the Malagasy Gcvernment is resolved to
promote greater consistency between the economic growth rate and the
population growth rate. To this end, a Population and Development Unit
(UPD) has been set up within the Directorate General of Planning to study
the interactions between population and development with a view to
integrating demographic variables in the country's economic, social and
cultural development plans. The results of these studies will contribute
to the formulation of a population policy that will be submitted to the
Government prior to July 1989 and will result in the promulgation of a
population law. During this interim period, educational and family
planning activities are already being conducted on a small scale by FISA
and other NGOs. The Government plans to support these activities, and in
the short term it proposes to extend assistance to FISA to enable it to
improve and extend its operations, particularly in rural areas.
13.      In order to secure sufficient financial resources to carry out
effectively all the short- and medium-term measures described in the
preceding paragraphs, the Malagasy Government is currently negotiating with
the World Bank, the African Development Bank, UNDP and certain bilateral
aid donors to procure financing, mostly on a grant basis, for the Economic
Management and Social Action Project (EMSAP). This project has three
components:
-   the Government's short-term social action project;



- 52 -                     ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 4
-   support for the preparation, implementation and monitoring of a
medium- and long-term social action project;
-   the project of institutional support for economic management in
the areas of public finance and public enterprises (see Chapters
IV and V).
The first two components will also be supported under the regional "Social
Dimensions of Adjustment" (SDA) project being financed jointly by the UNDP
Regional Projectme for Africa, the African Development Bank, and the World
Bank.
June 6, 1988
Victor Ramahatra
Prime Minister



- 53 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 1
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT
Proiected Population Size and Growth
1985      2000       2015
Total Population (in millions)
No Fertility Decline                   10.3       16.7      28.1
Gradual Fertility Decline              10.3       15.6      22.2
Rapid Fertility Decline                10.3       15.1      19.8
Averaze Annual Growth Rate (percent)
No Fertility Decline                   3.0         3.3       3.5
Gradual Fertility Decline              3.0         2.6       2.2
Rapid Fertility Decline                3.0         2.3       1.5
Source: World Bank projections.



- 54 -
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 1
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT
Food Ava.ilability
1961-63    1971-73    1981-83          1984
Calories (kcal/person/day)         2,395       2,473       2,738       2,396
Z Coming from:
- Cereals                     62.5        62.5        59.6        58.4
- Racines/Tubers              16.2        15.9        18.0        20.4
- Sugar/Honey                  3.9         4.4         4.6         3.0
- NutsJOilseed                 3.0         3.1         2.7         2.8
- Fruit/Vegetables             4.0         4.3         4.2         3.9
- Meat/Milk/Eggs/Fish          6.1         6.7         7.2         7.4
- Oil/Grease                   1.5         2.0         2.8         3.0
- Miscellaneous                1.8         1.1         1.0          .9
Protein (gm/person/day)             58.5        58.3        58.2        55.8
Z Coming from:
Cereals                      58.0        59.6        57.3        55.6
- Racines/Tubers               6.5         6.2         7.0         8.0
- Nuts/Oilseed                 6.5         6.7         5.9         6.1
- Fruit/Vegetables             4.0         4.2         3.9         3.7
- Meat/Milk/Eggs/Fish         23.9        22.3        24.6        25.3
- Miscellaneous                1.1         1.0         1.1         1.2
Percent Calories from:
Proteins                       9.8         9.4         9.2         9.3
Fat                            9.9        10.3        10.9        11.4
Source:  FAO, "lAperçu Nutritionnel," final version, 1987, p. 3.  Data
compiled by the Division of Food and Nutrition Policies, OAA.



- 55 -
ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 1
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT
List of Documents in the Prolect File
Social Action ProRrams Letter of Development Policy
1. Malaria Con.rol
and Treatment Program                  Technical Note No. 1
2.  Family Planning                          Technical Note No. 2
3.  Food Security                            Working Paper
4.  Income Generation                        Technical Note No. 3
5.  NGO Coordination                         Technical Note No. 4
6.  Redeployment                             Technical Note No. 5
Social Dimensions of Adiustment
1.  National Project Docuimernt              Technical Note No. 6
2. Cour.try Assessment Paper
Economic ManaRement: Letter of Development Policy
1.  Public Finance                           Technical Note No. 7
2.  Strengthening of Disbursement Unit       Technical Note No. 8
3.  Public Enterprises                       Technical Note No. 9
4.  Study Fund                               Technical Note No. 10



- 56 -
ANNEU VIII
Pasg 1 of 1
DENOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF -4DAGA8CAR
ECONOHIC MANAGEMENT AND SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT
Structure of Rural Emplo-ment. 1986
(in parcentage)
Antan-    Fianar-   Tom-       Toli-      Nubaj-    Antair-  Total
anarivo   antsoa   &*in&       ary        ansa       *nana
Public
Service      2.0        1.6        1.6      1.6         1.4        1.4      1.7
Private
Service      2.9        0.8        1.5      1.4         1.3        1.5      1.8
Product.
Activ.ai      4.0       1.1        1.4      0.8         1.4        1.3      2.1
Agricul-
ture        91.1       96.3       95.S     96.2        9S.9       95.6     94.4
- Perm.        (74)      (91)       (79)     (98)        (94)       (96)     (86)
- Temp.        (26)       (9)        (7)      (1)         (2)        (4)     (11)
- Seas.         -          -        (14)      (1)         (4)         -       (3)
Sources  Rapport de l'Enquête sur l'Emploi, la Haln-d'Oeuvre et la Formation
en Milieu Rural," July 1987.
ai Includes artlsan and industrial activities.



- 57 -
ANNEX IX
Page 1 of 2
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT
Study Fund:
Terms of Reference of Studies Already Approved
A. IMPROVE THE STATISTICAL DATA BASE
1.       The last national accounts for Madagascar date from 1973.  The
accounts for 1986 are currently being prepared and should be available this
year. The National Statistical Institute (BDE) is expected to prepare only
cursory accounts, based on 1986 figures, until 1991, concentrating instead
on improving the methodology. Other data are to be gathered from the
Ministry of Financ.3, decentralized offices of social agencies, and foreign
governments. These methodological improvements will require the financing
of equipment (mLcrocomputers), surveys (informal sector and business
production), studies (fiscal data, filing systems and role of foreign
governments) and consultants. The consumer price index is based on the
year 1970-71, and its structure dates from the 1968-69 budget consumption
survey. An improved index can now be put in place, using information from
the budget consumption survey of 1978, the housing survey of 1986, and data
on the production and import of household goods. The objective of the
short-term forecasting is to provide regular data on the country's economic
situation. It will draw upon the completed results of the national
accounts, including data on trade, lending, tax and customs revenues, and
prices. A survey of industrial enterprises will allow the forecasting of
production, investment and inventory levels.
B. INDUSTRIAL SUB-SECTOR DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY STUDY
2.       Improved industrial performance will play an increasingly
important role in the overall economic development of Madagascar in the
next decade. A combination of policy and structural factors underlie past
poor industrial performance in terms of efficiency, international
competitiveness and exports.  The highly protective tariffs, quantitative
restrictions and other regulations that had established an irnward-looking
environment are being progressively removed. The inability of firms to
respond to changed incentives also hinde:s work on problems such as poor
infrastructure, inappropriate technologies, technical and managerial
inefficiencies, labor laws and practices, etc. An in-depth study of sub-
sectors/product groups is needed to develop a comprehensive strategy to
induce greater efficiency at the subsector and enterprise levels. The
objectives of the proposed studies are the following: (ij to identify
broadly sub-sectors/product groups that have potential comparative
advantage and examine the policy, technical, institutional, marketing,
labor and infrastructure constraints preventing them from attaining their
potential; (ii) to propose an integrated policy package to add-ess key
constraints; (iii) to recommend appropriate phasing for adjustments in the
incentive and tariff frameworks; (iv) to propose specific technical,



ANNEX IX
Page 2 of 2
financial and institutional measures to increase exports; and (v) to
prepare packages of financîal and technical assistance to help firms
benefit from, and adjust to, the changed policy environment. The study
would cover the following sub-sectors: agro-industries, chemicals and
other process industries, textile and textile products and leather and
footwear. Five type of reports would be prepared in the course of the
study: a single background and policy overview report, a product group
report, a sub-sector summary report, a single export report, and a single
sector summary report. Envisaged outlines of these reports are available
in the project file. The overall study ie expected to absorb approximately
40 man-months.
C. DEBT CONVERSION STUDY
3.       Although the use of various techniques for reducing indebtedness
to commercial banks by taking advantage of secondary market discounts have
been concentrated on heavily indebted middle-income countries, Madagascar
appears to be in a relatively unique position to benefit from this
accumulated experience when compared to other low-income African countries.
First, debt to private creditors is substantial, at approximately US$250
million.  Second, although Madagascar previously pursued a policy of
Government-led industrialization and nationalization of foreign-owned
enterprises, the Government ls now attempting to encourage significant
foreign and national private sector involvement in the economy. Third,
Madagascar, despite its poverty, has significant economic potential, based
on the development of its natural resources, that private investors should
find attractive. A study of the potential interest and mechanisme for debt
conversion would provide the Malagasy authorities with the necessary
information to decide if and when negotiations with private creditors could
be initiated. The objectives of the study are as followss (i) to provide
accurate statistical data on the amount of debt and the creditors that
could participate in a debt conversion scheme; (ii) to assess, based on the
experience of other debtor countries, the relative merits and disadvantages
of various mechanisms for converting debt, including debtlequity and
debt/environment swaps and debt buy-backs; (iii) to identify potential
interest among private investors and a preliminary list of investment
projects that would provide the basis for debtlequity swaps; (iv) to
recommend any modifications in the investment code or other incentives to
private investors required to generate sufficient demand for debt
conversion; and (v) to contact bilateral donors and environmental groupe to
determine the scope for direct contributions to purchase discounted
commercial debt. The study i to be undertaken by one or two consultants
recruited internationally, with the possibility of short-term inputs for
technical specialists such as a lawyer or expert in financial markets. The
study would be conducted under the supervision of the Central Bank of
Madagascar and should serve as a basis for determining the scope for
pursuing more in-depth work in this area. The report should be completed
in about four months, with a maximum of 10 man-months of resources.



IBRD 20035
fsAntsiranana
MADAGASCAR 
P.ved roodsJ
déovtes goudrondu                                                                              I
Ali.v.eother ronds 
Povres aomreJJ16   o n toute ja'son                                    NOSY E              tA b.laéol
Non.-paermontn rondsHel lo                                                                                 ,\Vhmrn
kbuov$e selsonnleroJ                                          
Ro.lloods
Ch mm  ne ,o,                                                                       Ab
Flev,di r P-ires                                                          .  f>ANTSIRANAN
Ad o,oorti                                                                               *_    \XSo.bova
NcItionol top.fol                                                                       80.1                 1
WCooie o"dow d 'Senonoq  
Foratony (p,oy-ne) CoPitola                                      AnololovoO    I                    t r 
Chef.lieudae Fo,tonf                                               Antsoh.hy],:(ndp
_ _Fo,.tony 6o.ndor.es                                                            ,                                    Antoiloha
-tomts des Feo"n,- Ioy                                                                               <
_ _ Inrer.at.onol bou.do,.os                                                             l/E'                 Mroror
tmeJdos etots                                                    mt              l 'FO 
Soogil°+    `>ongooO^              r p        n            \ fi        tMoo
c_   MA HA J ANGA    I\ t                                    li 
/                       \>,         /       And~~~~~~~~      ~~~~léo o   f +5A.bod,iotot,o
I             .               \        «!~~~~~~~~~~~~And,Me  0f0m _    oorAtsmonono0
J Mo,ofoaobe    r\ 
Mointlton°4+    jJ'  '                \            8    r~~~~~~~~~~~~' mbatondrz o
>   <   r        Aninlob+e Aal°tosobooi                   j§\~~ ~~Toomnosino
Aao v         ANTANANARIV\    É{-
X        ^f o           m     rd 'J                                 ohlbaon
,i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~+  fmondry \ :        /
\    - Antsirové\            /      {      5MOnr
Momod       ov       g-<          bo dy  4-tFi^in  
\           t~~~~~bat.f..nd,ohoo  <    notr              oswV4i
T 0 L I A R,A          (-                             If.,nhso /.
MO0,10e-                                                                   n on nj ry
MofombeéoJondovo   d6,7i;;o                  XAm~~~~~bolovooX
A              Q     ~~~~~~~F I A N A Rlii SA      to5E
y   OAntoronSo          ~~~~~Ihok  X     v..b       -{Mnkoro
4           __ ~~~~~<   <      _«vohlbe           Vohi~~~~~~~~Penn  KltOMEtERS o  50    100    150   200
Ssee.dy     /         \       ~~~~~~~M.d.ne  |                     i$     NZANIA
%   (ABeroteto    <    /''^Si                     ~~~~~~~24- -}F^~                   COMOROS
KtM Bâ*' .18ltO    r                                    -           W V                                 ZAMB«         '«
bu w~ùnsapah                                                                                              ZIMBABWEs O               noon,o
v.sap Me    bc/e                                          m o tny *\                                                                  MADAGASCAR
#-uYevWv   ^                                                   Amvob/SOUTH\
o v  v «verc ol                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A F RICA
azn Caréves                                                                            /  vv~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%AZILAND
SEPTEMBER 1986



