Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3046-MAG
Development Credit Agreement
(Education Sector Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 9, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3046-MAG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 9, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of 
the Project;
(B)
the Association has received a letter, dated February 13, 
1998, from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to promote and strengthen the Borrower’s education 
sector development strategy (hereinafter referred to as "the Program"), 
and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
(C)
Part E.2 of the Project will be carried out by Fonds de 
Développement de l'Enseignement Supérieur (FDES) with the Borrower’s 
assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to the FDES part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in 
Page  2
this Agreement;
(D)
the Borrower intends to reach agreement with other donors 
(Other Donors) in view of securing additional loans and grants 
(hereinafter referred to as Other Donors’ Loans and Other Donors’ Grants, 
respectively) in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to $85,000,000 
to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth 
in agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and Other Donors 
(hereinafter referred to as Other Donors' Loan Agreements and Other 
Donors' Grant Agreements, as the case may be); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise 
agree, no withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not 
a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services supplied 
from, such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is 
prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council 
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations."
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the 
right of the  Borrower 
to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
shall have been suspended with respect to any  amount of the Credit for a 
continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the 
Association determines, after consultation with the 
Borrower, that an amount of the Credit 
will not be required to finance 
the Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, or (c) at any time, the Association determines, with 
respect to any contract to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Credit during the 
procurement or the execution of 
such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the 
situation, and establishes 
the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at 
any time, the 
Association determines that the 
procurement of any contract to be financed out of the 
Page  3
proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures 
set forth or referred to in the 
Development Credit Agreement and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out 
of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from 
the Credit Account, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, 
terminate the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect 
to such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Credit shall be canceled."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)     
“Beneficiary” means a private or public institution which is 
determined to be eligible for a Higher Education Grant in terms of the 
eligibility criteria specified in the Procedures Manual, and for whose 
benefit a Higher Education Grant is provided, or proposed to be provided;
     (b)      “Beneficiary Contract” means a contract referred to in 
paragraph 7 (e) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
     (c)      “BPC” means Bureau de Coordination du Projet, the Borrower’s 
Project Management Unit referred to in paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement;
     (d)      “FDES” means Fonds de Développement de l'Enseignement 
Supérieur, a Higher Education Development Fund established by the 
Borrower pursuant to Part E.2 of the Project;
     (e)      “FDES Convention” means the convention entered into between 
the Borrower and FDES pursuant to Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules to the FDES Convention;
     (f)      “Franc Malagasy” and “FMG” mean the currency of the 
Borrower;
     (g)      “Higher Education Grant” means a grant made or proposed to 
be made out of the proceeds of the Credit by FDES for the benefit of a 
Beneficiary pursuant to the FDES Convention to finance a Higher Education 
Subproject; 
     (h)      “Higher Education Subproject” means a subproject under Part 
E.2 of the Project, or a feasibility study to finance preparatory 
activities relating to a Higher Education Subproject, in respect of which 
a Higher Education Grant is provided, or proposed to be provided, for the 
benefit of a Beneficiary;
     (i)      “MINESEB” means Ministère de l’Enseignement Secondaire et de 
l'Education de Base, the Borrower’s Ministry of Primary and Secondary 
Education;
     (j)      “MINESUP” means Ministère de l’Enseignement Supérieur, the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Higher Education;
     (k)      “Procedures Manual” means the Procedures Manual referred to 
in paragraph 4 (a) (ii) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the 
Procedures Manual;
     (l)      “Project Account” means either or both of the accounts 
referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement;
     (m)      “Project Implementation Manual” means the Project 
Page  4
Implementation Manual referred to in paragraph 4 (a) (i) of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement, as same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes any schedules to the Project Implementation Manual; 
     (n)     
“School-based Subproject” means a subproject undertaken, or 
due to be undertaken, pursuant to Part A.2 or B.3 of the Project; and
     (o)      “Special Account” means either or both of the accounts 
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty 
seven million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR47,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for: (i) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall 
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and (ii) 
amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be paid) on 
account of withdrawals made for the benefit of a Beneficiary under a 
Higher Education Grant to meet the reasonable cost of eligible 
expenditures relating to a Higher Education Subproject, and in respect of 
which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested
(b)
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars:
(i)
one special deposit account in dollars in the name of 
BPC (hereinafter 
referred to as BPC Special 
Account) for the purposes of the Project (other 
than Part E.2 thereof); and
(ii)
one special deposit account in dollars in the name of 
FDES (hereinafter 
referred to as FDES Special 
Account) for the purposes of Part E.2. 
Special accounts shall be maintained in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, each Special Account shall be made in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be October 31, 2003 or such 
later date as the Association shall establish.  The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
Page  5
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each June 15 and December 15, commencing June 15, 
2008 and ending December 15, 2037.  Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on December 15, 2017 shall be one percent (1%) of 
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years  the level established annually by the 
Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval 
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment 
not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the 
date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set 
out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of 
principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
Page  6
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 2.09. FDES is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken 
under Part E.2 of the Project and the provisions of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and, to this end:
(i)
shall carry out the Project (other than Part E 
thereof) through MINESEB, and 
Part E.1 of the Project 
through MINESUP, with due diligence and efficiency, 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, environmental, 
and technical practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project; and 
(ii)
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its 
other obligations under 
this Agreement, shall cause FDES 
to carry out Part E.2 of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, 
financial, environmental, and technical 
practices, and shall take or cause to 
be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services 
and other resources, necessary or appropriate 
to enable FDES to perform such 
obligations, and shall not 
take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project (other than 
Part E.2 thereof), and cause FDES to carry out Part E.2 of the Project, 
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works, and consultants' services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association and furnish to Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
Page  7
views with the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04  (a)  For the purposes of Part E.2 of the Project, the 
Borrower shall conclude a convention with FDES (hereinafter referred to 
as the FDES Convention), whereby it shall agree to transfer on a 
non-reimbursable basis to FDES an amount of the Credit not exceeding such 
amount as may be allocated from time to time to Category (7) of the table 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to be used to establish 
FDES, pursuant to Part E.2 of the Project, to provide Higher Education 
Grants to eligible Beneficiaries to finance Higher Education Subprojects, 
on the terms and conditions specified in paragraph 7 of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement, and on such other terms and conditions as shall be 
acceptable to the Association. 
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the FDES 
Convention in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and 
the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except 
as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive the FDES Convention or any provision thereof.
Section 3.05.  (a)  Without limitation upon its obligations under 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall open, in a commercial 
bank, and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, an 
account in Francs Malagasy (hereinafter referred to as BPC Project 
Account), to be operated and maintained by BPC, for purposes of the 
Project (other than Part E.2 thereof), and another account in Francs 
Malagasy (hereinafter referred to as FDES Project Account), to be 
operated and maintained by FDES, for purposes of Part E.2 of the Project, 
into which the Borrower shall deposit from time to time its local 
counterpart contribution to the cost of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
make an initial deposit of FMG 2,000 million into BPC 
Project Account, and FMG 
500 million into FDES Project 
Account; and 
(ii)
thereafter in each semester deposit into each of the 
Project Accounts an 
amount equal to the amount 
of the initial deposit referred to in sub-paragraph 
(i) of this paragraph, or such other amount as shall 
have been agreed between 
the Borrower and the Association. 
(c)
Funds deposited in the Project Accounts shall be applied 
solely for the purposes of defraying the cost of expenditures incurred 
for the execution of the corresponding Parts of the Project, and not 
otherwise financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be 
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in 
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
Page  8
paragraph (a) of this Section, 
including those for BPC 
Special Account, for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Accounts for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(iii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iv)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association 
has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause FDES to maintain records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations and financial condition of FDES, and to register 
separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause FDES to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses 
and related statements) and the records and 
accounts for the FDES Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
Page  9
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later 
than six months after the 
end of each such year: (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) 
above for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning such records, 
accounts and financial 
statements and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
FDES to:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records 
and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit  
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditures submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause FDES:
(a)
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance 
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with 
appropriate practice;
(b)
to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, environmental, and 
technical practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced 
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; and
(c)
at all times to operate and to maintain its machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
to make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance 
with sound administrative, financial, environmental, and technical 
Page  10
practices.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that 
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out;
(b)
FDES shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
arising under or out of this Agreement or the FDES Convention;
(c)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of 
the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have 
arisen which shall make it improbable that FDES will be able to perform 
its obligations arising under or out of this Agreement or the FDES 
Convention;
(d)
the statutes of FDES shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely 
the ability of FDES to perform any of its obligations arising under or 
out of this Agreement or the FDES Convention;
(e)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction 
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of 
FDES or for the suspension of its operations;
(f)
(i)
subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the 
proceeds of the Other Donors' 
Loans or Other Donors' Grants made to the Borrower for the 
financing of 
the Project shall have been suspended, 
canceled or terminated in whole 
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the Other Donors' Loan 
Agreements 
or Other Donors' Grant Agreements, or
(B)
any such other Donors' Loans shall have become 
due and payable prior to 
the agreed maturity 
thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if 
the Borrower establishes 
to the satisfaction of the 
Association that: (A) such suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not 
caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other 
sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after 
Page  11
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower;
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of Section 
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section 6.01 
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (f) 
(ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement 
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Project Implementation Manual and Procedures Manual have 
been duly approved by the Association, and adopted by the Borrower;
(b)
the Borrower has established an adequate financial 
management and accounting system, and a management information system to 
monitor performance indicators referred to in paragraph 4 (a) (i) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement,
and selected the auditors referred to in 
Article IV of this Agreement, in accordance with Section II of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement;
(c)
 FDES has been duly established, and the FDES Convention 
signed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower and FDES;
(d)
the Project Accounts have been duly opened, and the amounts 
of the initial deposits deposited therein in accordance with Section 3.05 
(b) (i) of this Agreement;
(e)
the Project Coordinator, FDES Executive Director, and four 
Project Managers referred to in paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, shall have been duly recruited, in accordance with Section II 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
(f)
the Borrower has made satisfactory progress in the 
implementation of its teacher recruitment and redeployment program in 
accordance with Part VI (Conditions Critical to the Success of the 
Program) of the Program, and the Implementation Schedule attached 
thereto.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, 
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be 
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, 
namely, that: the FDES Convention has been duly authorized or ratified by 
the Borrower and FDES, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and FDES 
in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV 
shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit 
Agreement shall terminate or on the date fifteen years after the date of 
this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
Page  12
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, 
the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative 
of the Borrower  for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economy
Antananarivo 101
Madagascar
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINFIN
22489
Antanarivo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Africa
Page  13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be 
Financed
(1)
Civil works
   17,600,000
80%
(2)
Furnitures, equipment
    4,200,000
100% of 
foreign
and vehicles
expenditures and 80%
of local 
expenditures
(3)
Purchase and
    9,800,000
100% of foreign
distribution of
expenditures and 80%
textbooks and
of local 
expenditures
learning materials
(4)
Training
    2,680,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and 80%
of local 
expenditures
(5)
Consultants' services
    1,900,000
100%
and audits
(6)
Operating costs
    3,300,000
80%
(7)
Higher Education
    3,670,000
100% of amounts of
Grants
Grants disbursed
(8)
Unallocated
    4,550,000
TOTAL
   47,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower ;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "operating costs" means the incremental operating 
costs  incurred under the Project by BPC on account of (i) local 
contractual staff salaries, (ii) travel costs and allowances, (iii) 
maintenance of vehicles and equipment, (iv) banking charges, and (v) 
Page  14
office rent, supplies and utilities.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made: 
(a)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement; or
(b)
in respect of a Higher Education Grant, unless the Higher 
Education Grant has been provided in accordance with the procedures, and 
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to, in this Agreement 
and the Procedures Manual.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for 
goods, works and consultants' services (firms) under contracts not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent, consultants' services (individuals) under 
contracts not exceeding $25,000 equivalent, Higher Education Grants not 
exceeding $20,000 equivalent, operating costs and training, under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in its 
efforts to achieve universal access to primary education, support a 
gradual expansion and improvement of secondary education, and promote the 
modernization and diversification of higher education.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Primary Education 
1.
Provision of technical advisory services, and materials and 
equipment, to support the Borrower’s strategy in a process of recruitment 
and redeployment of teachers, that takes account of constraints on 
redeployment, particularly in remote rural areas, present limits on the 
initial training of teachers, the perspective of decentralization of the 
management and administration of schools, and a pragmatic approach to the 
professional development of teachers and head teachers.
2.
Provision of technical advisory services, and materials and 
equipment, to support the execution of school-based subprojects designed 
to improve access and learning outcomes in about 4,100 public schools, 
including:
 (a) 
preparation, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of 
school contracts, defining the objectives established for the school 
year, the rights and obligations of the parties to the contracts, the 
schedules of activities included in the contracts, and the estimated 
costs and sources of financing thereof;
(b) 
provision of quality inputs to improve school management, 
teaching processes and staff development for some 9,400 teachers and 
4,100 school heads; and
Page  15
(c) 
construction or rehabilitation of some 9,400 classrooms, and 
provision of adequate infrastructure, furniture and equipment for such 
classrooms.
Part B:
Secondary Education
1.
Development of a school map indicating the needs of secondary 
education in the context of existing financial constraints, to be used 
for the guidance of MINESEB in the determination of investment priorities 
and the distribution of resources.
2.
Provision of technical advisory services, and materials and 
equipment, to support a program of measures affecting secondary 
education, including (a) implementation of an information and 
sensitization program for the benefit of parents and the public at large, 
(b) suppression of the double shift system in lower secondary education, 
(c) increasing the sizes of classes, and (d) partial redeployment of 
educational personnel from upper secondary to lower secondary education, 
and from lower secondary to primary education. 
3.
Provision of technical advisory services, and materials and 
equipment, to support the execution of school-based subprojects in some 
50 public secondary schools, using a similar approach as in the case of 
primary education under Part A.2 of this Schedule, including:
(a)
provision of quality inputs to improve school management, 
teaching processes and staff development for some 600 teachers and 50 
school heads; and
(b)
construction or rehabilitation of some 375 classrooms, and 
provision of adequate infrastructure, furniture and equipment for such 
classrooms.
Part C:
Access to Quality Textbooks and Teaching/Learning Materials
1.
Production, design and testing of some 20 new titles, including 
teaching guides.
2.
Printing and distribution of some 7.2 million textbooks and 0.3 
million teaching guides to primary schools.
3.
Distribution of basic teaching/learning materials to primary 
schools.
4.
Provision of in-service training to teachers on the use of 
textbooks and educational materials.
Part D:
Institutional Development
Provision of technical advisory services, and materials and 
equipment, to support institutional development activities pertaining to 
MINESEB and designed to assist in the implementation of the Program at 
central, provincial, regional and local levels, including strengthening 
of educational planning, bi-annual learning assessments at primary level, 
organization of workshops and networking of school administrators, human 
resources development and financial management strengthening, and 
pre-investment studies.
Part E:
Higher Education
Page  16
1.
Provision of technical advisory services, and materials and 
equipment, to support a program of policies, measures and activities 
outlined in the Borrower’s Master Plan for Higher Education published in 
January 1997, and designed to (a) bring about a re-examination of the 
traditional role of universities, and their structure of governance, (b) 
encourage the creation of private universities and institutions, and the 
development of new programs which respond rapidly and effectively to 
emerging needs, and (c) promote the creation of educational networks for 
research and new technologies, and for access to, and management of, 
knowledge, and its dissemination.
2.
Establishment of a Fonds de Développement de l’Enseignement 
Supérieur (FDES) to provide grants to finance eligible subprojects for 
the benefit of public and private higher education institutions.
Part F:
Project Management
1.
Design and implementation of an adequate financial management and 
accounting system.
2.
Preparation of accounts and financial statements referred to in 
Article IV of this Agreement.
3.
Audit of accounts and financial statements referred to in paragraph 
2 of this Part.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this 
Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in 
Page  17
bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Furniture, equipment and vehicles estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$3,000,000 equivalent, and textbooks and teaching/learning materials 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, as well as 
the distribution of textbooks and materials to schools, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Reference books and library books estimated to cost less than 
$30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Furniture, equipment and vehicles estimated to cost less than 
$30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Community Participation
Civil works required for Parts A and B of the Project, up to an 
amount not to exceed $12,000,000 equivalent, as well as goods, works and 
services required for Part E.2 of the Project, shall be procured in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
5.
Procurement of Small Works
Civil works under Parts A and B of the Project estimated to cost 
less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an amount not to exceed 
$12,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The 
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including 
basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where 
applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Page  18
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first five civil works contracts 
pertaining to each of the regions of the Borrower’s territory affected by 
the Project, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any contractor under 
paragraph 4 or 5 of Part C of 
this Schedule, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Association a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
paragraph 4 or 5 of Part 
C of this Schedule, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Association a copy of 
the 
specifications and the draft contract;
(iii)
in addition, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
(f) and 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" 
published by the Bank in January 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Page  19
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants .
1.
Quality-based Selection 
Services for institutional studies estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Least-cost Selection 
Services for audits estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants 
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $200,000 
but more than $100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 
(other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 
1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Administrator for 
its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after 
said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this 
Page  20
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
(a)
The Borrower shall maintain an Inter-Ministerial Working 
Party for the Education Sector, chaired by the Minister of Finance, and 
consisting of representatives of the Ministries of Finance, Budget, Civil 
Service and Vocational Training, as well as MINESEB and MINESUP, to be 
responsible, under terms of reference acceptable to the Association, for 
overall coordination of the Borrower’s strategy for the education sector 
and, as such, to provide overall policy and strategic guidance for the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall maintain a suitably qualified and 
experienced official to be the coordinator of the Program and, as such, 
to be the Executive Secretary of Inter-Ministerial Working Party for the 
Education Sector. 
2.
(a)
Subject to the general directives of the Inter-Ministerial 
Working Party referred to in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, and subject to 
sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph, BPC shall be responsible for the 
overall coordination of the execution of the Project, including: (i) 
coordination of procurement and disbursement activities, and preparation 
of annual and quarterly progress reports, audits under Article IV of this 
Agreement, and work plans and training programs, under the Project, and 
(ii) monitoring of the achievement of objectives of the Project, and 
evaluation of the impact of actions and measures introduced on learning 
outcomes and student enrollment. 
(b)
Without limitation upon its obligations under Section 3.01 
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause FDES to be responsible for 
coordination of the execution of Part E.2 of the Project, and, as such, 
to be responsible for coordination of procurement and disbursement 
activities, and preparation of annual and quarterly progress reports, 
audits under Article IV of this Agreement, and work plans and training 
programs, under Part E.2 of the Project.
3.
(a)
The activities of FDES under Part E.2 of the Project shall 
be managed by an Executive Director, having qualifications and experience 
acceptable to the Association, who shall report to an independent 
council, comprising representatives of key Ministries involved in the 
education sector, as well as designated representatives of the private 
sector, private higher education institutions and the business community.
(b) 
BPC shall be headed by a Project Coordinator, who shall be 
assisted by two Project Managers responsible for primary school level and 
secondary school level project-related activities, respectively, two 
other managers responsible for the accounting and procurement units, 
respectively, and the FDES Executive Director.
(c)
The Borrower shall ensure that the high level positions of 
BPC, including those of the Project Coordinator, FDES Executive Director, 
and the four other managers referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of this 
paragraph, shall be kept filled at all times by appropriate officials, 
having qualifications, experience and terms of reference which shall have 
been communicated to, and deemed acceptable by, the Association.
4.
The Borrower shall: 
Page  21
(a)
prepare and transmit to the Association:
(i)
a Project Implementation Manual, acceptable to the 
Association, giving details 
of all procurement and 
disbursement arrangements, performance indicators and 
other administrative, financial and organizational arrangements, as shall 
have 
been agreed with the Association for purposes of the 
Project, including the 
processes and modalities to be 
used for the implementation of School-based 
Subprojects, and the model forms of contract to be used for such 
Subprojects;
(ii)
a Procedures Manual, acceptable to the Association, 
giving details of all 
procedural arrangements for 
the preparation, approval and implementation of 
Higher 
Education Subprojects, including procedures 
for identification of 
Higher Education Subprojects and submission of requests for 
financing, 
criteria for the determination of 
eligible Beneficiaries and approval of 
Higher 
Education Subprojects, monitoring and evaluation processes, applicable 
procurement, disbursement and other implementation 
guidelines, and model forms 
of Beneficiary Contracts; 
and
(b)
carry out the Project in accordance with procedures set out 
in the Project Implementation Manual and the Procedures Manual, and, 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive 
any provision thereof, if such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of 
the Association, materially or adversely affect the implementation of the 
Project.
5.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with performance 
indicators referred to in paragraph 4 (a) (i) of this Schedule, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
not later than November 30 of each year, undertake, in 
conjunction with the Association and FDES, a joint annual review of the 
Project or, in the case of the review to be undertaken not later than 
November 30, 2000, a midterm review, during which they shall exchange 
views generally on all matters relating to the progress of the Project 
and the performance by the Borrower and FDES of their respective 
obligations under this Agreement, including: 
(i)
the progress achieved by the Borrower and FDES in the 
implementation of the 
Project, having regard to the 
performance indicators referred to in paragraphs 
4 (a) 
(i) and 5 (a) of this Schedule;
(ii)
a review of the proposed work plans and budget for 
the forthcoming fiscal 
year; 
(iii)
a review of the public expenditure program for the 
education sector, including 
the adequacy of budgetary 
support provided under the Project during the 
current 
year and proposed budgetary allocations for the forthcoming fiscal 
year; and
(iv)
the performance of Beneficiaries in the 
implementation of Higher Education 
Subprojects;
(c)
not later than one month prior to each annual review, 
furnish to the Association, for its comments, a report, in such detail as 
the Association shall reasonably request, on the progress and status of 
Page  22
the Project, and giving details, of the various matters to be discussed 
at such review; and
(d)
following each annual review, undertake to act promptly and 
diligently in order to take, or cause FDES to take, any corrective action 
deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of 
the Project, or to implement, or cause FDES to implement, such other 
measures as may have been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance 
of the objectives of the Project.
6.
(a) 
The Borrower shall, not later than October 31 of each year, 
submit to the Association, for review and approval, proposed annual work 
plans and budget for the forthcoming fiscal year, giving details of 
proposed budgetary allocations and disbursement estimates, proposed 
procurement activities, and such other particulars as the Association may 
require.
(b)
The Borrower shall submit to the Association, for review,
(i) 
not later than one month after the end of each 
quarter, quarterly progress 
reports on the 
status of the Project; and
(ii)
reports as needed on the award of contracts under the 
Project.
7.
Further to Section 3.04 of this Agreement, the proceeds of the 
Credit provided for the establishment of FDES under Part E.2 of the 
Project shall be subject to the following additional terms and 
conditions:
(a)
the amount so provided shall be used exclusively to provide 
Higher Education Grants to finance Higher Education Subprojects, in 
accordance with criteria, and terms and conditions, set forth in the 
Procedures Manual;
(b)
applications for Higher Education Grants in excess of 
$20,000, as well as the first three applications to be submitted to FDES 
for approval, irrespective of amounts involved, shall be submitted to the 
Association for prior review and approval;
(c)
Higher Education Grants shall be provided for the sole 
benefit of Beneficiaries, and according to a cost-sharing formula, which 
shall be acceptable to the Association and specified in the Procedures 
Manual; provided, however, that: 
(i)
the proceeds of a Higher Education Grant shall not be 
used to finance taxes or 
duties levied on or in respect of 
eligible expenditures relating to a Higher 
Education 
Subproject, or any part thereof; 
(ii)
the amount of each Higher Education Grant shall not 
exceed 75 percent of the 
cost of the Higher Education 
Subproject; and
(iii)
except as the Association may otherwise agree, Higher 
Education Grants 
provided in respect of a Higher 
Education Subproject shall not exceed: (a) an 
amount of 
$100,000 equivalent; or (b) in the case of a feasibility study to 
finance preparatory activities relating to a Higher Education 
Subproject, an 
amount of $20,000 equivalent; and
(d)
goods, services and civil works required for the purposes of 
financing Higher Education Subprojects shall be procured in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Association, and set forth in the 
Procedures Manual;
Page  23
(e)
for purposes of each Higher Education Grant, FDES shall 
conclude a contract with the Beneficiary in the form of the model form 
provided in the Procedures Manual (hereinafter called Beneficiary 
Contract), setting forth the respective obligations of the parties 
thereunder, including details of disbursement schedules and procurement 
procedures, the amount of the Beneficiary’s contribution to the cost of 
the Higher Education Subproject, details of cost recovery arrangements, 
if any, and the right of FDES to:
(i)
require the Beneficiary to carry out the Higher 
Education Subproject with due 
diligence and efficiency 
and in accordance with sound technical, financial, 
and 
managerial standards and practices, and to maintain adequate records;
(ii)
obtain all such information as the Association or the 
Borrower shall 
reasonably request relating to 
the implementation of the Higher Education 
Subproject and the performance of the Beneficiary thereunder; and 
(iii)
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to 
the use of the proceeds 
of a Higher Education Grant upon 
failure by such Beneficiary to perform its 
obligations 
under such contract.
8.
For purposes of civil works under the Project, the Borrower shall 
take adequate steps to ensure that such works shall be undertaken with 
due regard to the need for adequate safeguards for the protection of the 
environment, and that adequate provisions to that effect are included in 
the relevant works contracts.
9.
The Borrower shall have a technical audit undertaken in each fiscal 
year by independent auditors acceptable to the Association in order to 
determine, with respect to each Higher Education Subproject or 
School-based Subproject, whether, and to what extent, the provisions of 
this Agreement, the FDES Convention, the Project Implementation Manual 
and the Procedures Manual have been complied with, and to report 
accordingly on the Borrower’s administrative, technical and managerial 
performance with respect to each such Higher Education Subproject or 
School-based Subproject.
10.
The Borrower shall ensure that:
(a)
the positions of School District Head, Deputy School 
District Heads, School Supervisors and School Heads shall be kept filled 
at all times by appropriate officials, having qualifications and 
experience which shall be acceptable to the Association, in each of the 
Districts in which a School-based Subproject has been, or is due to be, 
undertaken under the Project; and
(b)
every school affected by a School-based Subproject shall be 
provided with the requisite number of school teachers.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means, in the case of BPC 
Special Account, Categories (1) through (6) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and, in the case of FDES 
Special Account, Category (7) set forth in the said table;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in 
Page  24
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project, as well as amounts paid or to be paid under Higher Education 
Grants, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Accounts 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, equivalent, in the case of 
BPC Special Account to $4,000,000; and in the case of FDES Special 
Account to $500,000; provided, however, that unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation for:
(i)
BPC Special Account shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $2,000,000 
until the aggregate amount 
of withdrawals from the Credit Account allocated to 
Categories (1) through (6) plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special 
commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions for the 
Project (other than Part E.2 thereof) shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR3,600,000;
(ii)
FDES Special Account shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $250,000 
until the aggregate amount 
of withdrawals from the Credit Account allocated to 
Category (7)  plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions for Part 
E.2 of the Project shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR700,000;
2.
Payments out of each Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into 
the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association requests for 
deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the 
Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of, each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 
of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as 
shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the 
Page  25
Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, 
as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that 
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into any 
Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that 
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) 
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for a  Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Parts of the Project related to that Special Account, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation for that 
Special Account.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for that Special Account shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any payment out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure 
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or 
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit 
into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into any 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to 
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
Page  26
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account 
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
