Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1967 MAG
          (Economic Management and Social Action Project)
                              between
                 DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated December 15, 1988
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  December   15,  1988,  between  Democratic
Republic   of   Madagascar   (the   Borrower)   and  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B) the Borrower intends to contract from African Development
Bank  an  amount   equivalent   to   about   two  million  dollars
($2,000,000), from  African  Development  Bank  Fund for Technical
Assistance an  amount  equivalent  to  about  two  million dollars
($2,000,000), from  the  Confederation  of  Switzerland  an amount
equivalent to  about  four  million  seven  hundred fifty thousand
dollars ($4,750,000), from the  United Nations Development Program
an  amount  of  three   million  eight  hundred  thousand  dollars
($3,800,000), and from other  cofinanciers  to assist in financing
the  Project  on  the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  the
respective financing agreement  entered  into  by the Borrower and
any such cofinancier; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed  on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  have  the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Special Account A"  and  "Special  Account  B" mean the
accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement (Speci-
al  Account  A  and  Special  Account  B  hereinafter collectively
referred to as the Special Accounts);
     (b)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by  the  Association to the Borrower pursuant
to exchanges of letters, dated  June  30, 1988, November 17, 1988,
and November 28, 1988, between the Borrower and the Association;
     (c)  "DGP"  means  the  Direction  Gånårale  du  Plan  of the
Borrower;
     (d)  "BDE" means Banque des Donnåes de l'Etat";
     (e)  "Executing Agencies"  mean  the  ministries, departments
and agencies of the Borrower, listed  in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4
to this Agreement, which are  responsible  for the carrying out of
the Project;
     (f)  "Comitå Ad  Hoc"  means  the  committee  of the Borrower
created by Dåcret No. 88-148, dated April 13, 1988;
     (g)  "FMG" means the currency of the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent  to  seventeen  million  one  hundred  thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 17,100,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open  and  maintain  in  its  Central  Bank  two  special accounts
(Special Account A and Special  Account B) on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. Special  Account A shall be main-
tained in dollars and Special Account B in FMG. Deposits into, and
payments out of, Special Account A  and Special Account B shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  5 to this
Agreement.
Page  3
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount of  the  Project  Preparation  Advance  withdrawn  and out-
standing as of such date  and  to  pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of  the  authorized  amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or such
later date as  the  Association  shall  establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The  Borrower  shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
or at such other rates as may  be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of  any  kind  imposed  by,  or  in  the  territory  of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate  of  three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on  the  principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15
commencing February 15,  1999  and  ending  August  15, 2028. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on August 15,
2008 shall be one percent (1%)  of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of  the  Association and after due con-
sideration by them of  the  development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
Page  4
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency  of  the  United States of America
is hereby  specified  for  the  purposes  of  Section  4.O2 of the
General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end,  shall  carry out the Project, through
the Executing Agencies, with  due  diligence and efficiency and in
conformity   with   appropriate   administrative,   financial  and
engineering practices, and shall  provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and  other  resources required for the
Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in respect of  the  Project of the Executing Agencies
of the Borrower responsible  for  carrying  out the Project or any
part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph  (a)  of  this  Section  including  those for
               Special Account A  and  Special  Account B for each
               fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
               auditing   principles   consistently   applied,  by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
Page  5
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 5.01. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.O4 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The  minister  of  the Borrower responsible for
finance is designated as  representative  of  the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.O3 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.O1 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Minist®re aupr®s de la Pråsidence
            de la Råpublique chargå des
            Finances et de l'Economie
          Antananarivo
          Madagascar
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                MINFIN                          22489
                Antananarivo
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          44OO98 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
Page  6
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                          By /s/ Leon Rajaobelina
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Paul Isenman
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Part A.1 of the
     Project:
     (a)  Training                 200,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 85% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (b)  Consultants'             120,000       100% of foreign
          services and                           expenditures and
          studies                                85% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (c)  Equipment                280,000       100% of foreign
          and vehicles                           expenditures and
                                                 85% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (d)  Operating costs          250,000       85%
(2)  Part A.3 of the
     Project:
     (a)  Part A.3 (i)             815,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 85% of local
                                                 expenditures
Page  7
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
     (b)  Part A.3 (ii)             75,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 85% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (c)  Part A.3 (iii)           100,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 85% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (d)  Part A.3 (iv)             90,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 85% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (e)  Part A.3 (v)             115,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 85% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (f)  Part A.3 (vi)            100,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 85% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (g)  Part A.3 (vii)           155,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 85% of local
                                                 expenditures
(3)  Consultants'                   70,000       100% of foreign
     services                                    expenditures and
     and studies                                 85% of local
     under Part A.4                              expenditures
     of the Project
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(4)  Part A.5
     of the Project:
     (a)  Training                  55,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 85% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (b)  Consultants'             130,000       100% of foreign
          services and                           expenditures and
          studies                                85% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (c)  Equipment and            780,000       100% of foreign
          vehicles                               expenditures and
                                                 85% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (d)  Operating costs           90,000       85%
     (e)  Civil works            3,190,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 85% of local
                                                 expenditures
Page  8
(5)  Part A.6 of the
     Project:
     (a)  Training                  30,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 85% of local
                                                 expenditures
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
     (b)  Consultants'              15,000       100% of foreign
          services and                           expenditures and
          studies                                85% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (c)  Equipment and              7,000       100% of foreign
          vehicles                               expenditures and
                                                 85% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (d)  Operating costs           55,000       85%
(6)  Part A.7 of the
     Project:
     (a)  Training               2,190,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 85% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (b)  Consultants'             300,000       100% of foreign
          services and                           expenditures and
          studies                                85% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (c)  Equipment and            200,000       100% of foreign
          vehicles                               expenditures and
                                                 85% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (d)  Operating costs           45,000       85%
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(7)  Part B.2 of the
     Project:
     (a)  Equipment and            250,000       100% of foreign
          vehicles                               expenditures and
                                                 85% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (b)  Operating costs          350,000       85%
(8)  Part C.1 of
     the Project:
     (a)  Training                  60,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 85% of local
                                                 expenditures
Page  9
     (b)  Consultants'             940,000       100% of foreign
          services and                           expenditures and
          studies                                85% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (c)  Equipment and            680,000       100% of foreign
          vehicles                               expenditures and
                                                 85% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (d)  Operating costs          165,000       85%
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(9)  Part C.2 (i) of
     the Project:
     (a)  Training                  35,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 85% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (b)  Consultants'             685,000       100% of foreign
          services and                           expenditures and
          studies                                85% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (c)  Equipment and             45,000       100% of foreign
          vehicles                               expenditures and
                                                 85% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (d)  Operating costs           65,000       85%
(10) Part C.2 (ii) of
     the Project:
     (a)  Training                 100,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 85% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (b)  Consultants'             480,000       100% of foreign
          services and                           expenditures and
          studies                                85% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (c)  Equipment and             90,000       100% of foreign
          vehicles                               expenditures and
                                                 85% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (d)  Operating costs           60,000       85%
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(11) Consultants'                  860,000       100% of foreign
     services and                                expenditures and
     studies under                               85% of local
     Part C.3 of                                 expenditures
     the Project
Page  10
(12) Refunding of                1,165,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(13) Unallocated                 1,613,000
         TOTAL                  17,100,000
2.   For the purpose of this Schedule:
     (a)  The term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower for  goods  or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement except  that  withdrawals,  in  an  aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR  1,600,000, may be made in respect
of Categories (1) through  (11)  on  account  of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after July 1, 1988;
     (b)  payments made for  expenditures  under  Category (1) (c)
before the Borrower  has  furnished  the  Association an epidemio-
logical survey acceptable to the Association;
     (c)  payments made for expenditures under Category (6) before
the Borrower has: (i)  made  an  initial  deposit of FMG 1 billion
into a separate Treasury Account  for  the purposes of Part A.7 of
the Project; and (ii) has  created  the center for the purposes of
carrying out Part A.7 (ii) of the Project;
     (d)  payments  made  for  expenditures  under  Categories (8)
through  (11)  before  the  Borrower  has  complied  with  all the
conditions  precedent  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement, dated July 18, 1988 between the Borrower and the
Association (Public Sector Adjustment Credit);
     (e)  without   any   limitation   upon   the   provisions  of
subparagraph  (d)  above,  payments  made  for  expenditures under
Category (10) before  the  Borrower  has  established a unit which
shall be responsible  for  performance  review, rehabilitation and
restructuring  of  public  enterprises,  with  a  full-time  staff
adequate for the carrying out of the unit's responsibilities; and
     (f)  payments made  for  expenditures  regarding  Phase II of
each of Parts A.3  (i)  through  A.3  (vii) under Categories 2 (a)
through 2 (g) before  the  Association has approved the respective
detailed program for the  carrying  out  of Phase II in accordance
with  the  provisions  of  paragraph  6  of  Schedule  4  to  this
Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are to: (i) initiate a program
of emergency actions for  disadvantaged groups; (ii) reinforce the
capacity of the Borrower  to  monitor social conditions and design
appropriate social policies and programs; and (iii) facilitate the
implementation of  the  adjustment  program  by  strengthening key
institutions responsible for its execution.
Page  11
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Priority Social Action Program
(1)  (i)  Development,  implementation   and   supervision   of  a
          community-based system  for  diagnosis  and treatment of
          malaria attacks.
    (ii)  Development and operation  of a chloroquine distribution
          network for the purposes of Part A.1 (i) above.
   (iii)  Distribution through the  public  health system of drugs
          required   for   the   treatment   of   complicated   or
          chloroquine-resistant malaria  cases,  as  well as other
          essential drugs.
    (iv)  An  emergency  program  of  intra-domiciliary  pesticide
          spraying against malaria  vectors  in  selected areas of
          the Hautes Terres.
     (v)  Reinforcement of the epidemiological surveillance system
          and carrying out of  an  operational research program to
          adjust  malaria  control  and  treatment  strategies  to
          changing conditions.
    (vi)  An information and  education  campaign  to mobilize the
          public in favour of the malaria control program.
(2)  (i)  An  information  program  on  family  planning including
          information  meetings,  home   visits,  and  mass  media
          campaigns.
    (ii)  Improvement of clinical family planning services through
          provision of dwellings for  four clinics in Antsiranana,
          Fianaratsoa, Mahajanga and  Toamasina, and reinforcement
          of staffing and equipping thereof.
   (iii)  A  training  program  for  about  250  staff  members of
          technical ministries and  local governments, responsible
          for family planning  services,  and  a clinical training
          program  for  about  750  health  professionals, medical
          students and nurses.
(3)       Pilot operations to improve food security:
     (i)  Establishment of cereal banks.
    (ii)  Establishment of rural savers groups.
   (iii)  Raising of small livestock by urban poor.
    (iv)  Marketing of subsidized food through cantines.
     (v)  Nutritional interventions for pre-school age children.
    (vi)  Promotion of new cropping opportunities.
   (vii)  Promotion of new  nutritional  foods using largely local
          ingredients.
(4)  (i)  A study on development of irrigation.
    (ii)  A study on development of smallholder livestock.
   (iii)  A survey on targeted food distribution.
(5)  (i)  Rehabilitation of about 700  km  of rural roads by labor
          intensive techniques.
Page  12
    (ii)  Carrying out of a training program to assist small-scale
          domestic  contractors  in  road  works,  including labor
          intensive  methods,  management,   quality  control  and
          equipment operation in the areas targeted under Part A.5
          (i) above.
(6)  Improvement of the  data  base  on non-governmental organiza-
tions active in Madagascar,  creation  and  operation of a coordi-
nation and information system on non-governmental organizations.
(7)  (i)  Setting up  and  operation  of  a  redeployment fund for
          employees of public enterprises  who have lost their job
          in the course of  the  rationalization of the parapublic
          sector.
    (ii)  Setting up and  operation  of  a  center responsible for
          orientation,  placement  and  provision  of  information
          about training  options  for  the  employees referred to
          under Part A.7 (i) above.
   (iii)  Training, including  on-the-job  training, for employees
          referred to under Part A.7 (i) above.
Part B:   Actions Related to the Social Dimensions of Adjustment
(1)  Establishment  and  operation  of  an  analysis  unit  at the
Department of Social Planning  within  DGP  in order to assist the
respective  ministries  in  the  design  and  follow-up  of social
programs.
(2)  Implementation of  a  permanent  survey  in  order to monitor
living conditions in  households,  to  identify  target groups for
whom interventions are needed, and to evaluate the effects of such
interventions.
Part C:   Economic Management
(1)  (i)  Preparation of  sectoral  strategies,  three-year public
          investment programs  (1989-1991,  1990-1992) and overall
          public expenditure programs (1989, 1990-1992).
    (ii)  Revision of the budgeting procedures.
   (iii)  Carrying out of a  comprehensive census of the permanent
          and non-permanent  employees  of  the central government
          and updating of payroll.
    (iv)  Preparation of a program  to  improve the management and
          administration of the permanent employees of the central
          government.
     (v)  Strengthening of  the  unit  responsible  for the imple-
          mentation of the public  expenditure reform and the unit
          in charge of  disbursement,  both  within the Borrower's
          Ministry of Finance.
(2)  (i)  Reinforcement  of  the  Comitå  Ad  Hoc  for  the imple-
          mentation  of  the  Borrower's  action  plan  for public
          enterprises to be liquidated  or from which the Borrower
          intends to divest, including training and studies.
    (ii)  Reinforcement of the  unit  of  the Borrower responsible
          for performance  review,  rehabilitation  and   restruc-
          turing of public enterprises  and for the implementation
          of the Borrower's action plan for public enterprises.
(3)   Studies for  the  preparation,  analysis  and supervision of
programs and projects aiming  at  the  improvement of the economic
and social data base,  the  implementation of the economic adjust-
ment policies, the implementation  of social policies and economic
growth.
Page  13
                      *          *          *
      The Project is  expected  to  be  completed  by December 31,
1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  goods manufactured in Madagascar may
be granted a margin of  preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Goods estimated to cost less  than the equivalent of $100,000
but more  than  $30,000  per  contract  and  civil  works shall be
procured under contracts awarded  on  the  basis of the Borrower's
Decree 70-089 dated January 28, 1970, provided however that:
     (a)  registration of bidders  in  the  Borrower's Registry of
Commerce shall not be required for the acceptance of their bids;
     (b)  no procurement shall be  made  on  the basis of selected
tendering or direct contracting except in the case of rejection of
all bids;
     (c)  bids shall be opened  in  public, i.e., bidders or their
representatives shall be allowed to be present; and
     (d)  no special preference shall be given to local bidders in
the evaluation of bids.
2.   In  case  of  minor  civil   works,  estimated  to  cost  the
equivalent of $100,000 or less  up  to  an aggregate amount not to
exceed  the  equivalent  of   $2,000,000  the  bidding  procedures
referred to in paragraph 1 above may be restricted to participants
of the training program under Part A.5 (ii) of the Project.
3.   Goods estimated to cost  less  than the equivalent of $30,000
per contract up to an  aggregate  of the equivalent of $1,000,000,
may be procured on  the  basis  of  comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of  at  least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in  accordance  with  procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent  of  $35,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Accounts, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Page  14
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies of the  contract  together  with  the other information re-
quired to be furnished to  the  Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall  be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
     (c)   The provisions of  the  preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis of statements of  expenditure.  Such  contracts shall be re-
tained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower  in  the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower  shall  employ  consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and  conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory  to  the  Association.   Such  consultants  shall  be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis  of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
Project Coordination and Monitoring:
1.   The Borrower shall assure  the coordination and monitoring of
the execution of the  Project  through  DGP and, for that purpose,
DGP shall designate a duly qualified and experienced manager.
2.   By March  31,  1989,  the  Borrower  shall  designate  a duly
qualified and experienced manager responsible for the execution of
the respective Parts of the Project in each Executing Agency.
3.   By August 31 of each  year  of  execution of the Project, the
Borrower  shall,  through  DGP,  furnish  to  the  Association for
approval an annual work program  for  all activities to be carried
out under the Project  during  the  following year. Each Executing
Agency shall be  responsible,  under  the  overall coordination of
DGP, for preparing of that part  of the annual work program, which
it will execute.
4.   By June 30 of  each  year  of  execution  of the Project, the
Borrower shall, through DGP, furnish to the Association a progress
report on the activities carried  out during the preceding year of
such scope  as  the  Association  shall  reasonably  request, such
progress reports  to  include  information  on  the application of
funds obtained from the  cofinanciers  referred to in the Preamble
to  this  Agreement  and  the  funds  received  for  the  sale  of
chloroquine under Part A.1 of the Project.
Executing Agencies:
5.   The following  ministries,  departments  and  agencies of the
Borrower  shall  be  responsible  for  the  carrying  out  of  the
Page  15
respective parts of the Project:
     -    Ministry of Health: Part A.1;
     -    Ministry of Agriculture  and  Agrarian Reform: Parts A.3
          and A.4;
     -    Ministry of Public Works: Part A.5;
     -    Ministry responsible for population: Parts A.2 and A.6;
     -    Ministry responsible for labor: Part A.7;
     -    Ministry responsible  for  finance:  Parts  C.1  and C.2
          (ii);
     -    Prime Ministry: Part C.2 (i);
     -    DGP: Parts B.1 and C.3; and
     -    BDE: Part B.2;
Part A.3 of the Project:
6.   Pilot operations under Part  A.3  (i) through A.3 (vii) shall
be carried out in two phases:
Phase I:  Rapid  technical   assessment,   short-term  trials  and
          experiments for the preparation  of the respective pilot
          operation.
Phase II: Implementation of the pilot operation.
     Upon completion of Phase I  of  each  of Part A.3 (i) through
A.3 (vii), the Borrower shall furnish the Association for approval
a detailed program for the  activities  to be carried out in Phase
II of any of Part  A.3  (i)  through Part A.3 (vii), including the
arrangements to be made for their implementation.
Part C.3 of the Project:
7.   Before commencement of  any  study  to  be  carried out under
Part  C.3  of  the   Project,   the  Borrower  shall  furnish  the
Association for approval  the  terms  of reference, cost estimates
and the arrangements to be made  for  the carrying out of any such
study.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                         Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means:
          (i)  an amount of  one  million  dollars  in the case of
               Special Account A; and
         (ii)  an amount of  one  billion  Francs  Malagasy in the
               case of Special Account B.
      Such amounts are  to  be  withdrawn  from the Credit Account
Page  16
and deposited into  the  respective  Special  Accounts pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Except as the  Association  shall  otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account  shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of
the respective Authorized  Allocations  and subsequent withdrawals
to replenish the Special Accounts shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals  of  the  respective  Authorized Alloca-
tions, the Borrower shall furnish  to the Association a request or
requests for a deposit or deposits  which do not exceed the aggre-
gate amount of the respective Authorized Allocations. On the basis
of such request or requests,  the  Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the  Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)   (i)  For replenishment  of  the  Special  Accounts, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits into  the respective Special Accounts
                at  such  intervals   as   the  Association  shall
                specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                the Special Accounts  such  amount as the Borrower
                shall have requested and  as shall have been shown
                by said documents and  other evidence to have been
                made out  of  the  Special  Accounts  for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account under  the  respective  eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Accounts, the Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as the Association
shall reasonably request,  furnish  to  the Association such docu-
ments and other evidence  showing  that  such payment was made ex-
clusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total  unwithdrawn  amount  of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories  less the amount of any outstand-
ing special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section  5.02  of  the  General  Conditions  with  respect  to the
Project, shall equal the  equivalent  of  twice  the amount of the
Authorized Allocations.
     Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remain-
ing unwithdrawn amount  of  the  Credit  allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such  procedures  as the Association shall
Page  17
specify by notice to the  Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and  to  the  extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all  such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special  Accounts  as  of  the  date  of  such  notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special Accounts: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association:  (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the respective
Special Accounts (or, if the  Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal  to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof  not  so  eligible or justified. Unless the
Association shall  otherwise  agree,  no  further  deposit  by the
Association into the  Special  Accounts  shall  be  made until the
Borrower has  provided  such  evidence  or  made  such  deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special Accounts will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the Special Accounts.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association  made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent  withdrawal  or  for cancellation in accor-
dance with the  relevant  provisions  of this Agreement, including
the General Conditions.
