FILE  COP Yv                                  Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2237-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR A
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT II
February 17, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Won
$1          =W 485
$2.06       = W 1,000
$2,061.86   = W 1 million
$1 million  = W 485 million
ABBREVIATIONS
ADC    - Agricultural Development Corporation
EPB    -  Economic Planning Board
FLIA   -  Farmland Improvement Association
MAF    - Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
McM    - Ministry of Communications
MHA    - Ministry of Home Affairs
MHSA   - Ministry of Health and Social Affairs
MOC    - Ministry of Construction
NACF   - National Agricultural Cooperative Federation
ORD    - Office of Rural Development
OSROK  - Office of Supply of the Republic of Korea
GOVERNMENT OF KOREA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT II
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Republic of Korea
Amount:                     $95.0 million equivalent
Terms:                      Seventeen years, including four years of
grace, with interest at 7.45% p.a.
Project Description:        The proposed project would assist the
Government's program to intensify agricul-
tural production, thereby raising rural
incomes and foodgrain production, and to
improve the quality of rural life. It
would also support the decentralized
decision-making and self-help features of
the Saemaeul (New Community) Movement.
The project includes: the irrigation of
about 9,200 ha, consisting of about
60 subprojects; the construction of water
supply systems in about 7,400 villages;
the construction or improvement of about
2,500 km of river banks, consisting of
about 8,300 subprojects; the connection
of about 2,700 villages to the telephone
network and the installation of about
75,000 subscriber's lines at the subdis-
trict town level; and training and
project monitoring and evaluation. The
project would benefit about 7.7 million
people or about 48% of Korea's rural
population. Of these, about 500,000
(the beneficiaries of the irrigation
component together with those to be
served by the private telephone lines)
would benefit to a larger degree than the
remaining 7.2 million beneficiaries. The
project faces no special risks.
This document has a mtricted distribution and may be wed by recipients only in the performance
Of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:             The table below summarizes the total cost of the
project.
Local Foreign Total
---- ($ million) ----
Irrigation                       45.0    36.8    81.8
River Training                   30.0      7.5    37.5
Water Supply                     20.6    16.8    37.4
Rural Telephones                 12.6    12.5    25.1
Miscellaneous                     0.2      0.3      0.5
Subtotal:  base cost       108.4    73.9   182.3
Physical contingencies           11.7      8.9    20.6
Price contingencies              16.9    12.2    29.1
Total project cost         137.0    95.0   232.0
Financing Plan:             The proposed Bank loan of $95.0 million would
finance the full foreign exchange cost of the
project (41%). Local costs would be financed as
follows:
$ million
National budget contribution                71.7
National Government loans:                  34.0
Provincial budget contribution:             13.0
Beneficiaries' contribution:                18.3
Total                                 137.0
Estimated Disbursements:                                 $ million
Bank FY      1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
Annual:       2.0   25.3   26.7   26.0   13.5    1.5
Cumulative:  2.0   27.3   54.0   80.0   93.5   95.0
Rate of Return:             The weighted average rate of return, excluding the
water supply component (20% of project cost) for
which no quantification of benefits was possible,
is approximately 20%.
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 1847-KO, dated February 10, 1978.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA FOR A RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT II
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Korea for the equivalent of $95 million to help
finance a Rural Infrastructure Project II. The loan would have a term of
17 years, including four years of grace, with interest at 7.45% p.a.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        The latest Economic Report ("Growth and Prospects of the Korean
Economy") was distribute,d under cover of SecM77-158 dated March 4, 1977.
The Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex I.
Recent Economic Developments
3.        During the last few years, the external economic environment has
been subject to unexpected, sharp and sudden changes which seriously affected
economic activity in Korea and, more particularly, its external trade and pay-
ments situation. The boom in world trade led to increases in the volume of
Korean exports of 46% and 54% in 1972 and 1973 respectively. But in 1974,
the quadrupling of oil prices combined with a sharp rise in the prices of
foodgrains and capital goods led to a deterioration of 18% in the terms of
trade. At the same time, the deep recession in the industrialized countries
caused a slackening in the growth of exports to some 9%. The purchasing power
of exports, which had expanded by over 46% each year in 1972 and 1973, actually
decreased by nearly 11% in 1974. During 1975 export volume grew by a remark-
able 23%, assisted by the devaluation of the won in December 1974 and a very
vigorous drive to expand and diversify markets. However, part of this gain
was offset by a further deterioration of 10% in the terms of trade.
4.        Among the major economic targets set by the Government in 1976 were
the containment of inflation to 10% and a reduction in the balance of payments
current account deficit substantially from $1.9 billion in 1975 to $1.4 billion.
The former goal was achieved and the latter substantially surpassed. Wholesale
prices, which had increased by nearly 80% between the end of 1973 and the end
of 1975, increased by around 9% in 1976, primarily because import costs (which
more than doubled between 1972 and 1974) apparently decreased by about 2% in
1976; moreover, the growth in domestic credit was limited in 1976 to 21%
(compared with increases of 54% and 32% in 1974 and 1975 respectively).
5.        Primarily, as a result of the recovery in the OECD countries,
Korea's exports increased in 1976 by 36% in volume and there was an improve-
ment of 14% in the terms of trade. While part of this increase in exports
/1 This section is substantially identical to that contained in the corres-
ponding section of the President's Report (No. P-2183-KO) on the Ogseo
Area Development Project Stage I, which was approved on December 22, 1977.



- 2 -
may have been supplied by a drawing-down of inventories, it is evident
that it could not have been achieved without substantial additions to
production capacity in the last couple of years. A remarkable feature of
Korea's economic management through the crisis of 1974 and 1975 was that
fixed investment continued to grow at an average of 11% p.a. in constant
1970 prices, raising its ratio to GNP from 24.3% in 1973 to 25.6% in 1975.
6.        The real growth of GNP in 1976 was 15.5% as compared with an
average increase of 8.5% in the two previous years. This was the result
primarily of buoyant exports, but the extraordinary growth in agricultural
output was also a significant factor. Value added in agriculture grew
at over 7% in each of the last two years. While weather conditions were
favorable over the past three seasons, there has also been a real improvement
in yields as a result of better technology and the more effective use of the
various inputs.
7.         At the end of 1976, total outstanding debt was about $7 billion
in medium and long-term maturities and an additional $2 billion in maturities
of less than one year. Debt service payments of nearly $1 billion in 1976
were well within Korea's repayment capacity. The ratio of debt service pay-
ments to exports (of goods and nonfactor services) declined from an average
of 21% in the early 1970s to 11% at the end of 1976.
8.        It would appear that Korea achieved several of the objectives it
set for itself in the Third Plan, despite the balance of payments difficul-
ties experienced in 1974 and 1975 and a generally less favorable international
economic environment than had been expected. The rate of growth of GNP
was 11.2% p.a. compared with the original target of 8.6%. Considerable
progress has also been made in expanding the manufacturing sector. Progress
in reducing reliance on foreign savings and in restraining inflation
fell short of expectations. Furthermore, even with employment growing at
4% p.a. during the Third Plan period, there has been little improvement in
the unemployment situation.
9.        Preliminary indications suggest that industrial production, exports
and balance of payments targets for 1977 have been realized. Industrial pro-
duction, which rose at an annual rate of over 9% during the first four months
of 1977, increased at a faster pace in the subsequent months; a real growth
rate of GNP of 10% appears to have been achieved. Exports are expected to
have risen by about 30% and imports by 27%. Services receipts may be higher
than originally projected due to a considerable increase in both tourism and
remittances from workers and construction companies overseas. The current
account deficit may have been as small as it was in 1976 or even slightly
lower. Price increases averaged about 10% as planned. The introduction of
the value added tax as well as increases in money supply resulting from
rising levels of net foreign assets are exercising pressures on prices, and
the Government plans to hold the price line by further liberalization of food
and other imports as well as by keeping low the prices of grains released
from government stocks under the Grain Management Fund.



-3-
Longer-Term Prospects and Program
10.       The preparation of the Fourth Plan (1977-81) afforded an oppor-
tunity for a comprehensive review of Korea's economic problems, prospects and
priorities. Korea's longer-term goals as specified in the Plan are "growth
with enhanced self-sufficiency" and "greater equity and social development."
It is the firm intention of the Korean Government to achieve a maximum rate
of growth consistent with a sound balance of payments and also with the main-
tenance of internal financial stability. The Plan projects that the current
account deficit will be eliminated during the next few years. National sav-
ings are expected to finance as much as 92% of total investment as compared
with about 72% in the ThiLrd Plan period (1972-76). However, these projections
may prove overly optimistic. The domestic savings target appears somewhat
ambitious, while the projected investment requirements may turn out to be too
low.
11.       Growth and stability are not the only objectives.  Enhanced equity
and greater social development are also of importance in the Korean scheme of
things.  The main emphasis is:  (a) on providing adequate employment oppor-
tunities for the rapidly growing labor force to prevent any increase in the
unemployment problem; and (b) on achieving a wider distribution of the bene-
fits of growth. Rising iemployment is the most important instrument fbr
achieving an equitable distribution of the benefits of growth. This is all
the more so because, despite the success in reducing the rate of growth of
population to around 1.8% p.a., the labor force continues to grow at over
3% p.a. because of the baby boom following the Korean War in the early 1950s.
Health outlays will increase as a proportion of total investment with special
stress on preventive care and an innovative health delivery system to service
low income families, especially in the rural areas. Rural incomes are
expected to increase as a result of a further improvement in agricultural
terms of trade and increased opportunities for nonfarm employment, primarily
through the Saemaeul (New Community) Movement and small industries development.
The quality of life in the rural areas is to be further enhanced by the
provision of additional infrastructure facilities.
12.       The achievement of these goals would not require a change in
the basic development strategy of export-led growth, which Korea has
followed so successfully since the mid-sixties. GNP is expected to rise
at 9.2% p.a., fueled by the growth of 16% p.a. in the volume of manufactured
exports. The manufacturing sector, which now contributes 32% of GNP, is
expected to provide 54% of the increase in GNP during the Plan period,
increasing at 14.3% a year. The ratio of commodity exports to GNP is
expected to rise from the current level of about 30% to about 42% in 1981,
with the manufacturing sector providing about 92% of total exports compared
with 90% in 1976. This demands the achievement of continuous gains in effi-
ciency and productivity., Korea's comparative advantage will gradually shift
towards manufactures, such as machinery, electronics and shipbuilding, which
require relatively more skilled labor. It is also necessary to achieve some
import substitution in steel and chemicals to ensure an adequate supply of
intermediate inputs for the export industries. These changes in the indus-
trial structure will require intensive efforts to improve the mechanisms for
the transfer of foreign technology and the development of appropriate indi-
genous technology.



- 4 -
13.       The Plan targets for exports are challenging but appear to be
attainable, given the extraordinary drive of the Korean exporters, a con-
tinuation of the present level of export incentives and the assumption that
the economies of the OECD countries will grow at an average rate of around
4-5% annually while the volume of world trade expands at an annual rate of
about 8% during the period.
14.       Strong policy measures are envisioned in the Plan to increase the
mobilization of domestic resources. Success in restraining inflation is
expected to have a significantly favorable effect on the mobilization of
private savings. In the past, private savings have fluctuated with the move-
ment of the terms of trade and the rate of inflation. The terms of trade are
projected to be fairly stable through the Fourth Plan period and a rate of
inflation of the order of 8-9% a year is foreseen. The Government has taken
measures designed to channel the higher private savings likely to be gener-
ated by these developments to an increasing extent into the financial sys-
tem, and, thereby, into more effective use for productive investments. In
addition to restoring a positive real rate of return on financial forms of
savings, the measures include the imposition of a capital gains tax at the
rate of 5G% on undeveloped land, and 30% on nonprincipal household dwellings.
Funds that went into real estate are now flowing into the securities market
where the after-tax yields are more attractive. At the same time, direct
measures have been taken to force corporations to "go public," thus increas-
ing the supply of corporate securities. Steps are also being taken to
increase the variety of financial securities in terms of maturities, yields
and conditions that would constitute an attractive package to investors.
15.       The measures to increase the mobilization of private savings
are supplemented by fiscal actions to increase public savings. The defense
tax surchage imposed in 1975 is to be continued and a value added tax has
been introduced. The extent of the subsidization of farmers and urban
consumers through the Grain Management Fund is being reduced. The increased
resource mobilization and the strong restraint on most current expenditures
will make substantial budgetary surpluses available to finance capital
expenditures.
16.       The Plan's priorities, strategy and programs are sound.  The con-
tinued emphasis on relatively rapid growth is essential in the light of the
need to create additional employment for the growing labor force. Further-
more, the predominant role the export sector is expected to play is appro-
priate in view of Korea's limited natural resources. Moreover, Korea has the
manpower and the entrepreneurial capacity to implement the Plan's invest-
ment program. The Plan strikes a reasonable balance between the various
objectives of increasing employment, maintaining a minimum growth of per
capita incomes, strengthening the balance of payments and making progress
towards diversifying the industrial structure so as to sustain export growth
in the 1980s.
17.       Notwithstanding the efforts being made to increase the mobilization
of domestic resources, Korea's ability to meet its investment requirements
from domestic savings may fall short of the Plan projections, and a sizeable
continuing inflow of external capital will be necessary. It is estimated



that Korea may need to borrow an average of $2.5 billion p.a. over the next
several years. Its ability to obtain foreign capital in these amounts on
reasonable terms will continue to be a challenge. TIhe servicing of the debt
should not pose serious difficulties given the present debt service ratio
and the prospects for continued export growth, provided that the proportion
of external debt incurred on shorter term and at high interest rates is not
excessive. On the assumption that Korea can obtain the required inflow of
capital on reasonable terms, the debt service ratio which now stands at
around 11% is expected to decline slowly to just under 10% at the end of the
decade and remain at about that level during the 1980s.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
18.       As of December 31, 1977, Korea had received 34 Bank Loans (includ-
ing one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, totaling $1,588.5 million in
loans and $106.8 million in credits (taking into account cancellations
and the refinancing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank Loan).
19.       A substantial part ($558.2 million) of Bank financing has been for
the transport sector - $219.7 million for railways, $191.5 million for high-
ways and $147.0 million for ports. $289.5 million has been lent for agricul-
tural projects. Details are given in para. 35. The Korea Development Finance
Corporation has received, $220 million, the Korea Development Bank $142.5 mil-
lion, and the Medium Indlustry Bank $30 million in Bank loans for relending
to private industry. An additional $80.0 million has been lent directly to
industry in support of a, heavy machinery project. A total of $103.3 million
has been provided for three education projects and a vocational training
project; $25.0 million for a tourism project; $15.0 million for a secondary
cities project; and $60 million for the first rural infrastructure project.
In addition, two Program Loans amounting to $175 million have also been made
available to Korea.
20.       As of December 31, 1977, $692.4 million of the total Bank lending
remained undisbursed on effective Loans and Credits, mostly from commitments
in the past two years. The rate of disbursement has increased quite markedly
in recent months. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans,
IDA Credits, and IFC Investments as of that date and Notes on the execution
of ongoing projects. As indicated in the Notes, progress on project imple-
mentation is generally satisfactory.
21.       Excluding one project that was subsequently cancelled, IFC had by
December 31, 1977, entered into 18 commitments totaling $70.5 million (net
of participations and cancellations). Under consideration is a project in
lead smelting.
22.      The emphasis which the Government places on agricultural and rural
development is reflected in the Bank's proposed lending program. In
addition to the project under consideration, a multipurpose project has
been appraised and an agricultural marketing project is under preparation.



- 6 -
23.       The further development of the industrial and agricultural sectors
and the anticipated growth of exports will require concurrent infrastructural
development. Although the transport sector will be given less emphasis Liial
in the past, the investments required are large, and thus there is considerable
support for this sector in the proposed program.
24.       The share of the Bank Group in Korea's total external debt disbursed
and outstanding at the end of 1976 was about 8.9%, and the share of debt
service was of the order of 4.9% at that time. These ratios are expected to
increase to around 18% and 11% by the end of the present decade.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL SECTOR
25.       Issues, objectives and strategy in the agricultural sector are
described in the Bank's Economic Report referred to in para. 2 and are
summarized here. Some additional issues related to nonagricultual rural
development are also discussed.
26.       Despite Korea's rapid industrialization during the last 15 years,
some 45% of its labor force is still engaged primarily in agriculture, which
accounts for 22% of GNP. Population pressure on the 2.3 million ha of
available cropland is intense and yields are relatively high. Official
statistics show a striking improvement in the incomes of rural households
compared to urban wage and salary earner households in recent years.
However, rural households are slightly larger and have more workers as com-
pared to average urban households; thus, the official statistics show a
disparity in incomes per worker and per capita between the rural and urban
sectors. Moreover, the official statistics on which these comparisons are
based suffer from some limitations, and other studies suggest that the
rural-urban income disparities are still significant, though not large in
comparison with other countries. Since the late 1960s, as a result of price
incentives, the wider use of higher yielding varieties and cash inputs, and
favorable weather, rice production has increased dramatically; Korea achieved
self-sufficiency in its staple food crop in 1977.
27.       In its Fourth Plan (1977-81) the Government aims to complement
its basic strategy of a rapid expansion of industrial output and
exports with further improvements in the rural sector. The following
objectives have been set out:
(a) Rural Incomes. The Fourth Plan aims to improve the balance
between incomes in rural and urban areas and thus to retard
rural-urban migration. This is to be achieved through increases
in off-farm, as well as agricultural, incomes.
(b) Rural Living Standards. As part of its overall social develop-
ment strategy, the Government aims to increase the availability of
social sevices (such as health, education, housing and utilities)
in rural areas, which should also help to slow down migration to
urban areas.



(c)  Rural Employment.  Even with the projected rapid growth in Korea's
industrial output, industrial and service employment will do
little more than absorb the expected increase in the labor force.
Employment in agriculture must, therefore, be sustained at about its
present level, at least for the next five to ten years. Rural
employment will also be a useful cushion against cyclical swings in
manufacturing. While underemployment is common in rural Korea,
this is not so at the peak of the transplanting and harvesting
seasons. Some selective mechanization is, therefore, appropriate.
(d)  Self-sufficienc..  The Government is firmly committed to a policy
of self-sufficiency in the major foodgrains. While sufficiency in
rice and barley appears sustainable, self-sufficiency in wheat and
animal feed grains is only a very distant possibility. The balance
of payments impaLct of imported grains (mainly wheat), while
significant in the past, is not likely to be a burden in the
future, given the expected rapid growth in Korea's international
trade.
28.       The strategies proposed for attaining these objectives are as
follows:
(a)  Rural Income Strategy.  Up to now, price policy has been an
important element of this strategy. Through its control of
stockpiles of grain and fertilizer the Government has been able
to adjust prices so as to increase rural incomes, while not
raising consumer prices unduly. However, in recent years, the
Government has recognized the need to reduce the drain on the
budget from these subsidies. The fertilizer subsidy was abolished
in December 1975 and the Government is bringing domestic prices
for foodgrains more into line with international levels. Apart
from adjustments to overcome short-term fluctuations in world
markets, grain prices will probably continue to move towards free
market values in the future. Since major improvements in the
farmers' terms of trade, therefore, seem unlikely, future increases
in rural incomes will have to come largely from improvements in the
productivity of land and labor, through land and water development,
improvements in the already good extension, research, credit and
marketing services, and selective mechanization. Industries in
rural areas will also provide additional off-farm income.
(b)  Rural Living Standards Strategy.  As a result of the income-
generating activities just described, the demand for increased
consumption and improved living standards will rise. Availability
of consumer goods is not likely to be a problem. The Government's
role will be to provide those public services which it is uniquely
fitted to provide - education, health services, transport facilities,
water supply, rural electrification, telephones and housing finance.
Because of the increasing demands on budgetary resources, the
Government is successfully mobilizing impressive amounts of self-help
from the benefi.ciaries of these programs under the Saemaeul (New
Community) Movement.



- 8 -
(c) Rural Employment Strategy. Employment in rural Korea can be sus-
tained and underemployment reduced through a balanced program of
land and water development, Saemaeul rural development activities,
selective mechanization, and rural industrialization. The Govern-
ment is also encouraging workers employed in towns and cities to
continue to live in rural areas through improvements to transport
and communication facilities. Agricultural job creation is not in
itself a major policy objective, as demographic projections show
that agricultural underemployment will be of declining importance
after the mid-1980s.
(d) Self-sufficiency Strategy. The strategy outlined for raising
rural incomes will also tend to increase self-sufficiency in
foodstuffs, particularly grains, fruits, and vegetables (and
possibly lead to significant exports of processed and specialty
foods). As incomes rise, demand for a more nutritious and varied
diet is bound to increase. Additional measures will be needed to
influence the mix of production, beginning with research (for
example, on wheat varieties which could be double-cropped with
rice) and including specially focused efforts in credit, extension,
marketing and processing.
29.       There is a well-developed consensus in Korea on the importance of
the above strategies and a clear chain of command from the Economic Planning
Board to the Ministries and, thence, to the Government corporations, cooperative
federations and provincial and county administrations, which implement the
projects needed to achieve them. Detailed quantitative targets have been
set under the Fourth Plan and prospects for their achievement are good. Sector
knowledge is generally good, though further work is needed in areas such as
credit and marketing, livestock development, rural industrialization and the
appropriate development strategy for existing upland crop areas.
Government Policy and Bank Lending Strategy
30.       There is a close harmony of views between the Bank and the Government
on the overall objectives and strategies proposed for the rural sector under
the Fourth Plan. While views differ somewhat on the relative emphasis to be
given to various types of investment and on the technical design of some
projects, such differences are not profound and are likely to be resolved
with further dialogue and analysis.
31.       The Bank has been and should continue to be involved in most aspects
of Korea's rural development. The Bank so far has not been significantly
involved in rural industrialization but studies now under way may suggest
lending opportunities in this subsector. The other rural development activi-
ties may be classified as follows:
(a) land and water development;
(b) rural infrastructure; and
(c) agricultural industries and support services.



-9-
32.       Land and Water Development may be divided into two categories
(though individual projecits may contain elements of both ): investments to
increase the cultivable area and investments to increase the productivity
of existing cropland. Under the first category, tideland reclamation and
upland reclamation are the two major programs. While both types of develop-
ment yield high benefits in terms of incremental production, the unit costs
of tideland reclamation are so high that it is likely to be limited by
economic feasibility and lbudgetary constraints. The attractive economic
returns likely from upland reclamation must be balanced by the technical
problems of erosion and crop suitability, the solutions to which require
further field testing before such projects can be developed on a large
scale. Techniques for improving the productivity of existing cropland may
be classified according to the existing land use. Paddy land can be made
more productive by new or improved irrigation, land consolidation, drainage,
river training and the provision of farm and feeder roads. Existing upland
areas can be either converted to paddy land (requiring the concurrent
provision of irrigation, in most cases) or upgraded through a package of
engineering improvements and supporting services. Finally, forest land (most
of which is privately owned in small lots) can be made more productive in
terms of fuelwood, pulpwood, saw logs and other forest products.
33.       Rural Infrastructure activities may range from micro-scale improve-
ments to village drains and roofs to fairly sophisticated large-scale utility
or irrigation projects (the latter also fall into the Land and Water Develop-
ment category). Since 1971, Korea has undertaken a massive program of rural
infrastructure works under the Saemaeul Movement. Although the movement is
nationwide, it concentrates its activities on the less developed villages,
which tend to be in the more remote parts of each region where poor transport
and a lack of services such as irrigation, electricity and water supply are
constraining development.  It has two essential features: decentralized
decision making, including the particiation of the beneficiaries; and self-
help, either through volunteer labor, a cash contribution or cost recovery
charges. Besides constructing physical infrastructure and creating employ-
ment opportunities, the Saemaeul Movement puts a heavy emphasis on institu-
tional building, especially the development of self-reliance. Villages
are classified as basic, self-help or self-reliant, according to their
ability to execute and finance projects. These classifications are reviewed
annually, according to a points score system. Projects are selected by the
village and reviewed by aL hierarchy of Government committees. The degree of
Government technical and financial assistance varies according to the classi-
fication of the village. Since 1971, the equivalent of $1.8 billion has
been invested in Saemaeul activities, of which the Government contribution
was less than half. Projects carried out range from simple improvements
to village drains and roofs, roads, water supply, to more sophisticated
rural electrification and irrigation schemes, livestock raising and rural
industries.
34.       Agricultural Support Services are well developed in Korea and
are generally meeting the needs of the farmers. Improvements are needed
mainly in extension, crecdit and marketing for special crops and livestock.



- 10 -
35.       Bank financing in the rural sector was first directed at land and
water development (five projects for irrigation, including tideland reclama-
EiOnl).  In recent years, the Bank has helped finance four projt...Ls to
improve agricultural industries and support services, such as the supply of
seeds and credit for special crops, livestock and food processing. The Ba-nk
has also helped finance the Rural Infrastructure Project I which includes land
and water development components (irrigation, upland reclamation and fuelwood),
infrastructure components (roads and bridges, water supply and rural electri-
fication), and some assistance to support services (extension, soil conser-
vation, fuelwood research and hydrology).
JO .      Bank projects for the next few years will continue to assist all three
areas and are likely to broaden to include a marketing project, multipurpose
water resource projects and possibly assistance to rural industrialization.
The proposed lending program would further the objective of improving the
distribution of income within the rural sector and between rural and urban
areas, though it must be borne in mind that income distribution in Korea is
already remarkably even. Only 14% of the rural population are classified as
being below the poverty income level for the rural areas. The rural poor are
a dispersed and not well defined group and it would be difficult to design
projects to benefit predominantly such a "target group".  The real challenge
for the future will be to keep labor productivity in agriculture from lagging
too far behind that in industry, to prevent a growing disparity between rural
and urban incomes.  In that sense, agricultural and rural development projects
should be geared to meeting the national objective of more equitable income
distribution.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.       The proposed project was prepared by the Ministries of Agriculture
and Fisheries (MAF), Home Affairs (MHA), Health and Social Affairs (MHSA),
and Communications (MCM), under the overall direction of the Economic Planning
Board (EPB). It was appraised in August-September 1977. A Staff Appraisal
Report entitled "Rural Infrastructure Project II" (No. 1847-KO dated
February 10, 1978) is being distributed separately. Supplementary project
data are provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington from
January 30 to February 2, 1978 with a Korean delegation led by Mr. Hwa-June
Tchal, Director General, Bureau of Economic Cooperation, Economic Planning
Board.
38.       The proposed project is directly based on the Rural Infrastructure
Project I, which is being successfully implemented. Under that project,
61 irrigation subprojects covering 12,700 ha are being constructed, construc-
tion being about 50% complete. Unproductive forest land in 48 subprojects
covering 4,500 ha is being reclaimed through terracing to form rainfed
cropland. This component also has an applied research emphasis, aimed at
improved design standards and a better understanding of soil conservation
techniques. As a result of some design and budgetary problems, now resolved,
the component was only one-third completed at the end of 1977 but should be
fully implemented by the end of 1978. The other four components are all
completed. Fuelwood plantations, covering 127,000 ha at 11,990 sites, have
been established. Under the Roads and Bridges component, 860 km of village



- Ii -
access roads and 211 bridges have been constructed. Simple piped water
supply systems have been constructed in 4,073 villages and serve 360,000
households. A similar number of households have been supplied with elec-
tricity through 3,813 Rural Electrification subprojects.
39.       Project costs have exceeded appraisal estimates by 16% but disburse-
ments are on schedule, more than 80% of the $60 million loans have been
disbursed. The system of project monitoring, reporting and auditing set up
for the Rural Infrastructure Project I has worked smoothly and would be
continued for the proposed project.
40.       Two of the sectors chosen for inclusion in the proposed project
(Irrigation and Water Supply) will continue programs assisted under the First
Stage Project. Of the other sectors included in Stage I, the Fuelwood and
Rural Electrification programs are now virtually completed nationwide, while
the Government has decided to complete the Village Roads and Bridges program
without external assistance. The remaining component, Upland Reclamation,
has not yet reached a sufficient degree of completion for a follow-up project
to be appraised. The new sectors to be assisted by the proposed project
(River Training and Rural Telephones) were chosen because of their high
priority within the Government's rural development planning, the Bank's
familiarity with and expertise in these sectors, their clear economic and
social benefits and their complementarity to the other continuing programs.
41.       The proposed project has been formulated in such a manner as to
ensure that the Bank's policies, administrative procedures and appraisal
standards could be met while causing minimal disruption to the Government's
multi-sectoral, decentralized, evolving and yet efficient approach to rural
development. In the detailed formulation and appraisal of the project, every
effort has been made to work through the existing administrative structures
whenever possible, to support self-help and institution building at the
village level, and to use conventional Bank procedures in a flexible way to
accommodate a unique project.
42.       The proposed project would be nationwide in scope and would be aimed
mainly at the first three sector objectives: rural incomes; rural living
standards; and employment. The project would also have a minor impact on
self-sufficiency. It would also help to sustain the decentralized decision-
making and self-help features of the Saemaeul Movement. Bank assistance to
the project would allow the accelerated implementation of four programs to
which the Government attaches high priority. Bank participation is also
expected to lead to improvements in subproject selection procedures, modest
improvements in design and implementation methodology (which are already
good), and more systematic monitoring and financial management.
Detailed Features of the Project
43.       Irrigation Component ($81.8 million).  About 61 subprojects, cover-
ing a total of 9,200 ha, would be constructed. About three-quarters of
the subprojects would include small or medium sized earth dams while the
others would obtain their water from pumping stations along the major rivers.



- 12 -
The subprojects woulid include the main and lateral canal systems and conver-
sion of some upland areas to paddy fields. Adjustment of the tertiary ditch
system to deliver the water to the fields and the 'inal leveling of the
fields would be left to the farmers, as it has been amply demonstrated that
farmers in Korea will. carry out such work. Criteria for subproject selection
included certain technical factors and a requirement for a rate of return
gbovte 11%.  About one-third of the subprojects have already been designed and
all remaining designs will be finalized in 1978. Construction of the first
group of subprojects would begin in the latter half of 1978 and the remainder
early in 1979. The component would be completed in 1982. The subprojects,
because of their size, would be carried out by contract using relatively
machine-intensive methods. Under the project, a dam safety program would be
instituted (Section 4.07 of the draft Loan Agreement) and training in dam
safety inspection would be provided.
44.       River Training Component ($37.5 million).  Under this component,
about 2,500 km of levee banks would be constructed along small rivers and
streams. The two-year program, which would utilize local materials and
labor-intensive methods, would result in the creation of 100 to 200 ha of new
farm land and the protection of approximately 10,000 ha of existing farmland
and 10,000 houses from frequent flooding. Subprojects would typically
consist of an earth embankment, often with a road on top, with some form of
protection on the river side and drainage structures where needed. Subproject
selection is generally based on economic factors and is partly qualitative.
Under the project, the use of quantitative methods would be increased and a
minimum rate of return of 11% introduced. Subprojects would be designed by
the county engineers at the beginning of each year and constructed by the
villagers themselves. Workers on this program would be mainly "needy people"
from the village, who would be paid a subsistence wage. The criteria used by
the Government to define needy people roughly corresponds to the rural
poverty target group as defined by the Bank.
4_J.      Water Supply Component ($37.4 million). Simple piped water supply
systems in 7,400 villages would be constructed under this component, benefit-
ting 590,000 families. As a result of the three-year program, the proportion
of Korea's rural population with access to piped water would rise from 44% to
62%, Water would be obtained from springs or dug weLls Ith electric or
hydro-pneumatic pumps, chlorinated and pumped to a concrete reservoir.
Distribution would be by PVC pipes and normally one faucet would be provided
in the courtyard of each house. Subprojects are ncrmally selected qualita-
tively, weight being given to the village's willingness to contribute labor,
materials and cash to the subproject.  Construction woulld be Ihbor-intensive
and all unskilled labor would be supplied on a i7olurtary basis. Subprojects
would be designed by the county engineers using sat-Isfactory standard
methods.
46.       Rural Telephones Component ($25.1 million).  The program of 2,704
village lines would complete the connection of all villages in Korea to the
national telephone network, through single circuit, pole-mounted open wire
lines. The telephone instrument would be placed in the house of a manager
designated by the village Saemaeul leader. The manager would collect
all charges and fetch recipients of incoming calls, for which he would



- 13 -
receive 10% of all collections. The second part of the component would
consist of the addition of 75,000 subscribers' lines at the subdistrict town
level. These are towns of approximately 1,000 to 10,000 population which
provide many services to the farming population. Equipment would be manual
in operation (magneto or common battery). This program forms part of the
Government's plan to increase the telephone density in rural areas from 2 to
3.6 per 100 population by 1981. Subprojects would be planned and constructed
by MCM's own technicians. A pilot project to enable a rational decision to
be made on the most appropriate technology for serving rural areas in the
1980s is also being undertaken by MCM.
Project Costs and Financing
47.       The total project cost (from which all direct taxes have been
excluded) is estimated at $232 million, with a foreign exchange component of
$95 million (41%). Physical contingencies ranging from 10% to 15% have been
added to the base cost estimates. Expected price increases of 10% per year
over the implementation period total 14% of base costs plus physical contin-
gencies.  The proposed Bank loan of $95 million would finance the full
foreign exchange costs. Local expenditures would be met by annual Central
and Provincial Government budgetary allocations to the executing agencies,
loans to the beneficiaries to cover 30% of the cost of the irrigation compo-
nent (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement) and cash contributions from
the beneficiaries (8% of the cost of the project). In addition, the benefi-
ciaries would contribute volunteer labor and new telephone subscribers would
make deposits equivalent to about 30% of the cost of the Rural Telephones
component. Some assistance from the World Food Program would be available to
participants in the Water Supply component. Details of the cost estimates
are given in the Loan and Project Summary.
Procurement
48.       Vehicles, equipment and materials would be divided into three
groups according to their suitability for international competitive bidding
(ICB). The first group of items (which includes cement, reinforcing steel,
pumps, telephone sets and cables and all vehicles) estimated to cost $33 mil-
lion plus contingencies, would be subject to ICB in accordance with Bank
Group Guidelines. A second group of small, simple hardware items or bulky
low value items ($6 million plus contingencies) would not be of interest to
foreign manufacturers and would, therefore, be procured through local compe-
titive bidding. The f'inal group ($28 million plus contingencies) consists
of simple materials, such as quarried stone and grass sod, which must be
procured in small quantities close to the numerous work sites; these materials
would be purchased through local shopping, subject to ceiling prices set by
the Government. Because the 18,000 or so subprojects are individually small
and scattered over the whole country, it would not be feasible to combine
them in civil works paickages large enough to be of interest to international
contractors. The largest of the subprojects, those for Irrigation, would be
subject to local compettitive bidding ($70 million). Force account construc-
tion ($5 million) is the only feasible means of implementing the Rural
Telephones component, while the Water Supply and River Training components,



- 14 -
for which civil works are estimated to cost about $16 million, would be
constructed by the villagers themselves, voluntarily in the former case and
for subsistence wages in the latter.
Disbursements
49.       Disbursements for vehicles, equipment and materials procured
following ICB would be made at 100% of the c.i.f. or ex-factory cost.
Disbursements for all other equipment and materials would be included with
disbursements for civil works at the following percentages of certified
actual cost: Irrigation 40%; River Training 30%; Water Supply 25% and Rural
Telephones 10%. Disbursements for training would be at 100% of foreign
costs, and, for Project Evaluation studies at 50% of total cost. Any savings
in the loan account would, at the request of the Government, be used to
finance additional subprojects of the type included in the project. It is
expected that disbursements would be completed by June 30, 1983, about one
year after the completion of project construction. The estimated disburse-
ment schedule is given in the Loan and Project Summary.
Organization and Management
50.       As has been the case for the Stage I Project, most villages would
benefit from no more than one or two subprojects under the proposed project
and, thus, the need for coordination of the various components would be
minimal. The components of the project are parts of ongoing programs which
are the responsibilities of several Ministries. This division of responsi-
bility would not be changed for the execution of the project, but existing
arrangements for supervising the standards of work and for monitoring and
evaluating the effectiveness of the project would be strengthened. The
executing agencies for the various components are described below.
51.       Irrigation Component.  Overall responsibility for this component
rests with the Farmland Management Bureau of MAF, which is also responsible
for project planning and subproject selection. Irrigation subprojects would
be owned and operated by the Farmland Improvement Associations (FLIAs), of
which 127 exist at present in Korea, covering all the major agricultural
areas. While the FLIAs are formally voluntary associations of farmers, they
are under close supervision by the Provincial administrations, which appoint
the FLIA chairmen, and under indirect supervision by the MAF. Technical
services to the MAF for project planning and to the FLIAs for subproject
design and construction supervision would be provided by the Agricultural
Development Corporation (ADC) (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement),
a semi-autonomous corporation supervised by MAF, having broad responsibili-
ties for land and water development throughout Korea. ADC has a staff of
1,200 engineers and technicians and is successfully implementing six Bank
Group assisted projects. Irrigation subprojects would be designed by ADC's
First Survey and Design Department and construction would be supervised by
ADC's Project Construction Department, through the Branch (Provincial) Office
concerned, on behalf of the FLIA. Support services to ensure a rapid achieve-
ment of the benefits of the component would be provided by the Office of Rural
Development (research and extension), National Agricultural Cooperative
Federation (credit and fertilizer) and the FLIAs (water distribution and



- 15 -
extension). As these services are already of a high standard, the only
change proposed under the project is a slight increase in the number of
extension workers (Section 3.02(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
52.       River Training Component.  Responsibility for the planning and
overall administration of this component would rest with the River Training
Section of the Saemaeul Guidance Division of the MHA. The Division would also
be responsible for allocating funds and monitoring the progress of implementa-
tion. The River Improvement Section of the Construction Bureau in each
province would be responsible for allocating funds to the counties and would
play a role in monitoring. The Construction Section in each county would plan
and design subprojects, sign construction agreements with the villages,
advise the villagers and inspect the completed work. The subdistrict technical
guidance team would be responsible for day-to-day supervision. The villages
would be responsible for the initial planning of the subprojects, disbursing
the available funds, preparing progress and completion reports and for main-
taining the works.
53.       Water Supply Component.  The MHSA would be responsible for the Water
Supply component, through the Environmental Sanitation Section of its Environ-
mental Health Bureau. The Section is reponsible for establishing policy
guidelines, allocating funds, monitoring the progress of construction and
detailed design and supervision of construction, which would be carried out by
village labor.
54.       Rural Telephones Component.  This component would be planned, exe-
cuted and operated by MCM which has separate bureaus for planning, construc-
tion, operations and finance. Supporting units include a telecommunications
laboratory, which is carrying out the pilot project, a training center, and
an electronic data processing unit for billing. MCM is well staffed and has
successfully carried out a rapid expansion of telecommunications services at
all levels. Equipment installation under the project would be undertaken by
MCM's own technicians. The component would create a need for about 2,700
additional permanent operational and maintenance staff. This staff would be
recruited and trained oni the job by MCM as the project is implemented.
Training
55.       Provision has been made under the project for technical training
needed to support the construction components. These needs cannot be com-
pletely foreseen in advance but some are already apparent. These include:
specialized training for ADC staff in hydrologic analysis, earth dam design
and dam safety inspections /1; and training of MHA staff in the design of
levee banks for small rivers and in the economic evaluation of such projects.
Operation and Maintenance (Section 4.08 of the draft Loan Agreement)
56.       The completed irrigation subprojects would be operated and main-
tained by the FLIAs. The standard of operation and maintenance (0&M) of
similar works completed in the past is generally very satisfactory. O&M
/1   Unless the Government should designate another agency for this function.



- 16 -
costs (in 1978 prices) would average about W 44,000/ha ($90/ha) for reser-
voir systems and W 61,000/ha ($125/ha) for pumping stations. MCM would be
responsible for O&M of the Rural Telephones subprojects, which would be
integrated with the overall telecommunications network. The other components
would be maintained by the villagers themselves, under the guidance of the
Saemaeul leader. In most cases, O&M by the villagers for these types of
works has been satisfactory. River Training subprojects would be maintained
by voluntary labor except where major flood damage is involved, when contrac-
tors supervised by the county would be used.
Cost Recovery
57.       For Irrigation subprojects, Korea has a well established system
of charges; farmers must pay the full O&M costs plus 30% of the capital cost
at 3.5% interest, over 35 years, including a five-year grace period (Section
4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). Incremental project charges, discounted
at 10% and assuming no inflation over the project's life, would be sufficient
to recover 21% of total costs. At an annual inflation rate of 10%, the cost
recovery index would be 18%. For the River Training component, there would
be no direct recovery of costs, except to the extent that part of the labor
is voluntary and the remainder is paid subsistence wages, some of which
is returned to the Village Development Fund. For the Water Supply component,
the beneficiaries would contribute about 30% of the cash cost and all O&M
costs and would also contribute considerable amounts of volunteer labor
(Section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). Telephone subscribers would
pay installation charges, deposits and tariffs which would more than cover
the capital, operation and maintenance cost of the component (Section 4.06 of
the draft Loan Agreement). All the above provisions are satisfactory,
given the nature of the services provided, the extent to which individual
beneficiaries can be identified and the position of the beneficiaries in the
national income scale.
Environmental Effects
58.       Any harmful environmental effects of the project would be quite
minor and would be completely outweighed by the environmental benefits of
reduced flood damage and sanitary water supplies.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
59.       The Project Monitoring Unit (PMU), which was set up in the Budget
Bureau of EPB for the Stage I Project, would continue to monitor the progress
of the project, to compile quarterly progress reports and to act as a channel
of communication with the Bank (Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement). A
master list of subprojects would be drawn up by each responsible Ministry at
the beginning of each year. At the end of each quarter, the executing agen-
cies would report on the physical and financial progress of each subproject,
noting any problems. These reports would be summarized by the responsible
Ministry and passed on to the PMU, which would check and collate the reports
and submit them to the Bank, together with a disbursement application in
respect of the quarter's expenditure. These reports would be accompanied by
reports on the procurement of materials subject to local competitive bidding



- 17 -
and on the spot checking of works in progress. Each responsible Ministry
would spot check at least ten subprojects per quarter, in order to verify the
reports of the executing agency. Bank supervision missions will spot check
additional subprojects. Finally, the project accounts would be audited
annually by an independent accounting firm. All the above procedures have
been working smoothly for two years under the Stage I Project and only very
minor problems have been encountered.
60.       Project evaluation studies begun under the Stage I Project would be
continued under the proposed project (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement)
and broadened in scope to include evaluation of the River Training and Rural
Telephone subprojects; analysis of the effectiveness of the present administra-
tive, planning and subproject selection mechanisms; the measurement of changes
in rural attitudes to development; and an assessment of the impact of the
Saemauel Movement generally. The studies would generally be carried out by
the National Agricultural Economics Research Institute, under the supervision
of EPB.
Project Benefits, Justification and Risk
61.       The Project would benefit about 18,000 villages or 7.7 million
people (about 48% of Korea's rural population), through intensification of
agricultural production, opening up of a small amount of new farmland, and an
improvement in the quality of rural life, through the provision of water
supply and telephone services. Of these beneficiaries, about 500,000 (the
beneficiaries of the Irrigation component or of private lines under the Rural
Telephone component) would benefit to a larger degree than the remaining
7.2 million beneficiaries. The number of beneficiaries is unusually high
because there would be little "overlap" between the subprojects under the
various components. The project would also encourage decentralized decision-
making, help to develop village-level institutions, and would be a further
step in the Government's efforts to narrow inequalities between the urban and
rural sectors and to raise the level of living of many of the poorest people
in the areas. Other impacts of the project include an increase in short-term
and long-term employment and a reduction in foodgrain imports. The benefits
of each of the components are discussed below.
62.       Irrigation Component.  The economic evaluation made by ADC as a
basis for subproject selection has been checked on a sample basis, using
reasonable assumptions, about the opportunity cost of labor, world market
prices and the standard conversion factor. Rates of return range from 11% to
20%, with a weighted aLverage of 13%, similar to that projected for other
recent irrigation projects in Korea. The component would increase foodgrain
production by about 31,000 tons/year and household incomes for the 26,000
beneficiary families by an average of 45%. Most of the estimated 25% of
beneficiaries with present incomes below the absolute poverty level would
move out of the target group as a result of the project.
63.       River TrainiLng Component.  Benefit data for this component are
scarce and a method of evaluation had to be devised. Similar methods will be
used by the counties iLn selecting subprojects to ensure a rate of return of



- 18 -
at least il. Based on data from the 1977 program, the average rate of
return of the component is estimated at 30%. The component would benefit
about 700,000 families. The cost of the component per beneficiary is rather
low     ', - estimated to be about $10.  Benefits would accrue more heavily,
however, to those villagers owning land or houses in areas subject to flooding.
While no measurements have been made of the income levels of these persons,
it is reasonable to assume that their incomes would tend to be below the
rural average.
64.       Water Supply Component.  The major benefit of the Water Supply
component would be an improvement in the quality of village life for about
590,000 families. Considering the standard of service, the unit cost per
family is quite low, estimated to be about $63. The standard of service
(a single tap in the courtyard) would be in line with the services currently
being provided and expected by the villagers and may be considered as a
necessary complement to other more directly productive rural investments.
The Water Supply component would also have some health benefits, result in
some time savings, and assist in developing the institutional capacity of the
villages for further development. However, none of these benefits could be
readily quantified and no attempt at numerical analysis has been made.
65.       Rural Telephones Component.  Some attempts have been made to
measure directly the socio-economic benefits of telephone service in rural
Korea. A survey by MCM in 1975 showed that the telephone service helped to
remove feelings of isolation and improved the villagers' income through
timely market information and the ability to bypass middlemen. In addition,
the local administration was able to disseminate information to the villages
more quickly. In the absence of very precise measurements of benefits, the
charges paid by telephone subscribers for the service may be taken as a
minimum measure of their willingness to pay and, thus, of the economic value of
the service. Using MCM records of telephone usage and growth rates and the
current levels of tariffs, the incremental revenues attributable to the
project can be compared to its incremental capital and operating costs. If
deposits are included as revenues (since they form a kind of revolving fund)
and an evaluation period of 25 years assumed, the discounted financial rate
of return (or the minimum estimate of the economic rate of return) would be
20%. If deposits are not counted as revenue, the minimum rate of return is
12%. The program would benefit 75,000 families through private connections.
These families have incomes above the rural average and it is appropriate
that they should repay more than the full cost of this service. The village
line program would benefit about 220,000 families, who would also repay the
full cost of their service, through call charges.
66.       The weighted average rate of return for the project, excluding the
water supply component for which no quantification of benefits was possible,
would be approximately 20%.
67.       Apart from the economic merits of the project, the Bank's continued
association with the Government's rural development efforts through the
implementation of the proposed project is expected to contribute to: the



- 19 -
continuation and upgrading of quantitative subproject selection criteria;
the improvement of the technical design and execution standards of subproj-
ects; the continued development of planning and programming capability for
rural development (through the provisions for project monitoring and evalua-
tion); and the fulfillment of the Government's rural infrastructure program
under the Fourth Plan.
68.       Given the fact that the programs to be assisted under the project
are all ongoing under the management of capable and experienced agencies, the
high standard of agricultural support services and the inclusion of contin-
gencies to cover all fores,eeable increases in quantities or prices, the risk
of not achieving the project objectives or rate of return is believed to be
low, in comparison with other rural development projects.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Korea and the Bank,
and the Report of the Comrmittee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii),
of the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. The draft Loan Agreement follows the general pattern of loan
agreements relating to for projects of this kind. Special conditions of the
project are listed in Secition III of Annex III.
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by: J. Burke Knapp
Attachments
February 17, 1978
Washington, D.C.






ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                   Page 1 of 4 pages
KOREA  REP.         - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                 -------------------------------------------------
KOREA  REP.                          REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTaL       98.5                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.       24.4                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE           THAILAND       TURKEY         JAPAN**
___ ___ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _____         ___________    ___  ________ -- -- --  __________-- -- -- -- --
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                      120.0*   280.0 *  670.0La*              210.0 *    500.0 *   2630.0 *
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)            25.0       32.2      36.0/a              36.3        35.6       104.3
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       244.0     327.0      365.O1a              71.0        46.0       280.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    1191.0    1371.0   1475. u7Ta                263.0        65.0      1744.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          39.7       35.0      28.8                44.3        40.6        17.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)           22.9       11.4       8.9                13.7        14.4         7.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)        82.9/a        .       38.0                80.0       153.0 /a    13.1
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       56.o       65.0       68.0                55.5        54.4        71.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.l b      2.6        2.4                3.2         2.6 1bJC   1.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  2.8        2.3       1.8                 3.1         2.5         1.0
URBAN                                  5.9        8.4       5.4                 4.9         4.9 Id      4.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           28.0       41.2       48.5               15.0        38.7        84.4
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       40.5       42.1       39.9                45.1        41.7        24.0
15 TO 64 YEARS                       55.7       54.5       56.7                51.8        54.0        68.9
65 YEARS AND OVER                      2.3        3.4        3.4                3.1         4.3          7.1
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.8        0.8        0.8                0.9         0.9          0.5
ECONOMIC DEPENOENCY RATIO                1.5 8      1.4        1.2 /b             1.1         1.1 /e       0.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            ..    4424.7    7404.7                470.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..       42.0      34.0                10.0         8.2
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)          7500.0   10200.0   1310Q.0/a.c          16700.0    14500.0 /f 53300.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (I)          66.0      50.4/       44f6t              79.0        67.0         19.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)            9.0        4.S-       3.9/a a-                       4.0 /R       1.2
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             17.0 Id   17.1        18.1 /d            22.0        32.8 Lh     14.2
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             41.9 7!   44.5       43.4                51.1        60.67W    37.6
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              7.4       7.1        7.27!               5.6         2.9         8.8
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS             IS.X       17.7      18.7                14.3         9.4        22.3
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS            27.0       28.0                                       53.0
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           3.0        2.0                                        0.9
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             3220.0    2110.0   2100.0                 7970.0      2250.0       880.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         3220.0&a  2170.01k  1440.0/e             6650.0      1770 0/i    240.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          2510.0    1900.0   1760.0                  890.0       500.0        80.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          85.0     113.0      112.0               103.0       110.0       106.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY.)              53.0       65.0      f8.o/f              52.0        78 0        76 0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          13.0 f    19.0          a. 17.0/                     22 OLj      45 0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4               *-         *-         *                   *         14.7/k       1.0
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        98.0      104.0      109.0               81.0       109.0       100.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      27.0       41.0       59.0               16.0        28.0        91.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              12.0       12.0       12.0               12.0        11.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                      14.0       16.0       17.0               14 0 lb    14.0         20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                   ..       87.0       92.01a              79.0        55.0/1      99.0
HDUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 2.811      2.7                                        1.9         1.0
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                       88.0_^   80.0 /C   57.o/h                            64.0          S.O
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY                              8.   c 5./                        .        6.            .
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  28.0       50.0         ..                 ..        41.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                    12.0       30.0      64.9/i                 ..        18.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          32.0      126.0      127.0                78.0        89.0       551.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            0.4        2.0        2.0                 5.0         4.0        84.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            71.0      307.0    600.0                 124.0       247.0      3391.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                1.8        3.5        4.8                 1.0         0.7        18.9
-----------------------------_   --___ ----------------------------------__  -----__ ----------------------- - ----_  -
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



AZIE -I
Page 2 of 4 pages
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Host Recent Estimate between
1973 and 1975.
1GNP per capita data are based on the Wmlnd Bank Atlas methodology (1974-76 basis).
5Japan ha. been selected as anobective .o.-try due to the similarity of the present Korea  economic structure to that of japan in the mid-fifties
(with the sore principle resorce base i.e., efficient, indus trious, cheap labor and heavy relionco onm imported re material). Moreover, agri-
coltuce, trans.Port and otber sectors of the economy have similar characteristics.  Korea also ho. a patterns of indootrial development which is not
very difforent from the one Jepan pursued with greatsucs in the sixties.
iOlEA REP.-   1960    /a  1957;    /b  1950-55;    Ic  Ratio of populattion  -nder 15 and 65 and ovr to total labor force;    Id  Wage aad salary
income of h-cehoide. for 1964;    Is  Registered, not all procurinig in the country;    If  1962;    L   Refer to boasebolds;
lb Water piped inside.
1970    Ia  As percentage of employment;    lb  Registered, not all practicing in the country;    Ic  Water Piped inside.
MIST RECENT ESTIMATE:    /s  1976;    lb  catio of population ander 15 and over to total labor force;    Ic  Labor force age 14 and over
(Employment in agrioalturs as a percentage of eamploynnt); /d  1971;    Is  Registered, not all working in
the coutry;    If  1969-7-1 averga;    /   Ten years and oer;    lb  Percentage of households;                   It  Roral
electrification ra_tq.
THAILAND        1970    Ia  1964-66;    lb  Public schools, which ioclades technical adora.tion or the post-secondary-level.
TURKEY         1970    Ia  1967;    lb  Exclssdea 17 eastern provinces;    /c  1965-67;    Id  1965-70    Ic  Ratio of popalation ander I) end 65 and over
to labor force 15 years and over;    If  15 years and over, secludes unemploysd;    La  Registered only;    lb  Dispoeshble
incose ;    /i  Including assistant nonses and midwives;    /Ij  1964-66;    lb  1967-68R              /1  Persona six years end over who
tell the censas takers that they can reed end write.
RI3, September 9, 1977
omrrxTTI OP SOCIAL nINDICATORS
Land Area (thou ke2)                                                                         Passaletion separs-isa pacson - Population divided by -omber of prartialg
Total- Tata1 surface area codrisiog leed ares ad inl1s.d .eters.                              mls and femle graduate nurses, "tr-insd" an "certified" manes., aed
-gic    Mast r.eet estimate af agricultural eres useed temporarily or perws-              aomiliary persnonal with traning or emperleece.
saintly 0 or crepe, p          -rre   eket & kitohen gerdens or to lie felIne.            Pneclatiem -r hospital had - Papuslaciom  divided by m,mber of hoepital beds
available In public sod prince general and spacialised hospital endd
IG? met capita CUSS) - INP per capits es timates at c.arret market Priceds,                    relsbilitation .entare; ...clmdss mrarig bmded and establishmenta for
celculaced by em  conversion macbad as World Bank Atlas (1973-75 basis);                    custodial end preventive ca.-
1960; 1970 aod 1975 data,                                                                 Per caPits suPPIY of caslories ft of resairomments) - Cepotad from amrgy
squivalant of met food! supplies available In c.-atry per capita per day;
Popul.tion and vital statistic:                                                                available supplies comprise domestir production, Imparts lass aeports, cand
Pamulatian (mid-year million)   i. of July first:  if mat avilable, average                   changes in stark; set supplies exclde amimal feed, sed,qutitia  seed
af tw  end-yssr estimates; 1160, 1970 ad 1975 data,                                          in ford pracsssing end lasses in distribution; requirmts were  sriested
by rAO base.d on phsoia  emeds far esreal activity cod heItb comId-
Fpoulstion damity- par swers heR - Mid-year population per square biloster                     acing enirnoadmtal tempractrs, body wmighta, age sod see, dietribuatiom   of
(lOf hectares) of total area.                                                               papulatiam, ad al11wing 102 far ma.t  at hossabhld leve.
Psoulatios density -par asua  he at saris, laed - Computd s  above for                       Per -pcit. supply af portin farsm pear dey) - Prortein career of per capita
agriclturel land only.                                                                      mar supply of fead per day; set supply of food is defined as abov; require-
masts for all casetries established by USDA Iecondir, Researc  Sonices
Vital statistics                                                                               provide far a minias allmano  af 60 gr-m  of total pratele per day, ad
trade birth rate mar thmssend, varamed - Annual liw birth. per tb-uasnd of                     20 grem  at animal cud pales pratein, af which IS grind should he enica
mid-year papulstio; ten-year srithatie swrages anding in 1960 sod 1970,                      protein; these standrds era Iomr than thoss of 75 gem  of rt."l pemtal
asd fina-year average ending in 1975 for mset recent estimate,                              sod 23 grinw of cnimal protei  as an averag  far the world, propaed by FAO
trade death race oar thouaand. -averge - Annua dsaths per thouseand of mid-year                in the Third World Pond Srorve.
population; tsm-yesr arithesetir evereges ending In 1960 sod 1970 and five-                Per ..pita montain surelyf;rom        aniaad sales - Protein sapply of food
year swreg  ending in 1975 far mast rac...m  estimate,                                       derived from amimal  ad plses in grinu per dey.
Infant mortaglity rate C/that) - Annusl deaths of infants order ore yeasr af sge              sth rts C/thou) sees 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand in age grmp 1-4,
per thousand live birtho.                                                                   years , to children in this age groop; suggastadase  indirator of
Lifs empectency at birth (yrs) - Averega n-aer of years of life remaining st                   malntrition.
birtch; usually fIve-year averges ending In 1960, 1970 and 1975 for deslep-
Ing c-oonrie..                                                                            Education
Gr.es r-rrduction rats - Average sober of live daughters a onme  will hear                   Adjustd emroliMatmthraio - ari-r schol -  rnrmllmaxt at  1l ages as par-
in her --Ie reproductive period if she  xperisnrss Present age-specific                     cacaga ofp.ar   co-g  popultiem; inclades children degad 6-11 years
fertility r-tas; orselly fi-e-year avrages, ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                   hut adjusted far differet length  sof primary sdsctiom; far countries with
for developing countries.                                                                    universal education, enrollment may exced I0(VX since sin  pupils are bol1s
opo,altIon xorawh rate CR) - total - Compoud anna gronth rates of aid-year                     an shav  the official srhonl age.
population f-o 1950-60, 1960-70 sod 1970-75.                                              A5dluatod enral11-t ratio - secondary school - Computed as shoe; secondary
Paoulston growth rate  Ml - urban - Computed like grswth rate of total                         eduation requires at least famr years of approved primary iintrrustion;
population; different definitiom   of urban ares may affect snasparbility of                 prevides general,  -oraiemal x- teaher training imerrrion   for pupils
data amon  comestries.                                                                       of 12 to 17 years of age; rorrespeadaee couse  are generelly seclded.
Urban pprlation (7 of taca1) - Ratio of urban to total population; different                 Years af abhomlinx  rovidd ifirst ad sdesad levels) - Total years of
definitions of urban areas may affect cgprability of dare mong coutries,                     schooling; at esesodary lavel, v_stinl imt-trion may be partially or
momplately eelsded.
e, structur  (maccent) - Children, (0-14 year), working-age (15-64 Years),                   Vocational enre1lment CR of ...cendary) - Vsmtioml inatitutiona  ierlude
an:.d retired (65 years ad over) sa percentages of mid-year population.                       technira1, industrial an other prgri  which operate idspendsntly or a
As drndny ratio - Ratio of populetion under 15 and 65 ad avr to those                    deprrente of secondary inatitutisna .
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                     Adult litrarcy rate (15 - Literats edu1ts (able to red and write) as per-
Econmic depandency ratio - Ratio of poplation omder 15 amd A5 and avr to                       cextage of cacl sdulr population aged 15 years adovr
the labor fore in ago group of 15-64 years .
Pemil claing.   -  cetr    aI.tive. thou) - Cumultive somber of s--ptors                    !eIiARa
of hit-occ   eie   ne   apicem of nationa  tally planning progrem                          Persona mar room (urban) - Averag  nobor of Person  Poe rm  in ecoapied
since in..ptlon.                                                                             covetional dwellings in urban areas; dwellings exclude  on-pessnent
Family slaming - users il of married womn)         -Pretages of marcrind win  of               struture  ad onocopid parts.
child-bearing age (15-44 years) who ue birth-control devices to all married                0 ..umied dwellins without piped water Cl) - Otcupied romeesinsnl dwslliaga
w in In assn age group.                                                                   in urban and rura  areas withoat maids or outside Piped water facilities
aspretage ofiallorcupied dwllins
Epanloyment                                                                                  Arcesstol elcrct   lo   lldelns       ovtirol dwllings with
Total labor facre (thousand) - Economically active persons, including awmed                    slectricity In living quarters as percent of total dwellings in urban andd
forces and uneployed bat exclding hauseni-e, students, err; definitions                      rural area..
in various countries are nor comparable.                                                   Rural dwellings sonneted to sl1utricity ()-Computd as abov  for rural
Labor force in agriculmtre CR) - Agricultural labor farce (is fawding, forestry,               dwellings only.
hunting end fishing) as percentage of total labor fans..
onemploy.d CR of labor force) -Unemployed ace usually defined as paersn  who                 tensumetion
are  ble and willing to take a  ob, nut of a Jab on a given day, romimd out                Radio rece.ivers (mar thou moP) - All typse of receiver  for radio broadcasts
of a Job, and seeking work f_ or apcfied minimn, period not exceeding one                   to g e.eral.public per thousend at population ; aenIdes onliremeoe-dreivs
wek; may not be comparable botwee  coutisdet different dt initim                             in countrie  ad in years when registration of radio sets was in effect;
of unemployed and sourc  of data, e.gR., employment office statistics, semple                data f (rescent yosn may not be comparable since ot coutries abolished
su .ys -opulsory uneployet inaursacs.                                                   licean ing.
Po,esengrcars (mar thou pop) -Psengr cars comprise mota  cars seating
Intsd diatrihotior - Perrentage of private  m-om  (both In cash ad kind)                       lesta ight person; sec ludes  mbolano, hearss end military
receIved by richasm  52, rcihest 201, poorest 201, and poorest 401 of hones-                 vehicle..
holds.                                                                                     Electricity (kwh/yr Per tap) - Annual conomption of induntrie1, cnril
Dist~~~ib.tioo of land = r5bim ~~~~~~~pubIc and privatelcriiyi  kilontt hours per o-pima, generally
Ditrbuio   of lad 2nrhp-Percentage. of lad omned by wealthiest 101                      based on production data, without allomanc  for losses In grids hut ello--
and poorest                                                                                  Lu fln  onr.ig for Imports and eports of electricity.
Ndawerint (baler Par car) - Per capita. annua canomption in kilogrin
aesith and Nutrition                                                                           estimated from, dooascic produtien pl.s mt imports at newprint.
Pasolamion per ph_ysicien - Population divided by cubtr at Practicing
physiriana qualified from a medical school at univerity leve.



HCONM1C DV=LPI! DdTO&   81ST
Actual                              BEt.    Projacted               Growth sates (2)
1965     1970      1972       1973      1974       1975       1976       1982       1965-73  1973-75  1976-82  1982-86
A. National Accounts
(Million USS at 1975 prices)
1. GDP                           6,953.9  11,714.7  13,900.8  16.233.7  17,655.4  19,089.2   21,941.7   36,846.9          11.2       8.4      9.0      9.8
2. Gains from TOT                  142.5      668.9   1,145.3   1,517.0      543.6     -         1,027.0    2,547.8         -         -        -         -
3. Gross Domestic Income         7,096.4  12,384.6  15,046.1  17,750.7  18,199.0  19,089.2   22,968.7   39,394.7          12.1       3.7      9.4      10.3
4.  Imports (goods and NFS)        96S.9   4,254.3   5,301.4   7,203.0   7,438.2   7,43.8    9,236.7   22,583.3           28.2       1.8     16.1      15.9
5.  Exports volume                 389.4   1,849.0   3 125.4   5,021.1   4,745.2   5.679.1    8,158.3   20,305.5          37.4       6.4     16.4      16.0
6.  Exports (adjusted for TOT)    531.9   2,417.9   4,270.6   6,538.1   5,288.8   5,679.1    9,185.3   22,853.3           36.4      -7.0     16.4      16.0
7.  Resource Gap (adjusted for
TOT)                         457.0   1,736.4   1,030.8      664.9   2,149.4   1,728.1         51.4     -270.0
S.  Total consumption            6,809.2  10,655.5  12,606.7  14,264.7  15,181.0  15,361.0   16,439.1   27,778.4           9.7       3.8      9.1      8.6
9.  Investment                     926.7   3,308.9   3,134.1   4,327.5   5,167.4   5,120.7    5,977.0   11,351.3          21.2       8.8     U1.3      14.0
10. Domestic savings (adjusted
for TOT)                     287.2   1,729.1   2,439.4   3,486.0   3,018.0   3,708.2    6,529.6   11,616.3          36.7      3.1      10.1     14.2
11. GDP at current US$            2,996.5   8,238.9   9,835.8  12,457.8  16,863.1  19,089.2   25,276.7   60,819.5          19.5      24.0     15.7     18.4
8. Sector Outout
(Share of GDP at 1975 prices)
1.  Agriculture, Forestry  and
Fisheries                    0.462     0.330      0.292     0.264      0.256     0.249       0.236      0.152
2.  Mining and Manufacturing       0.137     0.023      0.230     0.257      0.276     0.291       0.327      0.342
3.  Other                          0.401     0.467      0.478     0.479      0.467     0.460       0.437      0.506
C. Prices (1975-100)
1.  Export Price Index (US$)        66.4      66.0       66.4      78.9      108.0     100.0       111.8      149.8
2.  Import Price Index (US$)        48.6       48.5      48.6       60.6      96.9      I00.0       99.3       133.1
3. Terms of Trade Index            136.6      136.1     136.6      130.2     111.5      100.0      112.6      112.5
4. GDP Deflator                     43.1       70.3      70.8       76.7      95.5      100.0  '   115.2      165.1
5.  Average Exchange Nate          266.2      310.4     394.0      398.6     405.9     485.0       485.0       485.0
0.  Selected Indicators              1965-72      1973-75      1976-82             e.                                        1965    1970    1975    1982
1.  ICOR /a                           2.05         4.42        3.53               1.   Labor force (million)                 8.9    10.2    12.3    15.3
2.  import Elasticity                 2.52 /b      0.21        1.79               2.  Unemployment (1 of E.1)                7.9      4.9     4.1      3.4
3.  Average Domestic Savings Nate    0.12          0 19        0.27               3.  Employment (million)                   8.2      9.7    11.8    14.8
4. Marginal Domestic Savings
sate   *                        0.27         0.17        0.31                                (X shares)
5.  Imports/GDP                       0.32         0.42        0.53               3.1  Agriculture, Forestry, Fisheries   58.6    50.5    45.9    37.8
6.  Investment/GOP                    0.20         0.28        0.29               3.2  Mining, Manufacturing                10.4    14.3    19.1    23.7
7.  Resource Gap/GDP                  0.13         0.09        0.00               3.3  Other                                31.0    35.2    35.0    38.5
F. Public Finance (X of GDP)           1965      1970     1972      1973     1974     1975      1982
1.  Current Revenue                   13.2      17.5     18.2      13.9     15.3     17.4      25.5
1.1 Tax Revenue                        7.3      14.3     12.3      11.6     13.3     15.1      17.3
2.  Current Expenditure                9.0      11.5     11.9      9.6      10.5     11.1      18.6
2.1 Defense expenditures               3.7       4.0      4.5       3.7      4.3      4.8       6.5
3.  Government Saving.                 4.2       6.0      6.3      4.3       4.8      6.3       6.9
4.  Capital Expenditures               2.7       5.8      6.2       3.6      4.4      5.5       5.0
La  Calculated on a one-year lag.
/b  Calculated for 1965-73.                                                                                                         March 23, 1977



ANNEX I
eage 4
BALCE 0F PAYIr S. EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
mS illion at current prices)
Actual                 ZatI.ated                          Nro1aetud
1972     1973       1974      1975       1976        1978           1960          1982           196
Summry Balance of Payments
Exports (incl. NFS)                 2,075    3,962      5,125      5,679      9,121      13,827        20,879         30,417         66,942
Imports (incl. NFS)                 2,577    4,368      7,209     7,464      9,172       13,981        20,747         30,058        65,958
Resource balance (I-M)               -502      -406   -2,084   -1.785           -51        -155            132           359            984
Interest (net) /a                    -138      -166      -229      -399        -380        -583           -719          -807        -1,053
Direct inv-estment income /b            -2         1        -8        -5        -24         -22            -52           -90           -165
Other factor income (net)              101        72        74        76        -49          35            -12            80           -100
Current transfers (net)                170       190       224       226        230         225            250           250            250
Balance on current accounts          -371      -309   -2,023   -1,887          -274        -500           -400          -368            -84
Private direct investent /c             74       137       104        53         70         220           260            300            385
Official capital grants                 87        61        64        -          -           -             -               -             -
Public M5LT loans /d
Disbursements                       735       757    1,155      1,687       1,662       2,178         2,295          2,301          4,433
- Repayment.                           289       334       391       368        590         s88          1,055         1,387          2,102
Net disbursements                      446      423        764    1.319       1.072       1.290         1.240            914          2.331
Other M&LT loans
Disbursements                         49        71       174        85         98         150            150           150            163
- Repayments                            10        15        23        28         34         120            188           196            213
Net disbursements                       39        56       151        57         64          30            -38           -46            -50
Capital transactions n.e.i. Lf    -116          -28        955 /R   951 Lh    -82
Change in foreign e.change
reserves (- - increase)            -159      -340       -15      -493    -1,398
Actual.             gat.
Grant and Loan Commients                                                                                                        1972   1973   1974   1975   1976
Debt and debt services
Official grants and grant-like          87        61        64        -          -
Public debt not. & disbursed  2,691  3,199  3,982  5,227  6,299
Public M6LT loans                                                                            (end of period)
IBRD                                 73       150        85       382.5      372           Interest on public debt           120    150    201    290    325
IDA                                  26        20        -         -           -           Repayments no public debt         289    334    391    368    590
ADB                                  68        46        89        101.5      114          Total public debt service         409    484    592    658    915
Governments                         431       311       446        250        731          Other debt service (net)           23      33      54     60      71
Suppliers                           142       295       516        343  )                  Total debt service (net)          432    517    646    718    986
Private banks                        73       240       737        193  )  1,981
Bonds                                -         -          19       -   }                 Burden on export earnings 1X)
Public loans n.e.i. Ii               -         11        80         34)
Total public M&LT loans                813    1,073      1,972     1,304      3,198 /k       Public debt service              19.7    12.2  11.6   11.6   10.5
Total debt service              20.8    13.1  12.6   12.6   11.3
Actual debt outstanding on December 31. 1975              TDS + Direct Invest. Inc.    20.7    13.1  12.4   12.6   11.2
Eaternal Debt                               Disbursed only                 %Average terms on public debt
Wo-ld Bank                                    403.5                      7.7
IIIA                                           92.7                      1.8                 lot. as % prior year DO6D         5.3      5.6   6.3    7.6    6.2
Other  ultiLateral                            196.7                     3.8                 Amort.  as Z prior year
Gover.ments                                 1,838.0                     35.2                   D06D                           12.9    12.4  12.2    9.2   11.3
Supp liers                                   1, 59 5.4                  30.5
Private bonds                               1,004.2                     19.2              8IRD debt out. 6 disbursed          94.7   139.8 223.8  403.5  535.0
Honds                                           188.                     0.42                    as % public debt 06D          3.5      4.4   5.6    7.7    8.5
Public debts n.e.i. si                         77.8                      1.4                     as X public debt service   1.7         2.5   3.3    4.9    4.3
P.alpblic      6L debts a..i Li227.8                                   10.4
Total public M6LT debt /d                   5,227.1                    100.0               IDA debt out & disbursed           47.1    58.5  78.3   92.7   96.1
Other M6LT debts                              470.8                                         " as X public debt 06D             1.8      1.8   2.0    1.8    1.5
Toth-er ternal de  LT debt (disb.   ly)   5,697.9                                           " as X public debt service         0.1      0.1   0.1    0.1    0.1
Short-term debt (disb. only)                2,167.0 /1
la Interest payments no short-, medium- and long-tern debt less interest earnings.
/b Net dividends receipts and payments.
/c Excludes interoffice accounts of foreign banks.
/d  Includes all public guaranteed loans of  aturities one year and above, except IMP.
/e Private nonguaranteed loans, including IFC loans.
/f  Includes IMF credits, banking system borro.ing and short-term capital inflows.
ag Includes $580 million borrowd by the banking system.
/h Includes short-ter, capital inflows of $760 million.
/i Other private financial institutions.
Li  Includes short-term trade credits ($902 million), refinance ($829 million), other short-term debt ($436 million).
/k Preliminary official data (includes nonguaranteed private loans.
March  22, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12 pages
KOREA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of December 31, 1977)
Loan or                                                            Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                            (less cancellations)
Number  Year        Borrower             Purpose              Bank   TW    IDA  Undisbursed
Nine loans and eight credits fully disbursed                 406.5          86.8
795    1972   ADC                   Irrigation              33.0                     1.6
863    1972   Republic of Korea   Railways IV               40.0                     1.7
906 &  1973   Republic of Korea   Education II               23.0          20.0    26.5
394
917    1973   Republic of Korea   Ports I                    80.0                   37.2
942    1973   Republic of Korea   Seeds Production            7.0                    4.2
953    1974   Republic of Korea   Tourism                    25.0                   12.9
956    1974   Republic of Korea   Highways II                47.0                    1.0
994    1974   AFDC                  Agriculture              13.0                    9.6
1070    1975   Republic of Korea   Secondary Cities           15.0                    7.3
1095    1975   KDB                   Dev. Fin. Co.           60.0                     1.6
1096    1975   Republic of Korea   Third Education III   22.5                        20.2
1101    1975   Republic of Korea   Railways V                100.0                  22.8
1145    1975   KDFC                  Dev. Fin. Co.           55.0                     1.7
1175    1975   MIB                   Dev. Fin. Co.            30.0                    6.4
1193    1976   Republic of KCorea   Second Integrated        15.0                    11.2
Dairy Development
1203    1976   Republic of KCorea   Highways III              90.0                  66.4
1216 &  1976   Republic of Klorea   Rural Infra-             20.0                     3.7
1218-T                                  structure                   40.0              7.4
1319    1976   ADC                    Irrigation              29.0                   29.0
1328    1976   Republic of Korea   Agricultural Credit   20.0                        16.9
1338    1976   KDB                    Dev. Finance Co.        82.5                   71.7
1364    1977   ADC                    Irrigation             95.0                   94.1
1401    1977   Republic of Korea   Ports II                   67.0                   67.0
1461    1977   KDFC                  Dev. Finance Co.         70.0                   69.9
1466    1977   Republic of Korea   Heavy Machinery           80.0                    77.4
1474    1977   Republic of Korea   Vocational Training   23.0                        23.0
Total                                             1,548.5  40.0  106.8   692.4
of which has been repaid                           50.5           0.9
Total now outstanding                             1,498.0  40.0  105.9
Amount sold                    7.0
of which has been repaid   1.0                      6.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA                    1,492.0  40.0  105.9
(prior to exchange adjustment)
Total undisbursed                                   681.5   7.4    3.5   692.4
Note:  A loan of $36 million to ADC and a loan of $55 million to MIB were
approved and signed subsequent to the date of this statement. These
loans are not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12 pages
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of December 31, 1977)
Fiscal                                                        Amount ($ million)
Year   Obligor                Type of Business                Loan  Equity  Total
1968   KDFC                   Development Financing             -      0.7    0.7
1969   Honan Silk Co.         Textiles                         1.4    0.3    1.7
1970   Atlas Paper            Pulp and paper                   4.5    0.5    5.0/a
1971   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.          Capital Market Development        -     0.7    0.7
1974   KDFC                   Development Financing             -      0.4    0.4
1974   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.          Capital Market Development        -     0.3    0.3
1975   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                   Electronic Products             16.0    1.3   17.3
1975   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.          Capital Market Development    5.0    0.6    5.6
1975   Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.          Synthetic Fibers                 6.9    2.1    9.0
1975   Hae Un Dae Develop-
ment Company, Ltd.   Tourism                            2.7    0.7    3.4
1976   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.          Capital Market Development        -     0.4    0.4
1976   Chungju Paper
Mfg. Co.               Paper                            5.0    0.5    5.5
1976   Korea Zinc Co., Ltd. Zinc                              15.0    4.0   19.0
1976   KDFC                   Development Financing           17.8      -    17.8
1976   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                   Electronic Products            10.0    0.4   10.4
1977   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                   Electronic Products                     0.2    0.2
1977   KDFC                   Development Financing                    0.3    0.3
1977   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.          Capital Market                   -      0.5    0.5
1977   Korea Development
Leasing Corp.          Capital Market                  15.0    0.4   15.4
Total gross commitment                                99.3   14.3  113.6
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                42.2    0.9   43.1
Total commitments now held by IFC                     57.1   13.4   70.5
Totar undisbursed                                     15.3    0.5   15.8
/a Cancelled at the request of the Company.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12 pages
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 795      Yong San Gang Irrigation Project; $33.0 Million Loan
Credit No. 283   and $15.0 Million Credit of February 2, 1972; Effective
Date: September 15, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project, located in one of the most drought-prone areas of
Korea, provides four storage dams, canal systems and land development to
irrigate 33,700 ha. The project was delayed initially by modifications
in the design of the dams and later when rapid inflation outpaced the
allocation of local funds. The dams have now been completed and about
19,000 ha was irrigated in 1977. Good progress is being made on other
works which are expected to be completed in mid-1978, about 18 months
behind schedule. Consequently, the Closing Date has been extended from
September 30, 1977 to December 31, 1978. The project cost is estimated
at about $151 million compared to $88.6 million at appraisal, but because
of increases in rice and barley prices, the economic rate of return is
expected to be close to the appraisal estimate of 13%.
Loan No. 942      Seeds Project; $7.0 Million Loan of November 16, 1973;
Effective Date: April 24, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1978
The project consists of: (a) the installation of five field crop
seed processing and storage facilities; (b) farm machinery for seed pro-
duction; (c) procurement of seasonal seed inventories through the operation
of a revolving fund; (d) seed testing laboratories and equipment; (e) crop
research (financed in part by USAID); (f) feasibility studies for irriga-
tion and area development; and (g) technical assistance. The necessary
legislative and adminiLstrative action for revising the Seed Law and estab-
lishing an "Office for Seed Production and Distribution" has been taken.
Project implementation, although one year behind the appraisal schedule,
is proceeding satisfactorily. Project costs (OSPD/NAPIO components) have
increased from the appraisal estimates of about $14.0 million to about
$35.0 million. Disbursement has been somewhat slower than expected at
appraisal but should substantially improve in FY78; it is envisaged that
civil works, construction and purchase of equipment will be completed in
1978.
Loan No. 994      Integrated Agricultural Products Processing Project;
$13.0 Million Loan of June 7, 1974; Effective Date:
March 19, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This project provides long-term funds to the Agriculture and
Fisheries Development Corporation (AFDC) for onlending to subborrowers in the
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12 pages
private -   or for the purpose of integrating on-farm productivity of fruits
and vegetables with modern, hygienic processing facilities, using land that
is presently idle or underutilized. The vegetables and fruits involved
are r'sinl- asparagus, shiitake (oak mushroom), spinach, mushroom, strawberry
and peach. Implementation of the project as a whole has been slow. This is
mainly because loan demand for processing facilities, which were specifically
included in the project and account for nearly 70% of total project cost, has
been negligible. Changes in market conditions which have been primarily
responsible for this lack of demand are expected to persist during the
project period. In view of this, in September 1977 the Bank approved AFDC's
proposal to revise the project to include financing of processing facilities
for the freezing and cold storage of fish, meat, fruits and vegetables, fruit
juice extraction and concentration, and vegetable drying, for which there is
strong demand. As a result of the inclusion of these facilities, the loan
amounts approved have increased significantly. If this increased momentum in
lending is maintained as is expected by AFDC, the implementation of the
project, now about 18 months behind schedule, would not be further delayed.
Disbursements, as of December 31, 1977, were over 25% of the total loan.
Loan No. 1193    Second Integrated Dairy Development Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1976; Effective Date:
November 11, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of:  (a) the establishment of about 450 new
dairy farms; (b) the continuation of the development begun as part of the
First Integrated Dairy Beef Project on about 400 dairy farms; (c) the expan-
sion of existing processing plants, the diversification of their production,
the establishment of 2 milk collection centers and 50 small milk cooling
units and the construction of a milk products plant at Yeongnam; and (d) the
expansion of technical services for both farm development and milk processing.
Effectiveness of the project was delayed for nearly a year, but farm develop-
ment is progressing rapidly and the project may be completed within the
period originally foreseen. Although technical assistance for new farmers
has been somewhat weak, KDBC is in the process of strengthening its farm
advisory staff. Construction of KDBC's new processing plant and expansion of
one of the existing plants are under way, and the other existing plant will
be expanded this year. KDBC's financial situation improved over the course
of 1976 and the company showed a profit for the first time in 1977. Prospects
are for continued, gradual improvement. As of December 31, 1977, disburse-
ments were over 25%.
Loan No. 1216    Rural Infrastructure Project; $60.0 Million Loan of which
Loan No. 1218T   $40.0 Million Third Window of March 19, 1976; Effective Date:
June 4, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Project implementation is proceeding very well. The Fuelwood,
Roads and Bridges, Water Supply and Rural Electrification components were
completed by the end of 1977. Minor Irrigation has experienced some delays,
mainly the result of budgetary shortages and a cost overrun of 18%, but
should be substantially completed by early 1979. Upland reclamation is



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12 pages
proceeding in accordance with the revised time schedule and will be
completed in 1978. Project monitoring and reporting continue to be satis-
factory and a good start has been made on the Hydrologic Services Study and a
major project evaluation study. The estimated cost of the project is likely
to be 16% above the appraisal estimate, mostly as a result of cost overruns
for Minor Irrigation and Rural Electrification and an increase in the size of
the Water Supply component. Disbursements are practically in line with
appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1319    Miho Watershed Area Development Project; $29.0 Million
Loan of July 17, 1976; Effective Date: October 21, 1976;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1982
The aim of the project is to increase agricultural production and
farm incomes on about 12,665 ha, and to benefit directly some 10,400 farm
families. The project consists of: (a) the construction of dams and canals
to irrigate 8,315 ha; (b) the conversion of 2,045 ha of cultivated upland to
irrigated paddy fields; (c) land consolidation on 4,600 ha of irrigated and
nonirrigated land; (d) the development of 495 ha for irrigation of upland
crops and 550 ha for orchards; (e) upland reclamation and bench-terracing of
1,200 ha of presently uncultivated land; (f) the improvement of about 80 km
of river channels; and (g) the construction of about 150 km of village access
roads. For implementation, the project has been divided into five geographic
units. A contract for construction of all works in the first unit was
awarded in August 1977.
Loan No. 1328    Second Agricultural Credit Project; $20.0 Million Loan
of September 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is a continuation and expansion of the agricultural
program financed under tlhe First Agricultural Credit Project. It provides
funds to the National Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF) for
medium and long-term loans, through selected Gun cooperatives of NACF, to
farmers for investments in apple orchard development, silkworm rearing
houses, sprinkler irrigation for orchards, greenhouses for vegetable produc-
tion, and on-farm storage. The project became effective on March 10, 1977
and lending to subborrowers commenced in the following month. Project
implementation has generally been progressing satisfactorily.
*          Loan No. 1364    Yong San Gang Irrigation Project Stage II; $95.0 Million
Loan of January 25, 1977; Effective Date: April 22, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project will provide irrigation and land development on
20,700 ha in the lower reaches of the Yong San River. Project works include
an estuary dam, sea dike, pumping plants, irrigation canals, reclamation of
5,200 ha of tidal lands, conversion of 3,250 ha of uplands for irrigation of
paddy, land consolidation of 3,200 ha, and irrigation of 1,050 ha of uplands.
Construction of the access roads and a portion of the estuary dam was recently



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12 pages
completed. The main contract for estuary dam construction was awarded in
December 1977, in line with the appraisal schedule.
Loan No. 1503    Ogseo Area Development Project /1 - Stage I;
$36.0 Million Loan of January 4. 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The project will benefit some 23,000 farm families by providing
new irrigation on 7,100 ha, improved irigation and drainage on 3,700 ha and a
more assured water supply on an additional 1,500 ha. Project work consists
of nine pumping stations, 190 km of main and secondary canals and land
development including 5,800 ha of land consolidation, 2,500 ha of improved
drainage (of which 1,500 ha would also be consolidated), 2,200 ha of tertiary
irrigation and conversion of 1,800 ha of upland and forest to paddy land.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 1095    Korea Development Bank Project; $60.0 Million Loan
of March 31, 1975; Effective Date: June 17, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project provides funds to KDB to make subloans to finance direct
imports for subprojects principally in the manufacturing and transportation
sectors. Almost the full amount has already been committed to finance 33 sub-
projects, ahead of the time estimated at appraisal. Disbursements now amount
to over 97% of the loan amount, also ahead of the original estimate. KDB's
performance in using the loan has been highly satisfactory.
Loan No. 1145    Fifth Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
$55.0 Million Loan of July 23, 1975; Effective Date:
September 5, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The loan covers about half the KDFC's foreign exchange require-
ments through the end of 1977.  The proceeds are used to finance direct
imports of machinery and equipment, and the foreign exchange component
of domestically-produced capital goods and of civil works. About 97% of the
loan proceeds have already been disbursed. KDFC's performance in using
the loan has been highly satisfactory.
Loan No. 1175    Medium Industry Bank (MIB); $30.0 Million Loan of
November 26, 1975; Effective Date: January 28, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides funds to MIB to make subloans to small
and medium-sized manufacturing enterprises over two years. The project
is progressing satisfactorily. Disbursements are around 79% of the total
loan.
/1 Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1338    Second Korea Development Bank Project; $82.5 Million
Loan, oE which $7.5 Million for the Korea Industrial
Leasing Company, of November 16, 1976; Effective Date:
March 23, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project provides $75.0 million to be used by KDB to make
subloans and investments to finance direct imports for industrial subprojects
during the period 1977-78; the remainder of the loan, $7.5 million, would
be relent by KDB to its wholly-owned subsidiary KILC, which would use these
funds to acquire machinery, equipment, facilities and other property to
be leased to investment enterprises during the same period. Commitment of
funds has begun and is progressing as expected; disbursement as of
December 30, 1977, is over 13% of the total loan amount.
Loan No. 1461    Sixth Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
$70.0 Million Loan of June 14, 1977; Effective Date:
September 15, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The loan will help cover the foreign exchange requirements of
industrial subprojects to be financed by KDFC.
Loan No. 1466    Heavy Machinery Project; $80.0 Million Loan of
June 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 1, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is designed to manufacture most of the equipment
required for power generation, steel mills, and chemical and petrochemical
plants. It consists of: (a) foundry and forge shops; (b) fabrication shops;
(c) machine shops; (d) assembly and test shops; (e) support facilities;
(f) other auxiliary facilities; and (g) technical assistance. Project
implementation is on scbLedule: civil works and site preparation is about 90%
complete and buildings now being erected include fabrication shops and support
facilities. Disbursement is also well advanced and orders have been placed
for about 50% of machinery and equipment items.
Loan No. 1507    Second Medium Industry Bank Project /1; $55.0 Million
Loan of January 4, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project provides $55.0 million, to be used by MIB, to help
cover the foreign exchange requirements of industrial subprojects over four
years. A substantial portion of the loan - $20.0 million - would be earmarked
to assist small-scale, labor-intensive subprojects creating employment at a
gross capital cost per job not greater than $6,000 or enterprises whose fixed
assets are not greater than $250,000.
11   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12 pages
Education Sector
Loan No. 906      Second Education Project; $23.0 Million Loan and
Credit No. 394   $20.0 Million Credit of June 13, 1973; Effective Date:
September 10, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project provides equipment for, and extensions to, 85 educa-
tional institutions at secondary, post secondary and university levels. It
also includes preinvestment studies on health and management education.
The project execution is now about two years behind schedule. The principal
causes of delay have been slow equipment procurement owing to staff shortages
in the Office of Supply (OSROK) at the initial stage and an internal Korean
review of procurement procedures. Implementation is now proceeding satisfac-
torily. Covenant requirements under the Development Credit Agreements are
largely met. The project is now expected to be completed by about mid-1979,
the Closing Date has been extended from December 31, 1977 to December 31,
1978.
Loan No. 1096    Third Education Project; $22.5 Million Loan of March 31,
1975; Effective Date: June 6, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
-1980
The project includes assistance for extensions and equipping of
nine institutions (technical, agricultural and fisheries) under the Ministry
of Education (MOE) and seven vocational training institutes (VTIs) under the
Administrator of Labor Affairs (ALA). Project implementation is about nine
months behind schedule mainly due to earlier difficulties with counterpart
funds. These shortages resulted in part from the delay of the Second Education
Project and ensuing bunching of financial requirements. However, substantial
progress has been made and disbursements are on schedule. Of the nine
institutions under MOE, six are under construction and one institution has
been completed. About 80% of the equipment has been tendered. No cost
overrun is anticipated at this time. Both MOE and ALA project units are
functioning satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1474    Vocational Training Project; $23.0 Million Loan of
July 5, 1977; Effective Date: October 25, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The loan provides funds to help finance: (a) construction of and
equipment for 8 Vocational Training Institutes (VTIs), with 450 places each
with boarding facilities; (b) equipment for the Central Vocational Training
Institute (CVTI); and (c) expert services for the Vocational Training Bureau
(VTB), and specialist services to the CVTI and VTIs.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12 pages
Tourism Sector
Loan No. 953      Kyongju Tourism Project; $25.0 Million Loan of
January 4, 1974; Effective Date: May 6, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project forms part of the first phase of the planned develop-
ment of the Bomun Lake resort near Kyongju. It provides for a multipurpose
dam; an irrigation system for about 1,200 ha; improvement and expansion of
the water supply and sewerage and solid waste disposal systems for the city
of Kyongju and the resort. area; installation of electrical supply and tele-
communication facilities for the resort area; the construction and/or
realignment of about 57 km of roads, infrastructure, including storm water
drainage, environmental sanitation, community facilities, and a golf course;
a school for training hotel personnel; and a feasibility study for the
development of tourism oni Cheju Island. Construction of the dam, work on the
irrigation system, civil works for the Kyongju City water supply and sewerage
and the electricity component have been completed. Work on the water supply
and sewerage system in the Bomun area which was delayed because of ground-
water investigations was started in September 1977 and work on the golf
course has also begun. Road work and construction of common buildings in the
project area were delayed due to the shortage of local funds, but are now
progressing satisfactorily. Construction of the first hotel at Bomun Lake
has started and negotiations for a second are well advanced. About 50% of
the loan has been disbursed and project completion is now scheduled for
December 1978.
Regional Development
Loan No. 1070    Secondary Cities Regional Project; $15.0 Million
Loan of January 15, 1975; Effective Date: August 18,
1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1979
Implementation of the Secondary Cities Regional Project is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily. Three housing sites, two access roads and a city
market have been completed. Progress on the remaining two subprojects is
nearly on schedule. Tenders for the ninth subproject are being evaluated.
Allocation of housing plots has been completed at Yeosu and Mogpo sites
where, as in the case of the Gwangju site, a strong demand for such plots
*           was demonstrated.  Efforts to cross-subsidize smaller plots for lower-income
families through the sale of larger plots have been most successful. After
the initial delays, mainly in fulfilling conditions of effectiveness and
establishing the Gwangju Regional Development unit, the project has moved
extremely well. Total project costs are now estimated at $22.1 million
compared to the appraisal estimate of $25.0 million ($20.8 million at
current exchange rate). A surplus of nearly $3.0 million is anticipated in
the loan amount, mainly due to devaluation of the won in December 1974. As
of December 31, 1977, disbursement was over 51% of the loan amount.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12 pages
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 863      Fourth Railway Project; $40.0 Million Loan of
November 22, 1972; Effective Date: February 26, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1979
The main elements of the project are: electrification of lines
in the Seoul suburban area; purchase of electric railcars and locomotives;
the completion of electrification of 350 km of line running from Seoul to
the northeastern part of Korea; track and bridge renewal; provision of yard
facilities; acquisition of passenger and freight cars; and improvement of
facilities for the maintenance and repair of motive power and rolling stock.
No major problems have been encountered; most of the loan proceeds have been
committed, and over 98% already disbursed. The Closing Date has been extended
by 15 months to March 31, 1979 to allow time for the completion of procurement.
Loan No. 917      Ports Project; $80.0 Million Loan of June 27, 1973;
Effective Date: September 18, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
Nine civil works contracts and four equipment supply contracts
are already let and work is proceeding satisfactorily. A contract has also
been let for the grain handling facility and civil works for the grain silo
and head house foundations have started. All project contracts have now been
awarded. Overall the project is about 70% completed. Total cost is currently
estimated to be $145 million with a foreign exchange component of $100 mil-
lion. The loan provides $80 million foreign exchange and the overrun is being
financed by the Saudi Fund for Development (SFD). The Korea Maritime and Port
Authority (KMPA) has now appointed consultants to assist in adopting improved
operational and financial procedures. The financial situation at the project
ports is satisfactory and will be further improved if the proposed tariff
increases in 1978 are effected.
Loan No. 956      Second Highway Project; $47.0 Million Loan of January 25,
1974; Effective Date: April 4, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
The works, consisting of construction, chiefly on new alignments,
of about 130 km of highways and paving, chiefly on existing alignments, of
a further 634 km of national highways were completed on schedule and the
highways opened to traffic in October 1975. The cost, in US dollar equi-
valent, exceeded the estimate by about 5%. Feasibility studies for future
projects of about 1,000 km of roads were started in August 1975, followed by
detailed engineering. Delay occurred in setting up a new nationwide highway
maintenance organization but the organization has now been established in
accordance with decrees published in June 1975. All the maintenance offices
have been constructed and staffed and equipment procured under the loan. The
Government has been requested to increase the budgetary allocation to enable
an adequate program of periodic maintenance to be carried out. By the end of



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12 pages
December 1977, disbursements were above 98%, but the Closing Date has been
extended by a year to use the balance in the loan account for procurement of
spare parts needed for the maintenance equipment.
Loan No. 1101    Fiftbh Railway Project; $100.0 Million Loan of April 10,
1975; Effective Date: July 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
The project will help the Korean National Railroad (KNR) continue
as a major carrier of freight and passengers. by providing for: the upgrading,
modernization and expansion of track, rolling stock, motive power, and
other equipment; the iimprovement of the efficiency of operation; and the
strengthening of its financial position. The main components of the project
are: an increase in station and line capacity and improvements in signaling;
acquisition of rolling stock, diesel and electric locomotives, spare parts
and repair facilities; track renewal and improvement; bridge strengthening;
completion of electriiEication of 71 km of industrial lines; and other
miscellaneous items. Contracts, financed by the loan, have been signed for
procurement of passenger and freight cars, wheel sets, spares for locomotives,
rail, bridge girders and track maintenance machinery, amounting to about
$95 million equivalent. KNR achieved an operation ratio of 99% in 1977,
better than the expected 104%. Over 77% of the loan proceeds have already
been disbursed.
Loan No. 1203    Third Highway Project; $90.0 Million Loan of
February 3, 1976; Effective Date: May 17, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The loan provides funds to help finance: (a) the construction,
chiefly on new alignments, including paving, of about 195 km of four national
highways, including supervision of the work by consultants; (b) paving and
improvement chiefly on present alignments, of nine national highways totaling
about 600 km, including supervision of the work by consultants; and (c) feasi-
bility studies by consultants of about 1,200 km of national and provincial
roads, to be followed by detailed engineering. Contracts for construction
and paving have been awarded and work is progressing substantially on
schedule. The Government has appointed consultants for feasibility studies.
Disbursements to the end of December 1977 were over 26% of the total loan.
The Saudi Fund for Development is providing a loan of $35 million to assist
in financing the project.
Loan No. 1401    Second Ports Project; $67.0 Million Loan of
Apr:Ll 12, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of: (a) a 700 m extension of container berths
being financed under the First Ports Project and a 335,000 sq m expansion of
the container stacking area provided under that project; dredging to provide
an alongside depth of 12.5 m; construction of an access road, inside the port
limits, a guard house, and an 8,000 sq m container freight station, and the



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12 pages
necessary ancillary facilities; rehabilitation of piers 3 and 4, the central
wharf, and lighter wharf No. 5; (b) procurement of container cranes, mobile
container handling equipment, and two tugboats; (c) Engineering Consultant
Services - to carry out detailed design and supervision of construction and
procurement; and (d) Technical Assistance and Training - to assist in cargo
handling (including the handling of containers), maintenance, port planning,
and accounting. Consultants have still not been appointed for final
engineering, the Bank has raised the matter with the Government.



ANNEX III
Page 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT II
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:   Nine months
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:   Ministries of Agriculture, Home
Affairs, Health and Social
Affairs, and Communications,
coordinated by the Economic
Planning Board
(c) Date of first presentation to Bank: January 1977
Date of first Bank mission to
consider project                  : April 1977
(d) Date of departure of appraisal
mission                           : August 12, 1977
(e) Date of completion of negotiations: February 2, 1978
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness       : June 14, 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) A dam safety program would be instituted (para. 43).
(b) The Borrower shall cause NACF to make loans to the FLIAs respon-
sible for the execution and operation of the irrigation component
of the project on the terms and conditions set out in Section 3.08
of the draft Loan Agreement (para. 47).
(c) Technical services to the MAF for project planning and to the FLIAs
for subproject design and construction supervision would be pro-
vided by the ADC (para. 51).



ANNEX III
Page 2
(d) ORD and the responsible FLIAs shall appoint suitably trained
extension agents in the districts and counties in which subprojects
under the irrigation component are to be carried out (para. 51).
(e) Arrangements for operation and maintenance of the subprojects
(para. 56).
(f) Cost recovery arrangements (para. 57).
(g) The Project Monitoring Unit set up under the Stage I Project would
continue to monitor progress on the proposed project, compile quar-
terly reports and act as a channel of communication with the Bank
(para. 59).
(h) Project evaluation studies begun under the Stage I Project would
be continued under the proposed project and broadened in scope
(para. 60).



IBRD 12351 R
7-~~~~~&O                                                                                Eost Sea
Yelfow    KOE                                           e                                                 a 
'.;''~~~~~~~~~~~~~e "~,, 'A
F X ro i- Nb ('\f P kI \<; (NaeD,~par"u<,/tng
Paci~~~eeficuieongbf ,    \ rX X
t        F    ~.r;Skocean                                                               F
125' ~ ~    ~     _,    >;             odn          na      )
on; '' arsl
.  ,.   ',   '                    'ce    o
._  ss .                           ~~~~~~~~~~, N
'.                                 | Rad ffSfa                9~~~~~~~~~~as
t:,.   '                         +    f\7rpfXh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
. s I ,,;, G.angtu
_ L          Riaers~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
''  ( t   )                     . _ -. ertloffi~~~~~~~~~~unerost"efios
,   f7X7               0   .  2,  E ~~~~~~~~~~~a7       E ,pmO, tX
=   5?5'    -                                     1?"                   ,e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pot



