RETURN TO
Document of                      REPORTS .D- SXK
The World Bank                                WITHIN
ONE WEDEK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                        O                      .
FILE COPY
Report No. 184 7-KO
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT II
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
February 10, 1978
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00            =   Won (W) 485
W 1,000            =   US$2.06
US$1 million       =   W 0.485 billion
W 1 million        =   US$2,062
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM)
1 meter (m)                =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)           =   0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)             =   2.47 acres
1 million cubic meters
(M cu m)               -   810 acre-feet
1 cubic meter per second
(cu m/s)               =   35.3 cu ft/s (cusec)
1 ton                      =   1,000 kilogram (kg)
=   2,205 pounds
NOTATION
*- Less than half the smallest unit shown
- Nil or negligible
... Not available separately but included in total
Not available
. Not applicable
e Mission estimate



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
ADC          -     Agricultural Development Corporation
cif          -     Cost, insurance and freight
EPB          -     Economic Planning Board
FAO          -     Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
fob          -     Free on board
FLIA         -     Farmland Improvement Association
GNP          -     Gross National Product
GVP          -     Gross Value of Product
HYV          -     High-Yielding Variety
ICB          -     International Competitive Bidding
LCB          -     Local Competitive Bidding
LSH          -     Local Shopping
MAF          -     Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
McM          -     Ministry of Communications
MHA          -     Ministry of Home Affairs
MHSA         -     Ministry of Health and Social Affairs
NACF         -     National Agricultural Cooperative Federation
NAERI        -     National Agricultural Economics Research Institute
O&M          -     Operation and Maintenance
OECF         -     Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
ORD          -     Office of Rural Development
OSROK        -     Office of Supply of the Republic of Korea
PMU          -     Project Monitoring Unit
PVC          -     Polyvinylchloride
UNDP         -     United Nations Development Program
USAID        -     United States Agency for International Development
VHF          -     Very High Frequency
WHO          -     World Health Organization
GLOSSARY
Do           -     Province
Gun          -     County
Myon         -     Subdistrict
Ri or Dong   -     Village
Hung Nong
Gae        -     "Farmers' Action Group" - Water Users' Association
Saemaeul
Undong     -     New Community Movement
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
This documenn ha a rtricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their olicial dutie. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






KOREA
APPRAISAL OF THE RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT II
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1.  INTRODUCTION ....  .        .  .  .  .  .    . .I....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  I
2.  BACKGROUND ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . . . . . .  .   .  I
The Agricultural and Rural Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . .              1
Government Policy and Bank Lending Strategy  . . . . . . . .              4
Rural Conditions in Korea  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              5
The First Stage Project              . . . . ..8
Project Formulation.. .    8
3. THE SAEMAEULMIIOVEMENT . . .                                                 10
Origins and Goals    .. ..                           ....                10
Organization of Saemaeul Activities  . . . . . . . . . . . .             11
Subproject Selection         .....                        ...            12
Scope and Achievements of the Saemaeul Movement  . . . . . .             13
4.  PROJECT COMPONENTS, COSTS AND FINANCING  . . . . . . . . . . .              14
Irrigation Component           ...                    ...                14
River Training Component.          .                   .  .  .  .        17
Water Supply Component . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             19
Rural Telephones Component   .       ..                      .  .        20
Cost Estimates            ...                       ...22
Financing    ...                                  ...23
Procurement                  ...... 25
Disbursements            ...                       ...26
Accounts and Audits           ...                     ...                26
Project Initiation Plan           ...                  . . .27
5. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .27
Project Execution  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             27
Training .28
Operation and Maintenance .29
Cost Recovery .29
Project Monitoring and Supervision . . . . . . . . . . . . .            30
Project Evaluation .31
Agricultural Supporting Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             32
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission comprising
Messrs. P. W. Whitford, Y. Matoba (Bank), N. V. Shenoi, C. D. Spangler and
K. A. Sunil (Consultants)



-2-
Page No.
6. PRODUCTION, FARM INCOMES AND COST RECOVERY (IRRIGATION
COMPONENT)   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  32
ProductiorL  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  32
Farm  Incomes   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  34
Cost Recovery (Irrigation Component) . . . . . . . . . . . .    35
7. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISK . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    37
Assumptions  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .   .....  .  .   .           37
Irrigation Component ... .  .  .  .  .   .....      .          38
River Training Component . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    38
Water Supply Component ... .  .  .  .   ..... .  .  .  .  .  .   .    40
Rural Telephones Component. .........                           40
Average Rate of Return ... .  .  .  .   ......  .  .  .  .  .   .    41
8. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION.       . . . . . . . . .    41
ANNEXES
1. The Saemaeul Movement
2. Cost Estimates, List of Materials, Schedule of
Expetnditures and Disbursements
3. River Training Component: Financing Plan
4. Project Initiation Plan and Key Indicators
5. Agricultural Prices and Farm Income Statements
6. Additional Documents and Data Available in the Project
FilEt
LIST OF TEXT TABLES                                               Page No.
2.l  Farm Size Distribution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     6
4.1  Summarized Cost Estimates  . . . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    23
4.2  Financing Plan   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    24
6.1  Irrigation Component:  Present and Future Cropping Patterns
and Yields ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    33
6.2  Irrigation Component:  Farm Incomes  . . . . . . . . . . . .    34
6.3  Irrigation Component:  Rent and Cost Recovery  . . . . . . .    36
MAP'
IBRD 12351R  Korea



KOREA
APPRAISAL OF THE RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT II
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Republic of Korea has requested Bank assis-
tance in financing a second multi-sectoral nationwide Rural Infrastructure
Project. Bank assistance would allow the pace of development in some rural
sectors to be accelerated and, in others, to be maintained in the face of
increasing budgetary constraints. The Project has been formulated within
the broad program of the Saemaeul Undong (New Community Movement), a national
approach to rural development, which affects virtually all public sector
investments in the rural areas and which is based largely on decentralized
decision-making and self-help from the villagers. Under the project, methods
of subproject selection, design and construction developed under the first
project would be further improved, and the system of monitoring and evaluation
continued. The present project would meet high-priority needs in irrigation,
river training, water supplies and rural telephones. Previous related Bank
Group investments in Korea include five large-scale irrigation projects, two
livestock projects, projects for seeds, agricultural products processing and
agricultural credit, and three highway projects.
1.02      The project was identified early in 1977 and prepared by the Govern-
ment, the work of the various Ministries being coordinated and compiled by
the Economic Planning Board. The present report is based on the findings of
a preappraisal mission, comprising Messrs. P.W. Whitford, Y. Matoba,
L.A. Shanan, M.E. Ruddy (Bank), and C.D. Spangler (consultant), which visited
Korea in April 1977 and an appraisal mission, comprising Messrs. P.W. Whitford,
Y. Matoba (Bank), N.V. Shenoi, C.D. Spangler and K.A. Sunil (consultants),
which visited Korea in August/September 1977. Ms. N.K. Boetker also contri-
buted to the report.
2. BACKGROUND
The Agricultural and Rural Sector
2.01      Issues, objectives and strategy in the agricultural sector are
described in the Bank's Economic Report (Reference No. A-1) and are
summarized here. Some additional issues related to nonagricultural rural
development are also discussed.
2.02      Despite Korea's rapid industrialization during the last 15 years,
some 45% of its labor force is still engaged primarily in agriculture, which
accounts for 22% of GNP. Population pressure on the 2.3 million ha of
available cropland is intense and yields are relatively high. Official
statistics show a striking improvement in the incomes of rural households
compared to urban wage and salary earner households in recent years.
However, rural households are slightly larger and have more workers as com-
pared to average urban households; thus, the official statistics show a
disparity in incomes per worker and per capita between the rural and urban



-2-
sectors. Moreover, the official statistics on which these comparisons are
based suffer from some serious limitations, and other studies suggest that
the rural-urban income disparities are still significant, though not large in
comiparison with other countries. Since the late 1960s, as a result of price
incentives, the wider use of higher yielding varieties and cash inputs, and
favcrable weather, rice production has increased dramatically; Korea achieved
self-sufficiency in its staple food crop in 1977.
2.03      In its Fourth Plan (1977-81) the Government aims to complement
its basic strategy of a rapid expansion of industrial output and
exports with further improvements in the rural sector. The following
objectives have been set out:
(a) Rural Incomes. The Fourth Plan aims to improve the balance
between incomes in rural and urban areas and thus to retard
rural-urban migration. This is to be achieved through increases
in off-farm, as well as agricultural, incomes.
(b) Rural Living Standards. As part of its overall social develop-
ment strategy, the Government aims to increase the availability of
social services (such as health, education, housing and utilities)
in rural areas, which should also help to slow down migration to
urban areas.
(c) Rural Employment. Even with the projected rapid growth in Korea's
industrial output, industrial and service employment will do
little more than absorb the expected increase in the 'Labor force.
Employment in agriculture must therefore be sustained at about its
present level, at least for the next five to ten years. Rural
employment will also be a useful cushion against cyclical swings in
manufacturing. While underemployment is common in rural Korea,
this is not so at the peak of the transplanting and harvesting
seasons. Some selective mechanization is, therefore, appropriate.
(d) Self-sufficiency. The Government is firmly committed to a policy
of self-sufficiency in the major foodgrains. While suf'ficiency in
rice and barley appears sustainable, self-sufficiency in wheat and
animal feed grains is only a very distant possibility. The balance
of payments impact of imported grains (mainly wheat), while
significant in the past, is not likely to be a burden in the
future, given the expected rapid growth in Korea's international
trade.
2.04      The strategies proposed for attaining these objectives are as
follows:
(a) Rural Income Strategy. Up to now, price policy has been an
important element of this strategy. Through its control of
stockpiles of grain and fertilizer the Government has been able
to adjust prices so as to increase rural incomes, while not
raising consumer prices unduly. However, in recent years, the
Government has recognized the need to reduce the drain on the



-3-
budget from these subsidies. The fertilizer subsidy was abolished
in December 1975 and the Government is bringing domestic prices
for food grains more into line with international levels. Apart
from adjustments to overcome short-term fluctuations in world
markets, grain prices will probably continue to move towards free
market values in the future. Since major improvements in the
farmers' terms of trade, therefore, seem unlikely, future increases
in rural incomes will have to come largely from improvements in the
productivity of land and labor, through land and water development,
improvements in the already good extension, research, credit and
marketing services, and selective mechanization. Industries in rural
areas will also provide additional off-farm income.
(b) Rural Living Standards Strategy. As a result of the income-
generating activities just described, the demand for increased
consumption and improved living standards will rise. Availability
of consumer goods is not likely to be a problem. The Government's
role will be to provide those public services which it is uniquely
fitted to provide - education, health services, transport facilities,
water supply, rural electrification, telephones and housing finance.
Because of the increasing demands on budgetary resources, the
Government is successfully mobilizing impressive amounts of self-help
from the beneficiaries of these programs under the New Community
(Saemaeul) Movement.
(c) Rural Employment Strategy. Employment in rural Korea can be sus-
tained and underemployment reduced through a balanced program of
land and water development, Saemaeul rural development activities,
selective mechanization, and rural industrialization. The Govern-
ment is also encouraging workers employed in towns and cities to
continue to live in rural areas through improvements to transport
and communication facilities. Agricultural job creation is not in
itself a major policy objective, as demographic projections show
that agricultural underemployment will be of declining importance
after the mid-1980s.
(d) Self-sufficiency Strategy. The strategy outlined for raising
rural incomes will also tend to increase self-sufficiency in
foodstuffs, particularly grains, fruits, and vegetables (and
possibly lead to significant exports of processed and specialty
foods). As incomes rise, demand for a more nutritious and varied
diet is bound to increase. Additional measures will be needed to
influence the mix of production, beginning with research (for
example, on wheat varieties which could be double-cropped with
rice) and including specially focused efforts in credit, extension,
marketing and processing.
2.05      There is a well-developed consensus in Korea on the importance of
the above strategies and a clear chain of command from the Economic Planning
Board to the Ministries and, thence, to the Government corporations, cooperative
federations and provincial and county administrations, which implement the
projects needed to achieve them. Detailed quantitative targets have been



4-
set under the Fourth Plan and prospects for their achievement are good. Sector
knowledge is generally good, though further work is needed in areas such as
credit and marketLng, livestock development, rural industrialization and the
appropriate development strategy for existing upland crop areas.
Government Policy and Bank Lending Strategy
2.06      There is a close harmony of views between the Bank and the Government
on the overall obJectives and strategies proposed for the rural sector under
the Fourth Plan. While views differ somewhat on the relative emphasis to be
given to various types of investment and on the technical design of some
projects, such diEferences are not profound and are likely to be resolved
with further dialogue and analysis.
2.07      The Ban]k has been and should continue to be involved in most aspects
of Korea's rural development. The Bank so far has not been significantly
involved in rural industrialization but studies now under way may suggest
lending opportunities in this subsector. The other rural development activi-
ties may be classified as follows:
(a) land and water development;
(b) rural infrastructure; and
(c) agricultural supporting services.
2.08      Land and Water Development may be divided into two categories
(though individual projects may contain elements of both ): investments to
increase the cultivable area and investments to increase the productivity
of existing cropland. Under the first category, tideland reclamation and
upland reclamation are the two major programs. While both types of develop-
ment yield high benefits in terms of incremental production, the unit costs
of tideland reclamation are so high that it is likely to be limited by
economic feasibility and budgetary constraints. The attractive economic
returns likely from upland reclamation must be balanced by the technical
problems of erosion and crop suitability, the solutions to which require
further field testing before such projects can be developed on a large
scale. Techniques for improving the productivity of existing cropland may
be classified according to the existing land use. Paddy land can be made
more productive by new or improved irrigation, land consolidation, drainage,
river training and the provision of farm and feeder roads. Existing upland
areas can be either converted to paddy land (requiring the concurrent
provision of irrigation, in most cases) or upgraded through a package of
engineering improvements and supporting services. Finally, forest land (most
of which is privately owned in small lots) can be made more productive in
terms of fuelwood, pulpwood, saw logs and other forest products.
2.09      Rural Infrastructure activities may range from micro-scale
improvements to village drains and roofs to fairly sophisticated large-scale
utility or irrigation projects (the latter also fall into the Land and Water
Development category). Since 1971, Korea has undertaken a massive program
of rural infrastructure works under the Saemaeul Movement. This movement
has gradually broadened to include most rural (and some urban) development
activities but has retained two essential features: decentralized decision
making, including the particiation of the beneficiaries; and self-help,



- 5 -
either through volunteer labor, a cash contribution or cost recovery charges.
Besides creating physical infrastructure and employment opportunities, the
Saemaeul Movement puts a heavy emphasis on institutional building, especially
the development of self-reliance. Villages are classified as basic, self-help
or self-reliant, according to their ability to execute and finance projects.
These classifications are reviewed annually, according to a points score
system. Projects are selected by the village and reviewed by a hierarchy of
Government committees. The degree of Government technical and financial
assistance varies according to the classification of the village.  Since
1971, the equivalent of $1.8 billion has been invested in Saemaeul activi-
ties, of which the Government contribution was less than half. Projects
carried out range from simple improvements to village drains and roofs, roads,
water supply, up to more sophisticated rural electrification and irrigation
schemes, livestock raising and rural industries.
2.10      Agricultural Supporting Services are well developed in Korea and
are generally meeting the needs of the farmers. Improvements are needed
mainly in extension, credit and marketing for special crops and livestock.
2.11      Bank financing in the rural sector was first directed at land and
water development (five projects for irrigation, including tideland reclama-
tion). In recent years, the Bank has helped finance four projects to
improve agricultural industries and support services, such as the supply of
seeds and credit for special crops, livestock and food processing. The Bank
has also helped finance the Rural Infrastructure Project I which includes land
and water development components (irrigation, upland and reclamation and
fuelwood), infrastructure components (roads and bridges, water supply and
rural electrification), and some assistance to support services (extension,
soil conservation, fuelwood research and hydrology).
2.12      Bank projects for the next few years will continue to assist all
three areas and are likely to broaden to include a marketing project and
possibly assistance to rural industrialization. The proposed lending program
would further the objective of improving the distribution of income within
the rural sector and between rural and urban areas, though it must be borne
in-mind that income distribution in Korea is already remarkably even. Only
14% of the rural population are classified as being below the poverty income
level (US$200 per capita) for the rural areas. The rural poor are a dis-
persed and not well defined group and it would be difficult to design projects
to benefit predominantly such a "target group". The real challenge for the
future will be to keep labor productivity in agriculture from lagging too far
behind that in industry, to prevent a growing disparity between rural and
urban incomes. In that sense, agricultural and rural development projects
should be geared to meeting the national objective of more equitable income
distribution.
Rural Conditions in Korea
2.13      The average farm size in Korea is about 0.9 ha, of which 0.5 ha
is paddy land (para. 2.15), while the remainder grows upland crops, such as
barley, maize, soybeans, fruit, vegetables, tobacco, mulberries (for silkworm



-6-
production) and other cash crops. Nearly two thirds of farm households have
less than I ha of cropland but only 5% of farm households are landless. The
national farm size distribution is given below:
Table 2.1: FARM SIZE DISTRIBUTION
Percent of farm   Percent of
households         area
Landless                       4.7              -
Up to 1 ha                    62.2            38.2
1 to 3 ha                     31.5            54.6
Over 3 ha                       1.6            7.2
100.0          100.0
Most farmers own the land they cultivate, 70% being full owners and a further
23% renting some land they cultivate, in addition to their own. This equit-
able distribution of land ownership is the result of the Farmland Reform Laws
of 1945 and 1950, which imposed a ceiling of 3 ha of cultivated land per
household.
2.14      All uncultivated land in Korea (about 67% of the total area) is
classified as forest but most high-grade timber production comes from the
840,000 ha (9%) cf national forests. Most of the remaining "forest" is
privately owned in small holdings. Private forest land is used mostly for
the gathering of fuelwood and its productivity is very low.
2.15      Rice and barley are the major crops, accounting for two thirds of
the total crop area and they are grown throughout the country, with a con-
centration in thEt western and southern coastal areas. Due to climatic con-
straLints, double cropping of rice is not possible in Korea but a rice-barley
rotaLtion is practiced in the southern regions and now occurs on about 45%
of the total paddy land. With the advent of earlier-maturing varieties and
improvements to management and infrastructure, double cropping is increasing
and may eventually reach 70% of all paddy land. Rice yields in Korea are
much higher than those in South and Southeast Asia, reflecting a high level
of input use and good management. However, even though the average national
rice yield (on a milled basis) reached 4.3 ton/ha in 1976, yields are still
20% below those in Japan, indicating a margin for improvement. High-yielding
varieties (HYVs) of rice were introduced in 1971 and now account for 43% of
paddly area. The Government's plans call for HYV coverage to reach 70% by
1980). The main constraints on national food grain production are water
control (irrigation and drainage), varietal improvement (mainly of barley)
and, to a lesser extent, access to markets. Further details are given in
Reference A-6.
2.16      Other f-ood crops, soybeans and other pulses, potatoes and miscel-
laneous cereals, are grown mainly in upland areas and account for about 18%



-7-
of the cropped area. Over the last decade, production of most of these
crops has stagnated or declined, due to the conversion of upland to paddy
(in response to a Government price policy which gives a strong incentive to
rice production), partial abandonment of some poorly developed upland areas
and possibly other factors. Upland development on a wide scale is a fairly
recent phenomenon in Korea and is a response to greatly intensified population
pressure on the land resource since the Korean War. Recent surveys estimate
that a further 135,000 to 200,000 ha of forest land could be economically
converted to cropland, compared with an existing total upland area of
1.0 million ha.
2.17      Fruit, vegetables, tobacco and ginseng are high-value crops,
accounting for 11% of land area but almost one quarter of crop value. Only
small areas are used to grow maize and other feed crops. Livestock depend
on crop residues, grazing of wastelands, rice bran and imported feeds.
Cattle, which number 1.8 million, are kept mainly for draft purposes and one
million families own one or more animals. Mechanization is expected to
accelerate over the next five years with the addition of about 50,000 power
tillers to the existing fleet of 100,000.
2.18      The settlement pattern in Korea reflects topographic and historical
realities. As 70% of the country is mountainous, settlements mostly occur
in the valleys and coastal plains. Frequent wars and invasions have led to
a pattern of clustered villages, each house having a courtyard and a single
entrance gate. Korea has also undergone rapid urbanization in the last two
decades, with Seoul and Busan now accounting for 23% of total population.
At the other end of the scale, one finds the remote settlements of the
mountainous Northeast and the undulating coastal region of the Southwest
characterized by smaller, more isolated and poorer villages. Nevertheless,
while differences between rural regions are noticeable, the major disparity
in living standards is between urban and rural areas.
2.19      Korea has a fairly well developed major transport network, with
railways, expressways and paved two-lane highways connecting the provincial
capitals and the major towns. On the other hand, the provincial and county
road network, while generally adequate in terms of density and location, is
generally badly surfaced and inadequately maintained, leading to excessive
operating costs. Also important is the fact that many villages do not have
vehicular access to the county road network. In 1969, a total of 46,000 km
of village roads and 1,800 bridges were identified as being needed to give
adequate access to all villages. Since then, 34,000 km of roads and 1,500
bridges have been constructed under the Saemaeul Movement.
2.20      The average rural household income in Korea is now about US$2,400
per year (of which about 82% is received from agriculture) and the resulting
increase in living standards has created a demand for urban-type services,
such as electricity, water supply, postal services and access to telephones
(in approximately that order). The Government has recognized that services
of this kind are important in discouraging rural-urban drift (which has been
as strong in Korea as elsewhere in Asia, though perhaps with less damaging
consequences due to industry's ability to absorb labor) and has responded
with a massive program of rural electrification and more modest programs for



the other services. Electricity is now available to 90% of rural households,
compared to 95% in the cities. The status of water supply and telephone
service in rural areas is described in paras. 4.17 and 4.23.
The First Stage Project
2.21      The Rural Infrastructure Project I, which began early in 1976 and
is partly financed by Loans 1216-KO and 1218T-KO, comprises six main compo-
nents. Minor Irrigation includes 61 subprojects totalling 12,700 ha of
irrigable area. Nineteen subprojects have now been completed and the whole
program is expected to be completed by June 1979. Upland Reclamation con-
sists of about 48 subprojects covering the conversion of 4,500 ha of forest
land to new cropland and also has a heavy applied research emphasis, aimed at
improving design standards and gaining a better understanding of soil
conservation techniques. As a result of some design and budgetary problems,
now resolved, the component was only one-third completed at the end of 1977
but should be completed in 1978.  The Fuelwood component, now finished, has
established 127,000 ha of new plantations at 11,990 sites and has a small
research element. A satisfactory survival rate of 91% has been achieved.
The Roads and Bridges component, also complete, consists of 860 km of village
access roads and 211 bridges (up to 50 m long). Under the Water Supply
component, the revised project target of 4,073 villages (double the appraisal
estimate) have been supplied with piped water, benefiting a total of 360,000
households.  The Rural Electrification component has benefited a similar
number of households, through 3,813 subprojects, and is now completed.
2.22      The Minor Irrigation, Upland Reclamation and Rural Electrification
components have been planned primarily at the central level and have been
executed by contract, with additional support from the beneficiaries and a
reasonably high level of cost recovery. The remaining components have been
exec:uted primarily by volunteer labor, using materials supplied by the
Government, with a correspondingly lower level of cost recovery.
2.23      Project implementation is proceeding very satisfactorily and only
the Minor Irrigation and Upland Reclamation components, which have been
delayed by some clesign problems and budgetary shortages, remain to be
completed. The cquality of completed works is fully satisfactory. The final
cost: of the project is likely to be about 16% above the appraisal estimate,
mainly the result: of delays and cost increases in the Minor Irrigation and
Rural Electrification components. However, economic rates of return for the
various components are expected to be satisfactory.  More than 80% of the
loans, which total US$60 million, has been disbursed.
2.24      The First Stage project also provides for a hierarchical system of
reporting and monitoring and for a series of evaluation studies. As these
elerments would be continued under the proposed project, they are described
in greater detai:L in Chapter 5.
Project Formulation
2.25      The proposed project is directly based on the First Stage Project,
just: described. At the beginning of 1977, the Government proposed to the



-9-
Bank that a follow-up project be prepared for Bank consideration. Project
preparation work, mainly by the Ministries responsible for the proposed
components, is now virtually completed (Annex 4).
2.26      The proposed project would be nationwide in scope and would be
aimed mainly at the following sector objectives: increasing rural incomes;
improving rural living standards; and maintaining rural employment. The
project would also have a minor impact on the Government's fourth objective:
self-sufficiency in food grains. The proposed Irrigation and River Training
components would mainly affect rural incomes, while the Water Supply component
would aim at improving rural living standards. The Rural Telephones component
would affect both incomes and living standards. All components would have a
modest impact on both short-term and long-term employment. The project
would also help to sustain the decentralized decision-making and self-help
features of the Saemaeul Movement (Chapter 3) and would tend to benefit the
more backward and isolated villages.
2.27      Bank assistance to the project would allow the accelerated imple-
mentation of four programs, to which the Government already attaches high
priority (the programs would continue, at a slower pace, without Bank involve-
ment). Bank involvement is also expected to lead to improvements in subproj-
ect selection procedures, modest improvements in design and implementation
methodology (which are already good) and more systematic monitoring and
financial management. The evaluation studies, begun under Stage I and to
be continued under the proposed project, are the first comprehensive studies
of the impact of government investments on rural development in Korea.
2.28      In formulating the project, the major challenge has been to
meet the policies, administrative procedures and appraisal standards of the
Bank while causing minimal disruption to the Government's multi-sectoral,
decentralized, evolving and yet efficient approach to rural development. In
the detailed formulation and appraisal of the project, every effort has been
made to work through the existing administrative structures wherever possible,
to support self-help and institution-building at the village level, and to
use conventional Bank procedures in a flexible way to accommodate a unique
project.
2.29      Two of the sectors chosen for inclusion in the project (Irrigation
and Water Supply) will continue programs assisted under the First Stage
Project and, in these sectors, there is a large and continuing need for
further investment and external assistance. Of the other sectors included in
Stage I, the Fuelwood and Rural Electrification programs are now virtually
completed nationwide, while the Government has decided to complete the
Village Roads and Bridges program without external assistance. The remaining
component, Upland Reclamation, has not yet reached a sufficient degree of
completion for a follow-up project to be appraised. The new sectors to be
assisted by the proposed project (River Training and Rural Telephones) were
chosen because of their high priority within the Government's rural develop-
ment planning, the Bank's familiarity with and expertise in these sectors,
their clear economic and social benefits and their complementarity to the
other continuing programs.



- 10 -
3. THE SAEMAEUL MOVEMENT
Origiil, and Goals
3.01      The proposed project would fit within the framework of the Saemaeul
Undong (New Community Movement), which was initiated late in 1971 as a
nationwide comprehensive self-help program to improve living conditions in
rural areas, achieve greater decentralized economic growth, and slow the
influx of rural people to the large metropolitan centers. The Movement is a
successor to the "Self-Help Works Program" (1964-1972) which in turn was
based on the "National Construction Service" (1961-1964). These programs
were relatively modest in scope (US$10 to 20 million per year) and were
financed from counterpart funds generated by the sale of foodstuffs provided
by USAID under PL 480.  Needy rural people were employed, mainly on upland
reclamation, tideland reclamation, irrigation, flood control, reforestation
and road projects, and were paid partly in cash and partly in food.
3.02      The Saemaeul Movement (described in more detail in Reference B-2) is
broader in scope than these earlier efforts and includes a greater degree of
self-help and decentralized decision-making.  It has three main objectives:
(a)  physical and environmental improvements by cooperative group action;
(b)  increased productivity and incomes, principally by creating more non-
agricultural jobs in rural areas but also by raising agricultural
productive capacity through more effective use of land and water
resources; and
(c)  "spiritual enlightenment," that is, the fostering of a spirit of
-       diligence, cooperation and self-help, the replacement; of tradi-
tional fatalism with a future-orientation and the development of
leadership and entrepreneurial skills.
3.0:3     Besides creating physical infrastructure and employment oppor-
tunities, the Saemaeul Movement puts a heavy emphasis on institution building.
The main goal is to develop self-reliance, that is, the capacity of villagers
to program, finance, and execute a range of developmental activities with a
minimum of outside assistance. The emphasis on self-reliance is reflected
in the following classification of villages, used to determine the degree of
government assistance:
(a)  Basic Villages.  These lack organization and leadership as well as
the resources required to carry out community improvement projects
and therefore require guidance, as well as financial assistance,
from the Government.
(b)  Self-Help Villages.  These have acquired sufficient leadership and
organizational ability to identify and carry out development
projects but lack the full financial resources to implement them
and require some government technical and financial support.



- 11 -
(c) Self-Reliant Villages. These have carried out a number of projects
and achieved some degree of financial self-sufficiency allowing
them to finance additional projects from their own resources or
from loans.
3.04      The classification of villages is at least partly quantitative.
Such factors as past and current achievements under the Saemaeul Movement,
the physical condition of the village, income levels and the size of the
village development fund, are being used to calculate an annual score, which
determines the classification of the village each year. Annex 2, Table 1
shows the numbers of villages in each group at present. About 60% of
villages fall in the "self-help" category. The Government expects that, as
the Saemaeul Movement continues, villages will move from one category to the
next and official planning shows all villages in the "self-reliant" category
by 1981. While there are no hard and fast rules as to the types of projects
to be undertaken by each category of villages, the pattern seems to be that
"basic" villages undertake only simple environmental improvements, such as
roof improvements, drains, communal laundries and community halls. Such
projects are low in cost and may have only a limited economic impact but
they do serve to train the village leaders and to build a sense of community
and achievement. Self-help villages are expected to concentrate on infra-
structural projects, such as rural roads, bridges, minor irrigation systems,
water supplies, telephones and electrification. Most such projects have a
subsidy element but self-help, either in the form of communal labor, or a
loan obligation, is still significant. Finally, the "self-reliant" villages
undertake directly productive, or "income," projects such as livestock
raising, silk production, specialty crops and cottage industries. These
projects are normally financed by credit, with little if any subsidy element.
3.05      While there are regional variations of income in Korea, these
are relatively small and there are no clearly defined large depressed areas.
Reasons for this include the compact size of the country, the mobility of the
labor force, the high rate of literacy throughout the country and the equit-
able farm size distribution (para. 2.13). There is no sharp distinction
between subsistence and commercial agriculture and, as a result, new tech-
niques and attitudes have diffused fairly quickly. Nevertheless, there are
many small localities, scattered throughout Korea, where poor transport and a
lack of services such as irrigation, electricity and water supply are con-
straining development. For these reasons, the Saemaeul Movement is nation-
wide but concentrates on the less-developed villages, which tend to be in the
more remote parts of each region. For the same reasons, the proposed project
would be national in scope with an emphasis on basic and self-help villages.
Organization of Saemaeul Activities
3.06      At the national level, general policy issues for the Saemaeul
Movement are dealt with by a Vice-Ministerial Coordinating Committee, chaired
by the Minister of Home Affairs, and with representatives from all Ministries
dealing with Saemaeul activities. A Saemaeul Coordinating Committee of
senior officials from each Ministry translates these general policy directives
into sectoral targets and planning guidelines for the Ministries. Saemaeul



- 12 -
activities are channeled through the existing government agencies and are
subject to the normal technical review and budgetary approval procedures.
There are also Saemaeul Coordinating Committees, consisting of r,presentativCe
from all the government agencies concerned, at the provincial, county and
subdistrict levels. These committees receive requests from the level below
and allocate funds to the highest priority projects, within the overall
guidetlines set by each Ministry. In many cases, funds are allocated between
provinces (and thence between counties, and so on) in proportion to the
volume of work remaining to complete the coverage of a particular service or
to reach a nationwide target level.
3.07      The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) is responsible for fostering the
Saemaeul Movement, for training its leaders, and for administering many of
the more basic kinds of projects.  These units include the Saemaeul Projects
Bureau at the Central Government level, Saemaeul Guidance Sections in the
proviincial administrations and smaller units at the county and subdistrict
leve]Ls. Each counity has a technical guidance team of about five members to
assist villages in the design and supervision of roads, water supplies, river
training subprojects, buildings and other technical activities.
3.08      At the village level, each village has a Saemaeul Committee of
aboul: 15 members, elected by the villagers. At meetings of the committee,
commuinity needs and objectives are discussed. Each village elects a Saemaeul
leader, who presides at Saemaeul Committee meetings and assigns work on
self-help projects. It also elects a woman leader, who encourages the
participation of women in household improvement projects. In most villages,
the Saemaeul leader is not the village chief, who is appointed directly by
the provincial government, but is a younger man with above-average education
or skills.
Subproject Selection
3.09      After the village decides on its priorities, it submits a request
to the subdistrict Saemaeul committee (para. 3.06) and thence to the county
committee. These committees examine the technical feasibility of the request,
for which they rely on the advice of the government agency concerned, and
the suitability of the proposed project for the state of development of
the requesting village (para. 3.04). The past record of the village and its
willingness to contribute cash or labor to the project are also taken into
account.
3.1C      Within the village, decisions are reached by majority rule.  Mino-
rity opposition is generally overcome by persuasion and the available evidence
indicates that few, if any, villagers refuse to participate in the selected
projects. The well-disciplined Korean social structure and the country's
Confucian heritage appear to facilitate this lack of dissension. While it
would be difficult to believe that project initiation is always at the
grass-roots level and that participation is completely voluntary, there is
no denying the obvious enthusiasm of the villagers for the Saemaeul Movement
and the great amount of work that has already been completed. In nearly all
cases, the projects selected appear to be appropriate to the needs of the
village.



- 13 -
Scope and Achievements of the Saemaeul Movement
3.11      The geographical and sectoral scope of the Saemaeul Movement has
evolved and expanded since 1971. Initially conceived of as a self-help
program for rural areas, it has grown to include projects carried out with
hired workers and to encompass urban areas. The main thrust of the Saemaeul
Movement remains nevertheless directed toward rural areas (particularly the
more backward and isolated villages) and agriculturally-related activities.
The national breakdown of Saemaeul activities by sector has changed from year
to year, reflecting the influence of three main factors:
(a) the development priorities of the Government;
(b) the number of villages in each Saemaeul category; and
(c) the maturing organizational structure (at the government and
village levels) and improving project selection procedures.
3.12      Due to the changing nature of the Saemaeul Movement and its empha-
sis on decentralized decision-making, small-scale projects and self-help,
determination of the total investment in and the physical achievements
of the Saemaeul Movement is difficult. Available data are summarized in
Annex 1. According to official figures, a total of W 893 billion (approxi-
mately US$1.84 billion) was invested in Saemaeul projects between October
1971 and December 1976 with W 323 billion in 1976 alone. It is worth noting
that only 48% of the total investment was provided by the central and local
government budgets. However, this percentage is rising, as more sophisti-
cated projects are tackled. The remaining 52% was contributed by the vil-
lagers, in labor or cash. Of this, the most important component was their
labor input - 65% of the villagers' contribution.
3.13      The physical achievements of the Saemaeul Movement up to 1976
include 34,000 km of village roads, 15,000 village water supply projects,
5,900 km of river training, 213,000 ha of reforestation, 2.3 million house-
holds electrified and 474 Saemaeul factories. It is worth stressing that
physical construction is only one objective of the Saemaeul Movement -
institution building and the development of self-reliance are equally
important, though more difficult to measure.



- 14 -
4. PROJECT COMPONENTS, COSTS AND FINANCING
4.01      The pLi,acipal features of the project are su=izzized below:
Part A --Irrigation Component - construction of about 61 subproj-
ects with a net irrigable area of about 9,200 ha;
Part B -.River Training Component - construction of about 2,500 km
of levee banks along small rivers and streams;
Part C --Water Supply Component - provision of simple piped water
supplies in about 7,400 villages; and
Part D - Rural Telephones Component - connection of about
2,700 villages to the telephone network and provision of
75,000 additional subscribers' lines in the subdistrict
towns plus a pilot project for future rural telephone
development.
The project also provides for technical training and for the monitoring and
evaluation of the investment program and the Saemaeul Movement generally.
The project components are described in more detail below.
Irrigation Component (US$81.8 million)
4.02      Background.  The development of irrigation has played and will
continue to play a major role in the expansion of rice production during
the summer season and of barley as a winter crop. In 1962, the total irri-
gated area was 660,000 ha or 53% of the total paddy area. Since 1962, an
average of about 30,000 ha per year has been put under irrigation and the
irrigated area is now 1,070,000 ha or 84% of all paddy land, according to the
Fourth Five-Year Plan. However, not all irrigated areas have adequate water
supplies. During the Plan period, the Government plans to increase the
irrigation ratio to 94% in 1981.
4.03      Irrigation Program.  Irrigation development includes small (less
than 50 ha), medium (50 to 1,000 ha) and large (greater than 1,000 ha)
projects. Small projects are numerous but do not account for a very large
proportion of investment. They are carried out under provincia:L supervision
under the Saemaeul Movement. Large projects came into prominence in the late
1960s and since then have dominated the picture - most have been financed by
the Bank or other external agencies. However, in recent years the Government
has begun again to give attention to medium-scale projects, incLuding the
proposed component. For example, expenditure in 1978 on such projects
will total about US$70 million. Apart from Bank assistance under Rural
Infrastructure I for 61 subprojects, the Government is also engaged in a
similar program financed by OECF and one commenced with USAID assistance but
being completed with Government funds. There are also a few entirely domes-
tically funded projects.
4.04      Project Works.  The Irrigation component would compriSe about
61 subprojects, with a net irrigable area of 9,200 ha, and would be located



- 15 -
in all provinces of Korea (except Jeju). The proposed subproject list and
its provincial distribution are given in Working Paper C-1. The subprojects
would include the water source (reservoir or pumping station), main and
lateral canals and land leveling of areas converted to paddies. The bene-
fited area would include 6,500 ha of paddy land, rainfed or partly irrigated
at present, and 2,700 ha of cultivated upland or forest, which would be
converted to irrigated paddy land. About 46 subprojects covering 6,700 ha
would depend on reservoirs created by small or medium sized earth dams.
Embankment volumes would range from 30,000 to 300,000 cu m and the live
storage of the reservoirs from 250,000 cu m to 3,300,000 cu m. These dams
would generally have a central core of selected impervious materials, shells
of unselected alluvial materials (owing to the high cost of crushed rock)
filter zones and drains where required, an overflow or side channel spillway
on one abutment and a gated pipe outlet. In most cases, a cut-off trench to
sound rock and a grout curtain of at least one-third of the static head would
be provided. The remaining 15 subprojects are located near major rivers and
would be supplied from pumping stations. Electrically-driven pumps would
range from 25 to 450 hp with lifts of 5 m to 40 m. Some subprojects located
near large rivers are protected by levee banks and some of these subprojects
would require drainage pumping stations. About 415 km of main and 72 km of
lateral canals would be constructed as part of the project. In most cases,
these would be unlined gravity canals but, in many cases, concrete lining,
flumes and tunnels are used to avoid excessive land acquisition or to ensure
structural stability. In such cases, individual cost comparisons between
alternative designs are made. Wherever upland or forest areas with slopes
less than 15% and with soils suitable for paddy cultivation are included in
the commandable area of a subproject, these would be terraced for paddy
cultivation under the project. Fine leveling and tertiary ditches would be
left to the farmers themselves and there is ample evidence that, under Korean
conditions, this is feasible. The subprojects would not, in most cases,
include land consolidation, as this is generally not a high priority for the
small, compact subproject areas and its omission would allow a greater area
to be irrigated with available funds. Experience under the Stage I Project
has been taken into account in formulating design standards and construction
methods for the component.
4.05      Subproject Selection.  Subprojects to be included in the component
have now been selected, in consultation with the Bank, using both technical
and economic criteria. The following technical criteria (which are based on
a UNDP Watershed Development Project) were used for reservoir subprojects:
(a) the benefit area of the subproject should be greater than 50 ha
but less than 700 ha (to take advantage of economies of scale,
while maintaining a reasonably short implementation period);
(b) the height of the earth dam should be less than 30 m (so that
ADC's design procedures could be used without elaborate feasibility
studies);
(c) the ratio of the catchment area to the irrigated area should be at
least 2.2:1 (to ensure that the reservoir will fill);



- 16 -
(d)  the reservoir live storage-should be at least 3,500 cu m/ha of
irrigable land (to meet the expected irrigation demand); and
(e) the ratio of the reservoir live storage to the embankment volume
should be at least 4:1 (to ensure a reasonable standard of storage
efficiency).
It should be emphasized that these limits are not design criteria. Subproj-
ects are being designed according to the standards described below. However,
these methods, being standardized, sometimes lead to anomalous results and
the above limits are intended to strengthen the assurance that the water
supply for each subproject will be adequate and reliable. On the economic
side, each subproject must have a rate of return of at least 11% (Chapter 7).
4.06      Status of Design.  In 1968, the Agricultural Development Corporation
(ADC) identified aLbout 4,000 potential small and medium-scale irrigation
projects, from which the present subprojects have been selected. Following
the identification stage, topographical, geological, hydrological and cadas-
tral surveys are made and the detailed design prepared. Determination of
the required reservoir volume and the spillway capacity is carried out by
rainfall-runoff correlation methods and a variant of the Rational Method,
respectively, which are adequate for small projects but which would be
refined when results from the Hydrologic Services Study, financed under
Stage I, become available. The structural and hydraulic design of dams,
spiliways, pumping stations and canals follows well-known, internationally
accepted methods, which are satisfactory. ADC has its own geotechnical
engineers and has successfully designed and constructed several hundred small
dams in the last 20 years. As of December 1977, 19 subprojects had been
designed and all subprojects are expected to be designed before the end of
1978..
4.07      Construction Methods.  The irrigation subprojects would be con-
structed generally by machine-intensive techniques but considerable amounts
of labor would be used for trimming abutments, concrete and masonry works,
soddiing and canal digging. The upgrading of construction techniques begun
under Stage I would continue to ensure more efficient and economical con-
struction. Coffer dams and diversion tunnels or conduits would be used,
qualiLty control of concrete would be improved and the contractors would be
given greater flexibility in scheduling their activities so as to minimize
rehandling of materials.
4.08      Construction Schedule.  Because of heavy budgetary and manpower
comm:itments in 1978 for the completion of the Stage I Minor Irrigation com-
ponent and other projects, the Government is not able to begin the bulk of
the irrigation subprojects until 1979. However, about 15 of the larger
subprojects for which designs have been, or will soon be, completed, would
commence in July L978. The implementation period would be about three years
for a dam subproject and about two years for a pumping station subproject.
This fairly lengthy schedule takes into account the severe winter, the annual
budg(etary cycle and the fairly constricted work sites.  Dams would be sched-
uled so that filling would begin late in the calendar year, so as to be ready



- 17 -
for the next year's irrigation season. Pumping stations would be scheduled
for completion before June so as to be put into operation immediately. The
component would be completed by June 1982.
4.09      Unit Costs.  In terms of 1978 prices, reservoir subprojects are
estimated to cost US$9,600/ha and pumping stations US$6,200/ha plus contin-
gencies. These unit costs are certainly at the upper end of the acceptable
range for rice irrigation. Irrigation costs in Korea are rising faster than
general price levels, possibly because of the large proportion of costs
attributable to land acquisition and labor. Land prices are rising rapidly
because of the extreme shortage of land in Korea, while wages have risen
faster than consumer prices as a result of government policy to give wage
earners an equitable share in Korea's rapid economic growth. Irrigation
costs in Korea have always been high compared with Southeast Asia (though not
with Japan), because of the relatively small scale of the feasible projects,
the need for an intensive layout to serve the very small farms, the irregular
topography which necessitates large numbers of flumes and tunnels, and
because of the impossibility of constructing reservoirs without inundating
valuable farmland. However, irrigation costs per beneficiary family
(US$3,460 for reservoirs and US$2,200 for pumping stations) are somewhat
lower than the average for irrigation projects in the East Asia region.
The high unit costs per ha do not therefore affect the favorable distribu-
tional and equity effects of the component.
4.10      Environmental Effects and Dam Safety.  Apart from possible soil
erosion during construction, the supplying of irrigation water to existing
paddy land and upland areas should have minimal environmental effects.
Schistosomiasis is not present in Korea. To ensure the safety of the dams
to be constructed under the project, an assurance has been obtained that the
Borrower would, under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, cause the dams
constructed under the project to be periodically inspected in accordance
with sound engineering practice in order to determine whether there are any
deficiencies in the condition of such structures, or in the quality and
adequacy of maintenance or methods of operations of the same, which may
endanger their safety. To this end, the Borrower shall propose to the Bank
appropriate arrangements for the Bank's review no later than one year
before the expected completion of such structures (Section 4.07 of the Loan
Agreement). As ADC staff do not at present have any specialized training in
dam safety inspections, funds would be provided under the project (para. 5.06)
for a small group of staff to receive such training.
River Training Component (US$37.5 million)
4.11      Background.  Rivers in Korea are generally short but highly
variable in their flow. Flooding is common and sediment loads are also
high. Flood damage may take several forms, the most common being inundation
damage to crops and homes. Bank collapse, which destroys farmland, and the
spreading of coarse sediment over productive and valuable farmland are also
important. Freedom from frequent flooding is a prerequisite for irrigation
development and more intensive agriculture generally. The Ministry of Home
Affairs (MHA) has made a complete inventory of all streams in Korea greater



- 18 -
than, 2 m in width. Basic data on each stream are recorded and a classifica-
tion, according tco width is made. Streams 2 m to 5 m in width are under the
jurisdiction of the village, those 5 m to 10 m in width are under the sub-
district, and those 10 m to 20 m in width are under the county. These
categories are detnoted as Classes I, II and III. Larger rivers, which are
managed by the Provincial or Central Governments, are outside the scope of
the project.
4.12       River Training Program.  For a variety of physical and economic
reasons, flood damage mitigation is generally achieved through river training
(levee bank construction), rather than by reservoir construction in Korea.
These levee banks contain flood flows, prevent the deposition of sediment
and prevent the river from widening or meandering.  From the inventory of
Class I, II and III streams, 17,239 km (of the total length of 39,110 km)
have been identified as requiring bank protection and 6,095 km of this total
was completed by the end of 1977.  The government objective is to complete
the protection of all vulnerable reaches by 1981 but this target appears
somewhat over-ambitious, given the rather modest accomplishments of recent
years.
4.13       Project Works.  The River Training component of the project would
consist of the construction or improvement of 2,500 km of river banks, 1,250 km
in each of 1978 and 1979.  Of this total, 1,250 km would benefit Class I
streams, while 750 km and 500 km are the estimates for Classes II and III,
respectively. Subprojects may include both banks or only one bank, depending
on priorities, and generally terminate at an existing bank or on high
ground.  As the average length of a subproject is about 300 m, the program
would consist of about 8,300 subprojects.  Based on the 1977 program, about
93% of the subprojects would require an earth embankment, 79% grass sodding,
32% grouted stone protection, 24% dry stone pitching and 17% gabions (wire
baskets filled wiLth boulders). As the above figures indicate, combinations
of raethods are frequently used.  The selection of methods is generally
based on physicaL considerations, such as the width of the stream, its
velocity and curvature. These criteria are generally appropriate but
greater use would be made of gabions under the project because of their
greater stability during floods.  Efforts would also be made to compare the
stability and durability of alternative forms of construction. A typical
subproject would thus consist of an earth embankment about 2 m high (some-
times with a road along the top) with some form of protection on the stream
side and sodding on the outside. Structures, such as gated drainage inlets
and drop structures in the beds of steeper streams, would also be provided.
4.14       Subproject Selection.  Subproject selection is only partly quanti-
tative. In at least some provinces, benefit-cost analysis is used to estab-
lish a cut-off rate of return (9%) for acceptable subprojects. Subprojects
are then selected using qualitative criteria such as the frequency and
severity of flooding, continuations of past projects, the amount of new land
created, protection of reconstructed villages and local pressures. These
methods are acceptable. Under the project, the use of quantitative methods
wouLd be made universal and a minimum rate of return of 11% would be used.
Subproject selecition for the 1978 construction program has begun and should
be completed in February 1978.



- 19 -
4.15       Methods and Status of Design.  Handbooks prepared by the
Ministries of Construction and Home Affairs give detailed guidance to the
county engineers responsible for subpr6ject design. For hydrologic design,
a number of alternative methods, including the Rational Method and the
observation of past flood levels, are given. These methods are generally
satisfactory, though they are not easily applicable to small streams, owing
to the lack of data. Where possible, both methods would be used. Generally-
accepted methods of hydraulic and structural design are used. Preparation of
designs is generally carried out in the first few months of each year, after
subproject selection has been finalized but before the construction season
begins.
4.16      Construction Methods.  Labor-intensive methods would generally be
applied, with bulldozers being used to form the larger embankments and trucks
to haul quarried stone. Maximum use would be made of locally available
materials, such as river boulders and grass sods. Construction would be
supervised by stonemasons or other skilled workers, who are often villagers
who have acquired their skills on the job. Technical supervision of the
subprojects would be by the subdistrict and county engineers. In order to
increase the effectiveness of such supervision, vehicles would be provided
under the project - one field vehicle for every province and one motorcycle
for every county. Survey equipment would also be provided.
Water Supply Component (US$37.4 million)
4.17      Background.  Of Korea's rural population of 14.4 million, about
6.3 million (44%) now have access to piped water supply, an increase of 12%
since the beginning of the Stage I project. Very few villages had such
facilities when the Saemaeul Movement began in 1971. The Government's 1982
target is to bring piped water supply to the 78% of the rural population
which lives in communities of 20 or more households. While the proposed
component will include some of the larger villages (1,000 to 5,000 persons),
it will not directly deal with the rural towns of 5,000 to 20,000 population,
where the proportion of population with access to piped water is lower than
for the villages. Villages without piped water depend on hand pumps or open
wells, which are unreliable and sometimes unsanitary.
4.18      Project Works.  The Water Supply component would provide 7,400
villages (with a total population of 3.0 million) with a safe, piped water
supply. About 1,600 subprojects would be constructed in 1978, 2,600 in 1979
and 3,200 in 1980, in all provinces of Korea. Subprojects would include the
water source and distribution system. The simple piped water systems would
be either gravity supplies from a spring or infiltration gallery or would be
pumped from a dug well. The springs and wells would be protected from
pollution by concrete boxes or slabs, respectively. As an additional safety
measure, a chlorinator would be installed in each system. The system would
normally be provided with a concrete storage reservoir on high ground adja-
cent to the village or else a hydro-pneumatic tank would be used to provide
pressure. Small diameter polyvinylchloride (PVC) pipes would be used for the
distribution system, which would serve individual houses. Normally one
faucet in the courtyard of the house is provided.



- 20 -
4.19      Subproiect Selection.  As the number of villages willing to
contribute to their own water supply generally exceeds the capacity of the
Government to administer and support, subproject selection is carried out
at the county level. No quantitative selection criteria have yet been
devised. Greatest weight is usually given to the institutional capacity of
the village to carry out the subproject and its willingness to contribute
financially to the cost of materials and skilled labor. Weight is also given
to the incidence of waterborne diseases and the sanitary state of the exist-
ing water supplies. Finally, preference is given to larger villages and
those with low per household costs of supply. Subprojects to be constructed
in a given year would be selected at the end of the previous year. Subproj-
ect selection for the 1978 program is continuing and should be completed in
February 1978.
4.20      Method and Status of Design.  After confirming the reliability of
the proposed water source, the county engineer and sanitarian prepare a
preliminary design, which serves as the basis for estimating materials
reqtuirements. The detailed design is then prepared by the county engineer
(or, in some cases, a local consulting firm), using principles laid down in a
Ministry of Health and Social Affairs (MHSA) manual. Under an accelerated
procedure recently adopted by MHSA, preliminary designs are now prepared
towards the end of the previous year (to allow time for materials procure-
ment:) and final dlesigns are prepared in the first few months of the year.
4.2].     Construction Methods.  Construction would be labor-intensive and
large quantities of volunteer labor would be used for digging trenches and
wells and making spring boxes and reservoirs. Skilled labor would be hired
by t:he village for such tasks as steel bending, jointing pipes and installing
electric pumps. In order to increase the effectiveness of the county engin-
eers and sanitarians in inspecting works under construction (and in opera-
tion), one motorcycle would be procured under the project for each county not
now having one, as well as one field vehicle per province.
4.22      Construction Schedule.  Most subprojects in a given year would
comtaence in March or April and would be completed by June. However, some of
the larger or more complicated subprojects would require until September or
October.
Rural Telephones Component (US$25.1 million)
4.23      Background.  All communications services in Korea are administered
by t:he Ministry of Communications (MCM).  Although not financially autonomous,
MCM operates on a "Special Fund" to which revenues and external loans are
credited and there is little dependence on budgetary assistance. Korea has
only about 1.3 million telephones (or 3.9 per 100 population) but the rate of
growth is an impressive 18% per year. About 81% of telephones are automatic
and located in the 34 cities with more than 50,000 population. The rest of
the country is classed by MCM as rural and is served mainly by manual (common
battery or magneto) lines. The telephone network closely parallels the
administrative sItructure, possibly because telephone exchanges are generally
located in the post office building. Major exchanges are located in the
counity (gun) towis, which in turn are linked to the subdistrict (myon)



- 21 -
exchanges. There are not normally any exchange facilities below this level
but this still means that few of Korea's rural population would be more than
5 to 10 km from an exchange. At this stage of Korea's development, govern-
ment policy is not to provide private lines outside the limits of the sub-
district town. Villages (Ri or Dong) are being connected to the network
through single, public lines.
4.24      Rural Telephones Program.  Under the Fourth Five-Year Plan, the
Government is continuing to expand and modernize the telephone network in
both urban and rural areas. Installed capacity will increase to 2.7 million
lines. In the rural areas, county exchanges will be automated, 240,000 auto-
matic lines will be added in the county towns and 200,000 manual lines at
the subdistrict level. In addition, all villages will be connected to the
network. In all, rural telephone lines will increase from 355,000 in 1976 (2
per 100 rural population) to 803,000 in 1981 (3.6 per 100), or a growth rate
of 18%.
4.25      Project Works.  The Rural Telephones component is a two-year slice
in MCM's rural telephones program and would have two principal parts: 2,704
new village lines (to complete the connection of all villages to the network);
and, 75,000 lines of additional capacity in the subdistrict (myon) towns,
including some new exchanges. The component would cover all provinces of
Korea. Each of the 2,704 village lines would consist of a single, open-wire,
pole mounted line, terminating in a public call office. An ordinary manual
instrument is used, with no coin box or booth. Instead, it is placed in the
residence of a responsible person (the manager) designated by the Saemaeul
Committee. The Manager collects all charges and fetches the recipients of
incoming calls, for which he receives a commission of 10% of all collections.
4.26      Of the additional capacity at the subdistrict town level, 36,000
subscriber's lines would be constructed in 1978 and 39,000 in 1979. Of the
75,000 lines to be installed, 65,000 would be magneto-type. About 20 new
exchanges would be established but most of the 650 switchboards (each with
100 lines capacity) would be added to existing exchanges. About 10,000 new
common battery lines would be added to exchanges using that system but no new
common battery exchanges would be established. Installation of new manual
equipment may seem unusual in the Korean context but it must be seen as a
temporary measure. Manufacturing capacity for automatic equipment is already
fully committed to the heavy urban program. As electronic switching is
introduced in the large cities, surplus electromechanical equipment will be
available for the rural towns, while the present manual equipment could be
used for future village exchanges. In addition, as the lines to be installed
under the project are mostly extensions to existing exchanges, the marginal
installation cost is quite low when the same manual system is used. No
buildings would be required, as available space in the existing post offices
would be used. The additional tollboards to be installed to service the
expanded switchboards are not included in the project, as MCM has other
funding for this purpose.



- 22 -
4.27      Pilot Project.  In order to make a rational decision on the type of
equLpment to be used in rural areas in the 1980s, a small applied research
unit has been set up within MCM to carry out comparative studies, including
field trials. Tiechniques to be studied included space and time division
digital switching, random access VHF systems, electronic exchanges and
concentrators anid electronic party line systems. As MCM has sufficient
funding for this program, it would not be financed under the project.
4.28      Subproject Selection.  As the village line program would be com-
pleted in 1978, no selection of subprojects is required.  Additional lines in
the subdistrict towns are allocated in accordance with demand, based on
informal surveys of the numbers of potential subscribers. The number of
pending applications is not a reliable guide, as such applications must be
accompanied by a deposit and potential subscribers are reluctant to make such
deposits until aEter the exchange capacity has been increased. Subproject
selection for the 1978 program would be completed by March 1978.
4.293     Design and Construction.  Planning and design of the new installa-
tions would follow well-established practices within MCM.  Installation would
also be done by MCM's own staff. The standard of past work is completely
satisfactory.  There would be no volunteer labor contribution to this compo-
nent. However, the full cost of the component would be recovered from the
beneficiaries (para. 5.08).
Cost Estimates
4.30     Details of the project costs are given in Annex 2 and summarized in
Table 4.1. The total project cost is estimated at US$232 million, of which
US$95 million or 41% would be foreign exchange. The cost estimate (from
which all direct taxes have been excluded, as the executing agencies are
exempted from import duties and sales taxes) is based on recent experience
withl similar work by the agencies concerned, unit costs being updated to
estimated 1978 lievels. The estimates assume that most contracts for the
supply of equipm,ent and materials and all civil works contracts would be won
by local bidders. For the Irrigation component, where the subprojects to be
implemented have already been identified, physical contingencies of 15% have
been applied to the estimates for civil works, equipment and materials and
10% to estimates for land acquisition. For the other components, where the
final number of subprojects to be constructed in a given year would be
decided shortly before the beginning of the working season, a physical
contingency of 10% has been added. Overall, physical contingencies amount
to 11% of the base cost. A rate of price escalation for all items of
10% per year throughout the project period has been assumed on the grounds
that construction costs (particularly for irrigation) in Korea have consis-
tenitly risen faster than general price levels and that inflation in Korea
has been higher than worldwide levels and is expected to continue to be so
for the next few years. However, because of the relatively short duration
of the project, price contingencies amount to only 14% of base costs plus
physical contingiencies. The above cost estimates do not include the value
of volunteer labor, which is important for the Water Supply component and,
to a limited extent, the River Training component.



- 23 -
Table 4.1: SUMMARIZED COST ESTIMATES
Foreign
Item                     Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total  exchange
----  W billion ----- US$ million -----    (%)
Irrigation               21.8    17.8      39.6      45.0    36.8    81.8       45
River Training           14.6      3.6     18.2      30.0      7.5    37.5      20
Water Supply             10.0      8.1      18.1     20.6    16.8    37.4       45
Rural Telephones          6.1      6.1      12.2     12.6    12.5    25.1       50
Miscellaneous
- Training                -      0.1      0.1         -      0.2     0.2    100
- Project Monitoring   0.1         -      0.1       0.1        -     0.1       0
- Project Evaluation    --       0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1     0.2      50
Subtotal           52.6    35.8      88.4    108.4    73.9   182.3       41
Contingencies
- Physical              5.6      4.3      9.9      11.7      8.9    20.6      43
- Price                 8.2      6.0     14.2      16.9    12.2    29.1       42
Total              66.4    46.1    112.5    137.0    95.0   232.0        41
Financing
4.31     The proposed Bank loan of US$95.0 million would finance the proj-
ect's foreign exchange requirements. Sources of funds for the project are
shown in Table 4.2. The availability of sufficient local funds in the 1978
budget was confirmed at negotiations.
4.32     Government loans for the Irrigation component would be made to the
subproject owners, the Farmland Improvement Associations (FLIAs), through the
National Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF). Terms and conditions
are discussed in para. 6.03. The internal financial arrangements for River
Training are discussed in more detail in Annex 3. The plan is unusual in
that the villages are given some latitude as to how the government contribu-
tion is used. Unskilled labor for these subprojects may be volunteered but
most is provided by "needy people," who are paid a subsistence wage, partly
as a form of social welfare. Needy people are a well defined group of
low-income or disadvantaged people, who may constitute 10-15% of the village
population and who would roughly correspond to the target group of the
absolutely poor. In view of this, payment of a subsistence wage, rather
than the volunteer labor that is normally expected for Saemaeul activities
of this kind, is equitable. Even so, all workers on River Training subprojects
are encouraged to return up to half their earnings to the Village Development
Fund for reinvestment in productive activities. Income from new farmland
created under the program also accrues to the Village Development Fund.



- 24 -
Table 4.2: FINANCING PLAN
Total cost                                Provincial
(including       National budget /a         budget      Beneficiaries'
Component      contingencies)  Contribution    Loan       contribution   contribution
US$ m         %    US$ m    % US$ m   %    US$ m         %   US$ m
Irrigation         113.2         70    79.2   30   34.0    -        -     -0        -
River Training      43.4         60    26.0    -       -   30   13.0    10/c    4.4
Water Supply        46.5         70    32.6    -       -    -       -    30/d   13.9
Rural Telephones   28.2         100/e  28.2    -       -    -       -     -e        -
Miscellaneous        0.7        100     0.7    -       -    -       -     -
Total         232.0        72   166.7   15   34.0    5   13.0        8      18.3
/a Includes Bank disbursements.
/b  The contribution of the beneficiaries to field ditches and final leveling
is relatively small and highly variable and has not been evaluated.
/c In addition, part of the Government's contribution will be returned to the
Village Development Fund and used to finance other development projects.
7d The volunteer labor would be an additional contribution by the beneficiaries,
equal in value to about 50% of the cash cost of the component.
/e  New subscribers would make noninterest bearing deposits equal to about 30% of
the cost of the component.
4.33     Government funds for the Water Supply component would be disbursed
through the MESA, provinces and counties to the villages affected. The
villagers' contrilbution would be designed to make up the difference between
the government contribution and the actual subproject cost and thus would
vary in amount between villages. Volunteer labor would be partly compensated
by World Food Program food aid during the first two years of the program.
Wheat flour (2.4 kg/man-day) would be made available to each project partic-
ipant but the value of this (W 240) is much less than the market value of
labor (about W 2,500/man-day). The Rural Telephones component would be
financed entirely from the MCM's "Special Fund" and no subsidies from central
finances nor any voluntary contribution from the beneficiaries would be
involved, but noninterest bearing deposits from the new subscribers during
the two years of the project would amount to about US$8.1 million or 30% of



- 25 -
the cost of the component. Though -these deposits are refundable when the
telephone is disconnected, the line is invariably allotted to a waiting
applicant. The deposit account is thus virtually an interest-free revolving
fund available for capital investment.
Procurement
4.34      Vehicles, Equipment and Materials.  The project's requirements for
vehicles, equipment and materials are listed in Working Papers Nos. C-1 to
C-4 and summarized in Annex 2. The following items, totaling US$33 million
(plus contingencies) in value (or 50% of equipment and materials) would be
subject to international competitive bidding (ICB), in accordance with the
Bank Group Guidelines, viz., cement, reinforcing steel and pumps and motors
for the Irrigation component; survey equipment for the River Training
component; hydro-pneumatic and electric pumps and motors and PVC pipe for
the Water Supply component; telephone sets, cables and copper wires for
the Rural Telephones component; and all vehicles. A preference of 15% of
the c.i.f. price of imported goods, or the prevailing customs duty if lower,
would be extended to local manufacturers. A second group of goods, estimated
to cost US$6 million (plus contingencies)(or 9% of all goods), namely chlor-
inators for the Water Supply component and switchboards (and parts), distri-
bution and terminal boxes, concrete poles, steel wires and jointing materials
for the Rural Telephones component, would be procured following local com-
petitive bidding (LCB). For these items either total quantities are small or
the nature of the supplies (small, simple hardware items or bulky low-value
items) is such that there would be no interest from foreign manufacturers.
Procedures set up under Stage I, which are satisfactory, would be continued.
Bid evaluation and contract awards would be governed by the relevant sections
of the Guidelines. As part of the reporting requirements, the Office of
Supply of the Republic of Korea (OSROK) (or the Ministry designated to
undertake procurement on behalf of OSROK) would submit to the Bank, through
the EPB, periodic reports on all LCB procurement, including lists of all bids
received. The remaining materials, estimated to cost US$28 million plus con-
tingencies (41% of all goods), are either required in very small quantities
or must be procured close to the many, scattered work sites (for example,
quarried stone and grass sod for River Training, cement and reinforcing steel
for Water Supply); such materials would be procured by the executing agency
or the village under local shopping (LSH) from local suppliers, subject to
ceiling prices set by the Government.
4.35     Civil Works.  Because the 18,000 or so subprojects are individually
small and scattered over the whole country, it would not be possible to
combine them in packages large enough to be of interest to international
contractors. The largest of the subprojects (for Irrigation) would generally
be less than US$3 million and are thus relatively small in international
terms. Experience on all the ongoing irrigation projects has shown that
foreign contractors are unwilling to bid on even considerably larger works of
this kind in Korea. The project civil works would therefore be constructed



- 26 -
either through locally advertised contracts (Irrigation), force account
(Rural Telephones) or village labor (River Training and Water Supply).  The
stan1d^riA form of contract for Irrigation subprojects developed under Stage I
woul]d be continued but more stringent prequalification of bidders and broader
advertising would be followed under the proposed project. An agreement was
reached at negotiations that, for the Irrigation component, local bidding
proc:edures providing for prequalification based on the bidder's experience
with work of a similar nature, eligibility for all Korean contractors when
the number of qualified provincial contractors is less than ten or the
contract exceeds W I billion, and award to the lowest evaluated bidder, would
be followed.  A full list of bidders, together with the amounts of their bids
and a brief bid evaluation would be provided to the Bank for all contracts
exceeding US$2 mi llion prior to the award of such contracts and bid evalua-
tion and contract: award would be governed by the relevant sections of the
Guidelines. There would be about six contracts exceeding US$2 million.
Disbursements
4.36       Disbursements for vehicles, equipment and materials procured
following ICB would be made at 100% of the c.i.f. or ex-factory cost.
Disbursements for all other equipment and materials would be included with
disbursements for civil works at the following percentages of certified
actual cost: Irrigation 40%; River Training 30%; Water Supply 25% and Rural
Telephones 10%. The documentation for such certificates is described in
para. 5.10.  Disbursements for training would be at 100% of foreign costs,
and, for Project Evaluation, at 50% of total cost. The estimated schedule
of expenditures on the project, the proposed allocation of the proceeds of
the loan, and a quarterly disbursement schedule are presented in Annex 2.
Any savings in the loan account would, at the request of the Government, be
used to finance additional subprojects of the type included in the project.
It is expected that disbursements would be completed by June 30, 1983, about
one year after the completion of project construction.
Accounts and Audiits
4.37       As the executing agencies are all government departments or
government-owned corporations, they would be subject to normal government
audiiting procedures. Each Ministry has an internal auditing section, to
exarmine its accounts, as well as those of the lower levels of Government and
the corporations supervised by the Ministry. The ministerial auditing
sections are supervised by the Board of Audit and Inspection, an independent
agency reporting directly to the President. As government regulations
prevent the Board from making copies of its reports available to the
Bank, auditing of- the project accounts would be carried out by a private
accounting firm, or firms, as has been the case under Stage I. Audit reports
on Stage I have been very adequate in their scope and depth and government
response to some relatively minor problems uncovered during the auditing
process has been prompt and appropriate. An assurance has been obtained that
each executing agency would maintain a separate project account, in sufficient
detail to identif-y the sources and application of all funds used in the
project (including the beneficiaries' contribution), that these accounts
wou:Ld be audited annually, initially by the auditing section of the responsible



- 27 -
Ministry and ultimately by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and
that these auditors would submit to the Bank within five months of the close
of the fiscal year, an audit report on the project accounts, in such detail
as the Bank may reasonably request (Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement).
Project Initiation Plan
4.38      The major steps to be undertaken before project construction can
begin are: completion of subproject selection and designs; and procurement
of materials, especially for Water Supply and Rural Telephones (which process
has already begun). Critical dates for these and other subsidiary activities
are given in Annex 4.
5. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Execution
5.01      As has been the case for the Stage I Project, most villages would
benefit from no more than one or two subprojects under the proposed project
and thus the need for coordination of the various components would be
minimal. The components of the project are parts of ongoing programs which
are the responsibilities of several Ministries. This division of responsi-
bility would not be changed for the execution of the project but existing
provisions for supervising the standards of work and for monitoring and
evaluating the effectiveness of the project would be strengthened. The
executing agencies for the various components are described below.
5.02      Irrigation Component.  Overall responsibility for this component
rests with the Farmland Management Bureau of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Fisheries (MAF), which is also responsible for project planning and subproj-
ect selection. Irrigation subprojects would be owned and operated by the
Farmland Improvement Associations (FLIAs), of which 127 exist at present in
Korea, covering all the major agricultural areas. While the FLIAs are
formally voluntary associations of farmers, they are under close supervision
by the Provincial administrations, which appoint the FLIA chairmen, and
under indirect supervision by the MAF. The role of the FLIAs in operation
and maintenance and agricultural supporting services will be described in
paras. 5.07 and 5.15. The FLIAs have a total of 657,000 members and
3,700 employees. Under the project, the FLIAs would evaluate bids and award
contracts, provide cement and reinforcing steel to the contractors and make
the payments to contractors. Technical services to the MAF for project
planning and to the FLIAs for subproject design and construction supervision
would be provided by the Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC), a
semi-autonomous corporation supervised by MAF, having broad responsibilities
for land and water development throughout Korea. ADC has a staff of 1,200
engineers and technicians and is successfully implementing six Bank Group
assisted projects. Irrigation subprojects would be designed by ADC's First
Survey and Design Department and construction would be supervised by ADC's
Project Construction Department, through the Branch (Provincial) Office
-concerned, on behalf of the FLIA.



- 28 -
5.03      River Training Component.  Responsibility for the planning and
overall administration of this component would rest with the River Training
Section of the Saemaeul Guidance Division of the MHA.  The  w- iE.'r owculd
also be responsible for allocating funds and monitoring the progress of
impliementation. The River Improvement Section of the Construction Bureau in
each province would be responsible for allocating funds to the counties and
would play a role in monitoring. The Construction Section in each county
would plan and design subprojects, sign construction agreements with the
villages for Class III rivers, would advise the villagers and inspect the
completed work. The subdistrict technical guidance team would be responsible
for signing agreements for Class I and II rivers and for day-to-day supervision.
The villages would be responsible for the initial planning of the subprojects,
disbursing the available funds, preparing progress and completion reports and
for maintaining the works.
5.04      Water Supply Component.  The Ministry of Health and Social Affairs
(MHSA) would be responsible for the Water Supply component, through the
Environmental Sanitation Section of its Environmental Health Bureau. With
the recent approval of additional positions, the Section is now adequately
staffed. The Section is reponsible for establishing policy guidelines,
allocating funds, monitoring the progress of construction and conducting
staff training programs. The preliminary design of individual subprojects
would be the responsibility of the sanitarians in the county administrations.
The county Construction Division would then undertake detailed design and
supervision of construction, which would be carried out by village labor.
Design and construction would be subject to review by an engineer in the
Public Health Section of the provincial administration.
5.05      Rural Telephones Component.  This component would be planned,
executed and operated by MCM, which has a well-structured organization, with
separate bureaus for planning, construction, operations and finance (includ-
ing procurement). Supporting units include a telecommunications laboratory,
a training center, and an electronic data processing unit for billing. MCM
is well staffed and has successfully carried out a rapid expansion of tele-
communications services at all levels. Equipment installation under the
project would be carried out by MCM's own technicians, under the supervision
of MCM's regional offices, which would also plan and schedule the subprojects
and report on progress. The component would create a need for about 2,700
additional permanent operational and maintenance staff (mainly operators for
the additional switchboards). These staff would be recruited and trained
on the job by MCM as the project is implemented.
Training
5.06      Provision has been made under the project for technical training
needed to support the construction components. These needs cannot be com-
pletely foreseen in advance but some needs are already apparent. These
include: specialized training for ADC staff in hydrologic analysis, earth
dam design and dam safety inspections /1; training of MBA staff in the design
/1   Unless the Government should designate another agency for this function.



- 29 -
of levee banks for small rivers and in the economic evaluation of such projects;
and, possibly, training needs associated with the rural telephones pilot
projec:. '!1rlke the Stage I project, where training funds were used mainly
for short-term study tours, the emphasis under the new project would be on
longer duration, more specialized training, and might include post graduate
university courses or work study programs with government agencies in devel-
oped countries. Training proposals originating with the executing agen-
cies would be channeled through the responsible Ministries to the Project
Monitoring Unit (para. 5.10) for screening. Proposals involving foreign
training would be presented to the Bank for review and approval.
Operation and Maintenance
5.07      The completed irrigation subprojects would be operated and main-
tained by the FLIAs. The standard of operation and maintenance (O&M) of
similar works completed in the past is generally very satisfactory. O&M
costs (in 1978 prices) would average about W 44,000/ha (US$90/ha) for reservoir
systems and W 61,000/ha (US$125/ha) for pumping stations, but there could be
wide variations betwen subprojects. These costs also include some agricultural
extension services (para. 5.15).   MCM would be responsible for O&M of the
Rural Telephones subprojects, which would be integrated with the overall
telecommunications network. The other components would be maintained by the
villagers themselves, under the guidance of the Saemaeul leader. In most
cases, O&M by the villagers for these types of works has been satisfactory.
A regular cash contribution would be collected from water supply consumers to
pay for cash costs of operation (electricity, repairs, chemicals, etc.) and
also, in many cases, to generate a small surplus for the Village Development
Fund. River Training subprojects would be maintained by voluntary labor
except where major flood damage is involved, when contractors supervised by
the county would be used. An assurance has been obtained that, where operation
and maintenance is the responsibility of the villagers, a system of regular
periodic inspections by county-level staff would be established (Section 4.08
of the Loan Agreement).
Cost Recovery
5.08      Cost recovery provisions for the Irrigation component are discussed
in Chapter 6, following the discussion of farm income. Cost recovery provi-
sions for the other components are discussed below. For the River Training
component, there would be no direct recovery of costs, except to the extent
that part of the labor is volunteered and the remainder is paid subsistence
wage rates, some of which is returned to the Village Development Fund. This
is appropriate, given the low cost of the component per beneficiary (US$10/
beneficiary, if all village residents are counted as beneficiaries), the
difficulty of identifying individual beneficiaries, and the fact that wages
would be earned by the absolute poor and part of the cost added to the
Village Development Fund.   For the Water Supply component, the beneficiaries
would contribute about 30% of the cash cost and all O&M costs and would also
contribute considerable amounts of volunteer labor. This level of cost
recovery is appropriate in view of the nature of the service provided and the
income levels of the beneficiaries. Telephone subscribers would pay installa-
tion charges, deposits and tariffs which would more than cover the capital,



- 30 -
operation and maintenance cost of the component (para. 7.14).  Full cost
recovery is appropriate for telephone service, as the beneficiaries of the
subscribers' line program generally have above average incomes, while the
charges for the village public call offices would be paid only by those who
use the service.
5.09       For each component, assurances have been obtained that project
beneficiaries would continue to contribute to the capital and annual cost of
the facilities to be provided under the project at no less than the existing
levels, which are described above (Sections 4.04, 4.05 and 4.06 of the Loan
Agreement).
Project Monitoring and Supervision
5.10       Monitoring.  The Government has designated EPB as the appropriate
agency to monitor the progress of the project, to draw the attention of the
executing agencies to any problems or delays and to act as a channel of
communication with the Bank. A master list of subprojects to be executed
each year under the project would be drawn up at the beginning of each year.
During project execution, other subprojects could be substituted with the
agreement of the Bank. At the end of each calendar quarter, the executing
agency for each component of the project would prepare a progress report
gi'ving the physical status and expenditure on each subproject on the master
listt. This report would be f orwarded by the responsible Ministry to the EPB.
A Project Monitoring Unit (PMU) has been established within EPB's Budget
Btureau to receive these reports, to check them for internal consistency
arLd for confornmity with Ministry of Finance records of disbursements against
the project components, to prepare summaries of the overall physical and
financial progress of the project (including information on procurement, to
be supplied by OSROK) and to prepare applications for reimbursement, based
on the total expenditure during the quarter. Except for the Irrigation
component, for which MAF's complete report would be forwarded, only the
summary of the ministry reports would be sent to Washington in support of the
di'sbursement application. The detailed reports of the executing agencies
would be available in Korea for review by supervision missions. Formats for
the detailed reports and the summary were agreed upon during negotiations.
Ant assurance has been obtained that the Ministries responsible for the
various components of the project would submit to the EPB within one month of
the close of each calendar quarter, a detailed report on the physical
and financial progress of all subprojects, in such form as shall be agreed
wi-th the Bank; and that the EPB would submit to the Bank, within two months
of' the close of each calendar quarter, a summary report on the physical and
financial progress of the project, together with information on procurement
and spot-checking in such form as shall be agreed with the Bank (Section 3.03
of' the Loan Agreement). At the completion of project construction, EPB would
submit a project completion report to the Bank (Section 3.05 of the Loan
Agreement).
5.11       Spot-checking.  The system of spot-checking of works in progress
established under Stage I would be continued. At the end of each quarter,
the Ministry responsible for each component would select not less than ten
subprojects at random and visit the sites, in order to verify the reports of



- 31 -
the executing agency in respect to these subprojects. It should be noted
that the executing agency is either a local government, a branch office or an
autonomous body (ADC and the FLIAs) and thus a Ministry check would be
reasonably independent. The quarterly reports of the executing agencies,
forwarded to EPB through the Ministries, would be accompanied by a statement
as to which subprojects had been visited, the results of the visits and
follow-up action taken.
5.12      Supervision.  Owing to the large number of subprojects, systematic
supervision of each subproject by the Bank itself would be impossible. Even
so, the project would require a greater than normal supervision input. As
the interests of the Bank and the Government in speedy and efficient execu-
tion of the project coincide, it would be possible for the Government,
through the monitoring arrangements outlined above and the auditing pro-
cedures of para. 4.37, to undertake the bulk of the necessary supervision
work. Bank supervision missions would then be free to concentrate on the
overall progress of the project, technical problems, the evaluation of
project benefits and so on. These missions would also make spot checks on
randomly selected subprojects.
Project Evaluation
5.13      As has been the case under Stage I, the Economic Planning Bureau of
the EPB would continue to be responsible for evaluation studies. The Bureau,
in consultation with the Bank, would continue to program the studies, prepare
terms of reference, monitor the progress of the evaluation studies, review
their conclusions and incorporate their findings in future rural development
planning. Under the project, the studies begun under Stage I would be
continued. Additional high priority studies would include: measurement of
the benefits of the new project components, namely River Training and Rural
Telephones, for which few benefit data are available at present; analysis of
the effectiveness of the present administrative, planning and subproject
selection mechanisms; the measurement of changes in rural attitudes to
development; and an assessment of the impact of the Saemaeul Movement
generally. Clearly, not all these questions will be answered in a three-year
period but the Government feels increasingly that the evaluation mechanism to
be continued under the project would have permanent value.
5.14      Evaluation studies could be carried out by a number of agencies.
Some of the more straightforward studies (for example, usage of rural tele-
phones) would be carried out by the responsible Ministry. Others would
require specialized research bodies, such as the Korea Development Institute,
or the National Agricultural Economics Research Institute (NAERI). However,
it is likely that NAERI would continue to take the lead in the execution of
the studies, as at present. An assurance has been obtained that a program
for continuing the evaluation studies would be submitted to the Bank for
review before October 1, 1978 and that the Bank would be consulted periodi-
cally thereafter on the scope and form of such studies (Section 3.07 of the
Loan Agreement).



- 32 -
Agricultural Supporting Services
5.15      As the principal agricultural supporting services in Korea were
described in detail in the Appraisal Report for Rural Infrastructure I
(Reference No. B-1) and they are generally of a high standard, only a brief
summary will be given here.  Research and extension services would be pro-
vided by the Office of Rural Development, with additional extension work by
the FLIAs. Fertilizer consumption in the Irrigation subproject areas would
rise from 3,400 to 5,400 nutrient tons as a result of the project, but these
needs could be easily met by the NACF or the private sector. Seed production
and distribution is relatively efficient. Farmers obtain credit, mainly from
NACF, for about 30% of their cash inputs and no difficulties are foreseen in
meeting the project's requirements for incremental credit. The principal
farmers' organizations are the FLIAs and, at a lower level, the Hung Nong Gae
("faLrmers' action groups") which are responsible for water distribution at
the local level a.nd act as points of contact for the extension service. The
above services and organizations are expected to have little difficulty in
meeting the needs of the project.  However, in order to ensure a rapid build-
up of benefits from the Irrigation component, an assurance has been obtained
that ORD or the responsible FLIA would appoint an additional extension agent
in etvery myon (subdistrict) in which an irrigation subproject would be
constructed, before December 31, 1978, except where an additional agent had
beerL appointed un,der Stage I (Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement).
6. PRODUCTION, FARM INCOMES AND COST RECOVERY (IRRIGATION COMPONENT)
Proctuction
6.01      The present cropping pattern varies considerably between subprojects
and depends to a large extent on the amount of upland to be converted to rice
paddies and irrigated under the project (para. 4.04). A composite cropping
pattern for the irrigation component is shown in Table 6.1, based on the
average of a 10% sample of all subprojects. Both the.cropping intensity
(148%) and the extent of improved rice varieties (40%) appear to be unexpectedly
high, possibly because the sample was not truly representative in this
respect. However, the increment to future with project conditions is similar
to expectations and to other irrigation projects in Korea. The analysis is
confined to the project area - the area to receive irrigation - whereas
surveys indicate that this area represents only about one-third of the
farmers' total area, the remainder generally being upland, on which a large
variety of crops is grown. It was assumed that the project would not affect
production from this remaining area, except to the extent that high-value
crops, such as garlic, would be transferred from converted upland areas to
other upland areas, in order to preserve this important source of income.
The future cropping pattern shows an increase in the use of improved rice
varieties to 86% and an increase in the cropping intensity to 179%, mainly
through an increase in the winter barley areas, made possible through improved
drainage and more timely planting under the project. Present yields (Table
6.1) of all crops are below national average levels, though fairly high in
absolute terms as a result of good cultural practices and high fertilizer
usage. Lack of a timely and dependable water supply is the main constraint



- 33 -
on production. At full project development, about three years after the
completion of construction, yields would rise to near or slightly above
national average levels. In the case of rice, the incremental yield
attributable to the project is estimated at 1.1 ton/ha (milled basis)
(Table 6.1). Without the project, cropping intensity and yields would
increase only modestly, as present levels are close to the maximum potential
for rainfed conditions. The Irrigation component would lead to an increase
in rice production of 21,000 tons per year plus 10,000 tons of barley and
small amounts of other crops.
Table 6.1: IRRIGATION COMPONENT: PRESENT AND FUTURE CROPPING PATTERNS AND YIELDS
CROPPING PATTERNS
Future           Future
Crop                        Present situation   without project   with project
ha        %         ha         %      ha        %
Improved rice                 3,666      40.2     3,776    41.4    7,825    85.8
Traditional rice              2,800      30.7     2,763    30.3    1,295    14.2
Barley                        4,195      46.0     4,268    46.8    6,667    73.1
Garlic                          118       1.3        120     1.3       146      1.6
White potato                     73       0.8         82     0.9       246      2.7
Onion                             0       0.0          0     0.0       137      1.5
Other upland crops            2,609      28.6     2,563    28.1          0     0.0
Total land area             9,120    100.0      9.120   100.0    9,120   100.0
Total cropped area         13,461    147.6    13,572   148.8   16,316   178.9
Overall cropping intensity         148                  149               179
YIELDS AND PRODUCTION
Future               Future
Crop                  Present situation    without project         with project
ton/ha     tons      ton/ha      tons       ton/ha    tons
Improved rice /a        3.9      14,300       4.0      15,105       5.0     39,125
Traditional rice /a    2.9        8,120       3.0       8,290       4.0      5,180
Barley /b                1.9      7,970       2.0       8,535       2.8     18,670
Garlic                   4.2        495       4.3         515       6.8         995
White potato            10.1        740      10.5         860      14.3      3,520
Onion                    0.0           0      0.0           0      24.0      3,290
/a Milled basis
/b Polished basis



- 34 -
Farm Incomes
U.UZ       ihe Irrigation component would benerit about 26,000 families, with
an average farm holding of 1.0 ha, of which 0.35 ha on average would be
irrigated under tlhe project. Three farm sizes were used: benefited areas
of 0.12 ha, 0.35 Iha, and 1.05 ha (corresponding to total farm holdings of
0.35 ha, 1.0 ha and 3.0 ha respectively). Farms over 3.0 ha would typically
account for less than 2% of farms and about 7% of area. In order to simplify
the analysis, production data identical to that for the project as a whole
were used for each farm size, even though there is evidence that income per
ha is often higher for the smaller farms. However, nonfarm income was
allowed to vary according to farm size, as was family size. The results of
the analysis are shown in Annex 5 and summarized in Table 6.2.
Table 6.2:  IRRIGATION COMPONENT:  FARM INCOMES
(US$)
Farm size (ha)                       0.35               1.0                3.0
Without  With    Without  With    Without  With
project project  project project  project project
Income from project
(irrigable) area:             272      460        790  1,330       2,135  3,670
Inconie from other farm area:  163        163        398    398         854    854
Nonfarm income:                  335      482        262    372         406    616
Net household income:            770   1,105       1,450  2,100      3,395  5,140
Per capita income:               165      237        255    370         510    772
The project would increase average family incomes of the benefited areas
from W 385,000 (US$790) to W 645,000 (US$1,330), an increase of 70%. Nonfarm
income would also increase, as a result of the additional opportunities
for hLired labor created by the project; such labor would be mainly supplied
by the smaller farmers. The average net income of the beneficiary families
would increase from W705,000 (US$1,450) to W 1,020,000 (US$2,100), an
increase of 45%, all in 1978 monetary values. The growth rate of income in
the subproject areas would average about 8%, similar to the expected growth
rate of the economy as a whole. Therefore, the project would have only a
sligh,t effect on national income distribution or the incidence of relative
poverty.  It would, however, prevent the worsening in distribution that would
take place in its absence. The absolute poverty income level in 1978 would
be about US$850 per family. At present, about 25% of the beneficiary fami-
lies are below this level but most of these families would move out of
absolute poverty as a result of the project.



- 35 -
Cost Recovery (Irrigation Component)
6.03      For irrigation subprojects, farmers would pay the full cost of O&M,
through a water charge imposed by the FLIA, as well as repaying a loan equal
to 30% of the capital cost of the project (about US$2,600/ha on average,
excluding a small amount of contributed labor) at 3.5% interest with repay-
ment over 35 years, including five years of grace. Farmers also pay a pro-
duction tax of 6% on all foodgrain production above 1.4 ton/farm, the assumed
subsistence level. Using a discount rate of 10% and a period of 50 years,
this implies a cost recovery index of 18%, if an inflation rate of 10% per
year is assumed. The rent recovery index would vary from 16% to 24%, depend-
ing on farm size, with a project average of 18% at an inflation rate of 10%.
Details are given in Table 6.3. These rates indicate that the farmers would
have ample financial incentive to achieve projected yields and cropping
intensities. In theory, a case could be made for charging little or nothing
for those below some level of relative poverty (for example, half the national
average income, which would include about two-thirds of the beneficiaries of
the irrigation component). Beneficiaries above this level should pay a much
larger share or the full project rent. However, a system of this kind would
not be politically or administratively feasible in Korea. The existing
charges are thus somewhat too onerous on the smaller farmers and should
probably be higher for the largest farmers but, given the relatively even
distribution of farm sizes in Korea, they are, on the whole, considered
satisfactory, especially when it is kept in mind that:
(a) although government pricing and subsidy policies have raised rural
incomes relative to urban incomes over the past five years, it is
unlikely that the terms of trade for agriculture will improve much
in the future. A higher level of project charges would not be
consistent with the objective of preventing a widening gap between
rural and urban incomes. As shown by the slightly progressive rent
recovery indices, the proposed charges would have a small impact on
income distribution within the subproject areas;
(b) the absolute level of project charges at full development would be
considerable, averaging US$280/ha of irrigated land; and
(c) collection rates for water charges in Korea are commonly greater
than 98% of assessments.
An assurance has been obtained that the beneficiaries of the Irrigation
component would continue to contribute to the capital and annual cost
of the facilities to be provided under the project at no less than the exist-
ing levels, which are described above (Section 4.04 of the Loan Agreement).



- 36 -
Table 6.3: IRRIGATION COMPONENT: RENT AND COST RECOVERY
(1978 prices)
Total
.35 ha   1.0 ha   3.0 ha   project
--------- W'000 --------- W million
At Full Project Development /a
Incremental gross value of farm production /b                    127     368      1,124
Less: Incremental cash production costs
(including hired labor)                                        19       56        208
Less:  Incremental interest                                        -        1          4
Equals:  Incremental net cash income                             108     311        912
Less:  Incremental - imputed return on own capital /c              1        4         15
- imputed value of farm management /d        13       37        112
- depreciation /e                             5       15         45
- allowance for risk and uncertainty If   25          74        225
- incremental general taxes /b                1        4         24
Equals:  Project rent                                             63      177       491
Project rent as % of incremental net cash income    58           57         54
Incremental project charges - O&M cost                            11       32        97        843
- Capital cost recovery Lg          5       15         46        447
- Total direct charges             16       47        143      1,290
Discounted over the Life of the Project /h
Project rent                                                     641   1,800      4,995    47,602
Incremental total direct charges /g                              122     359      1,283      9,976
Rent recovery index (%) - at 0% inflation                         19       20        26         21
- at 10% inflation                      16       17        24         18
Project costs (capital and recurrent)                                                       46,563
Cost recovery index (%) - at 0% inflation                                                       21
- at 10% inflation                                                    18
Farm income per capita at full development (1985) US$            237     372        772
Absolute proverty level (1977):    US$200
Consumption per capita (1977) :    US$630
/a  All calculations are in January 1978 financial prices and represent incremental con-
ditions, i.e., with project minus without project.
lb  From Working Paper No. C-5, Table 5.
/c Assuming 70% of production costs are met from farmers' own resources, an allowance of
10% return on capital is made.
/d Ten percent of incremental gross value of production.
/e Equipment at 5% of cost; buildings at 3%; land development at 2%.
/f  Twenty percent of incremental gross value of production.
g& Assuming no inflation. Since capital cost recovery is fixed in nominal terms, the
real value of this recovery would be lower the higher the rate of inflation.
/h Net ;present value, discounted at 10% p.a. over the project life (50 years).



- 37 -
7. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISK
7.01      7he Project would benefit about 18,000 villages or 7.7 million
people (about 48% of Korea's rural population), through intensification of
agricultural production, opening up of a small amount of new farmland, and
an improvement in the quality of rural life, through the provision of water
supply and telephone services. Of these beneficiaries, about 500,000 (the
beneficiaries of the Irrigation component or of private lines under the Rural
Telephones component) would benefit to a large degree. The project would
have a lesser impact on the remaining 7.2 million beneficiaries. The number
of beneficiaries is unusually high because there would be little "overlap"
between the subprojects under the various components. The project would
also encourage decentralized decision-making, help to develop village-level
institutions, and would be a further step in the Government's efforts to
narrow inequalities between the urban and rural sectors, as well as within
the rural sector. Other impacts of the project include an increase in
short-term and long-term employment and a reduction in food grain imports.
7.02      Each component has been analyzed separately.  Where possible,
an indicative economic rate of return, based on a "typical" subproject or
on average conditions, has been calculated. In the case of rural telephones,
a modified financial analysis has been used to produce a minimum estimate of
the economic rate of return. Quantification of the benefits of water supply
has not been possible and a qualitative justification is therefore used.
Assumptions
7.03      Prices and Standard Conversion Factor.  All prices have been
adjusted to projected 1978 levels (Annex 5). For crops traded on the world
market, economic efficiency prices have been based on the Bank's projections
of 1985 world market prices. For other crops, and for farm income analysis,
average farm gate prices for the last three years (adjusted for inflation)
have been used. A standard conversion factor of 0.85 has been used to
correct distortions in the exchange rate, implying a shadow exchange rate of
W 570 = US$1 (compared to the official rate of W 485 = US$1).
7.04      Labor.  As the rural labor force is approximately fully employed
during the crop season and is also fairly mobile, it is appropriate to use
observed wage rates for hired labor as the opportunity cost of labor, that
is, W 2,200/man-day during the cropping season, except for the peak months,
June and October, when labor shortages often occur and a wage rate of
W 2,500/man-day is appropriate. A wage rate of W 1,500/man-day has been used
for the winter, when there is little wage employment, though self-employment,
Saemaeul activities and some migration to the towns do provide some employment
opportunities. Differences in wage payments between male and female workers
have been taken into account in valuing labor. Wage payments were multiplied
by the standard conversion factor to express them in border prices.



- 38 -
Irrigation Component
7.05      ADC has made an economic evaluation of every subproject proposed
for inclusion in the component, the results of which have been used in
subproject selection. A sample of six subprojects, representative of various
provinces of Korea and including both reservoirs and pumping stations, was
selected to confirm this analysis. The methods used by the Bank in calculat-
ing the rates of return of these six subprojects are given below. Cropping
patterns, yields and production with and without the project are shown
(in composite form) in Table 6.1. Crop budgets in economic prices are given
in Annex 5. Full details are given in Working Paper No. C-5.
7.06      Project Cost.  The economic efficiency cost of the project invest-
ment amounts to US$68.7 million (US$7,520/ha) in 1978 border prices and net
of all taxes and transfer payments. An evaluation period of :30 years has
been used, at the end of which the project facilities are assumed to have a
salvage value of 25% of original cost. The cost stream also includes O&M
costs of US$77/ha (the weighted average for reservoir and pumping subprojects
expressed in economic efficiency prices) and replacement of pumps every
15 years.
7.07      Economnic Analysis.  According to ADC's analysis, the 85 subprojects
reviewed for possible inclusion in the component had rates of return ranging
from 10% to 25%. According to the Bank's analysis, these estimates overstate
the rate of return by about 1% at the lower end of the range and by about 5%
at the upper end. Adjustments of this nature were then made for the rates of
return for all proposed subprojects and a cutoff rate of 11% (12% with ADC's
methodology) aplplied to make the final selection of subprojects. The 61
subprojects selected had rates of return in the range of 11% to 20%. The
weighted average rate of return for the Irrigation component is 13%.
7.08      Risks.  Given the experience of ADC and the FLIAs with projects of
similar scope and complexity, no organization or management problems are
expected. Rapid inflation in 1973 and 1974 led to sizable cost overruns on
projects initiated in the early 1970s. However, experience with actual costs
for similar work has been taken into account in estimating the costs of the
proposed project, inflation is now being brought under control, and larger
provisions for price increases have been made for this project and other
projects recently financed by the Bank. As a result, the risk of cost
ovierruns has been reduced. On the benefit side, the project would be backed
up by very satisfactory agricultural supporting services. Therefore the risk
of not achievin,g the projected rate of return is believed to be low.
River Training Component
7.09      Methodology.  The objective of the analysis was first to develop a
simple yet reliable formula for calculating the benefits of these kinds of
projects, which could then serve as a subproject selection mechanism, and
second to apply this formula to calculate the overall rate of return of the
proposed program using data available for the 1977 program.  Benefits which
are readily quantifiable include the value of new farmland created behind



- 39 -
the levees and the flood damage prevented on existing cropland and houses
subject to flooding. In order to simplify the analysis, it is assumed that
the levee banks would be fully effective in preventing damage from floods up
to a certain return period (a one in ten year flood was assumed) and
would have no effect on floods of greater magnitude. Other benefits which
are harder to quantify include the value of the road constructed on top of
the bank in some subprojects, the value of creating the potential for irri-
gation in some cases and the value of preventing bank caving and the deposition
of coarse sediments on valuable cropland.
7.10      Formula.  A formula, shown in Working Paper No. C-6, has been
devised for calculating the benefits from the creation of new land and the
prevention of flood damage to crops and houses. Floods are divided into
several categories, according to return period, and the potential damage to
area and percentage of loss assessed for each category. In order to encourage
the more widespread use of analytical methods in subproject selection, it
was agreed at negotiations that the Ministry of Home Affairs would cause
the counties to carry out an economic evaluation of all subprojects proposed
for inclusion in the River Training component and ensure that all subprojects
selected for the River Training component show an economic rate of return of
at least 11%.
7.11      Evaluation of River Training Program.  The MHA has collected data
on the areas protected by the 1977 subprojects which have been extrapolated
to estimate the benefits of the proposed program. Three categories of floods
were used, corresponding to return periods of: one year; two to five years;
and five to ten years (assuming that the maximum flood that the levees would
be designed to contain would have about a one in ten year probability of
exceedence). The percentage damage to standing crops is highly dependent on
the timing of the flood and would vary from locality to locality. For this
overall analysis, it was assumed that floods would be more likely to occur in
August or September, the critical grain formation stage for rice, but that
inundation would be fairly brief. Therefore, a damage factor of 30% of gross
value (based on research in Japan) was used. For upland crops, the depth of
flooding is likely to be less and a factor of 20% was used. For houses, each
flood event was assumed to cause damage equivalent to 10% of the value of the
house and its contents, the number of houses affected increasing with the
magnitude of the flood. The evaluation period was restricted to ten years,
as it is likely that, on average, a major flood would heavily damage the
subproject within this period. Using project costs from Table 4.1 and
annual maintenance costs of 5% of capital cost, the rate of return was found
to be about 30% (Working Paper No. C-6). While the reliability of this
estimate is somewhat low, as a result of the extrapolations of the benefited
areas referred to above and the need to make fairly rough calculations of
percentage losses, the result clearly indicates the economic merits and high
priority of the program.
7.12      Distribution of Benefits.  The total number of families benefiting
from the component would be about 700,000. Benefits would accrue more
heavily, however, to those villagers owning land or houses in areas subject



- 40 -
to flooding. Whiile no measurements-have been made of the income levels
of these persons, it is reasonable to assume that their incomes would tend
to be below the rural average.
Wat:er Supply Component
7.13      The major benefit of the Water Supply component would be an improve-
menit in the quality of village life for about 590,000 families. The unit
cost (US$63/family plus contingencies) would be quite low, considering the
standard of service. The standard of service (house connections) would be
appropriate to the level of income of the beneficiaries and may be considered
as a necessary complement to other more directly productive rural investments.
In addition, the Water Supply component would have some health benefits,
would result in some time savings, and would assist in developing the insti-
tutional capacity of the villages for further development.  However, none of
these benefits could be readily quantified and no attempt at numerical analy-
sis has been macle. Given the cost recovery arrangements of the component,
a modified financial analysis, similar to that undertaken for telephones
(para. 7.14), would tell us little about the value of the service to the
consumers. However, the fact that the villagers contribute about 50% of the
capital cost, in the form of volunteer labor and cash, as well as all O&M
costs, is an indication of the high value that they place on this service and
strengthens the conclusion that it is justified.
Rural Telephones Component
7.14      Some attempts have been made to measure directly the socio-economic
benefits of telephone service in rural Korea. A survey by MCM in 1975 showed
that a village public call office handled, on average, 85 local (within the
subdistrict) and 160 long-distance calls each month and that the telephone
service helped to remove feelings of isolation and improved the villagers'
income through timely market information and the ability to bypass middlemen.
In addition, the local administration was able to disseminate information to
the villages more quickly and much time could be saved by eliminating
personal visits. In the absence of very precise measurements of benefits,
the charges paid by telephone subscribers for the service may be taken as a
minimum measure of their willingness to pay and thus of the economic value
of the service. Using MCM records of telephone usage and growth rates and
the current levels of tariffs, the incremental revenues attributable to the
project can be compared to its incremental capital and operating costs. If
deposits are included as revenues (since they form a kind of revolving fund)
and an evaluation period of 25 years assumed, the discounted financial rate
of return (or the minimum estimate of the economic rate of return) would be
20%.  If deposits are not counted as revenue, the minimum rate of return is
12%'. The program would benefit 75,000 families through private connections.
These families have incomes above the rural average and it is appropriate
that they should repay more than the full cost of this service.  The village
line program would benefit about 220,000 families, who would also repay the
full cost of their service, through call charges.



- 41 -
Average Rate of Return
7.15      The weighted average rate of return for the project, excluding the
Water Supply component for which no quantification of benefits was possible,
would be approximately 20%.
8. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      Agreements were reached with the Government during negotia-
tions on the following major points:
(a) availability of funds in the 1978 budget (para. 4.31);
(b) bidding procedures for Irrigation civil works contracts (para. 4.35);
(c) formats for the quarterly reports (para. 5.10); and
(d) the economic evaluation of River Training subprojects (para. 7.10).
8.02      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
on the following major points:
(a) the Borrower would, under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank,
cause the dams constructed under the project to be periodically
inspected in accordance with sound engineering practices in order
to determine whether there are any deficiencies in the condition of
such structures, or in the quality and adequacy of maintenance or
methods of operations of the same, which may endanger their safety.
To this end, the Borrower shall propose to the Bank appropriate
arrangements for the Bank's review no later than one year before
the expected completion of such structures (para. 4.10);
(b) for each component, project beneficiaries would continue to con-
tribute to the capital and recurrent project costs at no less than
the existing levels (paras. 5.09 and 6.03);
(c) a program for continuing the evaluation studies would be submitted
to the Bank for review before October 1, 1978 and that the Bank
would be consulted periodically thereafter on the scope and form of
such studies (para. 5.14); and
(d) ORD or the responsible FLIA would appoint an additional extension
agent in every myon (subdistrict) in which an irrigation subproject
would be constructed, before December 31, 1978, except where an
additional agent had been appointed under Stage 1 (para. 5.15);
8.03      With the above agreements and assurances, the proposed project
would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$95.0 million with a 17-year maturity
and a 4-year grace period, following standard conditions for Korea. The
borrower would be the Republic of Korea.






ANNEX I
Table 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT II
Numbers of Saemaeul Villages by Type
Type of Village                         Actual                     Targets
1973     1974       1975      1976     1979    1981
Basic                  18,415   10,665
Self-Help              13,943   20,000               20,165
Self-Reliant            2,307    4,000               14,500      ..   34,665
Total             34,665   34,665               34,665      ..   34,665



KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT II
Saemaeul Movement
Physical Achievements in Selected Sectors, 1971-1976
Plan
for
Unit           Up to 1971  197;-1975       i476    Total        1977
Rural Roads
Village roads                km              6,046       33,616       1,107   40,769       374
Farm feeder roads            km             27,200       14,258       1,228   42,686       169
Rural Housing
Roof improvements        1,000 bldgs.            -        1,638         360    1,998       150
Housing units              Each                  -          -        4,244    4,244   10,000
Rural Water Supply
Water supply systems    Villages               235       11,000      3,860   15,095    2,034
Public Facilities
Village halls            Villages           13,494       13,557      2,701   29,752        -
Village telephones        Each                   -       10,429      2,000   12,420    2,000
Community workshops       Each                   -        2,722         527    3,249       -
Agricultural Infrastructure
River training             km                    -        5,338         557    5,895       200
Public warehouses         Each                   -       13,258      2,311   15,569         -
Public compost pits       Each              51,793       14,021      2,490   68,304         -
Cooperative markets       Each                   -          565         115      680       150
Others
Reforestation              ha                    -      130,277     83,000  213,277  136,700
Nursery stocks           million trees           -          640         336      976       131
Rural electrification   1,000 households    849           1,256         235    2,340       150                  X
Saemaeul factory         Each                    -          357         117      474       100                M X



ANNEX 1
Table 3
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT II
Gross Investment under the Saemaeul Movement, 1971-76
(W billion)
Source           1971     1972      1973      1974    1975    1976   Total
Government Support
All programs                  4.1       4.4     21.5      30.8   166.8   165.1  424.6
Of Which: Environmental
Improvement                (4.1)    (3.3)    (4.8)    (4.8)    ..
Contribution by Villages
Total /a                      8.1     28.0      76.9    102.0   129.1   150.4  461.5
Of Which: Environmental
Improvement                (8.1)   (28.0)   (36.3)   (25.6)    ..
Grand Total                    12.2      31.3     98.4    132.8   295.9   322.6  893.2 /b
Of Which: Environmental
Improvement               (12.2)   (31.3)   (41.1)   (30.4)
/a Includes loans and voluntary labor contributions.
/b Equivalent to US$1.84 billion.



KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT II
Labor Contributions for Various Saemaeul Projects (1971-1974)
(man-days)
Per Household                         Per Village                            %
Self-  Self-                          Self-  Self-                       Self- Self-
Basic  help   reliant  Average   Basic   help   reliant  Average  Basic  help  reliant  Average
Village roads             8.0   10.0       17.7      12.6       795      902   1,556    1,163    38.0   34.4   30.3           32.4
Farm feeder roads         3.2    7.1       12.1       8.0       320      644   1,066        731    15.3   24.5   20.8         20.4
Small bridges             1.7    2.5        4.1       2.9       172      224      356       267      8.2    8.5    6.9         7.5
Repair of streams         1.1    0.8        3.2       1.9       106       74      280       177      5.0    2.8    5.5         4.9
Repair of brooks          0.2    1.1        3.8       2.0        24       96      337       182      1.2    3.7    6.6         5.1
Paddy rearrangement       0.1       -       0.8       0.4         7        -       56        27      0.3       -    1.1        0.8
Straw products            1.4    0.9        3.2       2.0       138       81      278       188      6.6    3.1    5.4         5.2
Reforestation             1.1    2.3        2.6       2.0       113      211      227       187      5.4    8.0    4.4         5.2
Improvement of roofs    4.2    4.4         11.1       7.2       419      394      974       663    20.0   15.0   19.0         18.5
All projects             21.0   29.1       58.6      39.0    2,094   2,626   5,130    3,585   100.0  100.0  100.0    100.0
M >T



ANNEX 2
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT II
Cost Estimates, List of Materials, Schedule
of Expenditures and Disbursements
List of Tables
Table 1   -   Cost Estimates: Summary
Table 2   -   Cost Estimates: Irrigation Component
Table 3   -   Cost Estimates: River Training Component
Table 4   -   Cost Estimates: Water Supply Component
Table 5   -   Cost Estimates: Rural Telephones Component
Table 6   -   Summary of Vehicles, Equipment and Materials
Table 7   -   Schedule of Expenditures
Table 8   -   Proposed Allocation of the Proceeds of the Loan
Table 9   -   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements



ANNEX 2
Table 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT II
Cost Estimates: Summary
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  exchange
----- W billion ----         - US$ million ----        %
Irrigation (Table 2)               21.8    17.8       39.6   45.0   36.8        81.8      45
River Training (Table 3)           14.6      3.6      18.2   30.0    7.5        37.5      20
Water Supply (Table 4)             10.0      8.1      18.1   20.6   16.8        37.4      45
Rural Telephones (Table 5)          6.1      6.1      12.2   12.6   12.5        25.1      50
Subtotal                      52.5    35.6      88.1  108.2   73.6    181.8         40
Miscellaneous
Technical Training                 -       0.1       0.1      -      0.2       0.2    100
Project monitoring                0.1       -        0.1    0.1       -        0.1       0
Project evaluation                 --      0.1       0.1    0.1    0.1         0.2      50
Subtotal                       0.1      0.2       0.3    0.2    0.3        0.5      60
Tatal (baseline cost)         52.6    35.8       88.4  108.4   73.9    182.3        41
Physical contingencies
Irrigation (13%)                  2.5      2.5       5.0    5.2    5.2        10.4      50
River Training (10%)              1.5      0.4       1.9    3.1    0.8         3.9      20
Water Supply (10%)                1.0      0.8       1.8    2.1    1.7         3.8      45
Rural. Telephones (10%)           0.6      0.6       1.2    1.3    1.2         2.5      50
Subtotal                       5.6      4.3       9.9   11.7    8.9       20.6      43
Price contingencies
Irrigation                        5.8      4.4      10.2   12.0    9.0        21.0      43
River Training                    0.8      0.2       1.0    1.6    0.4         2.0      20
Water Supply                      1.4      1.2       2.6    2.9    2.4         5.3      45
Rural Telephones                  0.1      0.2       0.3    0.3    0.3         0.6      50
Miscellaneous                     0.1       --       0.1    0.1    0.L         0.2      50
Subtotal                       8.2      6.0      14.2   16.9   12.2       29.1      42
Total project cost            66.4    46.1    112.5  137.0   95.0    232.0          41



ANNEX 2
Table 2
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT II
Cost Estimates: Irrigation Component
(1978 prices)
Number of
Item                           Unit cost   subprojects area           Total cost
(W '000 per ha)              (ha)  (W billion) (US$ million)
A. Small Dam
Dam                              1,750
Canals                              805
Relocation roads                    195
Conversion of uplands to
paddies                          365
Materials: cement, steel,
pumps & motors                   235
Land acquisition                    800
Survey and design /a                 65
Supervision /a                     335
Administration /b                   115
Subtotal                    4,665           46      6,672    31.1      64.3
B. Pumping Station
Pumping station                     520
Canals                           1,270
Relocation roads                     20
Conversion of uplands to
paddies                          295
Materials: cement, steel,
pumps & motors                   335
Land acquisition                    260
Survey and design /a                 45
Supervision /a                      200
Administration lb                    65
Subtotal                    3.010           15      2,485      7.5      15.5
Total - Irrigation Works         .          61      9,157    38.6       79.8
C.  Access Roads /b                  LS            .                 1.0      2.0
Total                                       61      9,157    39.6       81.8
/a To be paid to ADC.
/b To be paid to the FLIAs.



ANNEX 2
Table 3
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT II
Cost Estimates: River Training Component
(1978 prices)
A.  COST OF -YPICAL SUBPROJECT (W '000/km)
River Class
Unit            I                    III
Item                                     Unit      cost   Quantity  Cost        Quantity  Cost
1. Stone pit:ching
Embankmaent construction       cu m       0.25-0.4   2,500    637          6,000   2,400
Supply & delivery of stone  sq m          1.1 -1.8   1,800  3,240          3,600   3,944
Collection of gravel           man-day   1.1 -1.4        590    817        1,180   1,274
S-one mason                    man-day      2.9          180    520          180      520
Labor                          man-day      1.5          180    270          180      270
Cutting sod                    man-day      1.5           90    135           90      135
Transporting sod               sq m         0.015    3,300        51       7,700      120
Sodding                        man-day      1.5          210    315          210      315
Design, supervision &
miscellaneous                   .         LS            .     315           .       472
Total                                                     6,300                9.450
River Class
II                   III
2. Gabions
Embanknent construction        cu m       0.25-0.4   4,500  1,147          6,000   2,400
Transporting wire cylinders kg              0 02       2,040      40       2,720       54
Constructing gabions           sq m         0.95       3,000  2,835        4,000   3,780
Collection of gravel           cu m         1.1        1,260  1,354        1,140   1,229
Tying of gabions               man-day      1.5           90    135           90      135
Backfilling                    man-day      1.5          540    810          540      810
Cutting sod                    man-day      1.5           90    135           90      135
Transporting sod               sq m         0.015    4,400        69       7,700      120
Sodding                        man-day      1.5          210    315          210      315
Design, supervision &
miscellaneous                   .         LS            .     360           .       472
Total                                                     79200                9 450
B. COST OF RIVER TRAINING COMPONENT
Length          Unit cost                Cost
River Class                                 (km)          (W '000/km)           (W billion)
i                                      1,250              6,300                 7.88
II                                        750              7,200                 5.40
III                                        500              9,450                 4.72
Total - CDnstruction                   2.500                                   18.00
C. VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
Item                                      Quantity    Unit price          Cost
(W '000)      (W million)
Theodolite                                  168             600             101
Level                                       168             500              84
Field vehicle                                  9          2,200              20
Motorcycle -                                 150            160              24
Subtotal                                                                        0.23
Total                                                                          18.23



ANNEX 2
Table 4
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT II
Cost Estimates: Water Supply Component
(1978 prices)
Cost of a Typical System (1978)
Item                                                                        Cost
(W'000)
Materials
Pipe                                                                        620
Fittings                                                                    120
Electric and hydro-pneumatic pumps                                          265
Cement                                                                      275
Steel                                                                       265
Chlorinator                                                                 120
Timber                                                                       60
Transport                                                                     100
Skilled labor                                                                 475
Total                                                                  2.300
Note: The cost of a system is assumed to increase 5% per year as a result
of more complex subprojects being undertaken.
Cost of Water Supply Component
Construction
1978         1979         1980        Total
Unit cost (Won '000/system)           2,300        2,400        2,530
Number of systems                     1,610        2,600        3,190        7,400
Total cost (Won million)         3.7          6.2          8.1           18.0
Vehicles
Item                 Quantity         Unit price           Cost              Total
(W'000)         (W million)
Field vehicle              9             2,200               20
Motorcycle               150               160               24
Subitotal                                                                0.1
Total                                                                    18.1



ANNEX 2
Table 5
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT II
Cost Estimates: Rural Telephones Component
(1978 prices)
Item                                                                      Cost
(W million)
Major Materials /aL
Telephone sets
Cables
Copper wire                                                             5,300
Minor Materials /a
Magneto boards
Common battery board parts
Distribution and terminal boxes
Jointing materiaLls
Steel wires
Concrete poles
Switchboard cabl.e and wires                                            2,120
Miscellaneous Supplies /a                                                 1,450
Installation
Equipment installation
Cable laying
Village line installation                                               3,230
Total - construction                                                12,100
Vehicles - field vehicles (9)                                                20
- motorcycles (150)                                                 30
Total                                                               12,150
/a Details in Working Paper No. C-4.



ANNEX 2
Table 6
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT II
Summary of Vehicles. Equipment and Materials
(US$ million) /a
---------- Procurement subject to: -------------
International         Local
Competitive        Competitive           Local
Component               Bidding (ICB)       Bidding (LCB)    Shopping (LSH)
Irrigation
Equipment                1.10
Materials                 3.96
River Training
Vehicles                  0.91
Equipment                0.38
Materials                  -                    -               13.81
Water Supply
Vehicles                 0.91
Equipment                4.04                  1.92
Materials                 9.93                  -               11.53
Rural Telephones
Vehicles                  0.91
Equipment and
materials             10.93                  4.37              2.96
Total               33.07                  6.29             28.30
/a   Base costs - without contingencies.



ANNEX 2
Table 7
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT II
Schedule of Expenditures
Total          Calendar years
I tem                                     cost   1978  1979  1980  1981  1982
----------- Won billion -----------
Irrigation                                 39.6   0.4   9.9  15.8  11.5   2.0
River Training                             18.2   9.2   9.0   -        -     -
Water Supply                                18.1   3.8   6.2   8.1.  -       -
Rural Telephones                           12.2   9.6   2.6   -        -     -
Miscellaneous                                0.3   0.1   0.1   --    0.1   --
Total (baseline cost)                 88.4  23.1  27.8  23.9  11.6   2.0
Physical contingencies
Irrigation                                5.0   --    1.3   2.0   1.5   0.2
River Training                            1.9   1.0   0.9   -       -      -
W4ater Supply                             1.8   0.4   0.6   0.8   -        -
Rural Telephones                          1.2   1.0   0.2   -              -
Subtotal                               9.9   2.4   3.0   2.8   1.5   0.2
Total (incLuding physical
contingencies)                      98.3  25.5  30.8  26.7  13.1   2.2
Pr:ice contingencies
Annual rate (%Y)                                 -    10    10    10    10
Compounded rate (%)                      14      -    10    21    33    46
Amount (Won b:Lllion)
Irrigation                             10.2   -      1.1   3.8   4.3   1.0
River Training                          1.0   -      1.0   -      -      -
Water Supply                            2.6   -      0.7   1.9   -       -
Rural Telephones                        0.3   -      0.3   -      -      -
Miscellaneous                           0.1   -      --    --    0.1   --
Subtotal                              14.2   -      3.1   5.7   4.4   1.0
Total project cost (Won billion)  112.5  25.5  33.9  32.4  17.5   3.2
(US$ million)  232.0  52.6  69.9  66.8  36.1   6.6



ANNEX 2
Table 8
Page 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT II
Proposed Allocation of the Proceeds of the Loan
Estimated           Proposed    Disburse-
Category         Description                      total cost          allocation   ment  %
-------- US$ million -------
Civil Works and Materials and
Equipment Procured under Local Procedures
(1) Irrigation
Base cost                             81.8
Price contingency                     21.0
Subtotal                       102.8
Less:  Materials subject to ICB          5.1
Price contingency                1.3
Subtotal                                   96.4        37.5          40 /a
(2) River Training
Base cost                             37.5
Price contingency                      2.0
Subtotal                        39.5
Less:  Vehicles and equipment            0.5
Subtotal                                   39.0        11.5         30 La
(3) Water Supply
Base cost                             37.4
Price contingency                      5.3
Subtotal                        42.7
Less:  Vehicles                          0.2
Materials subject to ICB        14.4
Price contingency                2.0
Subtotal                                   26.1         6.0         25 /a
(4) Rural Telephones
Base cost                             25.1
Price contingency                      0.6
Subtotal                        25.7
Less:  Vehicles                          0.2
Materials subject to ICB        10.9
Price contingency                0.3
Subtotal                                   14.3         1.5         10 /a
Subtotal (carried forward)                        175.8        56.5



ANNEX 2
Table 8
Page 2
Estimated         Proposed    Disburse-
Category         Description              total cost        allocation   ment  %
US$ million ------
Subtotal (carried forward)             175.8        56.5
Materials. Ecluipment and Vehicles
Subject to ICB
(5)  foi Irrigation                             6.4         6.1        100 /b
(6)  for River Training                         0.5         0.45       100 /b
(7)  for Water Supply                          16.6        15.8        100 /b
(8)  for Rural Telephones                      11.4        10.8        100 /b
(9)  Training                                       0.2         0.2       100 /b
(10) Project Evaluation
Base cost                          0.2
Price contingency                  0.1
Subtotal                                0.3         0.15        50
(11) Unallocated
Projiect monitoring                 0.1
Pricie contingency                 0.1
Physical contingencies            20.6
Subtotal                               20.8         5.0
Total                                 232.0        95.0
Summary of Allocation of Loan by Components
Irrigation                                                     43.6
River Training                                                 11.95
Water Supply,                                                  21.8
Rural Telephones                                               12.3
Miscellaneous                                                   0.35
Unallocated                                                     5.0
Total                                       95.0
/a Percentage of total cost, including design and supervision costs, land
acquisition, and equipment installation but excluding volunteer labor.
/b Percentage of c.i.f. cost of imported goods or ex-factory price of
locally manufactured goods.



ANNEX 2
Table 9
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT II
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Bank fiscal year                           Cumulative disbursements
and quarter                              (US$ million equivalent)
1978
3rd
4th                                              2.0
1979
1st                                              8.5
2nd                                             16.3
3rd                                             22.8
4th                                             27.3
1980
1st                                             36.3
2nd                                             42.3
3rd                                             47.8
4th                                             54.0
1981
1st                                             64.5
2nd                                             71.5
3rd                                             77.5
4th                                             80.0
1982
1st                                             85.0
2nd                                             89.0
3rd                                             92.0
4th                                             93.5
1983
1st                                             94.0
2nd                                             94.5
3rd                                             94.8
4th                                             95.0
Closing date:  June 30, 1983



ANNEX 3
Page 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT II
River Training Component:  Financing Plan
1.        The cost estimate for the component is shown in Annex 2, Table 3.
The cost estimate assumes a value of unskilled labor of Won 1,500/man-day,
which is considerably below normal wage rates in the farming season but does
correspond to the actual wage paid to villagers under the program.
2.        Funds for the program would come 60% from the Central Government
budget (partly reimbursed by the Bank), 30% from the provincial budgets
(under a revenue sharing plan) and 10% from the villagers. The village
contribution would normally be in the form of volunteer labor but might take
other forms, such as local materials or cash from the Village Development
Fund, as circumstances permit. The government assistance is allocated to
the county chiefs at the beginning of the fiscal year. The county chief
transfers the allocation for each subproject to an account in the name of
the Village Development Committee. Withdrawal of these funds requires the
signatures of three persons: the village Saemaeul leader (an elected
position); the village headman (an appointed semi-governmental position);
and the subdistrict chief (a civil servant).
3.        The village develpment committee is allowed considerable latitude
in the use of the government grant. A certain amount must be earmarked for
materials, skilled labor and equipment but these costs are usually only
about half the total cost. The remainder may be used to pay unskilled
labor. However, MHA prefers that only "needy" people be paid and that all
others volunteer their labor. The "core" group of needy people are defined
by the Living Protection Law (No. 913 of 1961) as falling into one of the
following groups:
(a) Persons older than 65 years and without family;
(b)  Persons younger than 18 years and without family;
(c)  Pregnant housewives without support;
(d) Disabled persons; and
(e) Persons made eligible under other laws.
These groups are entitled to Government food subsidies, medical treatment
and various other benefits.  For the purpose of the River Training component
(and some other similar programs), the village is entitled to add other
categories of needy people, using more flexible criteria, usually:



ANNEX 3
Page 2
(f) Families with less than 0.3 ha of land;
(g) Non-farm families; and
(h) Others who cannot support themselves (usually defined as a
family income of less than Won 22,000 (US$45) per month).
In any case, "needy people" appear to be a well-defined group, typically
accounting for 10-15% of the village population. This group also corresponds
closely with the target group of the absolute poor, who are estimated to
number about 14% of the rural population.
4.        Needy people are entitled to wages of W 1,500/day (W 1,000/day for
women) but MRA encourages them to return up to half their earnings to the
Village Development Fund. Thus in a "model" village, a considerable amount
of the govenment grant would be retained in the Village Development Fund and
used for approved projects to increase income, for example, livestock
raising, cash crops or cottage industries. The income-raising projects to
be supported are listed in the application for assistance in River Training.
5.        It is understood that the degree of adherence to the "model"
financing plan varies widely, according to the village's relative poverty,
previous exprience under the Saemaeul Movement and its degree of self-reliance.
This degree of flexibility (unusual in Korea) appears a very appropriate
response to these varied conditions. In 1977, 6% of the total program cost
was deposited in the Village Development Fund and 2% was contributed as
volunteer labor. tIHA has projected that the proportion deposited will
increase to 8% in 1978 and 10% in 1979.
6.        The actual sources and application of funds for the 1977 program
are shown in Table 1. Funds were obtained 98% from Government sources -
this will be reduced to 90% for the project period. Funds were expended
roughly 50% for unskilled labor, 25% for materials, and the remainder for
equipment (trucks for transporting materials and bulldozers for forming the
larger embankments) and skilled labor (such as stone masons).
7.        The actual use of the Village Development Funds in 1977 is shown
in Table 2. Funds available averaged W 226,000 (US$465) per village. About
half the funds were loaned to individuals for livestock purchase, about 15%
was saved for future projects and the remainder was spent on a variety of
infrastructural and income producing projects.
8.        Land reclaimed under River Training subprojects remains the common
property of the village and is registered as such. It may be leased to
individuals and the income added to the Village Development Fund.
9.        Government funds allocated to these projects are not repaid.  This
is reasonable, as the relatively modest amounts involved (about US$4,000/
village) serve.three objectives:



ANNEX 3
Page 3
(a) River Training - creating new cropland and protecting existing
cropland and structures from flooding.
(b) Income projects - which also add to production and create
additional employment. These funds are repaid to the village by
the individual beneficiaries.
(c) Social welfare - additional income for needy people.
10.       The above arrangements are satisfactory, though they are different
from the financing plans of all the components of Rural Infrastrucure I.
Sufficient safeguards against the misuse of funds exist and these would be
supplemented by spot-checking and independent auditing under the project.
11.       Bank funds would be disbursed to Korea on the basis of quarterly
reports of actual work completed (as is done for several components of Stage
I), whereas the government funds could continue to be paid in advance to the
villages. The only feasible form of procurement for the cement, stone, and
other materials needed for the component would be local shopping.



ANNEX 3
Table 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT II
River Training Component: Financing Plan - 1977 Program
Sources of funds                      Amount (W million)               %
Central Government                         134                         9
Revenue sharing                            502                        35
Local Government                           774                        54
Subtotal:  Government                          1,410                       98
Village - cash                               4
labor                            29                         2
Subtotal village                                  33                        2
Total                                       1,443                      100
Application of funds                  Amount (W million)                      %
Materials                                  355                        25
Equipment operation                         73                         5
Skilled labor (10,000 man-days)            250                        17
Unskilled labor - needy people
(49,000 man-days)      732}/a                     51
- others                     }
(2,000 man-days)        33)                        2
Total                              1.443                               100
/a   Of which W 87 million (6% of total project cost) was returned
to the Village Development Fund.



ANNEX 3
Table 2
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT II
River Training Component: Uses of Village Development Funds - 1977
No. of villages participating: 593
Amount in fund at beginning of program: W 47 million
Amount deposited as a result of the River Training Program: W 87 million
Amount available for income proiects:  W 135 million
ACTUAL OR PLANNED USE OF FUNDS
Type of project                      No. of villages          Amount (W million)
Animal husbandryr                         356                         75.3
Public welfare f'acilities                 35                          7.0
AddLitional river training                 38                          6.0
RoaLds and bridges                          5                          6.9
Cash crops                                  2                          3.4
Repair of roads                              5                         2.4
Public facilities                          17                          4.9
Farmland formation                          8                          2.0
Tree planting                              10                          1.9
Irrigation                                  9                          1.4
Electrification                             2                          1.3
Water supply                                 2                         0.5
Environmental improvement                   2                          0.4
Farm machinery                              2                          0.3
Fis,heries                                  1                          0.3
Subtotal                                494                       114.0
Retained in village development
fund for future projects                 99                        20.6
Total                                 593                       134.6



ANNEX 4
Table 1
Page 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT II
Project Initiation Plan
Activity                         Responsibility            Critical Date
Subproject Selection /a
1.  Irrigation                         MAF                      Completed
2.  River Training                     MHA, provinces           February 1978
3.  Water Supply                       MHSA, provinces          February 1978
4.  Rural Telephones                   MCM                      Completed
Completion of Design
1.  Irrigation                         ADC                      December 1978
2.  River Training                     Counties                 April 1978
3.  Water Supply                       Counties                 March 1978
4.  Rural Telephones                   MCM                      Completed
Procurement
A. Subject to ICB (critical items only)
1.  Translate specifications      MHSA/MCM                  Completed
2.  Advertize bids                OSROK                     Dec. 1977/Feb. 1978
3. Evaluate bids and award
contract                      OSROK                    March/April 1978
4.  Receive goods /b              MHSA, MCM, others         April/May 1978
B. Subject to LCB
1.  Advertize bids                OSROK                     February 1978
2.  Receive goods                 All executing agencies  April 1978
/a Whole program for irrigation component; 1978 program for other components.
/b Goods not available at the start of the 1978 construction season would be
borrowed from stock.



ANNEX 4
Table 1
Page 2
C. Civil Works
1.  National Prequalification    ADC                     April 1978
2.  Advertise bids                 FLIAs                 May 1978-April 1979
3.  Award contracts                FLIAs                 May 1978-May 1979
Irrigation Development
1.  Submit proposal for mini-
mizing cost increases              MAF                   Completed
2. Prepare proposals for dam
safety inspections                 MAF/ADC               June 30, 1979
3. Appointment of additional
extension agents                   ORD/FLIAs             December 31, 1978
Project Monitoriing
1. Submission of first quarterly
report
-  from Ministries                 MAF/MHA/MHSA/MCM      April 30, 1978
-  from EPB to Bank                EPB                   May 31, 1978
Project Auditing
1. Submission of- name and quali-
fications of proposed auditor    EPB                     September 30, 1978
2.  Submission of- audit report        Auditor/EPB           April 30, 1979
Project Evaluation
1. Submission of- program for
continuing studies                 EPB                   October 1, 1978



KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT II
List of Key Indicators
The targets shown below should allow comparison between appraisal projections and actual
achievements, in a concise and easily-comprehensible form.
Planned Target for
1978           1979           1980            1981      1982
Activity                 Total      Unit    June   Dec.   June   Dec.   June   Dec.   June  Dec.  June
30     31      30     31      30      31      30    31    30
A. Irrigation Component
1.  Subproject selection              61     each      61      61      61     61      61      61     61    61    61
2.  Survey and design                 61     each      35      61      61     61      61      61     61    61    61
3.  Award contract                    61     each      15      15      61     61      61      61     61    61    61
4.  Complete subproject               61     each       -       -       -      -       5      10     30    45    61
5.  Area irrigated                     9.2  '000 ha    -        -       -      -       -    0.7    2.0   4.0   9.2
B. River Training Component
1.  Subproject selection          8,300      each  4,150  4,150  8,300  8,300                  .       .
2.  Subprojects completed         8,300      each  1,000  4,150  5,150  8,300          .       .       .
C. Water Supply Component
1.  Subproject selection          7,400      each  1,610  1,610  4,210  4,210  7,400  7,400            .
2.  Subprojects completed         7,400      each    500  1,610  2,400  4,210  5,200  7,400            .
3.  Households served                592    '000       40    129    200    337    420    592           .
D. Rural Telephones Component
1.  Village lines completed       2,704      each    800  2,704         .      .
2.  Subscribers' lines completed   75    '000          10      36     48      75
E. Project Evaluation
1.  Implementation of study          100      %        10      25      37     50      62      75     87   100       .
_ mI
X'. X.



ANNEX 5
Table I
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT II
Price Structure for Rice /a
(W'000tton, milled basis)
1978                  1985
Financial Economic Financial Economic
Thai 5% broken f.o.b. Bangkok /b  (US$/ton)    330           330         420        420
Ocean freight and insurance          (US$/ton)      30        30          33         33
Import price c.i.f. Incheon/Busan (US$/ton)    360           360         453        453
Won equivalent import price
@ W 485 = US$1.00                           174,600   174,600    219,705   219,705
Internal transportation, storage
and handling /d                              18,790    15,970/c   20,670    17,570/c
Cost of milling                                 8,000      6,800/c    8,800       7,480/c
Price of rice, project area                   185,390   183,770    231,575   229,795
Price subsidy                                 162,235          -    116,050           -
Farm-gate price of rice                       347,625   183,770    347,625   229,795
Value of byproducts (bran and straw)           39,400    33,490/c   43,340    36,840/c
Farm-gate value of rice                       387,025   217,260    390,965   266,635
/a  In terms of 1978 constant prices.
/b  Most of Korea's r:Lce imports are of US origin and are equivalent to or better
in quality than Thtai 5% broken.
/c  Using the standard conversion factor for Korea of 0.85, implying a shadow
exchange rate of W 570 = US$1.00.
/d  As relative prices continue to change over time, a 10% increase in real cost
between 1978 and 1985 is assumed.



ANNEX 5
Table 2
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT II
Farm Input and Output Prices
(W'000 per ton)
1978                             1985
Financial        Economic        Financial        Economic
Crops
Rice                      387              217             391              267
Barley                    168              148             170              160
Soybean                  279               129             335              155
Sweet potato              87                75              92               79
Chinese cabbage            39               33              41               34
Garlic                  1,178            1,000           1,234            1,050
Red pepper              1,027              874           1,078              917
White potato              109               92             114                97
Sesame                   861               733             904              769
Tobacco                   670              569             704              598
Onion                      88               75              92                79
Fertilizers
Nitrogen                  279              190             367              250
Phosphoric acid           229              155             319              216
Potassium                 112               76             128               86
Compost                     3                2               3                2
Seeds
Rice                      271              153             274              187
Barley                    126              112             128              120
Soybean                  223               180             268              216
Sweet potato               74               64              78               67
Chinese cabbage       79,950            79,458          84,050           82,964
Garlic                  1,885            1,605           1,975            1,685
Red pepper            23,620            20,091          24,795           21,095
White potato              165              138             171              146
Sesame                   865               844             910              885
Tobacco               53,600            45,560          56,320           47,875
Onion                  3,080             2,592           3,240            2,711
Source: Working Paper No. C-5.



KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT II
Irrigation Component: Crop Budgets and Net Value of Production
Economic       Gross                         Net             Total NVP                  Net
farm-gate      value of      Production    value of           for project  Value of   value of
Area       Yield      Production    price            production   costs /a        production /a  area             labor       production
(ha)       (ton/ha)  ('000 ton)   (W '000/ton)   ----------- (W '000/ha) ------------              ------------ W billion - ---------
Future Without Project
Improved rice                   3,776        4.0       15,100           267            1,068           211             857            3.23
Traditional rice                2,763        3.0        8,300            267             801            187            614             1.69
Barley                          4,268        2.0        8,500            160             320            151            169            0.72
Garlic                            120        4.3          520         1,050            4,515         1,890           2,625            0.32
White potato                       82       10.5          860             97           1,020            313            707            0.06
Onion                             -                                                      -
Other upland crops              2,563                      .                             .              .              .               1.27
Total                                                                                                                            7.29           3.87        3.42
Future With Proiect            13,572
Improved rice                   7,825        5.0       39,100           267            1,335           248           1,087            8.51
Traditional rice                1,295        4.0        5,200            267           1,068           224             844             1.09
Barley                         6,667         2.8       18,700            160             448           192             256             1.71
Garlic                            146        6.8          990         1,050            7,174         1,890           5,284             0.77
White potato                      246       14.3        3,500             97           1,387           381           1,006            0.25
Onion                             137       24.0        3,300             79           1,896            305          1,591             0.22
Other upland crops                -                        .              .             .
Total                    16,316                                                                                                 12.55           4.06        8.49
Increment due to prolect       2.744                                                                                                                             5.07
(US$10.5 mil.)
/a Excluding labor.
U. U-



KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT II
Irrigation Component: Benefited Area Farm Income Statement
(Won '000)
0.12 ha farm size /a            0.35 ha farm size /a             1. 05 ha farm size /a
Future   Future                 Future   Future                  Future   Future
Present   without   with        Present   without   with        Present   without   with
situation  project  project   situation  project  project   situation  project  project
Gross value of production            165        176       303         482        514      882         1,447     1,533    2,657
Nonlabor production inputs costs    34           42        61          98        122       178         299        363       538
Hire labor /b                          -          -         -           -          -         -           93        98       131
Gross project area income            131        134       242         384        392      704         1,055     1,072    1,988
Taxes /c                                1          1        2           5          5         9           27        28        52
Interest charges /d                     1          1        1           2          2         3            8          9       13
Water charges /e                        0         0        16           0          0        47            0          0      143
Net farm income                      129        132       223         377        385       645       1,020      1,035    1,780
/a  Average farm sizes benefited by the project.  Average total farm sizes are:  0.35; 1.0 ha and 3.0 ha.
/b  Based on family labor of full-time adult equivalents or 1.9 for an average farm size of less than 0.5 ha, 2.6 for an
average farm size of 1.0 ha and 3.0 for an average farm size of greater than 2.0 ha (see MAF, Farm Household Economy
Survey, 1977).
/c  Taxes on agricultural income:  1.0% on less than 0.5 ha farm size, 1.3% on 1.0 ha farm size and 2.9% on greater than
3.0 farm size (see the above source).
/d  Assumed that 30% of the entire inputs costs are borrowed for six months at an interest rate of 13% per annum.
/e  Operations and maintenance costs plus 30% of capital costs at 3.5% interest per annum for 35 years with a five year
grace period.
4S 



KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT II
Irrigation Component: Farm Household Income Statements
(Won '000)
0.35 ha farm size /a             1.0 ha farm size /a              3.0 ha farm size /a
Future   Future                  Future   Future                  Future   Future
Present   without   with         Present   without   with         Present   without   with
situation  project  project   situation  project  project   situation  project  project
Project benefited area net income /b    129           132       223        377        385        645       1,020       1,035    1,780
Outside project area net income /c           77         79        79       188        193        193          408         414       414
Total net farm income                      206        211       302        565        578        838       1,428        1,449    2,194
Total net nonfarm income /d                 159       162       233         124       127        184          195         197       299
Total net farm household income            365        373       535        689        705      1,022        1,623       1,646    2,493
Net per capita income /e                  78.3       80.0    114.8       121.5      124.3      180.2       243.7        247.1     374.3
/a  Average total farm sizes equal project benefited area plus area outside the project.
/b See Table 3.
/c  Net income from the project-unaffected areas which constitute almost twice the project-benefited are:  60% for the
smaller farm size, 50% for medium farm size and 40% for larger farm size.  Future net income of the project-
unaffected areas remains unchanged without the project and with the project.
/d For smallest farm size 43.5%, for medium farm size 18% and for largest farm size 12% of farm income (see MAF,
Farm Household Economy Survey, 1977).
/e 4.66 members in smallest farm size, 5.67 members in medium farm size family and 6.66 members in largest farm size
family (see above reference).
H m
fD >4



ANNEX 6
Page 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT II
Additional Documents and Data Available in the Pro-ject File
Section A: General Reports on Korea and the Rural Sector
Reference
No.
A - 1       World Bank, "Growth and Prospects of the Korean Economy,"
Report No. 1489-KO, February 23, 1977 (12 vols) - Annex A,
"Agriculture".
A - 2        Economic Planning Board, "Major Statistics of Korean
Economy: 1977," Seoul, Korea.
A - 5       Ministry of Finance, "Brief Korean Taxation," Seoul, Korea,
March 1977.
A - 6       Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, "Yearbook of Agri-
culture and Forestry Statistics: 1976," Seoul, Korea,
November 1976.
A - 7       National Agricultural Cooperative Federation," Monthly
Review: 7-77", Suweon, Korea, July 1977.
A - 8       World Bank, "Price Prospects for Major Primary Commodities,"
Report No. 814/77, June 1977.
A - 9       Economic Planning Board, "Annual Report on the Price Survey:
1975," Seoul, Korea, July 31, 1976.
A -10       Economic Planning Board, "The Price Stabilization and Fair Trade
Act," Seoul, Korea, December 31, 1975.
Section B:  General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
General
B - 1       World Bank; "Korea - Appraisal of the Rural Infrastructure
Project," Report No. 958a-KO, February 15, 1976.
B - 2       Korea Overseas Information Service, "Saemaul Undong," Korea
Background Series, 1977.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Irrigation Component
B - 3       Agricultural Development Corporation, "Agricultural Develop-
ment Corporation," Anyang, Korea (no date). (General
Information on ADC)
B - 4       Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries," Proposed Project
Area on 2nd IBRD Loan Project (Draft)," April 1977. (Subproject
Selection Data)
B - 5       Agricultural Development Corporation, "Second IBRD Loan Sub-Projects
(Draft)," August 9, 1977. (Design Data and Costs)
B - 6       Agricultural Development Corporation, "Second IBRD Loan Sub-Projects:
Area of Minor Irrigation Development (Draft)," August 1977. (More
Detailed Design Data and Costs)
B - 7       Agricultural Development Corporation, "Economic Analysis for
Sub-Project Areas of Minor Irrigation Development," August 1977.
(Detailed Calculations for Six Subprojects)
B - 7a      Agricultural Development Corporation, "Rural Infrastructure
Project II: Irrigation Component (Draft)," January 1978.
(Revised design data and costs).
B - 7b      Agricultural Development Corporation, Cost Comparisons and/or
Economic Evaluations for Fifteen Subprojects.
B - 7c      Agricultural Development Corporation, Detailed Design Calculations,
Cost Estimates and Drawings for the Ha Bun and Sam Pae Subprojects
(4 Volumes), November 1977.
B - 7d      Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, "Rural Infrastructure
Project II: Loan Negotiation Draft (Irrigation Component),"
January 1978. (Revised cost estimate, bidding procedures, budget
construction schedule, training and cost cutting proposals).
River Training Component
B - 8       Ministry of Home Affairs, "River Training Programme in Korea,"
(April 1977). (Project Background and Project Management)
B - 9       Ministry of Home Affairs, "IBRD Loaned River Training Project,"
(August 1977). (Cost Estimate, Materials List and Benefit Data)
B -10       Ministry of Home Affairs, "Second Rural Infrastructure Project
(River Training Project)," (August 1977). (Information on
Construction Methods and Project Organization)



ANNEX 6
Page 3
B -11       Ministry of Construction, "Practical Summary as to Technology
for River Improvement," Training Institute, 1971 - Translation
of Chapters 1 and 2. (Hydrologic and Hydraulic Design Methods)
B -12       Sample design, contract document and drawings for Whaebu Sub-
project, Chungcheong Nam Province.
B -13       Sample "Registration Card of Income-Generating River Training
Program" and "Final Report of River Training Program for Income
Generation" (translated).
B -13a      Ministry of Home Affairs, "River Training Project:  Revetment
Design Method," undated. (Detailed design and construction
methods for all masonry bank protection systems.)
Water Supply Component
Rural Telephones Component
B -14       Ministry of Communications, "Telecommunications in Korea,"
(no date). (General Information on MCM)
B -15       Ministry of Communications, "Telecommunications in the Republic
of Korea," February 1977. (Statistical Summary)
B -16       Ministry of Communications, "Statistical Yearbook of Communications,
1976," (no date).
B -17       Ministry of Communications, "Comparative Balance Sheet -
Special Account," (July 1977).
B -18       Ministry of Communications," Preliminary Loan Application
to IBRD Fund (Rural Telecommunication Project)," April 1977.
(Summary of Project Proposal)
B -19       Ministry of Communications, "Rural Telephone Component:
Additional Data," (July 1977). (More Detailed Information on Cost
Estimates, Materials List and Financial Analysis)
Project Evaluation
B -20       EPB/NAERI, "iResearch Program for the Evaluation Study of Rural
Infrastructure Development Projects under the IBRD Loan,"
Seoul, Korea, March 1977. (Study Organization and Plan of Work)
B -21       Korea Development Institute, "Saemaeul Undong (The New Community
Movement in Korea): Working Paper," Sung Hwan Ban, February 1977.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
Section C:  Selected Working Papers
C: - 1*     Wcrking Paper on the Irrigation Component.
C - 2*      Working Paper on the River Training Component.
C - 3*      Working Paper on the Water Supply Component.
C - 4*      Working Paper on the Rural Telephones Component.
C - 5*      Working Paper on the Economic Evaluation of the Irrigation
Component.
C - 6*      Working Paper on the Economic Evaluation of the River Training
Component.
C - 7*      Working Paper on the Economic and Financial Evaluation of the
Rural Telephones Component.
c - 8       "Development of Rural Telecommunications, Republic of Korea,"
September 1977.
C - 9       "Background Papers on Korean Telecommunications," (September 1977).
C -10       Economic Evaluation of the Irrigation Component - Computer Printout.
* Included in the Supplementary Volume of Major Working Papers, which is
available on request.



IBRD 12351R
- .  -; u.s w   .   N   g>  R  T   t4   K  C): R   6    a  X   .    .                                   129           SEBERU.ARY 195
S     -       -                .. .OE . ....  .                                                                .                           JS eo
-  KOREA                ... . .. .
.KOREA                                                                f
Ye/lo                                                                           '"G    0 C                    J        huncheonGA.                   EN
ECas                          0 c e a n           '
China  Sear                                                                                                                                                                  .h
125                                   126'                                                                                                                                      ho
Thi b.dn ishown b                                          rth--hi,  map do                                                                              o ncheeon
imply end.r-.-eni or ac-intirc-  by Ih,                           > inyang                                                     u                        eongseon
Worldd Bkn -d it, ffl-,hi=
37- ,=                                                                                                                                                     \3
Mgnripo      ><
Yellow    S e a                                                                                           GI                                                                 9hn
36'
BeoOsesngpo  '?       )52    .>                                              Ci  L >   \   G  h      C   N.9    NiieDongDo           n ecn
og                        detj                                                       ae  vPg      tN
35.>                                                                                   ;>                                               acen
Mob-gpofi e  bMj
AWandoKOREA
Pr mary roads
_    -  .                                                           |  |  5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Railways under conntruction34
34-                                                                                                                                                  .4-.   AirPorts
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~at
_ n                               chpecial cities
-- Provincial boundaries
4(,                                                   0        20       40       60       eo        00h      120      145     160
0             20            40            60             80             100
,,;,Sengiips                                                                         MliEs
125'                                     126'                                       12,7'                                    1 2,8                                    1,9'



