CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1530 KO
Loan Agreement
(Second Rural Infrastructure Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 13, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1530 KO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 13, 1978, between REPUBLIC OF KOREA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "EPB" means the Economic Planning Board of the Borrower,
or any successor thereto;
(b) "MAF" means the Ministry cf Agriculture and Fisheries
of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(c) "MHA" means the Ministry of Home Affairs of the Bor-
rower, or any successor thereto;
(d) "MHSA" means the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs
of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(e) "MCM" means the Ministry of Communications of the
Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(f) "ADC" means the Agricultural Development Corporation, a
public corporation under the jurisdiction of MAF, established and
operating pursuant to the Rural Modernization Promotion Law of
the Borrower of 1969 as amended, or any successor thereto;


﻿-2-
(g) "FLIA" means Farmland Improvement Association, an
agsociation of farmers and landowners established and operating
pursuant to the Rural Modernization Promotion Law of the Borrower
of 1969 as amended, or any successor thereto;
(h) "NACF" means National Agricultural Cooperative Federa-
tion, established and operating pursuant to the Agricultural
Cooperative Law of the Borrower, dated July 29, 1961, as amended,
or any successor thereto;
(i) "ORD" means Office of Rural Development, an agency of
the Borrower under the jurisdiction of MAF, established and opera-
ting pursuant to the Rural Development Law of the Borrower of
1962 as amended, or any successor thereto;
(j) "PMU" means the Project Monitoring Unit referred to in
Section 3.03 of this Agreement; and
(k) "OSROK" means the Office of Supply of the Republic of
Korea, the Borrower's central procurement agency, or any successor
thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to ninety-five
million dollars ($95,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983 or
such later date as the Bank shall otherwise establish. The Bank
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
seven and forty-five hundredths per cent (7.45%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and out3tanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part A of the
Project through MAF, Part B through MHA, Part C through MHSA, Part
D through MCM and Part E through EPB, ADC and the abovementioned
Ministries with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate agricultural, engineering, administrative and
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall cause its Ministries, agencies, pub-
lic corporations, provincial and county governments and all agen-
cies of said provincial and county governments responsible for the
carrying out of any part of the Project to cooperate effectively
with each other in the execution of the Project.
(c) Without any limitation or restriction upon its obliga-
tions under paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall
make or cause to be made adequate provisions of funds in the bud-
get allocations for the various Ministries, provincial and county


﻿-4-
governments and agencies referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of
this Section, so as to enable them to promptly carry out their
respective annual work programs under the Project.
Section 3.02. For the purpose of carrying out Part A of the
Project, the Borrower:
(a) shall cause ADC to carry out the surveys, designs and
supervision of sub-projects included in Part A of the Project and
shall, without any limitation or restriction upon its obligations
under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, provide to ADC promptly as
needed by ADC, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for such purposes;
(b) shall cause MAF to submit to the Bank for review
standard forms of contract for sub-projects under Part A of the
Project before awarding any contract under said Part A of the
Project; and
(c) shall cause ORD and the responsible FLIAs to appoint,
not later than December 31, 1978 or such other date as shall be
agreed with the Bank, suitably trained extension agents in the
myons (districts) and guns (counties) in which sub-projects are
to be carried out under Part A of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause (a) EPB to maintain
an adequately staffed Project Monitoring Unit (PMU) within its
Budget Bureau; (b) each of the Ministries responsible for the
carrying out of any part of the Project to submit to PMU, not
later than one month after the end of each calendar quarter, a
detailed report on the progress of all sub-projects for which
it is responsible, including the cost thereof, in such form as
shall be agreed with the Bank; and (c) EPB to submit to the Bank,
not later than two months after the end of each calendar quarter
and in respect of such quarter, a summary report on the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof) in such form as shall
be agreed with the Bank, a report on the procurement of goods
prepared by OSROK and a report on spot checking of physical pro-
gress of sub-projects prepared by each of the Ministries respon-
sible for the carrying out of any part of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the


﻿-5-
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and pro-
cedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank
at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the


﻿-6-
Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory
to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall (a) not later than
October 1, 1978 or such other date as shall be agreed with the
Bank, furnish to the Bank for review a program of Project evalua-
tion studies to be carried out under the direction of the Economic
Planning Bureau of EPB and (b) consult the Bank, from time to
time, on the adequacy of the scope and form of such studies.
Section 3.08. Without any limitation or restriction upon
its obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement and except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (a) cause
NACF to make loans to the FLIAs responsible for the execution
and operation of sub-projects under Part A of the Project, such
loans to cover the equivalent of at least 30% of the construction
costs of such sub-projects, to be amortized over a period of 35
years, including a grace period of 5 years and to bear interest at
the rate of not less than 3.5% per annum; and (b) provide to NACF
the funds required for the purpose referred to in (a) of this
Section by way of a loan to be amortized over a period of 35
years, including a grace period of 5 years and to bear interest at
the rate of 2% per annum.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lieioi, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for


﻿-7-
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central bank
or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall (a) cause its Ministries,
agencies, public corporations, provincial and county governments
and the agencies of said provincial and county governments respon-
sible for the carrying out of any part of the Project to establish
and maintain separate accounts for the purposes of the Project;
(b) cause the auditing section of each Ministry responsible for
the carrying out of any part of the Project to audit annually
all the accounts established for such part of the Project in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied; (c) appoint independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
to perform for each fiscal year the final audit of all such
accounts as so audited by the various Ministries; and (d) send to
the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than five
months after the end of each such year, the report of such audit
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested.


﻿-8-
Section 4.04. Upon completion of each irrigation sub-
project under Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall set and
collect from the beneficiaries of such sub-project through the
FLIA responsible for the execution and operation of that sub-
project, water charges at levels sufficient (a) to ensure the
recovery of the annual operating and maintenance costs of such
sub-project and (b) for the said FLIA to meet its repayment
obligations with respect to the loan made to it by NACF under
Section 3.08 (a) of this Agreement.
Section 4.05. Upon completion of each water supply sub-
project under Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall cause
the beneficiaries of such sub-project to finance the operating
and maintenance costs of such sub-project through periodic con-
tributions in cash or in kind.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall set its telephone tariffs
at such levels as shall be required to ensure that the aggregate
amount of gross revenues which the Borrower is expected to earn
on account of its telephone services provided under Part D of the
Project shall be sufficient to cover at least (a) the amortization
of the capital costs and (b) the operation and maintenance costs
of the facilities provided under said Part D of the Project.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall: (a) under arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank cause the dams to be constructed under
the Project to be periodically inspected in accordance with
sound engineering practice in order to determine whether there
are any deficiencies 1    the condition of such dams, or in the
quality and adequacy tC maintenance or methods of operations of
the said dams, which may endanger their safety; and (b) to this
end, furnish to the Bank for review a detailed report on such
arrangements not later than one year before the expected com-
pletion of the construction of such dams.
Section 4.08. The Borrower (a) shall cause all facilities to
be constructed under the Project to be adequately operated and
maintained and shall cause all necessary repairs thereof to be
made promptly, all in accordance with appropriate engineering
practices and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose, and (b) without any limitation or
restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (a) above, shall
cause county-level staff to inspect periodically the standard of


﻿-9-
operation and maintenance of the facilities to be constructed
under the Project whenever such operation and maintenance is the
responsibility of villagers.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date June 12, 1978 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Economic Planning Board of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister, Economic Planning Board
Republic of Korea
Seoul, Korea
Cable address:
EPB
Seoul
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names -n the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
By /s/ Yoonsae Yang
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /si S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works and ma-
terials and equip-
ment procured by the
Borrower in accor-
dance with local
procedures for:
(a) Irrigation un-          37,500,000       40%
der Part A of
the Project
(b) River training          11,500,000       30%
under Part B of
the Project
(c) Water supply             6,000,000       25%
under Part C of
the Project
(d) Rural telephones         1,500,000      10%
under Part D of
the Project
(2) Materials, equipment
and vehicles subject
to international com-
petitive bidding for:
(a) Part A of the            6,100,000      100% of foreign
Project                                 expenditures or
100% of local
expenditures
ex-factory


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(b) Part B of the              450,000       100% of foreign
Project                                 expenditures or
100% of local
expenditures
ex-factory
(c) Part C of the           15,800,000       100% of foreign
Project                                 expenditures or
100% of local
expenditures
ex-factory
(d) Part D of the           10,800,000       100% of foreign
Project                                 expenditures or
100% of local
expenditures
ex-factory
(3) Other items
(a) Training under             200,000       100% of foreign
Part E of the                           expenditures
the Project
(b) Project evalua-            150,000       50%
tion studies
(4) Unallocated                   5,000,000
TOTAL         95,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and


﻿- 13 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the teritory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by,
or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on
the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I
above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to meet high-priority needs in
irrigation, river training, water supply and telephones in rural
areas of the Borrower's territory. The Project consists of the
following parts:
Part A:
Irrigation of about 9,200 ha of land, consisting of
about 60 sub-projects selected by agreement between
the Borrower and the Bank, through the construction
of reservoirs or pumping stations as well as main and
secondary canals.
Part B:
Construction or improvement of about 2,500 km of river
banks, consisting of about 8,300 sub-projects selected
in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank.
Part C:
Construction of water supply systems in about 7,400
villages.
Part D:
1.   Connection of about 2,700 villages to the Borrower's
telephone network.
2.   Installation of about 75,000 manual telephone connec-
tions.
Part E:
Technical training for Project staff.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1982.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning August 15, 1982
through   August 15, 1994                    3,655,000
On February 15, 1995                               3,625,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 16 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                   1.30%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                          2.65%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                   4.80%
Aore than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                                   6.55%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                                   7.45%


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   (a) Contracts for the purchase of the following goods shall
be let in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines: (i) cement,
reinforcing steel, pumps and motors required under Part A of the
Project; (ii) survey equipment required under Part B of the
Project; (iii) hydro-pneumatic and electric pumps and motors and
PVC pipes required under Part C of the Project; (iv) telephone
sets, cables and zopper wires required under Part D of the Proj-
ect; and (v) all vehicles.
(b) For the goods referred to in sub-paragraph (a) above,
the Borrower shall prepare and forward to the Bank as soon as
possible, and in any event not later than 60 days prior to the
date of availability to the public of the first tender or pre-
qualification documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a
general procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank
will arrange for the publication of such notice in order to
provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportu-
nity to bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall provide
the necessary information to update such notice annually so long
as any goods remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    (a) Contracts for the purchase of the following goods shall
be let through competitive bidding advertised locally, under pro-
cedures acceptable to the Bank: (i) chlorinators required under
Part C of the Project; and (ii) switchboards (including switch-
board parts and associated cables and wires), distribution and
terminal boxes, concrete poles, steel wires and jointing materials
required under Part D of the Project.
(b) The evaluation and comparison of all bids shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 and 3.10
of the Guidelines; contracts shall be awarded to the lowest
evaluated bidder in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
3.11 of the Guidelines.


﻿- 18 -
3.   Goods other than those referred to in paragraphs 1 (a) and 2
(a) above may be procured through local shopping.
4.   Contracts for civil works under Part A of the Project shall
be let through competitive bidding advertised locally, under pro-
cedures acceptable to the Bank. Bidders shall be prequalified on
the basis of their ability to perform the particular work satis-
factorily, taking into account inter alia: (i) experience and
past performance on similar contracts, (ii) capabilities with
respect to personnel, equipment and plant, and (iii) financial
position. The evaluation and comparison of all bids shall be made
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 and 3.10 of
the Guidelines; contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated
bidder in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.11 of the
Guidelines.
5.   Civil works under Parts B and C of the Project shall be
carried out by village labor.
6.   Civil works under Part D of the Project shall be carried
out by force account.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods subject to
International Competitive Bidding; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods referred to in Part A.1 (a) of this Schedule: (i)
bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port
of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for
domestically manufactured goods; (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on
domestically supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost
to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures inci-
dental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or
installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in the Republic of Korea may be granted
a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.


﻿- 21 -
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
3.   The procurement of goods through local shopping under Part
A.3 of this Schedule and civil works required for Parts B, C
and D of the Project shall be recorded in the quarterly reports on
the progress of sub-projects referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of
this Agreement and the Borrower shall submit to the Bank a summary
of such quarterly reports as provided in Section 3.03 (c) of this
Agreement.


﻿- 19 -
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
Republic of Korea if the bidder shall have estab-
lished to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the
Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in the Republic of Korea
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price
of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the Republic of Korea.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i): the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   (a) With respect to any contract for goods specified in Part
A.1 (a) of this Schedule estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more: before bids are invited, the Borrower shall


﻿- 20 -
furnish to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invita-
tions to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) With respect (i) to any contract for goods specified in
Part A.1 (a) of this Schedule estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more and (ii) any contract for civil works under Part A
of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or
more, after bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of any contract referred to in
paragraphs (a) and (b) above shall not, without the Bank's concur-
rence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification invited.
Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to (i) each contract for goods (other than those
specified in Part A.3 of this Schedule) to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding para-
graph and (ii) any contract for civil works under Part A of the
Project estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, after its execution, the list
of -all bidders, the amounts of their bids, an evaluation and
comparison of all responsible bids on the basis of their evaluated
costs and the designation of the successful bidder in the report
to be furnished by EPB to the Bank under Section 3.03 (c) of this
Agreement. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the


