DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TNTlPRNTIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For PubLic Use
Reort No. PA-146a
APPRAISAL OF
BIRGANJ IRRIGATION PROJECT
(NARAYANI ZONE)
NEPAL
March 1, 1973
Agriculture Division
ASIA PROJECTS DEPARTMENT
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It mnay not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



anteCY MEQUIVALENTS-
US$1.00        -  Nepalese Rupees (NRs) 10.125
NRs 1.00        m US$0.0988
NRs 1 million  -  US$98,765
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM)
1 hectare (ha)            n  2.47 ucres (ac)
1 kilometer (km)          -  0.62 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)               -  3.28 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (m3)        -  1.31 cubic yards or 35.31 cu ft
1 million m3 (Mm3)        =  810 acre feet (ac-ft)
1 m3/sec                  -  35.31 cubic feet per second (cfs)
1 liter/sec               -  0.035 cfs
ABBREVIATIONS
ADBN -    Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
AmC  -    Agricultural Marketing Corporation
GOI  -    Government of India
EHGN -    His Majesty's Government of Nepal
NZIDB-    Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Board
0 & N-   Operation and Maintenance
UNDP -    United Nations Development Program
USAID-    United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 to July 15
1/   Excha*ge rate in force on February 19, 1973.



NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
BIRGANJ IRRIGATION PROJECT
(NARAYANI ZONE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMIARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .........             .............    i-ii
I.   INTRODUCTION .........................................                   1
General.                                                         1
Gandak Irrigation and Power Project Agreement ...                 1
II. BACKGROUND.                                                                2
General.                                                          2
Agriculture.                                                      2
Irrigation and Drainage.                                         3
Fourth Five-Year Plan for Agriculture.                           3
III. TIE PROJECT AREA.                                                          4
Location.                                                        4
Climate.                                                         4
Topography and Soils.                                            4
Crop Production and Yields .......................               4
Existing Irrigation Facilities.                                  5
Farm Size and Land Tenure.                                       5
Agricultural Support Program.                                    6
Credit, Marketing and Storage.                                   6
Transportation.                                                   7
IV. THE PROJECT...                                                             7
A. General Description .                      .                   7
B.   Detailed Features .......................                    7
The Project Works. .                                 7
On-Farm Development. .                               9
Status of Engineering.                               9
Consulting Services. .                               9
Water Supply and Demand  . .10
Construction Schedule  . .11
C. Cost Estimates   .                     .11
D. Financing   . .12
Financing Plan  . .12
Procurement and Contracts  . .12
Disbursement  . .13
Accounts and Audit  . .13
This report was prepared by Messrs. K. Pranich, D. D. Brown, M. Burer,
H. R. McDonald, T. H. Yoon (IDA), and M. Cassam (FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program).



-2-
Page No.
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ...........................   13
Project Organization .............................   13
Monitoring of Benefits ...........................   15
Operation and Maintenance ........................   15
Recovery of Costs ................................   15
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM INCOME ..   16
Production       ...................   ....................   16
Market Prospects ..............     ..    .................   16
Prices      .....................   ......................   17
Farm Income ...................        ....................   17
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ............................   17
Economic Benefits ................................   17
Ecology and Environment ..........................   19
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....            ............   19
ANNEXES
1.   Agreement between His Majesty's Government of Nepal and the
Government of India on the Gandak Irrigation and Power Project
2.   Climatic Data
3.   Agriculture
4.   Agricultural Support Services
5.   Description of Project Works
6.   Irrigation Water Demand and Supply
7.   Construction Schedule
8.   Detailed Cost Estimates and Expenditure Schedule
9.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
10.   List of Equipment
11.   Project Organization and Consultants
12.   Irrigation, Electricity and Related Water Resources Act, 1967
13.   Farm Incomes
14.   Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis



- 3 -
CHART: Organization Chart
World Bank - 6877 (R)
MAPS
IBRD 3895      Project Location
IBRD 3896      General Plan






NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
BIRGANJ IRRIGATION PROJECT
(NARAYANI ZONE) 1/
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Agriculture accounts for about 70% of Nepal's GDP and 80% of
export earnings, and provides employment for about 90% of the labor force.
Total cultivated land has been estimated at 1.8 million ha, or about 13%
of the country's total area. Most of the cultivated area is used to produce
foodgrains with more than 50% being utilized for the production of paddy.
Foodgrains are grown mainly during the monsoon season (June to September)
and because the timing and amount of rainfall are erratic, crop damage from
drought and floods is common. Second crops are grown on only about 33% of
the cultivated land, but yields are very low. Irrigation is of increasing
importance in Nepal's agriculture. By 1970, the Government had provided
irrigation facilities for about 120,000 ha. However, these facilities are
designed primarily to provide supplementary water to the wet season rice
crop, and double cropping on irrigated land is therefore very limited. The
Government has recognized for some time the need for irrigation schemes
designed for double cropping, and several such projects are in the planning
stage, including the Birganj Irrigation Project. This would be the first
agriculture project to be financed by IDA in Nepal.
ii.       The project would complete the construction of a canal distribu-
tary system to irrigate 28,700 ha with water supplied from a barrage on the
Gandak River on the India-Nepal border and a main canal constructed by the
Government of India (GOI), and a tubewell irrigation scheme to irrigate a
net area of 2,700 ha in an adjoining area. It includes drainage, on-farm
development, service roads, agricultural extension, research and cooperative
services to provide inputs and credit to farmers, providing an integrated
approach to the agricultural development of the project area. In addition
it would also provide for the preparation of feasibility studies for a
small pumping scheme and a surface irrigation project. The project would be
executed by the Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Board (NZIDB) recently
established as an autonomous government agency, having jurisdiction over an
area encompassing five administrative districts. The staff of NZIDB would
be trained by a consultant team in the planning, design, construction, opera-
tion, maintenance and management of both the surface and groundwater irri-
gation systems as well as in agricultural development. Since NZIDB is
a new agency, drawing its key staff from several ministries, its success
in implementing and managing the project would depend on strong support
i:rom HMGN as well as on the assistance and training of NZIDB staff by the
consultants.
1/   Throughout this report referred to by its short title of "Birganj
Irrigation Project".



- ii -
iii.      The estimated cost of the project is NRs 102 million (US$10.1 mil-
lion), comprising land acquisition NRs 11 million, civil works NRs 30 million,
equipment and spares NRs 7 million, consultants NRs 20 million, administra-
tion and contingencies NRs 24 million and on-farm development works by farm-
ers NRs 10 million. The estimated foreign exchange cost is US$4 million and
the remaining US$6.1 million equivalent would be local costs. All contracts
for civil works and equipment would be awarded after international competi-
tive bidding. The project would take 5 years to complete.
iv.       The major benefit from the project would be the substantial
increase in foodgrain production in the project area, mainly rice and
wheat, which would lead to an increased agricultural income and employment
opportunities for some 20,000 farm families. The primary beneficiaries
would include the majority of the project area population who are subsistence
smallholders with current incomes significantly below the national average
farm income. At full development of the project, the annual gross value of
project agricultural output is expected to increase from the current NRs 47
million to NRs 122 million, more than doubling the projected output without
the project (NRs 51 million). The economic rate of return of the project
would be about 21% if sunk costs which consist of the GOI's expenditures
toward this project are disregarded; or 14%, if the sunk costs without
interest are included in the first year. The economic rate of return for
the tubewell scheme alone, which has been included in order to expand an
existing pilot tubewell project and to develop institutional capacity for
construction and management of future tubewell irrigation projects, would
be about 14%. Other intangible but important benefits include the demons-
tration effects of the project, institution-building and training which
would set an example for, and contribute to, agricultural development in
Nepal.
v.        Though the economic rate of return of the project is somewhat
sensitive to changes in investment costs and reduction in benefits, the
economic viability of the project is secure, within reasonable ranges of
variation in benefit and cost variables. A 20% increase in investment costs
reduces the rate to 18% while a 20% reduction in benefits would lower it to
17%. Even with an extremely pessimistic combination of a 20% increase in
investment costs and a 20% reduction in benefits, together with a 2-year
delay in project completion, the rate of return would still be 14%.
vi.       The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$6.0 million
equivalent which is about 59% of the project costs. This amount would
finance the foreign exchange costs of the project and 33% of total local
costs equivalent to 50% of the local costs excluding land acquisition and
on-farm development works to be carried out by farmers. The borrower would
be the Kingdom of Nepal.



NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
BIRGANJ IRRIGATION PROJECT
(NARAYANI ZONE)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      General.  His Majesty's Government of Nepal (HMGN) has requested
the International Development Association (IDA) to help finance irrigation
development in the foothill plain (Terai) in Eastern Nepal. The project
would complete the construction of the Birganj Irrigation Project, a surface
system to irrigate 28,700 ha in Nepal with water supplied from a barrage on
the Gandak River and main canals constructed by the Government of India (GOI).
It would also include the rehabilitation and installation of tubewells to
irrigate 2,700 ha from groundwater sources, engagement of consultants to
assist in project implementation and to prepare feasibility studies for a
small pumping scheme and a surface irrigation project.
1.02      The feasibility report of this project, which is to be Nepal's
first IDA-assisted project in the agricultural sector, was prepared by con-
sulting engineers (Nippon-Koei, Japan) under the UNDP/FAO NEP-7 study with
assistance from the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program. This appraisal report
is based on the feasibility study and the findings of an appraisal mission
consisting of Messrs. K. Pranich, D. D. Brown, M. Burer, H. R. McDonald
(IDA), and M. Cassam (FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program) which visited Nepal
during November and December 1971. This report was prepared by the mission
assisted by Mr. T. H. Yoon.
1.03      Gandak Irrigation and Power Project Agreement.  An agreement
between HMGN and GOI, signed in 1959, provides for the execution of the
Gandak Irrigation and Power Project (Annex 1). Under the agreement, GOI has
undertaken to finance and construct a barrage on the Gandak River, which
originates in Nepal, and irrigation systems on the left and right banks of
the river, down to secondary canals of 0.57 m3/sec (20 cusec), commanding
a total area of about 1.2 million ha in India and about 60,000 ha in Nepal.
There will also be a small hydro-electric power station on the Nepal Western
Canal which is one of the two main canals on the right bank. Construction
of the distributary system below 0.57 m3/sec is the responsibility of HMGN
with India contributing 1.5 million Indian Rs (US$200,000). On the left
bank, the Don Branch Canal, which is one of the three main canals, would
convey water to irrigate farm lands in India and Nepal. After running for
92 km in India till it reaches the India-Nepal border, the canal bifurcates
into the Nepal Eastern Canal, which is the main canal of this proposed
project, and the Ghora Sahan Branch Canal in India (Map IBRD 3895).  The
present project would complete the development of the command area of the
Nepal Eastern Canal extending from the border to the Arwa River in Nepal.
1.04      GOI has completed most of its work on the first 26 km of the Nepal
Eastern Canal and is expected to complete all works on the whole 62 km to the
Arwa River by March 1, 1973. In order to provide efficient water control
for year-round irrigation, additional control structures and modifications



- 2 -
to some existing structures would have to be made on the main and secondary
canals. Additional secondary canals, all tertiary canals and drainage
networks would be provided under the proposed project.
II.  BACKGROUND
2.01      General.  Nepal is a land-locked country of 141,000 km2 nestling
on the Himalayan mountain range between India and China. The population,
currently estimated at 11.2 million, is growing at an annual rate of 2.2%.
About 10% of the people live in the Himalayan region, 60% in the hills and
30% in the foothill plain (Terai). In 1971 per capita GDP was estimated at
US$70-80. Prior to 1951, Nepal was relatively isolated from the outside
world. The Government's effort towards economic development was intensified
in 1957 with the launching of the First Five-Year Plan.
2.02      Agriculture.  The Nepalese economy is predominantly agricultural.
This sector accounts for about 70% of the GDP and 80% of exports, and pro-
vides employment for 90% of the labor force. Farming, in general, is of
a subsistence nature with much of the land under foodgrain production.
2.03      About 1.8 million ha or 13% of the total area is under cultivation
with about 2.4 million ha of crops grown each year. Practically all the
cultivated land is under seasonal crop production; paddy covers more than
half of the area. Other main crops are maize, wheat, millet, potatoes,
oilseeds, pulses, jute, sugarcane and tobacco. Tea and seed potatoes in
the east and horticulture in the west are of local importance.
2.04      Apart from jute, which accounts for about 70% of exports to
countries other than India, almost all agricultural exports are sold to
India, which is Nepal's major trading partner. Commercial relations between
the two countries are governed by a trade and transit treaty.
2.05      During the 1960's an Intensive Agricultural Development Program
was established in 16 of the 75 districts, where land and other resources
were considered to be promising for crop production. Efforts were made to
enlarge the irrigated areas, to introduce better crop varieties and a
more intensive use of fertilizers and plant protection. A less intensive
program was also initiated in other districts. Roads constructed in the
eastern and central Terai with connections to Kathmandu, Pokhara, Bhairawa
and the People's Republic of China have improved market opportunities for
farmers.
2.06      The Agricultural Marketing Corporation (AMC) supplies inputs to
farmers and regulates the marketing of farm produce. Other vital organiza-
tions for increasing agricultural production include the Agricultural Devel-
opment Bank of Nepal (ADBN), which is the only institutional source of
agricultural credit in the country, and the Agriculture Department which
takes care of extension, training, research, horticulture and fishery,
livestock and veterinary services. In 1970/71, the ADBN had NRs 23 million



share capital and NRs 12 million from borrowings, deposits and reserves, in
addition to a loan of US$2.4 million granted by the Asian Development Bank
for the procurement of tractors and pump sets for sale to farmers on credit.
The procedures for obtaining a loan from ADBN are cumbersome and time-
consuming and there is a lack of contact between the borrower and the loan
officer. The Agricultural Extension Service is weak primarily because of
the inexperience of the staff. Agricultural research has only just begun
and its impact is still meager.
2.07      In spite of all the efforts during the 1960's to increase food
production, agricultural growth has been disappointing. During the Third
Plan period (1965/66 to 1969/70), the sector's growth rate was estimated
at only 1.8% per annum, compared with the estimated 3.8% of the non-agri-
cultural sector. The major development constraints include insufficient
irrigation and drainage facilities, low level of modern agricultural inputs
application (particularly fertilizers), inadequate supporting agricultural
services, and most importantly, the shortage of trained manpower.
2.08      Irrigation and Drainage.  Though rainfall in Nepal is substantial,
it is unreliable and unevenly distributed with heavy concentration during
the monsoon season. Irrigation is essential for reliable crop production
but the total irrigated area is currently only 120,000 ha or about 7% of the
total cultivated land. Existing irrigation works can supply water only
during the wet season and drainage is inadequate.
2.09      Irrigation and drainage works are the responsibility of the
Department of Irrigation, Hydrology and Meteorology of the Ministry of Food,
Agriculture and Irrigation. Planning, design, administration and budget
control of irrigation and drainage works are centralized in Kathmandu.
Generally minor construction works are carried out by force account while
major works are executed by contractors. Operation and maintenance of
irrigation projects are the responsibility of district irrigation engineers
posted by the Department in the district or project areas.
2.10      Fourth Five-Year Plan for Agriculture.  Nepal is now in its
Fourth Five-Year Economic Development Plan (1970/71-1974/75). The total
expenditure for the Plan period is US$257 million, of which 26% would
be for agriculture. The annual growth target of the Plan is 4% in real
GDP and 3% in agriculture. The Plan stresses continued expansion of food-
grain and livestock production and places additional emphasis on crop
diversification, increase in cash and industrial crop production as well
as improvement of marketing and storage facilities.
2.11      To achieve the above targets, HMGN is strengthening its activities
dealing with research, education, extension, the distribution of farm inputs
and agricultural credit. Applied research on higher yielding crop varieties
and the use of inputs has been increased. The Intensive Agricultural Devel-
opment Program which formerly covered only 16 districts has been extended
to include a total of 28 districts. Funding of the AMC and the ADBN has
been increased and additional local service branches have been established
and provided with trained staff. However, judging from past performance



- 4 -
and in view of the shortages in trained and experienced personnel the annual
growth target of the Plan may be too optimistic.
2.12      In the irrigation sub-sector, the Plan calls for continuation
of work on eight major projects started during the 1960's, the initiation
of four new major projects and the construction of minor works and tubewells,
totalling an additional 184,000 lha. However, because of shortage of key
staff for planning, design and construction, not more than 50-60,000 ha are
expected to be completed by the end of the Plan period.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
3.01      Location.  The project is located in the Bara and Parsa districts
of the Narayani Zone in the Central Terai at an altitude of about 80 m.
Birganj is the largest town (population 60,000) situated in the project
area. The project area to be irrigated with surface water adjoins the Indian
border; the groundwater area is immediately to the north of it. The
Kathmandu-Birganj highway bisects the project area and connects with the
Nepal east-west highway, which is about 10 km to the north, and with Raxaul,
an Indian town at the border, to the south. A narrow-gauge railway line
connects Birganj to Raxaul and the Indian railway system (Map IBRD 3895).
3.02      Climate.  The project area has two distinct seasons, the wet
season from late May to early October and the dry season. Annual rainfall
is about 1,350 mm, with over 90% falling in the wet season but with erratic
distribution (Annex 2). About two years in ten it is less than 1,000 mm or
more than 1,600 mm, with crop damage to rainfed crops in either case. Tem-
peratures range from a low of 8°C in January to a high of 38°C in April and
iMay. Humidity is 65% to 70% from March to May and ranges between 75% to 85%
for the remainder of the year.
3.03      Topogra2hy and Soils.  The project area is located on a large,
fertile, undulating alluvial plain adjoining the Nepal/India border and is
intersected and drained by several rivers and streams originating in the
northern hills. The land slope ranges from 1:750 to 1:1000 from north to
south. Soils are alluvial and generally medium to fine textured ranging
from silty sand to clay loam. They are nonsaline and of satisfactory fer-
tility, suitable for growing a wide variety of crops. Crops respond well
to fertilizers on these soils. By United States Bureau of Reclamation
standards about 90% of the area would classify as Class II or III for irri-
gation (Annex 3). With drainage and some land-shaping where appropriate,
the area is suitable for irrigated farming.
3.04      Crop Production and Yields.  Climatic conditions favor the cultiva-
tion of a wide range of crops. However, heavy rainfall in July and August,
cloud covers in the rainy season and low winter temperatures affect yields
and hamper harvest operations, in particular of rainfed crops. Rice grown
in the wet season is the main crop. Dwarf wheat, introduced about five
years ago, is the major dry season crop. Sugarcane is grown on about 5%



-5-
of the area, mostly near the Birganj sugar factory in the Tilawe and Sirsia
irrigated areas (para 3.06). Dry season vegetables, pulses and oilseeds
(mustard) are cultivated on a limited scale. Even more limited is the cul-
tivation of Marijuana or "Ganja", which is grown in small plots (1/20 to
1/10 ha), totalling no more than 100 ha, scattered over the project area.
Production is licensed by the Government (see para 7.09 and Annex 3). Though
this is a highly profitable crop, its growing involves high investment, know-
how, high risk of failure and substantial labor inputs.
3.05      The present average yield of 1,500 kg/ha paddy is about the same
as in the adjoining districts in India. Yields of wheat, 1,000 kg/ha; sugar-
cane, 15 ton/ha; oilseeds, 400 kg/ha; pulses, 500 kg/ha; and vegetables,
5,500 kg/ha are low due to inadequate rainfall during the dry season and the
low level of agricultural technique of farmers. The overall annual cropping
intensity is about 135%.
3.06      Existing Irrigation Facilities.  The Tilawe and Sirsia Irrigation
Projects, constructed some ten years ago, provide mainly supplementary
irrigation during the wet season, to about 7,000 ha of the project area
(Blocks 5, 6 and 7, Map IBRD 3896). HMGN built only the main and secondary
canals; construction of the tertiaries, on-farm watercourses and land
levelling was left to the farmers who generally have so far failed to im-
plement these works. The systems also suffer from inadequate drainage facili-
ties.
3.07      The groundwater potential in the area north of the Nepal Eastern
Canal is substantial. Under the Indian aid program, a pilot project con-
sisting of 21 public tubewells was constructed between 1968 and 1970, but
7 of these wells are considered unusable either because they pump sand or
because of their low yields and distance from power supplies. The 14
usable wells are poorly equipped with unsuitable pumps and motors.
3.08      Farm Size and Land Tenure.  A farm survey of four villages in the
project area held in 1968-1969 and district statistics give the rough
indication of farm sizes shown in the table below:
Farm Size             Farm Holdings                   Cultivated Area
(ha)               (No.)        (%)              (ha)              tZ)
Less than 0.15              2,500         8                  260             1
0.15 - 0.5             9,400         31               2,980            10
0.5  - 1.0              7,500        25               5,380            17
1.0  - 3.0             9,000        30               15,130            48
Over        3.0             1,600         6               7,650             24
30,000       100              31,400           100
3.09      Many families in the area have more than one holding and the
number of farm families is estimated to be around 20,000. About 75% of
t:he families are owner-cultivators while the remainder are tenants. Due
to the caste system, heavy field work, such as land preparation, is often
carried out by hired labor even on some of the smallholdings. Farm owners



- 6 -
and tenants live in about 200 villages and hamlets scattered throughout the
area. Transient labor from India is also used to some extent to transplant,
weed and harvest paddy and sugarcane. Most of the land preparation is
performed with bullocks, though for larger farms tractors may be employed.
There are about 125 farm tractors in the project area.
3.10      Agricultural Support Program.  There is only one extension worker
for every 2,000 farm households, and the extension effort itself is weak
because of inadequate training and incentives offered to the workers and
the lack of transportation. Adaptive research is carried out at the
Parwanipur Research Station near the project area. The work has been
mainly on planting and fertilizer trials, and has only been recently expanded
to include plant breeding. Almost all the attention has been on paddy and
wheat, with little on maize and oilseeds.  The station also has training
courses for extension staff posted locally (Annex 4).  UNDP and USAID have
provided consultants and financial support to the station and these would
continue to 1974/75.
3.11      AMC provides fertilizers, seeds, plant protection chemicals, tools
and pumps to farmers in addition to services on marketing of farm produce.
At present, demand from farmers for inputs is low: in 1970, the total fer-
tilizer demand for the whole country was only 4,600 tons and the demand for
other inputs was negligible. Hence, present demand is easily handled by
AMC which has a branch in Birganj and a distribution network of 22 private
and 6 cooperative retailers.
3.12      Credit, Marketing and Storage.  ADBN has a branch in Birganj.
During 1970-71, only about NRs 4.0 million was lent at an interest rate
of about 10%. Current lending procedures are cumbersome and ADBN is
reorganizing its activities to streamline the work. Aside from staff
training as part of the reorganization effort, branch managers would be
given greater autonomy in lending operations and the 43 cooperatives in
the project area would be merged into a few viable units under ADBN manage-
ment (Annex 4).
3.13      Marketing channels are well developed; millers in Birganj, Kalaiya
and neighboring Indian towns have a network of agents penetrating into the
villages. All grain surplus above family requirements moves directly to
these millers, who process paddy, wheat and oilseeds in their mills. Sugar-
cane is sold to the mill in Birganj. Most of the pulses and vegetables are
consumed in the villages.
3.14      Over 75% of the marketed paddy and wheat is exported to India.
Indian price and procurement policies, which attempt to minimize seasonal
price fluctuation, govern the prices in Nepal and encourage farmers to store
only what is needed for local consumption. Grains stored in the village may
lose considerable volume and quality because of high moisture, rodents, in-
sects, birds and pilferage.



3.15      Transportation.  In addition to the main roads (para 3.01) about
25 km of improved dirt roads and considerable length of bullock cart trails
provide transport routes from the villages to Birganj and nearby Indian
towns. The east-west layout of the project area, intersected by ten major
rivulets, makes it difficult for distant farmers to deliver their produce
to the Birganj market, hence these farmers currently prefer selling their
products to nearby Indian towns. Farmers use bullock carts to transport
their produce and trucks also use these roads and trails during the dry
season. Imported goods usually move from the Indian port of Calcutta to
Raxaul by rail or truck and by truck to the Nepal destination. Exports
move by bullock cart or truck at many points across the border to Indian
markets.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The project would complete the canal distributary network of the
Birganj surface-water irrigation project with a net area of 28,700 ha and
provide tubewell irrigation to 2,700 ha in an adjoining area. It includes
drainage, on-farm development, office buildings, project staff quarters,
cooperative stores, service roads, procurement of vehicles and equipment,
agriculture extension and cooperative services to provide integrated agri-
cultural development. It also includes provisions for the preparation of
feasibility studies for a small-pumping scheme and a surface irrigation
project. The project would be executed by the Narayani Irrigation Develop-
ment Board (NZIDB) recently established for the purpose as an autonomous
Government agency, assisted by consultants (see para 5.01).
B. Detailed Features
4.02      The Project Works.  Project works, details of which are given in
Annex 5, would include:
(a) Surface-water Irrigation
(i)  Improvement of the Nepal Eastern Canal including the
construction of additional control structures and the
improvement of existing structures.
(ii)  Improvement of about 50 km of secondary canals above
0.57 m3/sec (20 cusec) including the addition of control
structures.
(iii)  Construction of about 1,150 km of secondary and ter-
tiary canals with control structures and field
turnouts.



- 8 -
(iv)  Construction of about 800 km of drainage networks.
(v) Construction of about 290 km of canal service roads
and surfacing of about 110 km of these roads to link
project area with Kathmandu-Birganj road and with
cooperative stores.
(b) Groundwater Irrigation
(i) Testing of existing tubewells and replacement of
inadequate pumps, motors and control devices.
(ii)  Drilling and equipping of about 14 new tubewells.
(iii) Construction of about 18 km of 11 kV transmission
lines to serve existing and new tubewells.
(iv)  Construction of related storage tanks and irrigation
distribution systems, consisting of lined main canals
and unlined secondary canals to the turnouts commanding
30-40 ha service unit each, and drainage networks in the
command of each tubewell.
(c)  Project Facilities
(i) Construction of offices, workshops, stores and living
quarters for staff and consultants.
(ii)  Installation of a communications system for irrigation
system operations.
(iii) Installation of hydrological telemetry equipment for
the Nepal Eastern Canal.
(iv)  Construction of about 12 cooperative stores.
(d) Technical Assistance. A consulting firm would be retained to
provide the project with training, technical assistance and
advisory services in engineering, construction, general
administration, personnel finance, accounting and auditing,
agricultural extension and cooperative services and in the
operation and management of the project as an integrated
agricultural project. Farmers in the project area would be
provided technical assistance for the planning, design and
execution of on-farm watercourses, field drains and other
on-farm development works.
(e) Feasibility Studies. Feasibility studies would be provided for:
(l) A pumping scheme to lift water from the Nepal Eastern
Canal to irrigate areas north of the said Canal.
(ii) A further irrigation project to be selected.



4.03      On-Farm Development.  Because of the heavy wet-season rainfall and
undulating topography, it would be necessary to construct a comprehensive
on-farm irrigation and drainage system, and carry out landshaping in some
areas, if the projected crop yields are to be obtained. The project would
provide technical assistance to plan, design, and lay out on-farm watercourses
and field drains and to indicate areas requiring landshaping. The project
would also organize farmers to complete construction of these works them-
selves. Because holdings in the project area are small, most of the farmers
would be able to carry out the works with their own labor. Farmers with
holdings larger than 3 ha who are not able to undertake the work with their
own labor may hire NZIDB to carry out the work for them. The ADBN would
provide credit to these farmers to help finance the works. ADBN generally
lends to cooperatives at 7% interest and cooperatives on-lend to farmer-
members at 10% interest. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
under the project farmers would receive irrigation only after they have
completed all on-farm development works on their lands. Should a farmer
fail to complete the construction of the watercourses, field drains and
land-shaping as indicated in the plan within one year after construction
of the tertiary canal and drain serving his area, NZIDB would perform such
construction and recover the expenses from the landowners. Assurances were
also obtained that NZIDB would have these rights included in the order es-
tablishing the Board.
4.04      Status of Engineering.  The status of works carried out by GOI
in the project area at the end of June, 1972 was as follows:
(a)  From km 0 to km 26.5 of the Nepal Eastern Canal at
Kathmandu-Birganj Road, the excavation of the canal was
nearly completed except for short distances at km 6.7,
11.3, 25.9 and 26.4 where there were problems of land
acquisition and farmers' demand for additional canal
bridges. Of the 44 structures, 40 were completed and
the remainder are expected to be completed by March, 1973.
Three out of five secondary canals larger than 0.57 m3/sec
(20 cusec) were completed and the other two are expected
to be completed by March, 1973.
(b)  From km 26.5 to the end of the canal at Arwa River -
km 62, the excavation of the canal was nearly completed
except for small interruptions (10-15 m length) due to
farmers' demand for bridges at km 27-28 (5 interruptions),
31.1, 37.5, 37.8, 39 and 43.9. Of the 47 structures on
the canal, 26 were completed and 21 were under construction.
Of the four secondaries above 0.57 m3/sec, two were com-
pleted and two were under construction. HMGN expected that
GOI's remaining works on this portion of the project area
would also be completed by March, 1973.
4.05      Consulting Services.  UNDP financed a bridging operation extending
from November 1971 to July 197 for the consulting engineers (Nippon Koei,
Japan) to prepare design drawings, specifications and tender documents for



- 10 -
Block 1 of the surface-water irrigation area (Map IBRD 3896). Hence as soon
as the land required for civil works in this block has been acquired (para
4.17), invitations to bid could be issued.
4.06      Since there is a shortage of trained and experienced engineers,
agriculturists and managers in Nepal, consultants would be required to
assist NZIDB in the planning, design and supervision of construction of the
project and to carry out feasibility studies (para 4.02). They would also
train and advise NZIDB staff in all phases of project execution, management,
accounting, agricultural development and extension activities. About 40
man-years of consultants would be provided under the project inclusive of
6 man-years for feasibility studies. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that HMGN would retain consultants acceptable to, and appointed
on terms and conditions satisfactory to, the Association, and that within
12 months from the effective date of the credit HMGN would provide the Asso-
ciation with a plan for staff training to be carried out by the consultants.
4.07      Water Supply and Demand.  Nepal's agreement with India (Annex 1)
assures the delivery of 24.1 m3/sec (850 cusec) of water into the Nepal
Eastern Canal at all times except when under annual repair and maintenance.
These deliveries would depend on proper maintenance of the Don Branch Canal,
wholly inside India, by GOI. Agreements have been made between Nepal and
GOI for (a) the proper operation and maintenance and repair of Don Branch
Canal, and (b) the completion of the civil works in the project area under
the Gandak agreement.
4.08      The amount of water to be delivered to the headgate of the Nepal
Eastern Canal represents about 2% of the mean annual flow of the Gandak
River and 8% of the lowest probable river flow. The project's projected
cropping pattern at full development would utilize 65% to 75% of this
supply from May through September and about 30% to 50% during the dry season
months; thus, sufficient water would be available for the project area and
would permit expansion at a later date by means of lift irrigation or ex-
tension of the Nepal Eastern Canal from Arwa River to Bagmati (Annex 6).
During negotiations assurances were obtained that HMGN, with the help of
consultants, would conduct a study of the feasibility of a pumping scheme
to lift water from the Nepal Eastern Canal to irrigate areas north and ad-
jacent to it; a copy of the report would be provided the Association with-
in 18 months of the credit effectiveness.
4.09      The 14 existing tubewells to be improved under the project would
be expected to yield 50 1/sec; each of the 14 new tubewells, 80 1/sec. They
would irrigate 75 and 120 ha net area per well, respectively. Water balance
studies indicate an average annual recharge of about 50 million m3, while
anticipated withdrawals would amount to about 27 million m3. If the study
of the pump scheme (para 4.08) shows that low lift pumping is more economical
than tubewells, it would be desirable to resite some of the proposed new
tubewells further north on land that cannot be irrigated by low lift pumps
from the canal. The siting of these new wells would be the responsibility
of the consultants and would be decided when the study results are available.



- 11 -
4.10      Construction Schedule.  Because of the heavy monsoon rains the
construction season is limited to November/December to June. HMGN expects
that GOI will complete all its share of the works by March 1, 1973. Bids
for project works in Block 1 for which tender documents have been completed
during the bridging operation (para 4.05) would be called as early as pos-
sible so that works could be undertaken in the 1973/74 dry season. There-
after, works in other blocks would be scheduled to start as soon as tender
documents are prepared and land has been acquired. All blocks would be com-
pleted by June 1978 (Annex 7). This schedule is realistic considering the
restricted working seasons.
4.11      Improvement of the existing 14 tubewells and the construction of
their canal distributary systems would be performed in the dry season of
1974/75.
C. Cost Estimates
4.12      The total cost of the project would be about NRs 102 million
(US$10.1 million) as detailed in Annex 8 and summarized below:
Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign   Total
-   NPRs million ------    -----US$ million------
Land Acquisition         11.1      -       11.1       1.10     -        1.10
Civil Works
Surface               14.5      4.4      18.9      1.43   0.44        1.87
Groundwater            2.9      2.8       5.7      0.28   0.28        0.56
Buildings and Stores  3.1       2.1       5.2      0.30   0.21        0.51
Equipment and Spares    0.2       6.8       7.0      0.02   0.67        0.69
Consultants              3.0    17.2       20.2      0.30   1.70        2.00
Administration            9.3      -        9.3       0.92     -        0.92
Subtotal           44.1    33.3      77.4       4.35   3.30        7.65
On-Farm Development    10.1        -       10.1       1.00     -        1.00
Contingencies
Physical               3.2      3.1       6.3      0.32   0.30        0.62
Price                  5.0      3.6       8.6      0.49   0.36        0.85
Subtotal            8.2      6.7     14.9       0.81   0.66        1.47
Total              62.4    40.0    102.4        6.16   3.96       10.12



- 12 -
4.13      Cost estimates are based on unit rates and prices of similar works
constructed in Nepal and are net of custom duties. Except for land acqui-
sition and on-farm development, physical contingencies are estimated at 10%
on all items and price escalation was calculated at the rate of 7% per annum
for local costs and 5% for foreign exchange costs on the unexpended balance.
The estimated foreign exchange cost of US$4.0 million would be about 39%
of project costs. The above cost estimate does not reflect the recent deval-
uation of the United States Dollar.
D. Financing
4.14      Financing Plan.  The financing plan proposed for the project is
shown below:
% of
NRs million  US$ million   Project Cost
IDA Credit
Foreign costs                           40.0          4.0             39
Local costs                             20.8          2.0             20
60.8         6.0             59
HiMGN Contribution
Local costs                             31.5          3.1             31
Farmers' Contribution
Local costs                             10.1          1.0             10
102.4        10.1            100
4.15      The proposed IDA credit of US$6.0 million would finance the
foreign exchange costs of the project and 50% of the local costs excluding
land acquisition and on-farm development, i.e. about 59% of the project
costs. HMGN would provide 51% of the local costs requirement or 31% of the
project costs, and farmers' contribution in the form of own labor for
on-farm development works would provide the remaining 10% of costs of the
project. A breakdown of projected annual expenditures and a quarterly
disbursement of the IDA credit are presented in Annexes 8 and 9.
4.16      Procurement and Contracts.  In order to phase construction with
the training of Nepalese engineers and extension workers and with on-farm
development, civil works would be spread over five working seasons. There
would be about six contracts for works in 12 blocks, one contract for
Block 1 for which contract documents are completed, one contract each for
the combined Blocks 2 and 3; Blocks 4, 5 and 6; Blocks 7 and 8; Blocks 9
and 10; and Blocks 11 and 12 (Map 3896). The improvement of Nepal Eastern



- 13 -
Canal would be in 1 or 2 contracts. Construction of transmission lines,
civil works and well drilling in the groundwater area would be in a separate
contract. The value of each contract would range between US$300,000 and
US$500,000.
4.17      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that equipment and
vehicles (Annex 10) would be procured and civil works would be awarded after
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Association's
Guidelines; and that civil works contractors would be prequalified. In order
to avoid delays which could be grounds for claims by contractors, assurances
were also obtained during negotiations that no civil works tenders would be
issued until the lands required had been acquired by HMGN. Though Nepal
has a Treaty of Trade and Transit with India which gives preferential customs
duties to goods imported into either country from the other, this would not
affect project procurement as bids on all equipment and spare parts under
the project would be compared on c.i.f. values without custom duties.
4.18      Disbursement.  Disbursement from the proposed credit would cover
the cif cost of imported equipment and spares (US$0.7 million) and 100% of
the foreign cost of consultants (US$1.7 million). Disbursement for civil
works (US$2.5 million) would be at a percentage (presently estimated at 85%)
of progress payments as certified by the consultants. An unallocated sum
(US$1.1 million) would be available to meet physical contingencies and price
escalation of the above. Disbursement would not be made for the costs of
land acquisition, administration or on-farm development works, nor for
operation and maintenance (other than equipment as specified in Annex 10).
4.19      Accounts and Audit.  Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that (a) NZIDB would maintain its own accounts and carry out internal audits
regularly; (b) the project accounts would be maintained separately and
audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to the Association;
and (c) copies of the audit report would be sent to the Association within
four months after the close of each fiscal year.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01      Project Organization.  Irrigation projects are generally planned,
designed, constructed, operated and maintained by the Department of Irriga-
tion, Hydrology and Meteorology of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and
Irrigation. Because this would be the single largest integrated agricul-
tural development project to be undertaken in Nepal, HMGN has established
NZIDB under the Development Board Act of 1956, to be responsible ffor its
execution, management, operation and maintenance. This would insure effi-
cient coordination of the various activities necessary for such development
in one organization instead of being spread over several departments and
institutions. The Board will be responsible for irrigation development
throughout the Narayani Zone, one of the fourteen zones into which Nepal is
divided. The zone includes five districts. NZIDB will be funded by an
annual budget allocation which would be sufficient to cover all estimated



- 14 -
project costs except on-farm development.  Its powers are vested in an
eight-member Board of Directors appointed by HMGN, consisting of the Secretary,
Ministry of Food. Agriculture and Irrigation (Chairman), six members repre-
senting government agencies and the Project General Manager. The Board
would determine-i`olicy; its appointed General Manager would be the chief
administrative officer responsible for staff appointment, dismissal and
assignment of duties within the general rules of the Nepal Public Service
Commission. Consultant§ would be engaged under the project to assist NZIDB
in project implementation (para 4.06 and Annex 11). Since NZIDB is a new
and untried agency, drawing its key staff from several ministries, its success
in implementing and managing the project will depend on strong support from
HMGN as well as on the assistance and training of NZIDB staff by the
consultants.
5.02      NZIDB will have three divisions (see Organization Chart, IBRD
6877 (R)). The Administration and Finance Division would be responsible
for general administration, personnel, accounting, finance, procurement and
inventory control of equipment and supplies. The Engineering Division would
be responsible for planning, design, supervision of construction of all
works and operation and maintenance of the irrigation and drainage systems;
working closely with the Extension Service Section of the Agricultural
Division, it would render technical assistance to farmers on on-farm devel-
opment works. The Agriculture Division would be responsible for extension
work and for collaboration with AM4C and ADBN in the distribution of the
necessary inputs and credit to farmers mainly through cooperatives. In col-
laboration with the Parwanipur Research Station, it would conduct research,
including experiments on promising crops such as sugar beets for the project
area. Key administrative staff would be transferred from the other Govern-
mental ministries and departments. The engineers and technicians in the
Engineering Division would be seconded from the Department of Irrigation,
Hydrology and Meteorology. Although these men are mostly young and inexperi-
enced, they are graduates of universities and technical colleges in India or
Nepal and are expected to learn quickly with the guidance of the consultants.
Likewise the staff of the Agriculture Division who are graduates of similar
institutions and some Junior Technical Assistants with high school certifi-
cates and training in agriculture would be seconded from the related depart-
ments and corporations of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Irrigation.
They would receive on-the-job training under the guidance of the consultants.
5.03      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that NZIDB would be
established with rules satisfactory to the Association and managed at all
times by a full-time General Manager with qualifications and experience
acceptable to the Association and that HMGN would cause the necessary inputs
and credit to farmers in the project area to be provided. As the jurisdic-
tion of the NZIDB extends over a considerably larger region than the proj-
ect area and as the NZIDB would not have sufficient staff for work beyond
the present project, an assurance was obtained during negotiations that
NZIDB would work exclusively on the project until its completion. It would
be a condition of effectiveqess of the credit that a General Manager with
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association had been appointed.



- 15 -
5.04      Monitoring of Benefits.  In order to measure the economic benefits
and changes in farmers' income as a result of the project, NZIDB, in collab-
oration with the Economic and Statistics Division of the Ministry of Food,
Agriculture and Irrigation, would conduct field surveys, collect pertinent
information and data and carry out an evaluation study of the project results.
This work would start from the first project year in order to obtain accurate
benchmark data and continue for some years after completion of the project
works.
5.05      Operation and Maintenance (O & M).  NZIDB would be responsible for
the 0 & M of both the surface and groundwater irrigation systems down to
turnouts for each irrigation service unit. The consultants would prepare
o & M manuals for the irrigation systems. Farmers in each service unit would
be organized into an "Irrigation User Group" to be responsible for the con-
struction as well as 0 & M of on-farm water courses and field drains under
bhe direction of NZIDB's engineers.
5.06      Recovery of Costs.  Farmers pay a land tax as part of general
t:axation. This tax has varying rates depending on classes of land; the
average land in the project area (Class II) bears a tax of NRs 70 per ha.
By providing perennial irrigation, the land would be reclassified as Class I
with a tax of NRs 81 per ha.
5.07      Farmers in surface irrigation projects constructed by HMGN cur-
rently are charged about NRs 6.0 per ha for water, a rate much below the
estimated 0 & M costs. Nepal has had no experience in the operation of
state-owned tubewells or in charging farmers for the groundwater. The
N4epal Irrigation, Electricity and Related Water Resources Act of 1967
(Annex 12) authorizes a water cess on landowners served by licensed surface
:Lrrigation organizations.  It also provides HMGN with the legal authority
t1o levy charges on users of publicly constructed surface and groundwater
:Lrrigation works.
';.08     All beneficiaries in the project area would pay the full 0 & M
icost together with a portion of the investment cost of the project. The
amnual 0 & M cost of the surface irrigation system is estimated at NRs 80/ha
uhile that of the groundwater system at NRs 160/ha. For the purpose of
estimating farm incomes, it was assumed that at full development farmers
would also pay an annual investment recovery charge of NRs 160/ha for both
t:he surface and groundwater systems; thus together with 0 & M cost the total
project charges for a surface water system would be NRs 240/ha and for
g,roundwater NRs 320/ha. These levels of project charges would be equivalent
i:o 20-25% of incremental farm incomes at full development in Year 10 and
would result in recovery of investment costs including contingencies at 4%
interest during the 50 year project lifetime.
5.09      In order to measure the subsidy element, full project cost as well
.as the above project revenues were discounted at 10% over the project life
of 50 years. Comparison between the two results shows that the present
value of the government subsidy amounts to about NRs 45 million or 44% of
,osts. Including sunk costs the corresponding figures would be NRs 95



- 16 -
million and 62%. Considering the current low per capita income in the
project area and that even with the project the income would still remain
below the national average, this level of public subsidy would be justified.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that, beginning not later than
one year after completion of the works in each block or each tubewell
command area, HMGN would establish and collect water charges to recover
from the farmers benefitting under the project (a) the operation and main-
tenance costs of the works as they are incurred; and (b) in progressive
steps over a reasonable period of time, as much as practicable of the
investment cost of the project, having due regard to farmers' incentives
and capacity to pay. HMGN would also review and, if necessary, revise the
water charges not less than once every five years.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM INCOME
6.01      Production.  In the next 10-15 years paddy and sugarcane would
continue to be the major wet season crops. Wheat, the principal dry season
crop, currently planted on about 25% of the area, would increase to about
50% with the project. Oilseeds, pulses, and vegetables would continue to
occupy about 15% of the area during the dry season. With the project, the
cropping intensity would increase from the present 135% to 170% as presented
in Annex 3 and summarized below:
Cropped Area (ha)           Production ('000 tons)
Without     With               Without    With
Present   Project   Project   Present   Project   Project
Paddy-Local        27,200    28,260    15,700      40.8       48.0       41.7
Paddy-HYV            -         -        13,910      -          -         48.7
Sugarcane           1,570     1,570      3,140     23.6       28.3      125.6
Wheat               7,850     9,420    15,700        7.9      11.3       47.6
Oilseeds            1,200     1,570      1,570      0.5        0.6        1.2
Pulses              1,500     1,570      1,570      0.8        0.8        1.3
Vegetables          1,570     1,570      1,570       8.6       9.4       18.8
Total   40,890    43,960    53,160
The "Without Project" production assumes a small increase in paddy and wheat
area and a 1% per year increase in yields. Expected yield levels in ton/ha
for the main irrigated crops under the project are as follows (figures in
parentheses represent current yields): paddy, 3.0 (1.5); wheat, 3.0 (1.0);
and sugarcane, 40.0 (15.0). These yield levels would be reached gradually
over a ten-year period following the start of irrigation.
6.02      Market Prospects.  Nepal is expected to continue to be a net ex-
porter of rice and wheat to India. Even if India becomes self-sufficient
in foodgrain, it is likely that the farmers in the project would still find
Indian markets in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal because of the pro-
jected regional shortages. Bangladesh is another possible export market.



- 17 -
Oilseeds, pulses and sugarcane will continue to be in deficit in Nepal and
the quantity of these crops that can be supplied by the project is relatively
small compared to the total shortages.
6.03      Prices.  Prices used for farm budget analysis represent an average
farm gate post-harvest price received for each commodity in recent years.
Over 70% of the marketed produce is sold during the first three months after
harvest. Prices during this period are determined by the market condition
of the Nepal-India border region because most of the marketed foodgrain
surplus is sold in the State of Bihar in India. Farm inputs are valued at
current prices.
6.04      Farm Income.  Farm incomes of representative farms in the project
area have been analyzed and are presented in Annex 13 and summarized below.
Since farm size varies (para 3.08), three farm models have been chosen,
0.5 ha, 2 ha and 5 ha. The first model represents farms smaller than 1 ha
since more than half the number of holdings of less than 1 ha are of about
0.5 ha size. The 2-ha farm represents farms between 1-3 ha which comprise
30% of the project area. The last model covers farms larger than 3 ha.
Farm Income
With Project              Project Charges
(excluding                    as %
project      Project   of Incremental
Farm Size        Without Project       charges)     Charges       Income
(ha)            --- -------------(NRs)-----                       (%)
Surface
Irrigation
0.5                  970             1,990          120           12
2.0                2,680            5,990           480           15
5.0                3,290             8,690        1,200           22
Tubewell
Irrigation
2.0                2,680            5,500           640           23
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      Economic Benefits.  The provision of perennial irrigation and other
inputs and services under the project would bring intensive and modern agri-
culture to some 31,400 ha, which are currently under rainfed subsistence
farming. The major benefits from the project would be the substantial in-
crease in agricultural production and the resulting increased incomes and



- 18 -
employment opportunities of some 20,000 farm families in the area, about
two-thirds of whom are small farmers owning less than 1 ha. Among the
intangible benefits are the demonstration effects of the project, institu-
tion-building and training in various agricultural disciplines, all of which
would contribute to agricultural development in Nepal.
7.02      At full development the annual gross value of project production,
at projected 1980 world market prices, adjusted to farm-gate value, is
expected to increase from the current NRs 47 million to NRs 122 million,
more than doubling the expected output without the project (NRs 51 million).
After deducting all production costs except labor, the incremental value of
the net annual output attributable to the project would be NRs 42 million
(US$4.2 million). Labor has been costed at the full market rate of NRs 5
per day only in the peak seasons (1 month without the project and 2 months
with the project) and at a shadow rate of NRs 1 per day at other times. No
distinction has been made between family and hired labor for the purpose of
economic analysis. Net annual foreign exchange earnings from the increased
paddy and wheat exports would reach NRs 55 million (US$5.5 million). There
would also be some import substitution savings from the increased production
of sugarcane, oilseed and pulses.
7.03      The economic rate of return, excluding sunk costs, is estimated
at 21% (Annex 14). If sunk costs without interest, estimated at NRs 50
million, were costed in the first project year, this rate would be reduced
to 14%. In order to test the economic feasibility of the tubevell irrigation,
separate economic analyses for surface and groundwater irrigation components
have been performed. The analyses show that both subprojects are economically
viable, since the economic rates of return are estimated at 24% and 14%, re-
spectively; and with the sunk costs 14% and 11%, respectively.
7.04      Though the tubewell scheme has a lower rate of return, it would
serve to develop the institutional capacity for the construction and manage-
ment of future tubewell projects. Its current investment cost is high
because of the small number of new wells and the high costs of consultants
and administration per well. A future project with a larger number of wells
would give a higher rate of return.
7.05      A sensitivity analysis shows that there is moderate sensitivity
to the shadow price of labor: if all labor is valued at NRs 5 per man-day,
approximating the wage rate for hired labor at peak periods, the rate of
return falls to 16% (Annex 14). The economic viability of the project is
also secure for reasonable ranges of variation in benefit and cost variables.
A 20% increase in investment costs reduces the rate to 18% while a 20%
reduction in benefits would lower it to 17%. Even with an extreme combination
of a 20% increase in investment costs and a 20% reduction in benefits,
together with a 2-year delay in project completion, the rate of return would
still remain about 14%. The rate of return is moderately sensitive to
assumptions of future cropping patterns as returns per hectare for wheat,
sugarcane and vegetables are significantly higher than for the other crops.
Replacing the assumed increased wheat area of 6,200 ha with pulses and
oilseeds, lowers the rate of return to 18%.



- 19 -
7.06      Because of the complex: socio-economic characteristics of the
labor force (para 3.10), poor cadastral data in the project area and lack
of reliable statistics on the transient seasonal farm labor from India,
the quantitative account of distributive and employment effects of the
project cannot be accurately estimated. However, the direction of the impact
is clear. Practically every farmer in the area would be better off compared
to the condition projected under "without project." The many subsistence
smallholders in the project area estimated at two-thirds of the project
farm population, would be the primary beneficiaries of the project through
increased and stable income and employment opportunities. During the
project construction period, aggregate annual employment of labor solely
attributable to the project construction would be about 7-8,000 man-years.
The additional agricultural output produced by the project would also stimu-
late marketing, processing and supporting industries which would undoubtedly
create additional employment opportunities in the project area.
7.07      Ecology and Environment.  The project would not require resettle-
ment of any farmers nor construction of new villages. It would provide
drainage which would help in reducing floods and soil erosion and minimizing
waterlogging. In addition, increased production, particularly of pulses and
vegetables, would improve the quality of human nutrition.
7.08      There is no schistosomiasis in Nepal but the perennial irrigation
may increase the incidence of malaria and other water-associated diseases,
insect pests, weeds and rodents that affect high-yielding plants and man.
There is a campaign for malarial eradication over the whole of Terai and
NZIDB through its Extension Services Section would train farmers in the proper
use of chemicals to control pests and rodents.
7.09      Currently the growing of Marijuana or "Ganja" is licensed by the
Government. HMGN has, however, expressed intention to further restrict the
production and distribution of all narcotic drugs in Nepal. They also as-
sured the Association that the cultivation of narcotic plants would be pro-
hibited in the project area.
VIII. AGREEMENT REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During credit negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a)  should a farmer fail to carry out on-farm development works
as requested by NZIDB within one year after construction of
the tertiary canals and drains serving his area, NZIDB would
undertake to construct these works and recover the costs
from the landowner (para 4.03);
(b)  a consulting firm acceptable to the Association would be
appointed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association (para 4.06);



- 20 -
(c) the rules to be issued by NZIDB would be satisfactory
to the Association (para 5.03); and
(d) the necessary agricultural inputs and credit would be
provided to farmers in the project area (para 5.03).
8.02      A condition  of effectiveness of the proposed credit would be that
NZIDB's General Manager with qualifications and experience acceptable to
the Association, shall have been appointed (para 5.03).
8.03      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA
credit of US$6 million on standard IDA terms. The Borrower would be the
Kingdom of Nepal.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
NEPAL
BIRGANJ IRRIGATION PROJECT
Agreement Between His Majesty's Government of Nepal
And The Government of India on the Gandak Irrigation and Power Project
Preamble. - WHEREAS His Majesty's Government of Nepal and the
Government of India consider that it is in the common interests of both
Nepal and India to construct a barrage, canal head regulators and other ap-
purtenant works about 1,000 feet below the existing Tribeni canal head
regulator and of taking out canal systems for purposes of irrigation and
development of power for Nepal and India (hereinafter referred to as "the
project").
AND WHEREAS in view of the common benefits, His Majesty's Govern-
ment have agreed to the construction of the said barrage, canal head regu-
lators and other connected works as shown in the Plan annexed to this Agree-
ment to the extent that they lie within the territory of Nepal, by and at
the cost of the Government of India.
NOW THE PARTIES AGREE AS FOLLOWS: -
1.   Investigation and Surveys. - His Majesty's Government authorise
the Project Officers and other persons acting under the general or special
orders of such officers to move in the area indicated in the said Plan with
men, material and equipment as may be required for the surveys and investi-
gations in connection with the Project, before, during and after construc-
tion, as may be found necessary from time to time. These surveys include
ground, aerial, hydraulic, hydrometric, hydrological and geological surveys;
investigations for communication and for the alignment of canals and for
materials required for the construction and maintenance of the Project.
2.   Authority for the execution of works and their maintenance. -
(i) His Majesty's Government authorise the Government of India to proceed
with the execution of the Project and for this purpose His Majesty's
Government shall acquire all such lands as the Government of India may
require and will permit the access to, the movement within and the residence
in the area indicated in the Plan of officers and field staff with labour
force, draught animals, vehicles, plants, machinery, equipment and instruments
as may be necessary for the execution of the Project and for its operation
and maintenance after its completion.
(ii) In case of any apprehended danger or accident to any of the
structures, the officers of the Government of India will execute all works
which may be necessary for repairing the existing works or preventing such
accidents and/or danger in the areas indicated in the Plan. If any of such
works have to be constructed on lands which do not belong to the Government



ANNEX 1
Page 2
of India, His Majesty's Government will authorise these works to be executed
and acquire such additional lands as may be necessary for the purpose. In
all such cases the Government of India shall pay reasonable compensation
for the lands so acquired as well as for damage, if any, arising out of the
execution of these works.
3.   Land acquisition. - (i)  His Majesty's Government will acquire
or requisition, as the case may be, all such lands as are required by the
Government of India for the Project, i.e., for the purpose of investigation,
construction and maintenance of the Project and the Government of India
shall pay reasonable compensation for such lands acquired or requisitioned.
(ii) His Majesty's Government shall transfer to the Government
of India such lands belonging to His Majesty's Government as are required
for the purpose of the Project on payment of reasonable compensation by the
Government of India.
(iii) Lands requisitioned under paragraph (i) shall be held by the
Government of India for the duration of the requisition and lands acquired
under sub-clause (i) or transferred under sub-clause (ii) shall vest in the
Government of India as proprietor and subject to payment of land revenue
(MIalpot) at the rates at which it is leviable on agricultural lands in the
neighbourhood.
(iv) When such land vesting in the Government of India or any
part thereof ceases to be required by the Government of India for the
purposes of the Project, the Government of India will reconvey the same to
Ilis Majesty's Government free of charge.
4.   Quarrying. - His Majesty's Government shall permit the Govern-
ment of India on payment of reasonable royalty to quarry materials, such as
block stones, boulders, shingles and sand required for the construction
and maintenance of the Project from the areas indicated in the said Plan.
5.   Communication. - (i)  His Majesty's Government shall allow
the Government of India to construct and maintain such portion of the
Main W4estern Canal which falls in the Nepal territory and to construct and
maintain communications for the construction and maintenance of the Project.
The roads will be essentially departmental roads of the Project and their
use by commercial and non-commercial vehicles of Nepal will be regulated
as mutually agreed upon between His Majesty's Government and the Government
of India.
(ii) The bridge over the Gandak Barrage will be open to public
traffic, but the Government of India snall have the right to close the
traffic over the bridge for repair, etc.
(iii) The Government of India agree to provide locking arrangements
for facility of riverine traffic across the barrage free from payment of
any tolls whatever, provided that this traffic will be regulated by the



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Project staff in accordance with the rules mutually agreed upon between
His Majesty's Government and the Government of India.
(iv) His Majesty's Government agree to permit installation of
telegraph, telephone, and radio communications as approximately indicated
in the Plan for the bona fide purpose of the construction, maintenance and
operation of the Project.
(v) The Government of India shall permit the use of internal
telegraph, telephone and radio communications as indicated in the Plan to
the authorised servants of His Majesty's Government in emergencies, provided
such use does not interfere with the construction, maintenance and operation
of the Project.
6.   Ownership, operation and maintenance of works. - Subject to
the provisions of sub-clause (v) of clause 7, all works connected with the
Project in the territory of Nepal will remain the property of and be
operated and maintained by the Government of India.
7.   Irrigation for Nepal. - (i)  The Government of India shall
construct at their own cost the Western Nepal Canal including the distribu-
tary system thereof down to a minimum discharge of 20 cusecs for providing
flow irrigation in the gross commanded area estimated to be about 40,000
acres.
(ii) The Government of India shall construct the Eastern Nepal
Canal from the tail-end of the Don Branch Canal up to river Bagmati including
the distributary system down to a minimum discharge of 20 cusecs at their
own cost for providing flow irrigation in Nepal for the gross commanded
area estimated to be 1,03,500 acres.
(iii) His Majesty's Government shall be responsible for the
construction of channels below 20 cusecs capacity for irrigation in Nepal
but the Government of India shall contribute such sum of money as they may
consider reasonable to meet the cost of construction.
(iv) The Nepal Eastern Canal and the Nepal Western Canal shall be
completed, as far as possible, within one year of the completion of the
barrage.
(v) The canal systems including the service roads situated in
Nepal territory except the Main Western Canal, shall be handed over to His
Majesty's Government for operation and maintenance at their cost.
Also, the head regulator of the Don Branch Canal shall be operated
by His Majesty's Government keeping in view the irrigation requirements of
areas irrigated by this branch canal in India and Nepal. (a)
(a) This has been added in accordance with the revised agreement signed on
the 30th April 1964.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
8.   Power development and reservation for Nepal. - (i)  The
Government of India agree to construct one Power House with an installed
capacity of 15,000 KWl in the Nepal territory on the Main Western Canal.
(ii) The Government of India also agree to construct a transmission
line from the Power House in Nepal to the Bihar border near Bhaisalotan
and from Sugauli to Raxaul in Bihar in order to facilitate supply of power
on any point in the Bihar Grid up to and including Raxaul.
(iii) The Government of India shall supply power to His Majesty's
Government at the Power House and/or at any point in the Grid up to and
including Raxaul to an aggregate factor not below 0.85. The charges for
supply at the Power House shall be the actual cost of production, and on
any point on the Grid up to Raxaul it shall be the cost of production plus
the cost of transmission on such terms and conditions as may be mutually
agreed upon.
(iv)  His Majesty's Government will be responsible for the construc-
tion at their own cost of the transmission and distribution system for sup-
ply of power within Nepal from the Power House or from any point on the
Grid up to and including Raxaul.
(v) The ownership and management of the Power House shall be
transferred to His Majesty's Government on one year's notice in writing
given by them to the Government of India after the full load of 10,000 KW
at 60 per cent load factor has been developed in Nepal from this Power
House.
(vi) The ownership of the transmission system constructed by the
Government of India at its cost shall remain vested in the Government of
India, but, on transfer of the Power House, the Government of India shall
continue the arrangements for transmission of power, if so desired by His
Majesty's Government, on payment of the cost of transmission, provided
that His Majesty's Government shall have the right to purchase the
transmission system from the Power House to Bhaisalotan situated in the
Nepal territory on payment of the original cost minus depreciation.
(vii) The Government of India shall be free to regulate the flow
into or close the Main Western Canal Head Regulator temporarily, if such
works are found to be necessary in the interest of the efficient maintenance
and operation of the Canal or the Power House, provided that in such
situations the Government of India agree to supply the minimum essential
power from the Bihar Grid to the extent possible on such terms and condi-
tions as may be mutually agreed upon.
9.   His Majesty's Government will continue to have the right to
withdraw for irrigation or any other purpose from the river or its tribu-
taries in Nepal such supplies of water as may be required by them from time
to time in the Valley.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
For the trans-Valley uses of Gandak waters, separate agreements
between His Majesty's Government and the Government of India will be
entered into for the uses of water in the months of February to April
only. (b)
10.   Deleted. (c).
11.   Sovereignty and Jurisdiction. - Nothing in this Agreement
shall be deemed to derogate from the sovereignty and territorial jurisdic-
tion of His Majesty's Government in respect of lands acquired by His
M4ajesty's Government and made available to the Government of India for
:investigation, execution and maintenance of the Project.
12.   Arbitration. - (1)  Any dispute or difference arising out of
or in any way touching or concerning the construction, effect of meaning
of this Agreement, or of any matter contained herein or the respective
iMihts and liabilities of the parties hereunder, if not settled by discus-
sion, shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of this clause.
(2) Any of the parties may by notice in writing inform the other
party of its intention to refer to arbitration any such dispute or dif-
ference mentioned in sub-clause (1) and within 90 days of the delivery of
such notice, each of the two parties shall nominate an arbitrator for
jointly determining such dispute or difference and the award of the
arbitrators shall be binding on the parties.
(3) In case the arbitrators are unable to agree, the parties
hereto may consult each other and appoint an Umpire whose award shall be
final and binding on them.
(b) This has been amended vide the revised agreement signed on the 30th
April 1964.
The original clause reads as follows: -
"9.  Protection of Nepal's riparian rights. - Hlis Majesty's Government
will continue to have the right to withdraw for irrigation or any other
purpose from the river or its tributaries in Nepal such supplies of water
.1s may be required by them from time to time and His Majesty's Government
agree that they shall not exercise this right in such manner as is likely,
in the opinion of the parties hereto prejudicially to affect the water
requirements of the Project as set out in the schedule annexed hereto."
The schedule referred to may be seen in Appendix II.
(c) This has been deleted in accordance with the revised agreement signed
on the 30th April 1964.
The original clause reads as follows: -
"10. Pro rata reduction of supplies during period of shortage. -
Whenever the supply of water available for irrigation falls short of the
requirements of the total area under the Project for which irrigation has
to be provided the shortage shall be shared on pro rata basis between
the Government of India and His Majesty's Government."



ANNEX 1
Page 6
13.   This Agreement will come into force with effect from the
date of signatures of the authorised representatives of His Majesty's
Government and the Government of India respectively.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned being duly authorised thereof
by their respective Governments have signed the present AGREEMENT in
Nepali, Hindi and English in duplicate, all three texts being equally
authentic, at Kathmandu this 19th day of Marg Sambat 2016 corresponding to
December 4, 1959. For purposes of interpretation the English text shall be
used.
For the Government of India -                    On behalf of
For and on behalf of the                 IIIS MAJESTY'S GOVERNMENT
PRESIDENT OF INDIA -                           OF NEPAL -
BHAGWAN SAHAY,                         SUBARNA SHAMSHERE,
Ambassador of India.                    Deputy Prime Minister.
July 12, 1972



ANNEX 1
Page 7
(Letter dated 4th December, 1959 from the
Ambassador of India and confirmed by
the Deputy Prime Minister of Nepal
on the same date)
MY DEAR,
There are a few matters pertaining to the Gandak Irrigation and
Power Project Agreement in respect of which certain understandings are
necessary. They are detailed below: -
(a) Sub-clauses (i) and (ii) of clause 3 lay down
that the Government of India shall pay reasonable
compensation for acquisition or requisition of
any lands which may be required for the Project.
It is agreed that for purposes of fixation of
rates of compensation His Majesty's Government
would appoint an Expert Committee with which
Revenue Officers of the Gandak Project would
also be associated. The Committee will visit
the area of the Project and fix the principles
for assessment of compensation payable for such
lands. The total compensation payable for the
lands acquired or requisitioned will be calculated
on the basis of the agreed rates fixed by the
Committee. The Government of India shall deposit
the agreed amount of compensation to the credit
of His Majesty's Government in the Rashtra Bank.
Thereupon His Majesty's Government will make
the required arrangements for payment of compensa-
tion to those persons to whom it may be due.
(b) Clause 4 provides that Ilis Majesty's Government
will grant permission to the Government of India
for the quarrying of materials required for
the construction and the maintenance of the
Project in the areas shown in the Plan annexed
to the Agreement. It is our understanding that
if suitable materials are not available from these
areas in sufficient quantities His Majesty's
Government will permit on the request of the
Government of India quarrying in such other areas
as may be mutually agreed upon.
(c) Sub-clause (ii) of clause 7 of the Agreement
states that under the Eastern Nepal Canal the
gross commanded area will be 1,03,500 acres.
It may be explained that this gross commanded



ANNEX 1
Page 8
area will be possible only on the execution of
the training works on the river Bagmati for which
certain proposals have already been under dis-
cussion with His Majesty's Government. The river
has been taking a westward course and certain
training works are required to be set up in order
to divert it back into its old eastern channel
to flow under the Bagmati Railway Bridge. Without
the river training scheme the gross commanded area
will not exceed 93,000 acres.
(d) Sub-clause (iii) of clause 7 of the Agreement refers
to a contribution by the Government of India of
a sum which they consider reasonable towards
the cost of construction of channels below 20
cusecs capacity for irrigation in Nepal. It is
our understanding that such contribution would
not cover any cost of land acquisition for the
channels but would be related only to the actual
expenditure on works. As regards the latter it
is estimated that a sum of rupees fifteen lakhs
will be sufficient and accordingly the Government
of India will make this sum available to His
Majesty's Government in suitable instalments
according to the progress of construction.
(e) Sub-clause (v) of clause 8 provides that the
ownership and management of the power house
shall be transferred to His Majesty's Government
on one year's notice by them after the full load
of 10,000 K.W. at 60 per cent load factor has
been developed in Nepal from this power house.
It is our understanding that for a period of
fifteen years after obtaining the ownership and
management of the power house His Majesty's
Government would be generating secondary power
to the full extent possible and supplying it
to the Government of India on payment of its
actual cost of production.
(f) The schedule annexed to clause 9 gives the
minimum quantities of water required for the
Project after making the allowance for the
withdrawal of water from the upper reaches of
the Gandak river and its tributaries sufficient
for the irrigation of two lakh acres which is
the maximum area estimated to be available for
the purpose. It is our understanding that if
at any time, due to natural causes, the supplies
in the river are insufficient for all the



ANNEX 1
Page 9
purposes His Majesty's Government will be
entitled to continue to withdraw water suf-
ficient for the irrigation of such area.
(g) His Majesty's Government and the Government of
India also agree to set up as early as possible
a Co-ordination Committee consisting of three
representatives of each Government with a
Minister of His Majesty's Government as its
Chairman and the Chief Administrator of the
Project as its Secretary. The Committee will
meet from time to time to consider such matters
of common interest concerning the Project as
may be referred to it by either Government
with a view to expedite decisions for the early
completion of the Project. The Governmient of
India will bear all expenditure in connection
with the working of the Committee, such as
salaries of special staff, if any, travelling
allowance of members, etc.
2.   I shall be grateful if you will kindly confirm the understandings
explained above.
Yours sincerely,
BHAGWAN SAHAY,
Ambassador of India.
His Excellency Sri Subarna Shamshere,
Deputy Prime Minister,
His tMajesty's Government of Nepal.



ANNEX 1
Page 10
(Exchange of Letters)
Kathmandu,
April 30, 1964.
Excellency,
In the course of recent discussions it has been decided by our
two Governments that certain clauses of the Gandak Project Agreement re-
quire amendment. The terms of this decision are as follows: -
(i) It is agreed between His Majesty's Government
of Nepal and the Government of India that
Clause 10 of the Gandak Irrigation and
Power Project Agreement entered into on
December 4, 1959, shall be deleted and
Clause 9, shall be modified and shall here-
after read as under: -
"Clause 9. Protection of Nepal 's Riparian Rights: -
"His Majesty's Government will continue to have the
right to withdraw for irrigation or any other
purpose from the river or its tributaries in
Nepal such supplies of water as may be required
by them from time to time in the Valley.
For the trans-Valley uses of Gandak waters, separate
agreements between His Majesty's Government
and the Government of India will be entered
into for the uses of water in the months of
February to April only."
(ii) The following shall be added under clause 7(v): -
"Also, the head regulator of the Don branch canal
shall be operated by His Majesty's Government
keeping in view the irrigation requirements of
areas irrigated by this branch canal in India
and Nepal."
I shall be grateful to have your confirmation that the amendments
agreed upon, which will take effect immediately, are correctly set out
above.
Accept, Excellency, the assurances of my highest consideration.
HARISHWAR DAYAL,
Ambassador of India at the Court of Nepal.
His Excellency
Major-General Padma Bahadur Khatri,
Foreign Secretary,
His Majesty's Government of Nepal,
Kathmandu.



ANNEX 1
Page 11
NEPAL
BIRGANJ IRRIGATION PROJECT
Extract from Agreed Minutes of Discussion
held between Irrigation and Power Delegations
of His Majesty's Government of Nepal and
Government of India at Kathmandu between
20th and 27th October 1971.
I.   EASTERN NEPAL CANAL OF GANDAK PROJECT
The leader of the Nepalese Delegation stated that according
to the agreement Nepal was entitled to 850 cusecs at the
point of entry of Canal in the Nepalese territory.
The leader of the Indian delegation stated that they will
abide by the agreement and India was agreeable to supply
850 cusecs of water through this canal at all times.
The leader of Nepalese delegation stated that the Government
of India had earlier agreed to provide Rs 15 lakhs to H.M.G.
for the construction of channels below 20 cusecs. The cost
as now assessed by them is very much higher and they desired
that the Union's contribution should be revised upwards.
It was agreed that the Government of India will assess the
likely reasonable cost on the basis of the practices adopted
in the project command in Bihar and communicate it to H.M.G.
It was agreed that the Project Authorities will complete
the construction of the main canals and channels of 20 cusecs
and above by June 1972 or 6 (working) months from the date
land is made available for the project whichever is later.
II. CUSTOMS LEVIES ON GANDAK PROJECT
The Indian delegation raised the question of exemption from
payment of customs duty and other taxes on the materials,
equipment, machineries, etc. required for the Gandak Project
in the territory of Nepal as is available in the Kosi Project.
The Leader of the Indian delegation requested that His
Majesty's Government of Nepal may allow necessary exemption
from payment of custom duty during construction and maintenance
of the Gandak Project in Nepal. The Leader of the Nepalese
delegation agreed to place the request before the appropriate



ANNEX 1
Page 12
authority of H.M.G. for consideration and communicate the
result to the G.O.I.
Sd ...............              Sd..
( B. P. Patel)                 (Krishna Rajbhandari)
Secretary                         Secretary
Ministry of Irrigation & Power      Ministry of Water & Power
Government of India            His Majesty's Gov't., Nepal.
Leader of Indian delegation.        Leader of Nepalese delegation.
Signed at Kathmandu
on October 27, 1971.
July 12, 1972



NEPAL
BIRGANJ IRRIGATION FROJECT
Climatic Data
Jan.  Feb.  Mar.   Apr.   Ma      June   July  Au *       pt. Oct.   Nov.   Dec.   Total
Mean Monthly Rainfall (mm)
At Sirha              24.3  10.1   l5.)4  23.4  96.7  227.4   367       367.5  188.6  75.8  15.6    1.6   1,413
At Parwanipur         26.4  14.8   10.2   15.6  25.3  233.6   436.7   290.6  231.9  50.7  Nil         Nil   1,335
Potential Evapotranspiration (mm)
At Hardinath 1970)   71.6 7i.6  176.7  220.8 233.4  156.6   155.3   139.5  135.9 112.2  78.6   65.7   1,623.9
Bean Monthly Sunshine (hr:min/day)
At Hardinath            0:15  605   8:22   9i07  9:14   6.50    6:31    5:33   5:50  9:23  8:23   8,24           7:50
(Jan. to Mar. obtained from records of 1970  while the remainder observed in 1969)
At Parwanipur           8:03  8:49   7:50   8:48 10:18   5:14    5:09    6:17   6:57  9:07  9:11   8:5           7:53
Mean Monthly Air Temperature (C1)
At Hardinath (1970)   14.1  15.7   22.6   28.3  30.9   28.5    28.5    28.4   28.9  27.3  23.3   19.5           24.7
At Parwanipur         16    17.9   23.1   28.5  30.1  30.2    30.2    29.8   29.7  26.1  21.2   17.4            25
(Average of 7 years)
Relative Humidity at 0840 hours (%)
At Hardinath (1970)   83    79      56     50    60      79      84      82      82    80    76      84         74.6
At Parwanipur          83.6  73.5   71.5   71    65.5   83.5    83        88     85    80    78      85         79
(A,verage of 2 years)






ANNEX 3
Page 1
NEPAL
BIRGANJ IRRIGATION PROJECT
Aariculture
General
1.        The total area of Nepal is about 14.1 million ha of which only
1.8 million ha are cultivated and planted to 2.4 million ha of crops. In
1970, only 6%, or 117,400 ha of the gross cropped area was irrigated. The
main agricultural regions are the Terai plains and the hill areas, covering
about 70% and 30%, respectively, of the total cultivated area. Paddy, maize,
and wheat are grown on approximately 90% of the cultivated land and cash
crops such as jute, oilseed, sugarcane and potato, on the remainder.
Soils and T2oporaphy
2.        The project area, located in Bara and Parsa districts in the Terai,
consists of a gravity-fed area of 44,000 ha gross with 28,700 ha irrigated
and a groundwater area of 3,600 ha gross with 2,700 ha irrigated. Soils
are alluvial clay to sandy loams (paddy soils) laid down by rivers from the
Churia Hills. The natural drainage is poor and would require upgrading in
conjunction with irrigation development. The pH value of the topsoil layer
ranges from 6.0 to 7.2. These soils are suitable for most subtropical crops.
3.        The gradient of the region ranges from 1:200 at foothills in
the northern part of the plain to 1:1,000 near the Indian border. In
the project area the north-south gradient varies between 1:750 and
1:1,000; about 10-15% of the command area would benefit from land shaping.
About 90% of the area lands would be classified Class II or III for
irrigation suitability under the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation standards.
Climate
4.        Annual rainfall is about 1,350 mm, with over 90% occurring between
May to October. Ten-day intensity sometimes exceeds 350 mm. About two
years in ten, less than 1,000 mm or more than 1,600 mm is received, causing
crop losses from drought or flood. Temperatures range from a low of 8°C
in January to a high of 38°C in April and May. Humidity is at 65% to 70%
from March to May and ranges between 80% and 85% for the remainder of the
year. Detailed information is given in Annex 2.
5.        Climatic and soil conditions favor the production of paddy and
sugarcane during the rainy season and wheat, pulses and oilseeds during
the winter months. From July to September cloudiness delays crop maturity



ANNEX 3
Page 2
and inhibits crop yields; the high rainfall hampers crop harvesting and
threshing. Cold weather retards paddy production from January to April
but is more favorable for wheat and pulses.
The Cropping System
6.        During the rainy season, about 90% of the project area is in paddy;
with sugarcane, vegetables and pulses utilizing another 5%. Most of the
sugarcane is grown with semi-perennial irrigation at Tilawe and Sirsia
project areas. Wheat, winter vegetables, pulses and small oilseeds are
grown from September to May on about 40% of the area for a crop intensity
of 135%.
7.        Cultivation activities are labor intensive.  Some of the labor used
to transplant paddy and harvest paddy and sugarcane migrates from Bihar and
West Bengal, India where unemployment is severe. Bullocks are used for soil
preparation, threshing and transporting. However, in 1970-71, over 125 farm
tractors were used to supplement bullock power.
Paddy
8.        Nursery and seed-bed preparation starts with the onset of the
rainy season in May and June. Coarse varieties that mature in 120 to 150
days from seeding are planted first and harvested in October and early
November. Long-season fine varieties are usually transplanted between June
20 and July 15 when sufficient rains have fallen to reduce the risk of water
shortage, and are harvested in late November and December. The early
maturing varieties give lower yields because of the lack of sunshine and
the heavier infestation of insects and diseases. The late-maturing varieties
give higher yields and fetch higher prices; but make wheat growing without
irrigation virtually impossible. Fertilizers and plant protection materials
are seldom used. Only a small area is sown to new varieties.
9.        Paddy blast (Pyricularia Oryzae) and bacterial blight (Xanthomonas
Oryzae) are the most serious diseases; the latter affects some of the new
high-yielding varieties IR5 and IR8, but the new variety IR20 has a good
resistance to these diseases. The coreid bug (Leptocorisa acuta) and stem-
borer are the major insect pests but do not seriously affect the crop. Rats
may damage the standing crop, undermine the bunds, and consume paddy in
storage.
10.       With irrigation and drainage provided by the project, and with
the expected availability of more disease-resistant varieties, the area
planted to early paddy should increase considerably in order to have
the possibility of a second crop. With harvesting completed in October,
this area would be sown to wheat, pulses or oilseeds. Paddy yields would
be expected to increase from the current 1,50Q kg to 3,000 kg per ha at
full development. Already some progressive farmers obtain 4,000 kg per ha
with IR8 on irrigated farms in the Tilawe area, whereas tests on the
Hardinath Demonstration Farm produce yields of 6,000 to 7,000 kg per ha.
A projected yield of 3,000 kg as an average of the project area after 10 years
is thus reasonable.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Wheat
11.       As was found on the Hardinath Demonstration Farm and confirmed
at the Parwanipur Agricultural Station, optimal sowing time of wheat is
mid-November, with harvesting in April. Delay of sowing until mid-December
reduces the yield because of the high temperature and hot winds in late
April and May, which retard vegetative growth, weaken the plants and make
the crop more susceptible to rusts.
12.       Since 1966 the dwarf wheat varieties have replaced most of the
local types. The recommended varieties are the early variety RR21 and the
even better medium varieties S227 and S331. On an experimental basis
yield averages 3,000 tb 4,000 kg per ha for these varieties over a two-
year period. Agricultural Extension Service recommends NPK fertilizer
applications (80-40-20 or 60-60-30), though actual application rates are
low. Serious pests and diseases have not yet occurred. With a continuous
improvement of promising varieties at the Parwanipur Agricultural Station,
the use of irrigation water and sufficient fertilizers, a projected in-
crease of the present average productions of 1,000 kg per ha in the project
area to 3,000 kg within 10 years is considered obtainable and reasonable.
Sugarcane
13.       Only about 5% of the project area is planted to sugarcane:  the
major portion adjoins the sugar mill at Birganj where supplemental irrigation
from Tilawe is available; the remainder is cultivated by small farmers in
rainfed fields. The sugar factory management tries to stimulate sugarcane
growing by providing to the growers agricultural advice and credit to purchase
cane sets, fertilizers, plant protection chemicals and additional labor for
harvesting. Also, transportation is arranged as much as possible for inputs
to the farms and for the cane to the mill.
14.       Despite all these measures, yields average only 15 tons of cane
per ha because planting material produced on the farmers' fields or imported
from India is impure and of low quality. Besides, insufficient irrigation
during the hot and dry months of May, June and July and the low temperatures
from December through February virtually stop growth of the crop. The
sugar mill at Birganj which has excess capacity also accepts sugarcane brought
in from remote, rainfed fields so that the average output of the processed
cane is only approximately 8% to 9% refined sugar.
15.       The sugar mill at Birganj obtains an average of 25 tons per ha
of cane on non-irrigated land and about double on irrigated fields on its
own 700 ha area. The sugarcane variety BO50 produced yields of 68 tons per
ha on varietal trials in Parwanipur. With the project, yields would be
expected to average 40 tons per ha within 10 years' time, due to sufficient
water, improved planting material from the sugar factories and the Parwanipur
Agricultural Station, and because of more appropriate cultivation practices
stimulated by better trained agricultural extension services. Since the low
winter temperatures in the Project area are more suitable for sugar beet
production, this crop should be included in varietal trials at Parwanipur.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
Oilseeds, Pulses, Other Crops
16.       Oilseeds, usually mustard, and pulses are important winter crops
seeded either separately or as a mixture after paddy. Gram and pea may be
seeded after late paddy. Yields are low, about 400 kg per ha for oilseeds
and 500 kg for pulses and would, with irrigation and improved practices,
increase to 850 kg and 750 kg per ha respectively.
17.       Vegetables are grown on about 5% of the area, mostly for family
use. The area and yield could be increased with irrigation and improved
cultural practices; however, market demand would not absorb a substantive
increase in output at profitable prices.
18.       Hemp 1/ (cannabis sativa, L.) is also grown solely for its narcotic
resin. Hiemp in the project area is known as "ganja" and is presently grown
on small plots (1/20 to 1/10 ha) totalling no more than 100 ha scattered over
the area. It is generally planted on light soils and is liberally irrigated
by hand pumps. Investments are high due to the very intensive soil prepara-
tion, high fertilizer demand and the special way of selecting only the plants
bearing unfertilized female flowers. The resin is formed only when these
female flowers are not fertilized, and since fertilized flowers are worthless
as yielders of "ganja" and male and female plants which normally occur in
a hemp field are difficult to distinguish, this hemp growing for "ganja"
production involves high risk of failure. HMGN controls the growing of
ganja and requires that each grower must possess a license (license fee
NRs 5,250/ha). Apart from its use as a drug, the seeds of the plant contain
up to 20% of a semi-drying oil, rather similar to cottonseed oil, which can
be used for cooking purposes. The net return from reasonably productive
fields has varied in recent years, from NRs 500 to NRs 1,500 per 1/10 ha
plot, depending on the market. Cash costs and returns on a typical 1/10 ha
plot for a successful crop sold at a good price are as follows:
1/   Hemp may produce three types of narcotics:  (a) "jhang" (Hindustani)
or "hashish" (Arabic), which is the dried leaves and flowering shoots
of male and female plants, both cultivated and wild, and with a low
resin content; (b) "ganja", which is the dried female inflorescence
of special cultivars grown in India and Nepal; and (c) "charas",
produced in Central Asia, which is the crude resin collected by rubbing
the tops of the plants with the hands or beating them with a cloth.
These narcotics, though quite different in cultivation and resin con-
tent, fall under the umbrella te.m "marijuana".



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Costs                                Returns
Fertilizers          NRs   100      20 kg
Manure                      20          at NRs 100           NRs 2,000
Pruning (skilled labor)   400       Total cash costs             1,045
Subtotal                   520      Net return, with license       955
License (if obtained)      525      License fee                    525
Total cash costs         1,045      Net return, without licensel,480
Area, Yield and Production
19.       Based on the foregoing figures a comparison between the present
and future situation (10 years after project works completed) regarding area,
yield and production may be summarized as follows:
Present          Without Project          With Project
Crops        Area   Yield   Prod.  Area   Yield   Prod. Area    Yield   Prod.
(ha)   kg/ha ('OOOmt) (ha)   kg/ha ('OOOmt) (ha)   kg/ha ('OOOmt)
Paddy-local 27,200  1,500   40.8   28,260  1,700  48.0  15,430  2,700   41.7
Paddy-HYV                                                  13,910  3,500   48.7
Sugarcane    1,570 15,000   23.6    1,570 18,000  28.3   3,140 40,000  125.6
Wheat        7,850  1,000    7.9    9,420  1,200  11.3  15,700  3,050   47.6
Oilseeds     1,200    400    0.5    1,570    400   0.6   1,570    750    1.2
Pulses       1,500    500    0.8    1,570    500   0.8   1,570    850    1.3
Vegetables   1,570  5,500    8.6    1,570  6,000   9.4   1,570 12,000   18.8
At full development the annual gross value of agricultural production of the
project area, at projected 1980 world market prices, adjusted to farmgate
value, is expected to increase from the current NRs 47 million to NRs 122
million, more than doubling the expected output without the project (NRs 51
million).
February 12, 1973






ANNEX 4
Page 1
NEPAL
BIRGANJ IRRIGATION PROJECT
Agricultural Support Services
General
1.        At the time of appraisal, HMIGN had three ministries dealing witlh
agriculture, viz: the Ministry of Food and Agriculture, the Ministry of Land
Reform and the Ministry of Water and Power.  In the last quarter of 1972
responsibility for all aspects of agriculture was placed under an expanded
Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Irrigation.
2.        The Ministry consists of the Department of Irrigation, Hydrology
and Metereology, the Department of Agricuilture, the Department of Food and
the Department of Land Settlement. The Ministry also has overall responsibility
for five public sector corporations: the Agricultural Marketing Corporation
(AMC), Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal (ADBN), Food Management Corpo-
ration (FMC), Nepal Resettlement Company, and the Dairy Development Corpora-
tion.
3.        The Department of Agriculture consists of the Divisions of
Agricultural Education and Research, Extension, Horticulture, Livestock and
Veterinary Services, and Fisheries.
4.        The Department of Irrigation, Hydrology and Meteorology comprises
a Planning and Design Division, a Construction Division and a Hydrology and
Meteorology Division. In addition there are four Regional Directorates based
in Kathmandu, Suakhet, Pokhara and Dhankuta.
5.        Ministries dealing indirectly with agriculture and of importance
to the project include Public Works and Transport (PWT), and Home Panchayats
(HP). PWT is responsible for planning, designing, constructing and maintaining
all public buildings and public roads. The Ward Panchayat is a publicly
elected government institution representing the citizens of about ten rural
villages. It has responsibilities for the development of agriculture, minor
irrigation and village link roads.
Division of Agricultural Extension
6.        The staff from this division is posted in 71 of the 75 districts
and supervised from the Kathmandu central office. The District Agricultural
Development Officer (DADO) has a bachelor of science degree in agriculture
and is in charge of the district staff including one or more Junior Techni-
cians (JT), and several Junior Technical Assistants (JTA); the number depend-
ing on the intensity of agricultural production in the area. In 1970, one



ANNEX 4
Page 2
extension worker served an average of 2,000 agricultural households. Their
activities were aimed at increasing crop production by use of demonstration
plots of high-yielding variety seeds and fertilizers and by publicity.  They
also estimated crop yields, advised the ADBN on the technical feasibility
of farm plans for loan applicants and helped the AMC distribute seeds and
fertilizers.
7.        Bara and Parsa districts have had the Extension Division's Intensive
Agricultural Development Programme during the Third Plan. The public sector
sugar mill at Birganj also has an extension staff to work with sugarcane
growers. In the two districts there are 3 DADOs, 10 JTs, and 49 JTAs to serve
about 80,000 landowners and 40,000 tenants.
Division of Agricultural Education and Research
8.        Nepal's agricultural graduates are trained abroad, most of them at
Indian agricultural universities. About 700 students will complete this
training during the Fourth Plan, making a total of about 1,000 graduates to
assist the agricultural divisions as technicians, and as DADOs and other
district-level officers.
9.        JTs and JTAs are trained at the College of Agriculture, upgraded
from a School of Agriculture in 1969, and located at Kathmandu. Candidates
with a high school diploma receive three months' basic training in agriculture
at the college before assignment to a DADO for six months' practical field
training. Then, an additional three months' training is given at the college;
successful candidates receive certificates and a job in the extension
service, if available. After four or five years of field experience, the
JTA may return to the college for six to eight months of specialized
training for a diploma. Since 1957, 920 certificates have been awarded and
626 recipients are employed in extension work as JTAs. About 150 JTs have
received diplomas; 128 are in extension work.
10.       The agricultural research program is designed to increase the
flow of yield-increasing agricultural technology. The related disciplines
of agricultural botany, agronomv, agricultural engineering, entomology,
plant pathology and soil science are included in research activities conducted
at Kathmandu, five field stations, and four agricultural farms. Research
work has concentrated on the introduction of new varieties, planting dates,
crop response to fertilizer application, and control of insects and plant
diseases. Plant breeding work was initiated in 1971.
11.       The Divisionl operates an Agricultural Research Station at Parwani-
pur, adjoining the project area, where it has concentrated on increasing
the production of paddy, wheat and maize. At this station, USAID provides
consultants and funds for research and extension training on cereal produc-
tion and water management. UNDP (NEP-12) provides technical assistance for
training of the extension staff to conduct field trials and demonstrations
with farmers to show the benefits of the recommended varieties, fertilizer
use and water control. The research a:d extension training work and the
consultant assistance at Parwanipur would be available for use in the project
area.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Work in the Project Area
12.       The work of the Divisions of Extension, and of Education and
Research, is crucial to the success of the project. Under current arrangements,
salaries are low, provisions for housing, equipment and travel are inadequate,
and the field staff lacks local supervision, technical assistance, and oppor-
tunity for advancement. To help solve these problems, the local extension
service staff would be integrated into NZIDB and would include an extension
director-in-charge, 6 extension specialists and 20 to 25 field workers. They
would be assisted by consultants.
13.       Under the project, the current research program at Parwanipur would
be continued. New research would include the development of an efficient water
management scheme for the area and testing the profitability of alternative
crops such as sugarbeets, cotton, groundnuts, soya beans, pulses, and vege-
tables. The research agency would also evaluate the economics of irrigated
farming under both tubewell and surface irrigation conditions.
Agricultural Marketing Corporation (AMC)
14.       The Agricultural Marketing Corporation (AMC) supplies inputs to
farmers and regulates the marketing of farm products. It has the respon-
sibility for importing all farm production inputs involving the use of
foreign exchange other than Indian rupees, mostly fertilizers, and of
procuring and importing items such as high-yielding variety seeds and pumps
from India. To serve as the importer/wholesaler for the project area and
the adjacent regions, AMC maintains warehouses with 5,000 tons of storage
capacity at Birganj. Within the project area 22 private dealers and 6
cooperatives served as AMC fertilizer retailers during 1971. Additional
wholesale storage for inputs would be provided by AMC, if needed. In
addition, more private retailers can be engaged as needed.
15.       All materials are sold on a cash-and-carry basis by AMC, fob
the Birganj warehouse. Farmers also purchase fertilizers and other inputs
directly from Indian retailers located near the Nepal border. At the time
of appraisal most inputs were readily available at competitive prices within
10 km to 15 km of any village in the project area.
16.       AMC's experience indicates that a 50-ton capacity rural store
serves adequately for the distribution to farmers of up to 300 tons of
fertilizers per year and that no additional space is needed by a retailer
or a cooperative engaged in selling other inputs and handling short-term
agricultural credit loans. More than 500 tons of fertilizers could be
retailed from a 50-ton capacity store located on all-weather roads and with
improved communications. A 100-ton capacity warehouse could handle more
than twice these volumes and, at least during the five to ten years required
to build sales, it also could be used for the storage and marketing of
agricultural produce. Farmers currently drive their bullock carts 5 km to
20 km over village trail roads to purchase inputs and market produce.
17.       The feasibility study proposed 42 warehouses of 500-ton capacity
for the distribution of inputs and storage of grains. However, the demand



ANNEX 4
Page 4
for this volume of grain storage and the economic feasibility of each unit
was not assured. Therefore, this aspect of the proposal would be changed to
include not more than six storage facilities of 100-ton capacity and six of
50-ton capacity, as recommended by AMC. These facilities plus the six exist-
ing units would be operated by cooperatives. AMC would train the managers
to sell fertilizers and other inputs.
Agricultural Development Bank (ADBN)
18.       The ADBN, organized in 1968, functions to provide short-, medium-
and long-term loans for agricultural production purposes to farmers and to
cooperatives for on-lending to farmer-members. It provides an investment
loan service to individuals and corporate bodies engaged in manufacturing
agricultural inputs or processing agricultural commodities. It is authorized
to undertake banking functions in a region only with the approval of the
Central Bank. In 1970/71, its share capital was NRs 22.8 million and an
additional NRs 12.1 million was available from borrowings, deposits and
reserves. Loan commitment exceeds NRs 30.0 million, of which more than
NRs 16 million have been disbursed. Overdues were about 20% of loans due
from cooperatives and 10% of the amounts due from private borrowers.
19.       In 1971, the Asian Development Bank granted ADBN a loan of US$2.4
million to procure tractors and to hire three expatriate consultants. These
consultants, available until 1975, will advise ADBN regarding its organiza-
tion and management procedures, and train its managers and accountants for
placement in 135 "model." cooperatives.
20.       Cooperatives borrow funds from ADBN at 7% interest and on-lend to
creditworthy farmer-members at 10% interest. Repayment is usually scheduled
within 60 days of crop harvest. Loan applications are reviewed and cleared
by the local JTA and the primary society manager and board before acceptance
by the regional ADBN branch manager. When approved, the borrower receives
a chit authorizing him to procure fertilizers and seeds from the local coopera-
tive store or private dealer. Cash loans to pay hired labor are disbursed
only after the fertilizers have been obtained. The procedure is cumbersome,
takes considerable time of the borrower, and there is lack of contact
between the borrower and the loan officer.
21.       In the project area, only 6 of 43 cooperatives are providing farmers
with input distribution and production credit services at acceptable levels
of performance. The BIPB proposes to strengthen these 6 and reorganize
the remainder into 12 economically viable units with an office and storage
facilities (para 15). The ADBN has assured HMGN that, through its Birganj
branch office, it would provide funds as needed to finance production inputs
and on-farm development works of creditworthy farmers in the project area.
It would train and supervise managers and accountants and supervise the
lending operations. Lending and collection procedures would be improved.
BIPB would provide a technical staff to help each ccoperative develop its
membership participation and local capital resources.
February 1, 1973



ANNEX 5
Page 1
NEPAL
BIRGANJ IRRIGATION PROJECT
Description of Project Works
A. Existing Works
1.        The 1959 agreement between HMGN and Government of India (GOI)
provides that GOI would construct a barrage, canal head regulators and
other appurtenant works on the Gandak River at the border near Tribeni
for irrigation and development of power for Nepal and India. The Gandak
works, costing about US$175 million, when completed would generate 15,000
kW of electricity and irrigate a net command area of 1.24 million ha:
950,000 ha in Bihar, 230,000 ha in Uttar Pradesh and 60,000 ha in Nepal
(see Map IBRD3895). The agreement also stipulates that GOI would construct
the Don Branch Canal for about 92 km in Bihar-India to deliver irrigation
water to the Nepal border and nearby India.
2.        GOI agreed to construct, at no cost to NepalA the main canal (Nepal
Eastern Canal) and the secondary canals down to 0.57 mD/sec (20 cusecs) for
the gravity-fed area included in this project. Nepal was to acquire all
land needed for these works, also at GOI's expense. GOI also agreed to
provide a cash payment up to Indian Rs 1.5 million (US$200,000) for the dis-
tributing works below 0.57 m3/sec. The Irrigation Department of Government
of Bihar was responsible for works design and construction in Bihar and
Nepal. A supplemental agreement completed between HMGN and GOI in October
1971 specifies that 24.1 m3/sec (850 cusecs) of water would be delivered
through the Don Branch Canal to the Nepal border at all times, except for
necessary repair and maintenance. This is the source and amount of surface
irrigation water available for the Birganj project area.
3.        At the time of appraisal the barrage, the Don Branch Canal, and
about 75% of the Nepal Eastern Canal had been constructed. By the end of
August 1972 excavation of the Nepal Eastern Canal was substantially completed,
66 out of 91 structures were built and 5 of the 9 secondary canals were
completed. At the December 1972 meeting between representatives of the two
countries it was agreed that works would be completed by March 1, 1973, and
that the Nepal Eastern Canal would be ready for commissioning on this date.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
4.        Ten years ago, HMGN constructed a barrage and canal system at
Tilawe and at Sirsia that irrigates about 7,000 ha in the project area from
June to October. Farmers constructed some field watercourses and drains
themselves without technical guidance from the Irrigation Department.
This area is included in the project to provide perennial irrigation
and improvement of the distribution system.
5.        In the groundwater area, HMGN, under the Indian Aid Program,
installed 21 tubewells between 1968-1970. At the time of appraisal,
only five wells had been energized and used. The project proposes
to energize 14 of these, each with a net command area of 75 ha. Seven wells
are considered unusable either because they pump sand or because of their
low yields and being too far from power supplies.
B. New Works - Surface Irrigation
6.        Main Canal.  The Nepal Eastern Canal originates at the Nepal-India
border on the western edge of the project area and extends eastward 62 km
to the Arwa River. It would receive 24.1 m3/sec of water continuously and
would be controlled by a regulator gate located on the Don Branch Canal at
the border. Water would be distributed from the Nepal Eastern Canal to 12
major and several minor secondary canals for distribution throughout the
command area.
7.        The proposed project differs somewhat from the original plan in
that water would be provided during both the wet and dry season; thus the
system, after completion of construction by GOI mainly for wet season
irrigation, would need eight additional check regulators and four
additional escapes. A 4.5-rm-wide service road along the entire length of
the main canal would be surfaced and would become a public road with
bridges and feeder road connections to villages in the area.
8.        Most of the construction consists of labor-intensive excavation
and installation of masonry structures with steel gates. Two civil
works contracts would be tendered, one to include the first 26 km with
the work to be started in 1973/74 and completed in 1974/75; the second
to include the remaining 36 km to be started in 1974/75 and completed in
1975/76.
9.        Distributary Canals and Drainage.  North-south rivers and streams
divide the project area into 12 self-contained irrigation blocks. Each block
would be served by a distributing canal system connected to the main canal
and consisting of a main secondary canal and several branch secondary and
tertiary canals to supply farm turnouts, each serving about 40 ha of net
command area.  There would be about 79 km of main secondary and 210 km of
branch secondary canals.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
10.       To remove monsoon flooding, and create conditions more suitable
for higher paddy yields and for planting wheat after paddy, a drainage
system linking the irrigation service units and farmers' fields to the
natural drains would be constructed. These drains would be provided
with appropriate structures at road and canal crossing points and at the tail
ends.  About 800 km of secondary and tertiary drains with associated
structures would be included.
11.       About 290 km of 3-m width operational roads would be constructed
adjacent to most of the main and branch secondary canals to provide access
for canal operation and maintenance. The feasibility study proposed that
most of these roads be cobbled and used to provide farm-to-market transport
service for farmers in the area. In addition, the study proposed over 70 km
of cobbled farm-to-market roads to link every village to the canal operational
roads and to BirganJ. However, the appraisal revealed that farmers market
more produce directly to Bihar-India markets than to Birganj. They also
procure a part of their fertilizers and seeds directly from Bihar. The layout
and design of the system and the use of cobblestones did not appear reasonable
for farmer-users. Therefore, the metalling of the canal operational roads
would be restricted to the main canal and the secondary canals that connect
with each of the 18 rural stores. Thus, the project would include the metal-
ling of 62 km of roads along the main canal plus about 50 km of 3-m
width connector roads to the rural stores. Bullocks generally refuse to
walk on a cobbled road unless covered with dirt. The NZIDB would review
the cost of alternative surface materials before offering contract tenders.
12.       Construction of the distributary canals, drainage and road systems
would be labor intensive. Civil works contracts would be prepared
to include the canal and road works in each block.
C. Groundwater Pilot Project
13.       In the groundwater sub-project, HMGN would monitor and evaluate
the costs and returns expected from tubewell irrigation and methods
of working with farmer-users at each tubewell. The NZIDB would be expected
to plan and execute a program that would achieve these objectives and
provide IDA with the annual reports of the results.
14.       Existing Wells.  The project would re-equip 14 existing tubewells
with pumps, electric motors, automatic controls, a regulating reservoir,
lined main canals and unlined distributary canals, and drains. Each
tubewell has a designed capacity of 50 1/sec to provide perennial irrigation
for 75 ha.
15.       New Tubewells.  The project would drill and equip 14 new tubewells,
each to irrigate 120 ha. The project also provides for the feasibility
study of a pumping scheme to lift excess water from the Nepal Eastern
Canal to irrigate an area with and adjacent to the canal. Should the study
reveal favorable result it would be desirable to resite some of the proposed



ANNEX 5
Page 4
new tubewells farther north from the canal on land that cannot be irrigated
by low lift pumps. Each tubewell drilled to a depth of about 150 m
would be fitted with a 35.6 cm diameter mild steel pump chamber to a
depth of 80 m. Fiberglass reinforced epoxy resin pipe screens 20.3
cm in diameter with appropriate factory perforated slots of 0.16 cm
width would be installed. Three wells would be equipped with stainless
steel screens instead of fiberglass to permit the study of different
types of construction. Fiberglass pipe of 25.4 cm in diameter would
be joined to the pump chamber by a connector and to the screen pipe
by a reducer.
16.       A 15.2-cm diameter pilot hole would be drilled initially by the
rotary method to the final depth and logged lithologically and electrically.
With these data the portions of the hole to be screened can be identified.
The pilot hole would then be reamed to the final 61 cm diameter, thus pro-
viding an annular space of about 12.7 cm for placing the gravel packing
through a tremie pipe.
17.       Each well would have a pumphouse and a small regulating reservoir.
All main canals leading from the wells would be lined, but all other canals
would be unlined. The area would also be provided with drains. Farmers
would construct at their expense the watercourses, field drains and land-
shaping on their holdings, but under the design and supervision of the BIPE.
18.       Electricity.  About 18 km of 11-kv power line with transformers
would be constructed to provide electric power to operate the 28 tubewell
pumps.
19.       Equipment, including spares, for the 14 existing wells and the 14
new wells would be grouped and offered in one tender in 1973/74. One con-
tract would be tendered for the replacing of equipment on existing wells
as well as the drilling of 14 new wells including the construction works
for the pumphouse,, reservoir, canal and drainage and installation of the
transmission line, on a turn key basis.
D. On-farm Development
20.       Landowners would be responsible for the construction of all on-farm
works beyond the outlet gate on tertiary canals. These works include
field watercourses and field drains for the surface and tubewell command
area and land-shaping wherever needed. NZIDB would provide technical
engineering services to design and lay out an on-farm development scheme
for each outlet gate. Landowners would be encouraged and persuaded
to adopt the plan and complete construction of the works under NZIDB's
guidance and supervision. In the event of a farmer not completing the work
within one year after NZIDB had completed the tertiary canals and drains in
the project serving his farm, NZIDB would perform the necessary work and
recover the expenses from the farmer. Irrigation water would not be provided
to any farmer until all of the on-farm development work on his land had been
completed.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
E. Equipment for Project Execution, Operation and Maintenance
21.       Most of the civil, works would be executed by contractors; therefore,
NZIDB would need equipment only for general administration and operation
and maintenance purposes. The list includes vehicles, workshop equipment,
earth-moving machines and some construction equipment for repair works
as given in Annex 9. Vehicles for consultants are also provided in the list.
F. Buildings
22.       Rural Stores.  The project feasibility report proposed the
construction of 42 warehouses, each with 500 tons of storage capacity, to
be used to store and distribute agricultural inputs and to store grains.
The size and number of these stores are considered excessive and not
economically viable. Hence to facilitate the distribution of inputs, the
project would provide for the construction of only up to six rural
stores of 100 tons storage capacity and up to six rural stores of 50 tons
storage capacity. NZIDB would arrange for ADBN and local cooperatives to
wn and operate these facilities.
23.       Project Buildings.  NZIDB would need a headquarters office and
canal offices, housing for staff and consultants, a workshop and a training
center. These buildings would be designed and tendered for construction
by NZIDB.
G. Other Facilities and Services
24.       NZIDB would finance the Agricultural Extension and Cooperation
staffs to work with farmers in the command area. Project funds would be used
to supplement agricultural research and staff training operations at the
Parwanipur Agricultural Experiment Station. NZIDB would make arrangement
with the Economic and Statistics Division of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture
and Irrigation for providing monitoring of project benefits and carrying out
economic evaluation of the project. A study of the feasibility of a pump-
ing scheme to lift water from the Nepal Eastern Canal to irrigate areas with
and adjacent to the Canal would be conducted by HMGN, with the assistance
of the Consultants.
H. Consultants
25.       HMGN and the Department of Irrigation, Hydrology and Meteorology
have a limited cadre of trained and qualified engineers to plan, design,
prepare specifications, and supervise field construction. The shortage
is, in part, due to staff assignment to other irrigation projects under



ANNEX 5
Page 6
construction. A similar shortage of experienced staff exists for key
positions in project administration and the Agricultural Extension Service.
Expatriate consultants would be provided under the project to assist NZIDB
in the execution and management of the project works, to carry out feasibility
studies and to train NZIDB staff (Annex 11).
january 23, 1973



ANNEX 6
Page 1
NEPAL
BIRGANJ IRRIGATION PROJECT
Irrigation Water Demand and Supply
1.        Climate.  Annual rainfall, as given in Annex 2, is about 1,350 mm,
90% of which occurs from May to October. Monthly average rainfall data
recorded at the Sirha station, about 100 km east of the project area, for the
last 19 years were used in the water requirement-supply calculations.
2.        Crop Water Requirements,  Estimates of water requirements for the
projected crop patterns were based primarily on two years of study at the
Hardinath Experiment Station. For paddy and wheat, the water requirements
were determined by field measurements including evaporation from "Class A"
pan, crop consumptive use, and deep percolation losses for each 10-day period
during the growing season. The crop coefficient thus determined was related
to the growth stage of the crop. The requirements for land preparation and
puddling for paddy were assumed to be 150 mm. Crop coefficients and standard
evaporation pan data were used to determine consumptive use for sugarcane,
oilseeds and vegetables.
3.        Using the Sirha station data, effective rainfall for paddy was
computed for average 10-day periods as follows: (1) if the total rainfall
was less than 5 mm, none was considered effective; (2) if the rainfall
exceeded 5 mm in depth, the excess was considered effective to a depth
of 10 cm and all the excess over 10 cm was assumed to be wasted. Effective
rainfall for crops other than paddy was based on the average field holding
capacity of 40% of effective root zone depth. Based on these criteria,
the following table shows the percentage of monthly effective rainfall
to total monthly rainfall:
Effective Rainfall (% of total for month)
Month                    Paddy                 Other Crops
May                       80                        80
June                      70                        70
July                      50                        40
August                    50                        40
September                 80                        70
October                   80                        80



ANNEX 6
Page 2
4.        Water losses from the field outlet to the crop in the surface
irrigation area were calculated at 20% for paddy and 25% for other crops.
In the groundwater area, field losses were estimated at 5% for paddy,
because of the canal lining and better control of water with pump irrigation,
and 25% for other crops.
5.        Water Supply-Surface Irrigation Area.  Irrigation water for the
surface area would be diverted by a barrage located at the Nepal-India border
on the Gandak River and conveyed about 100 km through the Don Branch Canal,
located in India, to the Nepal border and the Nepal Eastern Canal (see
Map 3895). These works were constructed by GOI and except for the Nepal
Eastern Canal would be maintained by GOI. The Gandak River, with about
35,000 km2 of watershed area entirely in Nepal, has a mean annual flow of
1,534 m3/sec; monthly discharges vary from 4,570 m3/sec in August to 300 m3/sec
in March (based on 5 years data collected at Narayan Garh station).
6.        Under terms of an agreement with India (Annex 1), GOI would
provide Nepal with a continuous flow of 24.1 m3/sec (850 cusec) water
into the Nepal Eastern Canal, the main canal for this project. It
will be necessary to close periodically the Don Branch Canal for maintenance
and repair purposes. HMGN and GOI would establish a subcommittee with the
responsibility for continuous inspection of the Don Branch Canal and the
determination of the time and duration of closure for routine and emergency
repairs and maintenance.
7.        Barrages on the Tilawe and the Sirsia Rivers near Birganj provide
supplemental irrigation from June to November for about 7,000 ha in the
project area. These systems would be incorporated into the project, improved
and provided with water for perennial irrigation.
8.        Table 1 shows the monthly water demand and supply for the projected
surface area crop pattern.
9.        Water Supply-Groundwater Area.  The hydrology for an area of about
200 km2, including the project area, was studied by the UNDP consultants.
The area (Map 1), bordered on the north by the Churia Hills, a sub-range of
the Himalayas, is underlain by alluvial deposits to a depth of about 300 m
and saturated with groundwater to within 3 to 5 m of the land surface.
Three zones of aquifers were identified, each with different lithologic and
hydrologic characteristics. Groundwater occurs under both confined and
unconfined conditions.
10.       Feasibility studies included:  (1) an analysis of the flow dynamics
of the groundwater in the aquifer system to a depth of about 300 m; (2) a
determination of the water balance in the upper 150-200 m of the system;
(3) analysis of the recharge and potential for development of the aquifer
system; (4) design, construction and operation of a digital model under
various assumed conditions of development; (5) preparation of designs and
specifications for a two-phased groundwater development - a pilot project
phase and an ultimate phase; and (6) recommendations for additional studies
to be carried out during and subsequeit to development. The studies also



ANNEX 6
Page 3
included drilling of test and production wells, aquifer testing, geophysical
surveys, lithological and electric bore hole logging, topographic mapping,
well inventory and chemical analysts of groundwater.
11.       The principal aquifer to be developed by project wells is identified
as layer 3. This aquifer, the most extensive of the three, has the greatest
transmissivity; although in some areas the aquifers are hydraulically inter-
connected. The top of layer 3 ranges from 60 to 100 m below ground surface;
it has a thickness ranging from 140 to 280 m. Tubewells supplied from this
aquifer would average about 150 m in depth. Recharge to the aquifer system
occurs directly by infiltration of rainfall within the area and by lateral
flow from the north. Water balance studies indicate that the annual average
recharge is in the order of 50 million m .
12.       Aquifer characteristics of layer 3 were determined by eleven pumping
tests. Transmissivity values ranged from 520 to 1,600 m2/day, and the
equivalent range of permeability would be 17.4 to 53.3 m/day. Specific
capacities of wells pumping from layer 3 aquifer ranged from 21 to 45 m3/h/m.
Drawdown resulting from pumping was determined by the use of a digital com-
puter model. The model included the entire 200 km2 and assumes that the base
of layer 3 is 150 m. A storativity value of 5 x 10-3 was used for layer 3
aquifer. A sensitivity test, using a storativity value of 5 x 10,4 made
during the visit of the appraisal team showed that the pumping lift at well
E19 would increase from 27.0 to 28.5 m during peak periods. Although storativ-
ity values calculated during the pumping tests were weak, the sensitivity
test demonstrated that this is not a critical factor in the determination of
ptumping lift.
13.       The project would equip and energize 14 existing wells, drilled
under bilateral aid with the GOI, and construct and equip 14 new wells. Be-
cause the existing wells are designed for maximum pump settings of 30 m, the
pumping lift during peak operations could not exceed this figure. New wells
would be located in the well-field design in such a way that interference would
not cause pumping lifts greater than 27 or 28 m. The areas to be served by
both new and existing wells are shown on Map 2.
14.       The existing wells would provide irrigation water for 75 ha each;
the new wells, 120 ha each. This would require a discharge of 50 1/sec from
the existing wells and 80 1/sec from the new wells in order to avoid operation
of the pumps during peak demand time on the electric power system. Therefore,
each well would be equipped with pumps and regulating reservoirs for automatic
operation during 19 of the 24 daily hours.
15.       Table 2 shows the irrigation requirements of crops to be supplied by
a well of 50 1/sec capacity and a well of 80 1/sec capacity.
August 9, 1972






NEPAL.
IROANJ IRRIATlO   PROJECT
ESTIMATED CROP WATER REQUIREMENTS AT FULL DEVELOPMENT:
SURFACE IRRIGATION SUBPROJECT
JAN         FEB         MAR         APR      1 MY             JUN           JUL         AUG          SEP         OCT          NOV          DEC
PADDY-  EARLY                    _ _ _ _     _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _                                                                                 _ _ _ _
PADDY - LATE                          __                                                                                                                                      -~
SUGARCANE -EARLY                                                                                                             m-                   i.u
SUGARCANE- LUTE                                            Q     0        -                                                                           
01EE01S PULSES
&" OGETAS CDI
---d..   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~[1,08                                                                             1.22        1.39         1.10         D.UO
op s,rr,iCtott  E~~~~~~~~                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~160 20  156.90  137.33  126CC  111.70
172.8            185.o       187.7        138.6         15.6
J-   P1 pe.Oit.O4  I-$  U.)                                                               27 .9        86.0         77.5        65.1         82.5         28.0
00003  o ahbe  pr-partoon                                                           150.0          -                               -       
0recsv   r.,rfahl  (                                                                 62.4        127.4       149 .5       150.0        123.2         49.6
F-  Ar rcqg.   8(q,%  ff.                                                               115.5        129.1        113.4        102.8        97.9         21.0
DI  ,J t.. 0%  ff   on'                                                                 11*4.4      161.8        161.6        128.0        122.1          0.
D,UPeroI.o    (hae 80) l.(e                                                              180.5        202.2        177.2        160.6       153.0         37.5!
V.ppI.  art-  -q                        -------- --  -----  ----------------                -      -        -14,350 h*---   -----   -                 --- - --
lot. no terreqd. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~29.90                               29.02        25.43        23.05        21.96         5.38
LI - Paddy
Crop ontlietD                                                                                           0.54         1.18         1.36        1.15         1.105       DO-
0k0 .VOpoOOtiUn  (non)                                                     ~~~~~~~      ~~~~~~~      ~~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~160.20  151.90  137.33  126.0)  014.70  83.10
Corn) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'/                                 - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 86.9    179.2       186.8        182.7        166.3        33.1,
-p rrat flea   m4)9.0                                                                                62.0         77.5         65.i         82.5         28.0        30.0
-dbe  ~Obdpe.(n                                                                          50.0        100.0          -            --                       - 
.,C.13  (me,)                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~              ~~~~~~     ~    ~~~~~~20.0  127.4  169.5  USO.0  1-23.2  I96  .
ICCef. P.31.  ...'fl.e)                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~             ~~~~~~~~~~~39.0  101.1  107.2  101.9  11,2.0  111.'7  63...)
Yldel. -oqt. 802 Uff.  (eo)                                                           L18.8       126.6        134.0        127 .4       177.5       180.         79.3
ereO    3.80% ~f     - 
pd  roi(26)  I,.     e,60.9                                                                  15B .1       167.5        159.2       221.9        226,1        99.1
lot. 4rOton reqd.  tRe-'                                           ~~~~~       ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6.1.2  15.27  16.83  99~I2  22.29  22.71     9.955
o-P lo,ffer i.nt  KEe                   0.83        25           - 3                                                                                                  0.30         1. 50
'U, eeaeeration  (one)       ~~66.65      78.68      16316                                                                                                   36           88
91                    ~~~~ ~ ~~~~ ~~55.3  66.9  62.2                                                                                                 23.40        34.82
ct.e  rnUl (o)0.0                                0.0          0.0                                                                                                  D.           0.1
lrrg-at-o r-qL.. (n               55.3       866          62.2                                                                                                  25.0         34.1"
-r1c. 0091. 706 efO.  ()            79.0 L   95 6            B889                                                                                                 35.7         49.1
i0-,eorne  eeqt,. 708  ff.  ()         1,12.9      136.6       127. 0                                                                                                 51.0    i70.
Oe.. t~~~ton  roqI.  4,-'  18.20  J   1~~~~l9.60    18-22                                                                                                 7.3---  .....  ,2  10.06
fror. onelfir~~~~~re   So 6/  0.60 ~~~~ 0 60        0.70         0.80         0.88         0.97        3.08         0.97         0.86         0.40        0.6          0.62
Et: (oe)6.0                                         29.9        114.6       154.1        200.0        155.4        151.9        133.2       108.6          45.9       50.0         62.
pa t e-ap -re lo (i)6.65                            730 68      16  68      15.60        22.3         102           5.9          2.3        160          147           31           88
Eleerorofol(n                          0I.0         0 0          095 11" 3   0.i0        60.3        126.9        101.1        10O..,     I108. 1.       48.0         0.0          C).0
frp, -    -eqt   (en                     00  I01                              5.         139.7         28.5         47.          28.8          0.0          0.0       50.0         42.7
pore 10. req.  73%  -f.  .r'e)          57 .1       42.1        1.63.7      220.1        199.6         69o.7        68.3         11.1          0.0         2.0        71.L         91.0
ro-erseo  rot. 00% rI>. Cm)             81.6        80 2        233.9       321.5        280.1         58.2         97.6         58.8         0.0          0.0       110.0         87.1
1roppoie-      (ha)  ,                 -- - ----------2,870   h                                                           ------ ------ -----            -- ----------- -- --
vol. sneer reqo.  ,,,3  2.34  1 73        6 71         9.03         8.~~ ~ ~~~~~           ~    ~~~~     ~~~18  1.67  2.80  1.69  0.0  0.0      2.93         2.0
Mro  -rofiio !"                          C).37       0.54         0.50                                                                                                              017
900evp-a'ioo   nn                     66.65       73.68      i63,.68                                                                                                             68.8 62
--  .me)                     ~~~~~~~~~~21.7  39.8      81.8                                                                                                              U 7
.oe -eranall  L-r)                  0.0         0.10        0.0                                                                                                               U.70
-igorltion reqt.  ( -)               21.7        39.8        81.8                                                                                                               11.70
- i   e.rqe. 70% elf. ln)          35.2        56.8       116.9                                                                                                               16.7
Ie ro.  0  ef. C.)50.3                       81.2        167.0                                                                                                              2.
.  -. to  -r93.  IV,                  2.17        3.50         7.19                                                                                                             1i.0-3-
foo    oleeane    oi.8                0.1        2.8           21 I8.03                69.20        4656          5.06        40.73       46.25        28.09       20.20        13.59
.00,llOUIe ceipply otolize., 5  . 32.1  12.6  69.8       ~~~~~~ ~~~1J,.5  62.4      74.6         69.9        63 .2        70.9         43.6        32.6         21.
3,   0  O.OC1 prto   (Et) for Pd   obtoeod foam Hordipth Pilot Dw0t,onati-, fn.-.
As,-., o   ,.  iOY 1  eCar-imh 0,106 3,o-otrat,ne Ceem and other arena
W.0IOB.ek-6523t2RI



NEPAL
-MQ06 VOGATO  PROJECT
ESTIMATED CROP WATER REQUIREMENTS FOR GROUNDWATER SUBPROJECT
JAN   05E         MAR         APR          MAY         JUN           J L         AUG         0EP         OCI         "OV          DEC
P0LDY  EARtLY                                                                                                     -         --                I      *         f        _
e-1_ - mT-
WVOLAT{----'1-'4
SrGAOCANE  EARtLy                I 4      Efk                 n
Y.OA4CANE  LATE                    5.           L,l.
&V VGETASLLES                                   -                                 _____ _____ _____ -                             I
C;.  .Yrf cr,o0'                                                                                      1 08         1 22        1.37         1.10         OW,4
9.r. OV.705AV.>O)  (.3                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ ~ ~~~16,020 I2  1519  13,733I  132600  1   701
SF0  ('~~~~~~~~~K                                                       17302   I 18532         1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"K 32    36 188
211   84o0        77 5         65i2 
So-dbd -no 1-d 5eAOO            m?1..                                                                                        10            1
t ..u                                                         6~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~2.4  1274                        13.2         49.6
Crop ,rr g-~~~tLT.reqt.  (no) ~85.5                                           1l96         113371032297
'S  V 00                                                        ~~~~~       ~~~          ~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~1069  10  13 6  129 03122
'5% (eff     )                I12.5                                                170.(5      190          135.8        128.8        32.0
'i-,"   K,                                                     1            ~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~1.18  1.36  '1.4  .1
3s')                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~           ~~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~      ~~~~~~86.51  179.24  186.77  182.70  166.32  33.40
oCtFVEra) do' I  (no.)                                         20.~ ~~~~~~~~           ~~~~~~      ~~~~        ~~0 4.2.o  4.7.5  650.0  123.2  29.6  0(.
FTrL63F  8                                                   ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~                   ~~~~~~~~         ~~29.0  91.1  107.2  101.9  14.o447 6.
'-58 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ~~~~~~36.3                              101.4L       134.0       127. 4       177         190          793.4
38.0       106.7        160.1        i4i         i6. 19044186 
re 5~~~~~0-',  (os)  ~       (.8                     0380.33                                                                                                          .50
V59900 00~~~~~~~~6.6                                                                                                                                 83.40    69C.82
Ht  55 32   66.88   62.20                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~25.02    34.41
*  6' ~~~ ~oq  (es.,) ~~55.3         9669                                                                                                             252 .0       34.4
o -  Fe'  "0  'C.  (so)      ';.~~110    95.6         88.9                                                                                               2 I  35.7    49.
~4roL~r     5%  r.(n           33'.2     100.6         93.5                              137.6                                                                          51.7
~~  '~"f     Er                    1.60        0.40         0.70        0.80         0.8         0. 97        1.0         0.97         0.0         040         04              62
'090  F 01  (eo.)         ~~~~~66.6   78.6       163.68       19z:60      227.23       140.20          - 15.9   137.33       126.00   111'4.70        83.'40       68.82
I55.3   15.9.       133.21       108.3        45.88       50.01        42.67
OorO.t.~~~ TOL'OALI  (aS      r ~~       0            0            0          60.3        126.9       '0.1         10.1         10.          48.0o                     0
op  g.-' oro  rq.  (-).                                                                                      473.0                                            5 31.5  114.6  1514.1  139:.7  28:5  47.8  28.  0  0-   50.0  o2
F'.~- ce rq. ?0% erf.  (o              95.1         5. 0l      '637        220.1        199.6        (63.7        68.3        41.i                                 71.4         61.0
I   .5% ~ff.     60-1       47.      I172.3          231.7       210.0         42.8         71.9        43.3                                 7.            42
"0 0O5psoAELOO  (s-C      6' (~~~~~~    'p8.68   16.6                                                                                                              68.82
Ft  (so)               21,.)       42.49       0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.84                                                                                              Li11.7
tFF'eotSve rororsil  (to,)  0      0           ~          ~        ~~0  J                                                           
TO'p L-T pt orr 50-  'e1 2.                        2.5         81.8                 (,13. 7
0.s0'71% TLf.  6;.)3                           0.7       116.9                                                                                                             16.7
-iesne    F95%  fI   Ii)           5         63.9        123.0o                                                                                                            19.6
4003.&rspod  y                                                                          0.042        0.063       0.055        O05e.              0.08    0 02
111W  2"                                                                                 0.010  029         0.038        0.036       0.060        0.050       0.051       0.883
A'F,oF.   ;Fo                ~~~~~        ~~~~C I' 0036  0.034                                                                                            0.014        0.039
Oroecc .                         I 0.       0.8084       0.014        0.019       0.017        0.0046      0.o06        0.003                                0.006       0.005
VeOeS.o60eo                  ~~~~        ~~~~0 0>  0.04,7  ( 0.062  0.0.9      0~069        0.036        F.9         0.089       0. 0~98      0.063       0.043            6
fL'p    '0   h3                      I                            0.10         783~                                         F..~                                      0 2
-0 A~epply    i L.ed 8            7S'                                                                                                  5 rr-       -3rV7     =W7_ n*4
~ of Woton-r~5jo,o,o fse. TEes Wels lep'ja 1.20 h., (Xi) lis  .3)
A .00550..                          J                        ,~~~~~~~        ~~~~~~       ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~ 0.068  0.102  0.089  I 0.01  0.077  0.019
"F  Y 0'9,  "2C                   F                                                     o:i I0,  F9                             :5         0.Ols       0.080       0.035
~~ (1,             o.05~~~                                         0.016        0.04500.039 0031
12                ~~~~0.007    o.o00 F        06         0.028       0.02 5  ,    0.005       0.009        0.005                                0.009       0.008
0.00   ou1        3.02. -                                                                                                         0.003
-  .01    An.00    0L0F50~~~~~~~ Ms ~C.i o  I   0.0?6 .      0.099  F    0 028        0.100~       0.152       017          0.14,2       0.155       0.G .6?7                  .4
MV   -     97'0,                           I '~~~~~~~~~~~             ~~~~~-C-h tM77  78!8r  030  27T?        58T        4.01          0.8         '804
~~~0  'OF    '0.r CF,,ed 8  ~~~~~0'  t~~5  FI~'~~'    rrr                                   9 '-'       83-         47          7F"'_'*
9,r 13   f..r "Td tn bsr 90  !so   05A003009,10 1 hro/d60 ay jss.WO     62FF



NEPAL
BIRGANJ IRRIGATION PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
(With 0 & M and Agricultural Supporting Services)
WORK                     DESCRIPTION                  1971                        1972                         1973                         1974                        1975                         1976                        1977                          1978
JFMA KP           SO_N  J,FMAAM|J JIAS  NJF                                    I SN_ .F I                                                ND JOFNMD AAJO JFJA JJ  SNN JA  JJASONOJ F|M   JJ  SONO
I I                I I I I j~ROJECT  SAT                     I     D|Y        III II   IIII IIIII       IIII IIIiI   Ii    I|                                                           PROJECT ENDS,
Tender Doc--ets
__,_p |on f._   E b.h        _-                           |                           BRIDGING OPERATIO? 
Preparo ton fo  Estobfshmnc of
| re _ t Aot4.th-ty
o Land Acquistio
E Tender Caf11 & Coot-rt
O    I Prouvement of Eqorpmn-f               M-hf-i                                                                                                                                                                                                     1 1_
Off ice & Oo-to- for P-ofe  Stoffr M
Sne-dary Canal7
290 cm
!t~~~~~~~~T, Xl~ i W_vt
<t    -ulisi       f                        Secohi n           _ |      | | | |- dar  Drain
D O&-Mnagow Fa-lt-Ie                        T-426k roninud
m2 rovemnt oI-         f M- Cal   f             _- 62km
in  Hood Surfacing                       0ok'
Teiephr..e Li-es                        50km
~    mrcmc  f Ec-ting Tcke-11     14 -e11n
o  rlrqadTestrr oftr-  T.L-Inels  14 VilnIl
Con.. r Tank, Orat & ffeOted
0    ,-Troirrisr-  Lion                     18km
Hood Sv-f-,iri                          10km
M-ntor rig of Preircf op-rtor--l 
& Ecurumc-     etfr
Fecelkility RA-P.- for Lifilrlgin,        --                                                                                  Lift  i 0105&PttetrgtnnPeet
& F-tre Ir-g.t-a  P-o1. te
0 Tech Atuvvrc  nFriiri
4   ch croot lir Cna-rel & LD-ir-
0 & Md if hr & Draiag  Spvor             ~          -       Vrl-                                         
Agricltrol Suppurliiru Aut-ruitrIc
Jo
-,'d E-  65306R






ANNEX 8
NEPAL
BIRGANJ IRRICzATION PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimate and Expenditure Schedule-L
Local Foreign  Toa                 1976  1977  1978
------------ (s$ million)--------------------
1. Surface Irrigation
Land acquisition        1.00       -     1.00   0.25  0.25  0.25  0.25    -
Civil works
Main canal             0.20    0.15    0.35   0.09  0.09  0.09  0.08    -
Secondaries           0.17    0.06    0.23   0.02  0.06  0.06  0.06  0.03
Tertiaries,
& Drainage            o.69    0.23    0.92   0.10  0.24  0.16  0.26  0.16
Road surfacing        0.37       -    0.37   0.05  0.10  0.06  0.11  0.05
Sub-total                  2.43    0.44    2.87   0.51  0.74  0.62  0.76  0.24
2. Tubewell Irrigation
Land acquisition        0.05       -    0.05   0.04  0.01        -         -
Well drilling            0.06    0.17    0.23    -      -    0.13  0.10    -
Civil works              0.19    0.05    0.24    -   0.07  0.09  0.08    -
Electric line           0.03    0.06    0.09    -    0.03  0.04  0.02    -
Equipment & spares      0.02    0.13    0.15    -   0.05  0.10   -         -
Sub-total                  0.35   0.41.    0.76   0.04  0.16  0.36  0.20    -
3. Consultant Services
Project Implementation  0.23    1.30    1.53   0.20  0.38  0.38  0.38  0.19
Feasibility Studies     0.07    0.40    0.47   0.06  0.12  0.12  0.12  0.05
Sub-total                  0.30    1.70    2.00   0.26  0.50  0.50  o.50  0.24
4. Administration
Land acquisition        0.05       -    0.05   0.03  0.01  0.01    -       -
Civil works
Buildings             0.28    0.20    0.48   0.15  0.17  0.10  0.03  0.03
Coop. stores          0.02    0.01    0.03      -  0.01  0.01  0.01    -
0M equipmnent              -     0.54    0.54   0.02  0.23  0.23  0.06    -
Staff
Eng. & Admin-
istration           0.50       -     0.50   0.05  0.12  0.12  0.12  0.09
Agr. Ext. & Coops.    0.15       -    0.15   0.02  0.03  0.03  0.04  0.03
Supplies & Services   0.27       _     0.27   0.03  0.05  0.05  0.08  0.06
Sub-total                 1.27    0.75    2.02   0.30  0.62  0.55  0.34  0.21
5. On-Farm Development
by Farmers                1.00       -     1.00     -   0.20  0.25  0.30  0.25
6. Contingencies
Physical (10%           0.32    0.30    0.62   0.08  0.17  0.18  0.13  0.06
Price (7%/yr.)          o.49    0.36    0.85      -  0.13  0.26  0.29  0.17
Sub-total                 0.81    o.66    1.47   0.08  0.30  0.44  0.42  0.23
Total                         6.16    3.96   10.12   1.19   22  2.72   52  1.17
1/  This cost estimate does not reClect the devaluation of the United States Dollar
on -ebnrary 12, 1973.






ANNEX 9
NEPAL
BIRGANJ IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
IDA Fiscal Year            Disbursement                Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter             During Quarter                   End of Quarter
----------------- US$ Million -------------------
1974
September 30, 1973              0.15                            0.15
December 31, 1973               0.15                            0.30
March 31, 1974                  0.20                            0.50
June 30, 1974                   0.20                            0.70
1975
September 30, 1974              0.30                            1.00
December 31, 1974               0.30                            1.30
March 31, 1975                  0.35                            1.65
June 30, 1975                   0.35                            2.00
1976
September 30, 1975              0.35                            2.35
December 31, 1975               0.35                            2.70
March 31, 1976                  0.35                            3.05
June 30, 1976                   0.35                            3.40
1977
September 30, 1976              0.35                            3.75
December 31, 1976               0.35                            4.10
March 31, 1977                  0.35                            4.45
June 30, 1977                   0.35                            4.80
1978
September 30, 1977              0.30                            5.10
December 31, 1977               0.30                            5.40
March 31, 1978                  0.20                            5.60
June 30, 1978                   0.15                            5.75
1979
September 30, 1978              0.15                            5.90
December 31, 1978               0.10                            6.00
January 23, 1973






ANNEX 10
Table 1
NEPAL
BIRGANJ IRRIGATION PROJECT
List of Vehicles and Equipment to be Purchased,
Surface Water Area and 0 & M
Unit Cost
No       CIF Birganj  Total Costs
Item         Description                  Required           US$           US$
1   Inspection Vehicles, long
chassis, 4-wheel drive                4            4,000         16,000
2   Inspection Vehicles, regular
chassis, 4-wheel drive               24            3,600         86,400
3   Pick-up Truck                            3            4,000         12,000
4   Small Trailers for use with
Inspection Vehicles                  10              800          8,000
5   Liglit Motor Cycle                      25              400         10,000
6   Bicycle                                120               60          7,200
7   Truck, 5-6 ton                           5            9,000         45,000
8   Truck with Cargo Boom, 7 ton             1           11,000         11,000
9   Dragline, 3/4 cu yd with
accessories                           2           38,000         76,000
10   Farm Tractor 60 hp with land
levelling blade                       6            7,500         45,000
11   Ditcher (plough type) to be
attached to farm tractor              5            1,000          5,000
12   Truck Crane, 3 ton                       1           25,000         25,000
13   Portable Air Compressor, with
pneumatic tools                       2            7,500         15,000
14   Pump 0 3" with accessories               3              400          1,200
15   Pump 0 2" with accessories               6              300          1,800
16   Concrete Mixer, 6 cu ft                  2            2,500          5,000
17   Portable Generator, 3 kw                 1            1,200          1,200
18   Portable Generator, 2 kw                 2              800          1,600
19   Workshop Equipment                       1 lot       25,000         25,000
20   Telephone System with Switchboard        1 lot       25,000         25,000
21   Telemetering Equipment                   1 lot       20,000         20,000
22   Radio Transmitter-Receiver               3            2,500          7,500
23   Miscellaneous Equipment and Tools        1 lot       22,100         22,100
TOTAL                                                472,000
24   Spare Parts for Vehicles (20%)           1 lot                      35,000
25   Spare Parts for Equipment (5-15%)        1 lot                      33,000
GRAND TOTAL                                          540,000
January 23, 1973



ANNEX 10
Table 2
NEPAL
BIRGANJ IRRIGATION PROJECT
List of Equipment to be Purchased
Groundwater Area
Unit Cost
No       CIF Birganj    Total Costs
Item         Description                 Required          US$            US$
1    Electric Motors and Switch
Gear - Existing Tubewells           14            1,500         21,000
2    Pumps and Spares for Motors
and Pumps (for existing
tubewells)                   14            1,000          14,000
3    Electric Motors and Switch
Gear - for 14 New Tubewells         14           2,000          28,000
4    Turbine Pumps and Spares for
Motors and Pumps (for
new Tubewells)                   14           4,500          63,000
5    Miscellaneous Equipment and Tools                                   4,000
TOTAL                                             130,000
July 3, 1972



ANNEX 11
Page 1
NEPAL
BIRGANJ IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Organization and Consultants
Organization and Staffing
1.        ILMGN has recently established the Narayani Zone Irrigation
Development Board (NZIDB) under the Development Board Act of 1956, to be
responsible for the execution of the project and for its operation and main-
tenance. A similar administrative arrangement is in use for the West German-
assisted Gandaki Agricultural Development Project near Pokhara, the Kankai
Irrigation Project assisted by the Asian Development Bank, and the Hardinath
Agricultural Development Project under a bilateral assistance from Japan.
2.        The powers of NZIDB will be vested in an eight-member Board of
Directors drawn from Government agencies but including the Project General
Manager. The Board would formulate and direct the policy of the organization.
A General Manager appointed by the Board would be the chief administrative
officer and would be responsible for the organization, appointment, promotion,
dismissal and designation of functions and duties of staff within the general
rules of the HMGN Public Service Commission. The Board would meet in
Kathmandu but the General Manager and project staff would be located in
Birganj.
3.        In addition to the construction, operation and maintenance of the
irrigation facilities, NZIDB would be responsible for the agricultural
extension service in the project area. It would arrange with AMC for the
procurement and distribution of inputs, with the ADBN for agricultural credit,
and with the Department of Agriculture for training and research at the
Parwanipur station. NZIDB would develop operational arrangements with other
government and private agencies as needed to execute the project. The pro-
posed administrative organization chart is shown in Chart IBVD 6877 (R).
4.        The Department of Irrigation, Hydrology and Meteorology has a
limited staff and has had little experience in the design, execution and
operation of large-scale irrigation facilities. While a substantial number
of partially trained engineers are available they will need advice, guidance
and supervision by trained experts. With seven other major irrigation proj-
ects under development, the Department lacks the expertise of key staff
personnel to execute this project.
5.        Manpower in Nepal is also available by transfer or direct hire to
staff the personnel requirements for the agricultural extension, coopera-
tives and other aspects of the project. Some of the probable staff members
have had experience in these or other districts under the Intensive Agri-
cultural Districts Program or the Rapti Valley Agricultural Development
Program. HMGN proposes to transfer a few experienced personnel from other
areas to execute this project.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
6.        Other international agencies are currently prcviding li1GN wite six.
expatriate consultants at least through FY 1974, to assist the HFMGN ataff atf
Parwanipur with its research, extension staff training annx field testiyag
cum-demonstrations on farmers' fields in the project area.  Also, the ADEN
has expatriate assistance from the Asian Development Bank to help train Its
managers, accountants and farm planners for cooperatives, includtng tiose
proposed for the project.  USAID has provided and plans to continue to -ro-
vide technical assistance to AMC for its wholesale and retail farm input
distribution functions and to AMC and ADBN for the design and construction
of farm service center stores and on-farm grain storage structures.
7.        However, to achieve the project objectives it wiI1 be necessarv to
engage consultants to assist NZIDB about as follows:



ANNEX 11
Page 3
Birganj Irr.   Feasibility
Project       Studies       Total
Administration
Advisor to General Manager
and Head of Consultants Team                48                         48
Administrative and Financial Expert           36             4           40
Engineering Services
Irrigation Engineer                           48            21           69
Civil (Structural & Contract) Engineer        36            10           46
Construction Supervision Engineer             48                         48
Mechanical & Electrical Engineer              12                         12
O&M and On-Farm Development Engineer          42             6           48
Hydrologist                                    6             2            8
Hydrogeologist                                12                          12
Master Driller                                18              2          20
Surveyor                                      24             6           30
Draftsman                                     24             8           32
Agriculture
Agronomist                                    12              2           14
Agricultural Extension Specialist             30                         30
Others
Economist                                      3              5            8
Other Short-Term Specialists                  18             4           22
Total                     417            70          487



ANNEX 11
Page 4
Terms of reference for the consultants are given at the end of this
Annex.
Project Execution
8.        NZIDB intends to begin as soon as possible the active management
and execution of the civil works and equipment procurement aspects of the
project. To enable this action to progress rapidly the UNDP continued its
work on the project under a "bridging" operation until July 1972 to provide
the design and drawings, specifications and civil works contract tenders
for Block 1 of the surface water command area. The goal would be to start
construction as soon as the credit becomes available.
9.        Weather would enable selected works to be constructed after early
October. However, the labor supply is fully employed with the harvesting of
paddy and sugarcane and the planting of wheat until early December. Because
of these conditions most of the heavy construction works can be performed
from about December to June. All of the civil works are expected to be
labor-intensive.



ANNEX 1 1
PAge   5
NEPAL
BIRGANJ IRRIGATION PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference
I. Objectives
1.        Consulting services are required by the Narayani Zone Irrigation
Development Board of His Majesty's Government of Nepal to provide:
(i) the plans, designs, specifications, tender documents and
construction supervision for the completion of irrigation
facilities and buildings in the Birganj Irrigation Project
(hereinafter referred to as the "Project"). The project
is in Parsa and Bara districts in the Terai plain and
comprises two subprojects: a surface water irrigation
subproject covering a net area of 28,700 ha commanded by
the Nepal Eastern Canal, and a groundwater subproject with
a net area of 2,700 ha, contiguous to the surface water area;
(ii) advisory services to the Project Board in its management,
accounting, on-farm development, agricultural extension
services and cooperatives;
(iii)  feasibility reports for (a) a pumping scheme to lift
water from the Nepal Eastern Canal to irrigate an area north
of the Canal, and (b) a second irrigation project suitable
for international financial assistance to be selected by
HMGN and the Association.
2.        The Board would provide appropriate full-time professional or
technical personnel to act as counterparts and to work with the consultant's
staff. During the course of the consultant's undertakings the counterpart
professional and technical personnel would be trained and guided in their
performance by the consultants.
3.        Consultant services would be provided for a five-year period ending
June 30, 1978.
II. Responsibilities of the Consultant
A.   Mapping and Survey
4.        The Consultant shall perform the following:



ANNEX I 1
Page   6
(a) prepare maps of the project area on a scale of 1:2,500
with 0.25 m contours;
(b) stake on the ground the alignments of all secondary and
tertiary irrigation canals, drainage canals and service
roads with permanent benchmarks at appropriate intervals;
(c)  carry out staking survey to demarcate the boundaries of
lands to be acquired by HMGN for the construction of all
canals;
(d) prepare all maps and survey drawings to be used for planning
design and land acquisition.
B.   Engineering Services for Surface Irrigation Area
5.        The Consultant's responsibilities shall include:
(a) planning and design of new structures and improvement of
existing structures in the Nepal Eastern Canal;
(b) planning and design of secondary and tertiary canals, drainage
canals and all the structures therein down to the field turnout
for each service unit of 30-40 ha;
(c) planning and design of on-farm development works to suit the
various topographic characteristics of lands for the command
area of each service unit;
(d) planning and design of all service roads, office buildings,
staff quarters, stores and other structures related to the
project;
(e) preparing drawings, specifications and tender documents for the
purpose of international competitive bidding;
(f) preparing bill of quantities and cost estimates for the above
works;
(g) assisting the Board in the issuance of invitation to bid
and on the evaluation of bids received and making recom-
mendations for award;
(h) supervising construction of all works in the subproject
including inspection of materials used, measurement of
contractors' works and certification of contractors' vouchers;
(i) preparing O&M manuals of the project and its major structures
for the Board.



ANNEX 11
Page   7
C.   Engineering Services for Groundwater Area
6.        The Consultant's responsibilities shall be as follows:
(a) resiting some of the new tubewells further north on land
that cannot be irrigated by low lift pumps from the Nepal
Eastern Canal, if the pump scheme study mentioned in
paragraph F.10(a) shows that the scheme is technically and
economically better than tubewell irrigation;
(b) preparing detailed specifications and tender documents suitable
for use by the Board in international competitive bidding for
pumps, motors, switch gear and appurtenant works for the 14
existing wells and 14 new wells and having received the tenders,
assisting the Board in the evaluation of same and making re-
commendations for award;
(c) supervising the installation and testing of equipment to insure
proper performance;
(d) preparing designs and specifications suitable for international
competitive bidding for construction of: (i) regulatory
reservoirs with appropriate inlet and outlet works and control
devices; (ii) main canals to be staked on the ground from each
well to the service units for each of the 11 (eleven) existing
wells not so provided and for each of the 14 new wells to be
constructed; and (iii) pumphouse and other structures related
to the subproject. After having received the tenders, the
Consultant would assist in the evaluation of same and make
recommendations for award;
(e) preparing designs, specifications and tender documents for use
by the Board for approximately 18 km of 11 kv power line to
serve both existing wells not now served and new wells; having
received the tenders, the Consultant would assist in evalua-
tion of same and make recommendations for award;
(f) preparing detailed designs, specifications and tender documents
for construction of 14 new wells suitable for international
competitive bidding and having received the tenders, assisting
in the evaluation of same and making recommendations for award;
(g) providing a master driller to supervise the construction,
testing and development of 14 new wells;
(h) planning and designing on-farm development works for the command
area of each tubewell;
(i) collecting hydrogeologic data as required to calibrate a digital
groundwater model for use in analyzing the ultimate development
of groundwater irrigation in the study area;



ANNEX 1 1
Page   8
(j) advising in the operation of the tubewells and monitoring of
data on costs and benefits suitable for use in evaluating
feasibility of ultimate groundwater development of the
region;
(k) preparing a manual for the operation and maintenance of the
tubewells; and
(1) collecting data and information on investment, operation
and maintenance costs of tubewells and their distribution
systems, benefits accrued from such irrigation and use these
information to update the feasibility report on groundwater
irrigation (Feasibility Report of a Combined Surface and
Groundwater Project in the Birganj Area and Annex V attached
to the Report) in the 20,000 ha north of the Nepal Eastern
Canal.
D.   Administrative and Agricultural Advisory Services
7.        The Consultant shall assist and advise NZIDB and its General Manager
in the general administration of personnel, finance, accounting and auditing
and in the operation of the project as an integrated agricultural development
project including agricultural extension and cooperative services.
E.   Training
8.        The Consultant shall prepare and submit to NZIDB within six months
of appointment proposals for a comprehensive training program for adminis-
trative, professional and technical counterpart staff engaged on the Proj-
ect. After its approval the Consultant shall be responsible for implementa-
tion of the training program.
9.        The program should give detailed consideration to the training
requirements in the fields of engineering, agriculture and administration.
The following subjects fall within the respective fields:
(a) Engineering: Planning, design, drawing up of specifi-
cations, cost estimation, surveying and mapping, construc-
tion supervision, material testing, O&M procedures, related
mechanical, electrical and other engineering works;
(b) Agriculture: Irrigation agronomy, soil surveying, exten-
sion techniques, cooperative organization, farm budgeting,
agro-economic surveys and other related agricultural
development activities; and
(c) Administration: Management techniques, finance, accounting,
budgeting, personnel management, records, stores, public
relations, land acquisition and contracts, etc.



ANNEX 1 1
Page   9
F.   Feasibility Studies
10.       The Consultant shall prepare:
(a) A feasibility study and report for a pumping scheme
to lift water from the Nepal Eastern Canal to
irrigate an area north of the Canal; and
(b) a feasibility study and report for a second irrigation
project sditable for international financial assistance
to be selected by HMGN and the Association.
III. Reporting
11.       The Consultant shall prepare and submit to the Board the monthly
progress report giving a description of the Consultant's activities and
personnel during the reporting period, progress of the various phases of
project works, the Board's activities, problems encountered and measures to
overcome these problems and Consultant's financial statement.
12.       The Consultant shall assist the Board in the preparation of the
Board's quarterly report, semi-annual report and annual report for submission
to the lending institution.
IV. Undertaking of H.M. Government of Nepal
13.       Providing that established procedures are followed the Government
shall:
(a) exempt or bear the cost of, any taxes, duties, fees, levies
and other impositions imposed under its laws and regulations
or the laws and regulations in effect in its territories
or of any political subdivision or agency thereof, on the
Consultant and his personnel (other than personnel who are
citizens or permanent residents of Nepal) in respect of:
(i) any payments made to the Consultant or to such personnel
in connection with the carrying out of the agreed to
services;
(ii) any equipment, materials and supplies brought into
Nepal for the purpose of carrying out the services and
which, after having been brought into such territories,
will subsequently be withdrawn therefrom;
(iii)  any property brought into Nepal by the personnel of the
Consultant and his dependents for their personal use
and which, after having been brought into Nepal will



ANNEX 1 1
Page 10
subsequently be withdrawn therefrom upon departure of
such personnel; however, to qualify for these exemptions,
shipment of such property will have to be arranged by
contract no later than 3 months after the arrival of the
staff member;
(b) facilitate prompt clearance through customs of any equipment,
material and supplies required for the services and of the
personal effects of the Consultant's personnel;
(c) ensure that the Consultant's personnel and their dependents are
promptly provided with any necessary entry and exit visas, resi-
dence permits, exchange permits and travel documents required
for their stay in the territories of the Government;
(d) issue all necessary permits and authorizations for the carrying
out of the services;
(e) provide reasonable furnished family living quarters acceptable
to the Consultant;
(f) provide full-time professional or technical personnel to be
counterparts and to work with and to be trained by each consultant
in carrying out these services;
(g) make available to the Consultant all existing aerial photographs,
maps, drawings, data, reports, and any other information per-
tinent to the execution of the contract;
(h) provide office space equipped with necessary furniture and
utilities such as water supply and electricity in the project
area or in Birganj;
(i) provide all local transport facilities and equipment required by
the Consultant;
(j) provide the Consultant with the available maps and materials
as follows:
(i) maps of the project area of a scale of 1:20,000 with
1 ft contours made in 1964 by Survey of India;
(ii) aerial photographs of the project area of an approximate
scale of 1:35,000 taken during November-December 1968,
together with original films, and uncontrolled photo-
mosaics of 1" to 1 mile scale;
(iii) aerial photographs of the project area of an approximate
scale of 1:12,000 taken in November 1971 together with
original films; and



ANNEX 11
Page 11
(iv) feasibility report of the Birganj Irrigation Project,
August 1971, by Nippon Koei, together with accompanying
maps, drawings and diagrams.
(k) provide the Consultant with available maps, aerial photo-
graphs and reports pertinent to the studies mentioned in
paragraph F.(10)(b).
V. Necessary Procedure to be Followed by
Invited Consulting Firms
14.       Consulting firms invited to submit proposals are requested to
state clearly in their proposals the following:
(a) terms and conditions under which they would carry out the
duties and responsibilities specified above; financial terms
are not desired at this stage;
(b) the proposed composition of the team which they intend to
assign to the project both in the field and at the home office,
number of man-months of each individual together with the
name and qualification, including proficiency in spoken and
written English;
(c)  a list of vehicles and equipment which they anticipate would
be required in the carrying out of their works; and
(d) the category and number of counterpart personnel and other
local staff which they would wish the Government to provide
to work with them at no cost to them.
January 23, 1973






ANNEX 12
Page 1
NEPAL
BIRGANJ IRRIGATION PROJECT
Irrigation, Electricity and Related
Water Resources Act, 1967 1/
Preamble:
Whereas it is expedient to regulate the use of such important
national wealth as rivers, streams, lakes, falls and underground water
resources in order to maintain the convenience and economic welfare of the
public,
And whereas it is expedient to insure the development of electricity
in a proper manner by regulating its output and supply, and to confer rights
and facilities for its production and supply,
And whereas it is expedient to make necessary provisions in
respect to irrigation in order to insure its development in a proper manner,
Now therefore, His Majesty King Mahendra Bir Bikram Shah Dev has
enacted this law on the advice and approval of the National Panchayat.
1.   Short Title, Extent and Commencement
(1) This law may be called the Irrigation, Electricity and Related
Water Resources Act, 1967.
(2) It shall be applicable throughout the Kingdom of Nepal.
(3) It shall come into force on the date prescribed by His
Majesty's Government by notification in the Nepal Gazette.
2.   Definitions
Unless repugnant to the subject or context, in this Act: -
(a) Water Resource means rivers, streams, lakes and falls
as well as any other natural reservoir and underground
water prescribed by His Majesty's Government by
notification in the Nepal Gazette from time to time.
(b) Electricity means power to be generated from water,
coal, diesel oil or any other resource.
(c) License means the license granted under this Act.
1/   Nepal Gazette, Vol. 17, No. 29A (Extraordinary), Kartik 6, 2024
(October 23, 1967), as translated by Nepal Press Digest (Private) Ltd.



ANNEX 12
?age  Z
(d) Licensee means the person who obtains license under
this Act. This term includes any individual,
Panchayat or any other corporate body obtaining
rights under this Act or the rules framed hereunder.
(e) Consumer means the person who is supplied with
water or electricity by a licensee.
(f) Water Cess means the water cess to be levied on
consumers under this Act.
(g)  Charges mean the charges to be collected from
consumers under this Act as the price of electricity.
(h) Prescribed or as prescribed means prescribed or in
the manner prescribed in the rules framed or orders
issued under this Act.
3. Use of Water Resources
(1) No person shall be permitted to utilize any water resource
without obtaining license under this Act.
But no license need be obtained for utilizing any
water resource for any of the purposes mentioned below: -
(a) For meeting daily personal needs,
(b) For operating wind-mills for cottage industry
purposes,
(c) For operating water-mills or irrigation channels,
(d) For irrigating lands through underground water
by means of tube-wells,
(e) For drawing water for irrigation purposes from
gullies, aqueducts or streams, ponds, wells, lakes,
canals or dams through the labor and resources of
the local people themselves either individually or
collectively, in such a manner that no adverse
effect is created on any hydro-electric, or irrigation
project of His Majesty's Government constructed
before or after the commencement of this Act, or those
proposed to be constructed in the future.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in Sub-Section (1),
in case any person has obtained any right to use any
water resources in accordance with the current Nepal
law prior to the commencement of this Act for any purpose
other than those mentioned in the restrictive clause of
Sub-Section (1), he shall obtain a license within a



ANNEX 12
Page 3
period of one year from the date on which the appropriate
water resource is declared as a water resource under this
Act. In case he fails to obtain a license in this
manner, his right shall be deemed to have ipso facto
lapsed.
4.   Production and Supply of Electricity
(1) No person shall generate, supply or conduct surveys for
electricity without obtaining a license under this Act.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in Sub-Section (1)
and Section 4 (sic), all licenses issued under the 1963
Nepal Electricity Act, prior to the commencement of this
Act and existing at the time of its commencement shall
be deemed to have been issued under this Act, and shall
accordingly remain valid.
But electricity to be generated or supplied under such
license shall be generated and supplied subject to the
provisions of this Act and the rules framed or orders
promulgated ...................
5.   License
(1) Any person desirous of utilizing any water resource for
purposes other than those mentioned in the restrictive
Clause of Sub-Section (1) of Section 3 shall submit an
application in the prescribed form containing the following
particulars to the prescribed authority: -
(a)  Full name, address and occupation of the applicant,
(b) Volume of water sought to be utilized, and the
purpose of utilization thereof,
(c) The area where the water is to be utilized, and the
place where the utilized water is to be released,
(d) A pledge to abide by current Nepal law and the
conditions stipulated in the license, and
(e) Other particulars as prescribed.
(2) Any person desirous of generating or supplying electricity
shall submit an application in the prescribed form con-
taining the following particulars to the prescribed authority: -
(a) Full name, address and occupation of the applicant,
(b) The area where electricity is to be generated or
supplied,



ANNEX 12
Page 4
(c) Volume of electricity sought to be generated or
supplied,
(d) Particulars of how electricity is intended to be
generated or supplied,
(e) A pledge to abide by current Nepal law and the
conditions stipulated in the license, and
(f) Other particulars as prescribed.
(3) In case any person desires to conduct a survey of any water
resource or of the production, supply or transmission of
electricity, he shall submit an application in the prescribed
form containing prescribed particulars to the prescribed
authority.
(4) In case the prescribed authority so deems appropriate after
scrutinizing the application filed under Sub-Section (1),
or Sub-Section (2) or Sub-Section (3) as the case may be,
and after conducting inquiries regarding the financial,
technical or any other aspects of such application, if so
necessary, he may issue a license in the prescribed form
to the applicant.
(5) Licenses issued under this Act: -
(a) Shall not be sold or otherwise alienated without
the permission of the prescribed authority.
(b) May be suspended, revised or revoked by the
prescribed authority if it so becomes necessary
in the public interest, or if the licensee violates
any of the conditions stipulated in the license, or
any provision of current Nepal law.
(6) Every person obtaining a license under this Act shall pay
such charges and annual fees to His Majesty's Government
as may be prescribed.
But exemption from the payment of such fees or charges
may be granted to prescribed persons in prescribed circum-
stances.
Acquisition and Requisition by His Majesty's Government
(1) His Majesty's Government may acquire any electric and
irrigation installation and related equipment against
compensation, if it so becomes necessary for the
purpose of making large-scale and comprehensive
arrangements regarding electricity and irrigation.



ANNEX 12
Page 5
(2) The amount of compensation to be paid under Sub-Section
(1) shall be determined on the basis of the current
value of the land, building and equipment acquired
(after deducting depreciation caused by breakage and
ordinary use).
(3) Canals, dams, electric installationo, any other construc-
tion project and related lands and equipment acquired
under this section may be operated by His Majesty's
Government itself or be handed over to any other person
for operation with or without selling the same to him.
(4) In case His Majesty's Government is satisfied that any
licensee has not been able to operate regularly and
systematically any water resource or electricity works
for which he has obtained license, it shall requisition
such water resource or electrical installation along with
the related lands and equipment, and operate the same
itself or have it operated by any other person until it
begins to run regularly and systematically.
7.  Water Cess, Electricity Charges and Other Fees
(1) The licensee may impose and collect water cess, electricity
charges or any other related fees from consumers.
Provided that the approval of His Majesty's Government
shall be obtained before imposing and collecting such cess
charge or fee.
(2) For the purpose of Sub-Section (1), His Majesty's Government
may form a Committee including representatives of consumers
and the concerned industrialist to advise it in matters
relating to the grant of approval for water cess., electricity
charges and other fees.
8.   Utilization or Acquisition of Lands or Property Belonging to Others
(1) His Majesty's Government, or the licensee with the
approval of His Majesty's Government may acquire lands
belonging to others for any of the following purposes
as specified in his license: -
(a) Construction of dams or embankments,
(b) Construction of lands or irrigation channels,
(c) Laying of pipelines on the surface or underground,
(d) Establishment of reservoirs or water supply centers,



AN4NEX 12
Page 6
(e) Construction of electricity generating centers,
transmission centers, conversion centers or supply
centers,
(f) Installation of electric poles,
(g) Installation of overground or underground electric
cables or lines, and
(h) Any other necessary construction works.
(2) Any person authorized by His Majesty's Government or by
the licensee may enter into any land for any of the
purposes mentioned in Sub-Section (1), or for inspection
or maintenance of the works constructed thereunder.
(3)  His Majesty's Government or the licensee with the prior
approval of His Majesty's Government may prohibit the use
for any purpose of lands situated in the area where any
construction project mentioned in Sub-Section (1) is under
implementation, or of lands situated at a prescribed
distance on either side of such area.
(4)  In case any land is acquired by His Majesty's Government
or the licensee under this section, reasonable compensation
therefor shall be paid to the concerned land-owner.
(5) In case it becomes necessary to enter into any residential
building for purposes mentioned in Sub-Section 1) or (2),
this shall be done only after giving advance notice to the
occupant.
But it shall not be necessary for the prescribed
authority to give advance notice under this Sub-Section if
it becomes necessary to conduct search of any house on
reasonable suspicion of misuse or pilferage of water or
electricity or to avert any accident.
9.   Power of His Majesty's Government to Utilize Water Resources
or Generate and Supply Electricity not to be Affected
(1) No provision contained in this Act shall be deemed to
have affected the power of His Majesty's Government to
develop any water resource or electricity directly.
(2) His Majesty's Government may distribute or sell water
or electricity developed from any water resource
under Sub-Section (1) directly or through any other
agency or individual.



ANNEX 12
Page 7
10. Inspection
His Majesty's Government may depute inspectors to ascertain whether
the provisions of this Act and the rules framed hereunder, or the terms and
conditions stipulated in the license, are being observed or not.
11. Power to Issue Directives
His Majesty's Government may issue necessary directives to any
licensee in the public interest, or for making proper arrangements for the
development of water resources, or for generating and supplying electricity,
and it shall be the duty of such person to comply with such directives.
12. Appointment of Advisors
His Majesty's Government may appoint advisors according to need
to advise it in any matter concerning the enforcement of this Act.
13. Penalties
(1) In case any person takes any action in contravention of this
Act or the rules framed or orders or directives issued here-
under, he shall be punished with a fine ranging from Rs 5.00
to Rs 500.00, and in case such person is a licensee, His
Miajesty's Government may suspend or revoke his license, or
direct the stoppage of any work connected with water resources
or production and supply of electricity, if it has been done
without obtaining any license.
(2) In case any person will-fully causes any damage or loss to any
canal, dam or any construction work relating to water resources,
or to any electric installation or related equipment belonging
to any licensee, or steals water or electricity being supplied
by His Majesty's Government or by such person, or misuses
water or electricity in such a manner as to put His Majesty's
Government or such person to loss, or attempts to do any of
such things, or in case he obstructs any action or operation
mentioned in Section 9, he shall be made to pay the necessary
costs, and, in addition, be punished with a fine of an
equivalent amount or with imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or with both.
14. Power to Frame Rules
(1) For the purpose of implementing the objectives of this
Act, His Majesty's Government may frame rules or
promulgate orders, and such rules or orders shall be
deemed to have come into force on the date on which they
are published in the Nepal Gazette.



ANNEX 12
Page 8
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the power conferred
by Sub-Section (1), His Majesty's Government may frame
rules or promulgate orders particularly in respect to
the following matters: -
(a) Form of applications to be submitted for
obtaining licenses, and the particulars to be
given therein,
(b) Authority empowered to receive applications for
license,
(c) Form of license, and related charges, annual fees
and other matters,
(d) Quality and standard of water to be supplied,
(e) Standard of canals, dams and any other construction
work related to water resources, and the process
of generating, supplying, transmitting and utilizing
electricity, and the terms and conditions in respect
thereto,
(f) Standard of materials and equipment to be utilized in
the construction of any canal or dam, and in any other
construction project connected with water resources,
and in the production, supply and transmission of
electricity, and the process of utilizing such materials
or equipment,
(g) Duties and powers of inspectors,
(h) Miatters pertaining to water cess,
(i) Matters pertaining to electricity charges,
(j) Accidents and inquiries thereinto,
(k) Period for which a license is to remain valid,
and the renewal, revision or cancellation thereof,
(1) Provisions for prevention of harmful effects of
survey, control and utilization of water
resources and of the use of water,
(m)  Provisions for preventing the contamination of
water,



ANNEX 12
Page 9
(n) Provisions regarding water wasted in the course
of utilization for industrial, commercial or
other purposes, and
(o) Other necessary matters.
15. Repeal
(1) The following Nepal laws have been repealed: -
(a) Irrigation Act, 1961.
(b) Nepal Electricity Act, 1963, and
(c) Electricity, Motor or Power (Transfer and Removal)
Act, 1961.
(2) Other current Nepal laws which conflict with this Act
shall be deemed to have been repealed to the extent of
such conflict.
(3) The liabilities and rights of the Nepal Electricity
Board constituted under the laws repealed under Sub-
Section (1) shall accrue to His Majesty's Government
after the commencement of this Act.
July 3, 1972






ANNEX 13
NEPAL
BIRGANJ IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Incomes
Farm incomes from crop production were analyzed for typical 0.5
ha, 2.0 ha and 5.0 ha farms irrigated from surface water, and for a 2.0 ha
farm irrigated from groundwater sources. The farm budget tables, which
are designed primarily to show "with project" and "without project" incomes
(in cash and kind) of representative farms in the project area, are presented
in Tables 1 through 4. The farm budgets have been estimated using the fol-
lowing assumptions and bases:
(a) Farm income includes only income from crop production and
does not take into account livestock and cash earnings
outside of own farms or from non-agricultural employment.
(b) Farm production was valued at an average farmgate post-
harvest price received for each commodity in recent years.
Over 70% of the marketed surplus is sold during the first
three months after harvest and prices are determined by
both domestic and nearby Indian markets because most of
the marketed surplus foodgrain is sold in the neighboring
Indian states.
(c)  Input costs per ha are presented in Table 5, and the
monthly labor requirements for the model farms are esti-
mated on the basis of 50 man-days per family per month.
February 12, 1973






ANNEX 13
Table 1
NEPAL
BI1GANJ IRRIGATION PROJECT
1/
Farm Budget for Typical 0.5 ha Farms-l
Without Project                  With Project
Pro-                            Pro-
duc-                            duc-
Area   Yield    tion    GVP    Area  Yield       tion    GVP
TV   (kg/ha)   Tk    (NR)    (ha)  (kg/ha)   (          (N R
Wet Season Crops
Paddy - Local            0.45  1,800      810     610    0.15   2,800      420    315
Paddy - HYV                                              0.30   3,700   1,110    835
Dry Season Crops
Wheat                    0.25  1,300      325    290    0.30   3,250   1,055   875
Pulses                   0.05    500       25      25    0.10      800      80      80
Vegetables               0.05  6,ooo      300    v 24Q    0.05  12,000     600    480
Total Farm Income                                 1,165                           2,585
Production Costs           -----------------NRs ----------------------------
Seed                                 50                                75
Fertilizers                          40                               220
Plant Protection                       -                              135
Bullock Expenses                     60                                70
Hired Labor                           -                                 _
Land Tax                             35
Other                                10                                5
Total                                 195           195                 590          590
Net Income                                          970                            1, 995
Incyemental Income                                                                 1,025
Project Charges                                                                      120
'Net Incremental Income                                                              905
Project Charges as % of
Tncremental Income                                                                 12
1./ Farm production valued at farmgate price.



ANNEX 13
Table 2
NEPAL
BIIzANJ IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budget for Typical 2.0 ha Farms-/
Without Project                   With Project
rro-      --                    rro-
duc-                             due-
Area   Yield   tion   GVP    Area   Yield        tion    GVP
T       (kg/ha) 7kg    (-NRS)  TE        (kg/ha)    (kg    (NRs)
Wet Season Crops
Paddy - Local            1.8    1,700  3,o60  2,295   1.0    2,700    2,700  2,025
Paddy - HYV                                             0.7    3,500    2,450  1,835
Sugarcane                0.1                            0.2
Dry Season Crops
Wheat                    0.6    1,200    720    650   1.0    3,000    3,000  2,s700
Oilseeds                 0.1       400     40     65   0.1        750       75    120
Pulses                   0.1       500     50     50   0.1       850        85      85
Vegetables               0.1    6,ooo    600    480   0.1   12,000    1,200    960
Sugarcane                0.1   18,000  1,800    235   0.2   40O,O00    8,000  1.040
Total Farm Income                                3,775                            8,765
Production Costs           -------NRs ----------------------------
Seed                                 185                             300
Fertilizers                          170                             870
Plant Protection                       5                             500
Bullock Expen §es                    250                             350
Hired Labor !                        200                            300
Land Tax                             140                            160
Other                                150                             300
Total                                1,100       1,100               2,780        2,780
Net Income                                       2,675                            5,985
Incremental Income                                                                3,310
Project Charges                                                                      480
Tet Incremental Income                                                            2,830
Project Charges as % of
Incremental Income                                                                 15
1/ Farm production valued at farmgate price.
2/ Based on monthly labor requirements shown in Table 5, assuming family labor supplies
50 man days per month.



ANNEX 13
Table 3
NEPAL
BIRGANJ IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budget for Typical 5.0 ha Farms2'
Without Project                  With Project
Pro-                           Pro-
duc-                           duc-
Area   Yield    tion      GVP   Area  Yield    tion   GVP
7 h     kg7h7a   T       (ig;)   (h   (kg/ha)   7g    R-sr)
Wet Season Crops
Paddy - Local            4.0    1,650    6,600   4.,950    2.5   2,600    6,500 4,875
Paddy - HYV                                                1.0   3,400    3,400 2,550
Sugarcane                0.5                               1.0
Dry Season Crops
Wheat                    1.0    1,100    1,100      990    2.0   2,800    5,600 5,040
Oilseeds                 0.3      400      120      190    0.3     750      22    360
Pulses                   0.3      500      150      150    0.3     850       255  225
Vegetables               0.1    6,ooo      600      420    0.1  10,000    1,000   800
Sugarcane                0.5   18.,000    9,000   1,170    1.0  40,000   40,000 5,200
Total Fann Income                                   7,870                        19,050
Production Costs           ------------------------------NTR  ----------
Seed                                 500                             760
Fertilizers                          470                           2,130
Plant Protection                     150                           1,175
Bullock Expenses and Tractors      1,300                           1 700
Hired Labor 2/                     1,410                           3,430
Land Tax                             350                             405
Other                                400                             765
Total                                4,580          4,580          10,365        10,365
Net Income                                         3,290                          8,685
Incremental Income                                                                5,395
Project Charges                                                                   1,200
Net Incremental Income                                                            4,195
Project Charges as % of
Incremental Income                                                                22
1/ Farm production valued at farmgate price.
2/ Based on monthly labor requirements showm in Table 5, assuning tamily laDor supplies
50 man days per month.



ANNEX 13
Table 4
NEPAL
BIRGANJ IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budget for Typical 2.0 ha Farms with Tubewell Irrigation
Without Project                     With Project
Pro-                            Pro-
duc-                            duc -
Area   Yield    tion    GVP    Area   Yield    tion    GVP
T(a   (kg/ha)  Tv       (NRI)   (ha   (kg/ha)   (kg)   JNRs)
Wet Season Crops
Paddy - Local            1.8    1,700   3,060  2,295    0.7       2,700   1,890 1,420
Paddy - HYV                                              1.0      3,500   3,500 2,625
Sugarcane                0.1                              0.2
Dry Season Crops
Wheat                    0.6    1,200      720   650    1.0       3,300   3,300 2,970
Oilseeds                 0.1      4Co       40    65    0.1         750       75   120
Pulses                   0.1      500       50     50    0.1        850       85    85
Vetetables               0.1    6,000      600    480    0.1    12,000   1,200   960
Sugarcane                0.1   18,000   1,800    235    0.2    40,000   8,000 1,040
Total Farm Income                                 3,775                            9,220
Production Costs-NRs-
Seed                                  185                              320
Fertilizers                           170                              960
Plant Protection                        5                              545
Bullock Expenp es                     250                              350
Hired Labor?!                        200                             1,250
Land Tax                             140
Other                                150                               335
Total                                1,100        1,100                3,760       3,760
Net Income                                        2,675                            5,460
Incremental Income                                                                 2,785
Project Charges                                                                      6ho
Net Incremental Income                                                             2,135
Project Charges as % of
Lncremental Income                                                                  23
1/ Farm production valued at farmgaTe price.
2/ Based on monthly labor requirements shoT.;m in Table 5, assming family l&bor supplies
50 man days per month.



NEPAL
BIRGANJ IRRIGATION PROJECT
Basic Inputs Per liectare for Various Crops
Paddy-Local           Paddy-HYV           Sugar Cane              Wheat               Oil Seeds             Pulses              Vegetables
W   w                w                    w        W                      W               W                   W                 W          W
Cash Itput
in NR6
Seed                                            45      45          100        -         300.   400            110     100           45       25          45      25             2        2
Fertilizer                                     195      50          295        -         675    360            320      50           50       50          50      50            50       50
Plant Protecticn                               250        -         300        _         115      30             -       -           50        -         50        -            50        -
Others                                         250      200         350                  500    300            150      80          150       80         150      80           150       80
TOTAL CASH INPUTS                              740      295       1,045        _       1,590  1,090            580     230          295      155         295     155           252      132
Labor IAnuts
(in ma-days)
January                                                                                    55     60            19        6          14        7           7        7            50      40
February                                                                                  130     80             9        2            7       7           7        7            15      10
March                                                                                     110     60            21       14                    7                    7
April                                                                                      60     30            19        9
May                                             22       22          22        -
June                                            38       38          42        -           15     10
July                                            30       16          35        -           15     10
August                                          16       12          25        -
September                                        2        -           5        -                                                       7                  14                     25      20
October                                         18       12          25        -           15     4o             2                    14       7           7       14            50      40
November                                        12       10           16       -           15     40            18       15           14      14          14       14            50       40
December                                                                                   15     _             25       16            7      14          21        7            50      40
TOTAL TABOR InDJTS                             138      110         170        -          430    330           113       62           63      56          70       56           240      19O
I  With Project.
j Without Project.
PBullock expenses, farm equiyment ard Fctorace, etc.






ANNEX 14
Page 1
NEPAL
BIRGANJ IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
A. Economic Rate of Return
The economic rate of return from the project is estimated at 21.4%a.
The investment costs and incremental net benefit streams are presented in
Table 1. The rates of return from the two subprojects, surface and ground-
water irrigation, are estimated at 24% and 14X, respectively. If sunk costs
without interest are included in first project year expenditure, the project
rate of return would be 14%, and for the subprojects 14% and 11%, respectively.
Assumptions and bases of the economic rate of return calculation include:
(a) a 50-year life for the surface irrigation works and
a 30-year life for the groundwater installations;
(b) the investment cost stream includes capital investment,
physical contingencies, land acquisition for construc-
tion and on-farm development works by farmers (estimated
cost US$1 million), together with the operation and
maintenance costs of the irrigation system which are
estimated at NRs 80/ha for the surface system and
NRs 160/ha for the groundwater system;
(c) because of the existing caste system a part of the poten-
tial labor force is unavailable for agricultural employment.
On the average, the available labor force is estimated to
be about 50 man-days/farm family per month. For the proj-
ect area as a whole, the monthly labor supply is about one
million man-days. The estimated monthly demand for agricul-
tural labor in the project area under "with" and 'without"
project conditions is given in Table 2. Clearly the available
supply is considerably more than the existing requirements
for much of the year and would continue to be so even after
the completion of the project works. Full employment condi-
tions prevail only during the month of June under "without"
project conditions and in June and July under "with project"
conditions. Accordingly, all labor inputs were priced at the
going market wage rate of NRs 5.00 per man-day during the
above peak periods and at a shadow rate of NRs 1.00 per
man-day during the rest of the year;



ANNEX 14
Page 2
(d) economic benefits from the agricultural output (Table 3)
were evaluated at 1980 world market prices, provided by
the IBRD Economics Department, adjusted to farmgate
values as follows:
NRs/Ton
Paddy                        650
Wheat                        700
Sugarcane                    100
Oilseeds                   1,000
Pulses                     1,000
Vegetables                   800
(e) yields under the without project conditions are assumed to
increase by 1% per year, a rate equivalent to that prevailing
in the area during recent years. This increase would take
place up to full development (year 15) of the project and
yields in ton/ha for individual crops are presented in Annex 3.
B. Results of SensitivityTests
Aossmptions                          Economic Rate of Return
(a)  The basic run excluding sunk costs                       21.4 /1
(b)  Including sunk costs of US$5 million
(without interest) in the first year
investment                                             14.0 /2
(c)  20% increase in construction costs                        18.0
(d)  2-year delay in project completion                        19.0
(e)  Combination of (c) and (d)                                16.0
(f)  20% of reduction in benefits                             17.0
(g)  Combination of (c), (d) and (f)                           14.0
(h)  Replace increased wheat area of 6,200 ha
with oilseeds and pulses (paras 6.02
and 7.05)                                              18.0
(i)  All labor costed at zero                                 26.0
(j)  All labor costed at NRs 5 per man-day                     16.0
/1   24% for surface irrigation and 14% for groundwater irrigation.
/2   14% for surface irrigation and 11% for groundwater irrigation.
February 12, 1973



ANNEX 14
Table 1
NEPAL
BIRGANJ IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Cost and Benefit Flows
Year                 Costs                 Benefits
-   US$ 000----------
1                   1,190
2                   2,438                    160
3                   2,583                    990
4                   2,402                    870
5                   1,243                  1,370
6                     274                  1,850
7                     274                  2,220
8                     274                  2,510
9                     274                  2,740
10                     274                  2,940
11                     274                  3,110
12                     274                  3,250
13                     274                  3,340
14                     274                  3,400
15-31                  274                  3,420
32                     930                  3,420
33-50                  274                  3,420
Internal rate of return:  21.4%.
February 12, 1973



ANNEX 14
Table 2
NEPAL
BIRGANJ IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Aggregate Labor Requirement
'000 man-days
Month                        With Project               Without Project
January                      582                          235
February                     595                          183
March                        675                          248
April                        486                          132
May                          646                          622
June                       1,219                        1L089
July                         996                          468
August                       595                          339
September                    173                           31
October                      815                          539
November                     858                          594
December                     561                          247
T 0 T A L                       8,201                        4,727



N B PAL
BIP.'AHJ IROIGATION PPOJECT
Economic Analysis - Net Value of Production at Full Development
Paddy-Local           Paddy_HYV           Sugar Cane              Wheat              Oil Seeds             Pulses             'Vegetables
Crop
With (W) or Without (W) Project              W    W                W         W          W         W         W          X          W         W          W          W            
Yield (Tons/ha)                               2.7      1.7         3.5       -         40.0     18.O         3.0      1.2         0.75      0.4        0.85      0.5        12.0      6.o
Price (NRs/Ton)                            650       650        650          -        100      100        700       700       1,000    1,000       1,000    1,000          800      800
Gross Value of Production (NWs)          1,755    1,100       2,275          -     4,000    1,800       2,100       840         750      400         850       500       9,600    4,8oo
Production Costs excluding labor (NRs)    740        295      1,045          -     1,590    1,090         580       230         295      155         295       155         252      132
Net Return (NRs/ba)                      1,015       805      1,230          -     2,410       710      1,520       610         455      245         555       345       9,348    4,668
Cropped Area (ha)                       15,430   28,260      13,910          -      3,140    1,570     15,700    9,420        1,570    1,570       1,570    1,570        1,570    1,570
Net Return from Crop ed
Area (million OTs)                        15.7      22.7        17.1       -          7.6      1.1        23.9      5.7         0.7       0.4        0.9       0.5        14.7       7.3
With                         Without
12                                                 (Million 5)                    (Million NRs)
Nct Returas from Project Area                                                          80.42q"                       37.7
Imputed Labor Cost
PeaR Labor                                                                 11.1                             5.4
olri-Peak Labor                                                            0t0                              3.6
Totel Labor Cos.                                                                  17.1                            9.0
Net r>eurrs from Projectl Ares                                                         63.3                          28.7
Project Benefits at Full Developrnent                                                  34.6 (us$3.42 m)
I  3iee Annex 13, Table 5.
/2   a'b, not coete3.
/     - Be.oice of tOe rourA off eerGr, ito figes r.ay nolu  EIree ea stly.






NEPAL
BIRGANJ IRRIGATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF BIRGANJ IRRIGATION PROJECT BOARD
PROJECT BOARD
GENRALMANGER
a       CONSULTANTS
AGRICULTURE                                                          ENGINEERING                                                         ADMIN. & FINANCE
DIVISION                                                             DIVISION                                                              DIVISION
APPLIED RESEARICH     EXTENSION SERVICE        COOP'ERATIVES          CONSTRUISION             PLANIGNG                 ON-FARM                STORES              AMNSRTO                     IAC
SECTION  SECTION            SECTION        ~     SUPRVIIONDEVEL OPMENT                                                   SECTIONSETOSCIN
SECTION  SECTION            SECTION                ~~~~SECTIONSETOSCIN
W.~,)d B-k, - 6877 ~FL






83-.10-                                                        84-0o                                                          t4-30-                                                         85-00                             iN .                     :            JUtNE 1977
z     Pro1ect ,rea                                                                                                         NEPAL s                                                                                                           7    J    4  t tA
Rivers & trem                                                                                                                     NEPAL                                                                                                     
-  Barrge  IBIRGANJ IRRIGATION PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Z 0 
_  Cootrol gates                                                                                                 PROJECT  LOCATION
®  Powe staionL                                                                                                                                CA IN,~
Rood                                                                                         27-30                                                                                                               0-
73         R. ys                                         .   *                                                                                                                                                            3         N D I A:
~-~-- Interneasional boondazrres.9                                                                                                                                                                                        N Ot?'   E  P  A  L          t-r L
fgtA
700    .AW   l   :   D                                                      1 ;    4\ATH-W                                                            2
Cortaeaed\X¢Ljrol                                                                                                                      // AeaW Are                           14,900  Nr aen olGron dwom
B                520   H  11             2 tO    0X
7       ,     tOl      5     20                          60,000haj{Gross) \0z     
5iJ 30                                                         e4-00                                                          5f4.,10'                                                       0300 0(G5'3e






IBRD-3096
Ek       > i       M         ESS                                 ,                           10 EATUMDU                                                                               NP                    d1 1072
ro^/'s,  8a       ;     )    °o.  ,,          l    t      t    I                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NEPAL
. N _   C (X^IEN}A  S                      ,:    S        q  )       () d   \      A}  (\N                 \                                    BIRGANJ  IRRIGATION   PROJECT
..   -9 e P~    1''1     ;                                                                                                     < .,)  )  ZZL$  /fS  e   \  d   2J/t)   I'''  S    GENERAL  PLAN
*'A-.C.-                                        - 
G ,oX,d..t, D-Ip;-i  A-
I N Di A  L                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -    B-oIck B-od.,y
Ekitig Rood
K-                                                                                                          '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ O,olo0IBoodn
BL                     KL C VI ~                                                                OK X ~ ~
6 3AN-    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                                   (OJBLOCK\XI~~~~~~~~~LOK  i
(BB KLO                                                                                N          ANJ(x
AA 
0L            2                                                                    2 0 1 
(.  -  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  7~~~~~~0 0~~~~0      -           0                         4            0         -    0          0                         2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MIE



