CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 373 NEP
Development Credit
Agreement
(Birganj Irrigation Project, Narayani Zone)
BETWEEN
THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 18, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 373 NEP
Development Credit
Agreement
(Birganj Irrigation Project, Narayani Zone)
BETWEEN
THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 18, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 18, 1 £73, between THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called th  Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, suject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the Geneial Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Board" means the Narayani Zone Irrigation Development
Board established by the Borrower on February 21, 1973 by Order under the
Development Board Act of 1956, as amended, to carry out the Project;
(b)   "Project Area" means that area of the Borrower bordered by the Nepal
Eastern Canal in the North, the Arwa River in the East and the territory of the
Government of India in the South and West and shall include, in addition, an
area approximately thirteen kilometers east of the Tribhuvan Highway, two
kilometers west of the Tribhuvan Highway and eight kilometers north of the Nepal
Eastern Canal, which is also bordered by said Canal in the South;
(c)   "Gandak Agreement" means the Agreement on the Gandak Irrigation
and Power Project between the Borrower and the Government of India, dated
December 4, 1959, as amended from time to time; and
(d)   "Gandak Co-ordination Committee" means the committee established
by the Gandak Agreement to expedite matters of common interest under the said
Agreement.


﻿I_M
4
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to six million dollars ($6,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agroement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of ary country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1978 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May I and
November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing
May 1, 1983, and ending November 1, 2022, each installment to and including
the installment payable on November 1, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿5
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project through the Project
Board with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound engineering,
agricultural and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the Project Board to work full-time in
carrying out the Project until the completion thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) Within 60 days of the Effective Date, or such other date
as may be agreed between the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall
employ consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and         inditions
satisfactory to the Association in order to assist the Borrower:
(i)         in the preparation of plans, dj signs, specifications and bidding
documents for Parts A, B and C of the Project and in the
supervision of the construction of Parts A, B and C of the
Project; and
(ii)        in the carrying out of Parts D and E of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association within
twelve months after the Effective Date, or by such other date as may be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association, a plan acceptable to the Association
for the training of the Project Board staff.
(c)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association within 18 months of
the Effective Date, or such other date as may be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association, the reports and conclusions of the feasibility studies referred
to in Part E of the Project.
Section 3.03. In carrying out Parts A, B and C of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the


﻿6
proceed-, of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for the construction and operation of the facilities included in the
Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the Project Board and of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project Board to maintain
separate and distinct accounts reflecting expenditures on the Project.


﻿7
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the Project Board to: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Project Board
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)   The Borrower shall cause the Project Board to issue rules satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall take all action as may be required to
cause farmers in the Project Area to carry out the construction of such water
courses and field drains and such land leveling as may be necessary for such farmers
to receive the benefits of the Project.
(b)   If any farmer within the Project Area shall not have carried out the
on-farm development works contemplated by paragraph (a) of this Section within
one year after the completion of the tertiary canals and drains in the Project serving
his farm, the Borrower through the Project Board shall carry out such on-farm
development works and shall recover the cost of such works from the farmer
involved.
(c) The Borrower shall release irrigation water from surface irrigation field
outlets or from tubewells to any farm only after the on-farm development works
contemplated by paragraph (a) of this Section for such farm have been completed.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause the Project Board to carry on its
operations in accordance with sound administrative and agricultural practices tinder
qualified and experienced management. The Borrower shall cause the Project Board
to be managed by a full-time General Manager with qualifications and experience
acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall, beginning not later than one year after
completion of the works for each block of the Project, establish and collect water
charges to enable the Borrower to recover from the fanners benefiting under the
Project (a) the operation and maintenance costs of the works as they are incurred


﻿I
8
and (b) in progressive steps over a reasonable period of time, the investment cost
of the Project, having due regard to the incentives and capacity of such farmers
to pay. The Borrower shall review and, if necessary, revise the water charges not
less than once every five years.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain, or cause
to be operated and maintained, the structures, canals, drains, outlets and equipment
and other property in the irrigation systems provided by the Project and shall
make, or cause to be made, all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in
accordance with sound engineering and agricultural practices.
Section 4.07. (a) The Borrower shall at all times make available, or cause
to be made available, adequate seed, fertilizers and other agricultural inputs to
farmers in the Project Area.
(b)   The Borrower shall make arrangements for the provision of agricultural
credit to farmers in the Project Area in order to enable such farmers to achieve
prompt and productive utilization of their land and of the water and other facilities
provided by the Project.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard       to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations, resources and expenditures of the
Project Board and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.


﻿-w                                   9
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations, resources and expenditures of the Project
Board and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.0 1. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and


﻿10
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified:
The Gandak Agreement and the arrangements in effect on the Effective Date
between the Borrower and the Government of India arising out of or related to
such Agreement, shall have been amended, waived or tenninated in such a manner
as to materially and adversely affect the carrying out or the operation of the Project.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely that the General Manager of
the Project Board shall have been appointed by the Borrower in accordance with
the terms of Section 4.04 of this Agreement.
Section 8.02. The date July 20, 1973, is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.05, 4.01,
4.02 and 4.04 through 4.07 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date
25 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Secretary to the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Ministry
of Finance, HMG
Singha Durbar
Kathmandu, Nepal


﻿11
Cable address:
Artha
Kathmandu
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through      their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL
By /s/ B. P. Rimal
Authorized Representatire
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ I.P.M. Cargill
Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿I
12                                                 .
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.    Equipment and                   700,000            100% of foreign
spare parts                                        expenditures
I.   Consultant services
(a)   Project Imple-           1,300,000           100% of foreign
mentation                                    expenditures
(b)   Feasibility               400,000            100% of foreign
Studies                                      expenditures
III.  Civil Works                   2,500,000            85% of total ex-
penditures
IV.   Unallocated                   1,100,000
TOTAL              6,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency. of
any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:


﻿13
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
1 above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph 1 above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures- and
(c)   if the Association   shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category III
shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
A.    Surface  Water Irrigation. The surface water irrigation     system  serving
approximately 28,700 hectares near Birganj will be completed by:
(i)         improvement of      the  Nepal Eastern    Canal including   the
construction   of   additional  control  structures  and    the
improvement of existing structures;
(ii)        improvement of about 50 km       of secondary canals above 20
cusec capacity including the addition of control structures;
(iii)       construction of about 1,150 km of secondary and tertiary canals
with control structures and field turnouts;
(iv)        construction of about 800 km     of drainage networks; and
(v)         construction of about 290 km      of canal service roads and
surfacing of about 110 km of these roads.
B.    Ground   Watler Irrigation. The ground water irrigation system      serving
approximately 2,700 hectares near Birganj will be completed by:
(i)         testing of existing tubewells and replacement of inadequate
pumps, motors and control devices;
(ii)        drilling and equipping of about 14 new tubewells;
(iii)       construction of about 18 km     of 11 kV transmission lines to
serve existing and new tubewells; and
(iv)        construction of related storage tanks, irrigation distribution
systems and drainage networks.
C.    Project Facilities. The following facilities for the Project will be provided:
(i)         construction of offices, workshops, stores and living quarters for
staff and consultants;


﻿15
(ii)        installation of a communication system    for irrigation system
operations;
(iii)       installation of hydrological telemetry equipment for the Nepal
Eastern Canal; and
(iv)        construction of about 12 cooperative stores.
D.    Technical Assistance. Training, technical assistance and advisory services will
be furnished to the Project Board staff in the general administration, personnel,
finance, accounting and auditing, agricultural extension and cooperative services
and in the operation and management of the Project as an integrated agricultural
project. Farmers in the Project Area will be provided technical assistance for the
planning, design and execution of on-farm watercourses, field drains and other
on-farm development works.
E.    Feasibility Studies. Feasibility studies will be provided for:
(i)         a pumping scheme to lift water from the Nepal Eastern Canal
to irrigate areas north of the said Canal; and
(ii)        one or more future irrigation projects in the territories of the
Borrower suitable to benefit from international financial
assistance.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1978.


﻿17
(e)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(f)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any other contract for civil works or for equipment or spare
parts, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution
and prior to the delivery to the Association of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract is not consistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, the
Borrower may use its usual procurement procedures for the purchase of off-the-shelf
items of equipment or spare parts costing less than the equivalent of $10,000 each,
provided that the total cost of such items included in this paragraph does not
exceed a maximum amount of the equivalent of $50,000.


