Report No. PID9315
Project Name                     Tajikistan-Emergency Flood Assistance (+)
Project (Supplemental)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Urban Housing
Project                          TJPE68786
Borrower(s)                      Republic of Tajikistan
Implementing Agency
Republican Project Coordination Unit of
the Center for the
Liquidation of Consequences of Natural
Disasters (RPCU/LNCD), Tajikistan
Contact Person: Mr. Nurullo Ashurov, Director
Tel: (992 372) 210358
Fax: (992 372) 210356
Email: stihiya@TAJNET.COM
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                June 28, 2000
Appraisal Date                   August 1999
Board Date                       December 14, 1999
1. Country and Sector Background
In May and June of 1998 torrential rains of unprecedented strength led to severe
floods in Tajikistan causing extensive damage countrywide to economic and social
infrastructure. The Association responded to a request for assistance made by the
Government of Tajikistan by preparing the Emergency Flood Assistance Project for
which a credit of SDR 3.8 million (Cr. 3123-TJ) was approved on August 27, 1998.
EFAP finances the repair and reconstruction of about 9 bridges, 270 km of roads,
power transmission lines and substations, as well as the strengthening of river
embankments in various regions of the country. Work under the project began in
December 1998.
2. Objectives
In early July 1999, Tajikistan was again hit by rains of unusual intensity causing
flash floods and landslides which damaged and destroyed additional economic and
social infrastructure in areas of the center and south of the country already
affected by the floods of 1998, as well as in new areas, especially in the north.
The Supplemental Credit provides the resources needed for the repair and
reconstruction of infrastructure damaged by the floods of July 1999 in various
regions of the country some of which are still recovering from the floods of the
previous year. The credit would be complementary to a loan of US$5 million equivalent
currently under consideration by ADB and would thus support the efforts of the donor
community to help the country mitigate the economic and social effects of the
disaster.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
While coping with damages caused by the catastrophic floods of 1998, the Government



incurred new costs associated with severe flooding in 1999. The flood damage in both
years occurred in the Khatlon oblast in the south, Pendjikent and Aini in the
Northwest and this year in the Asht rayon and other parts of northern Leninabad
oblast as well as the Karategin-Tavildara valley.     Although seasonal floods are a
somewhat common occurrence in Tajikistan the intensity of the rains which fell in
early July 1999 was exceptional and caused damages of a magnitude that was far beyond
what could be expected. Because they occurred in areas of the country that were
still struggling to recover from the catastrophic effects of the floods of the
previous year, the severe damages caused by the new floods seriously threaten the
viability of investments already made under the ongoing EFAP project and risk to put
in jeopardy the economic recovery of the communities affected.
The specific economic infrastructure works proposed under the Supplemental Credit are
different from those in the EFAP. However, the supplemental credit deals with the
same needs as those addressed by the EFAP: (i) the proposed rehabilitation works are
located in the same geographical areas covered by the EFAP; (ii) the works would help
to support the economic capacity of the flood stricken areas; (iii) the costs
associated with the floods are unexpected, that is they are cost overruns to the
infrastructure system which the Government is managing and the EFAP is supporting;
(iv) the Supplemental Credit is proposed within the context of a broader response by
international organizations, and the Government and people of Tajikistan to the
humanitarian and economic disaster.
4. Description
The proposed Supplemental Credit would finance the repair and reconstruction of
infrastructure items similar to those included in the ongoing EFAP Project, namely
(a) damaged national and municipal roads and bridges located mainly in the southern
part of the country; (b) river embankments to protect the exposed sections of roads
and villages from rising river waters; and (c) rehabilitation of power transmission
lines to reconnect communities that were cut off from power service. The works would
be executed using the same implementation arrangements and the same implementing
agency (RPCU/LCND).
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government                       0.2
IDA                              2.0
Total Project Cost               2.2
6. Implementation
The project will be implemented over a period of two years, beginning September 1998.
Overall responsibility for project implementation will rest with the Executive Office
of the President of the Republic, in which a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) for the
project is established. The project is under implementation by the "Republican
Project Coordination Unit of the Center for the Liquidation of Consequences of
Natural Disasters" (RPCU/LNCD). The project has been under implementation since
September 1998 and will close in December 2001.
7. Sustainability
As an emergency operation designed in line with the Bank/IDA Guidelines for Economic
Recovery Loans (ERL) the proposed project aims primarily at addressing short-term
needs of reconstruction and repair of damages caused by floods. Appropriate measures
will be taken, however, to eliminate the risk of credit resources being used for the
reconstruction of infrastructure in all cases where appropriate responsiveness to
actual needs and future material viability cannot be ensured.
- 2 -



Future investments should be guided by a strategy for the design of a resilient,
long-term approach to mitigate the adverse effects of flooding. During discussions
with the joint IDA-ADB appraisal mission in August 1999, the Government has
recognized that borrowing funds for recurring natural disasters, though extraordinary
in this case, is not sustainable without a flood management strategy. Following
these discussions, the Government has requested the assistance of IDA and ADB for a
study that would develop a comprehensive flood management plan. The study would most
likely include (a) a review of the current situation; (b) recommendations for short
-, medium- and long-term mitigation measures; (c) improvements in hydrological
criteria for works; (d) improvements in designs and techniques for road and bridge
construction as well as embankment remediation measures; (e) design of a flood
forecasting and warning system; and (f) an action plan that helps the Government
coordinate agencies and organizations when a flood occurs.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The Bank Group's experience in working in Tajikistan is still relatively limited and
too recent to allow to draw specific lessons that are relevant for an emergency
operation. The Bank and IDA have, however, a large experience with emergency
reconstruction projects in other parts of the world. Assessment of past operations
shows that that successful implementation of reconstruction projects includes: (a)
early bank involvement in defining a reconstruction strategy; (b) a good assessment
of damages and needs; (c) flexible and expeditious programming, simplicity in design
and implementation arrangements; (d) a willingness to help local authorities with
project preparation; and, when and where needed, (e) diversification of
reconstruction programming into various sectors; and (f) the use of pilot projects in
community-based activities and in programs to support local initiatives.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     : None
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Mr. Bernardo Gomez
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473-2386
Fax:   (202) 614-0901
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
-3 -



not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending July 7, 2000.
- 4 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the
borrower prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report
is required, once it is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in
accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment, it will be
filed as an annex to the Public Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an
EA annex; the findings and recommendations of the EA will be
reflected in the body of the PID.



