Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24209
IMPLEMENTAT'ION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-3 1230; IDA-3 1231)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 5.3 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF
TAJIKISTAN
FOR AN
EMERGENCY FLOOD ASSISTANCE PROJECT
June 13, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 30, 2002)
Currency Unit = Tajik Somoni
TJSI = US$ 0.37
US$ I = 2.68 TJS
FISCAL YEAR
January I -  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB        Asian Development Bank
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
DC         Direct Contracting
ERC        Economic Recovery Credit
EFAP       Emergency Flood Assistance Project
GOT        Government of Tajikistan
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
IDA        International Development Association
IS         International Shopping
MOTRA      Ministry of Transport and Road Administration
MWRLR      Ministry of Water Resources and Land Reclamation
NCB        National Competitive Bidding
NS         National Shopping
PCERP      Post-Conflict Emergency Reconstruction Project
RPCU       Republican Project Coordination Unit for Liquidation of Consequences of
Natural Disasters (Project Implementation Unit)
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:  Dennis de Tray
Sector Director:   Hossein Razavi
Sector Manager:    Sumter Lee Travers
Task T'eam Leader/Task Manager:   Gailius Draugelis



TAJIKISTAN
EMERGENCY FLOOD ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              6
6. Sustainability                                                                   7
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    8
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  9
9. Partner Comments                                                                10
10. Additional Information                                                         II
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               12
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               13
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               15
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               16
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               18
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  19
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             20
Annex 8. Borrowers Contribution                                                   21






Project ID: P059055                                       Project Name: EMERGENCY FLOOD
ASSISTANCE
Team Leader: Gailius J. Draugelis                         TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 13, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: EMERGENCY FLOOD ASSISTANCE                     L/C/TFNumber: IDA-31230;
IDA-31231
Country/Department: TAJlKISTAN                                           Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: UY - Other Urban Development
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   06/24/98                               Effective:  11/30/98           09/21/98
Appraisal:  07/12/98                                  MTR: 05/11/99              12/15/99
Approval:  08/27/98                                Closing: 01/31/2000           12/31/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency:  Republic of Tajikistan/Republican Project Coordination Unit for Liquidation of
Consequences of Natural Disasters (RPCU-LCND)
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                           Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager:     Dennis de Tray                             Ishrat Hussain
Sector Manager:       Sumter Lee l ravers                       Margret Thalwitz
Team Leader at ICR:  Gailius Draugelis                          Felix A. Jakob
ICR Primary Author:   Jacques Bure; Gailius Draugelis;
Felix A. Jakob
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
Sustainability rating is not practical. The purpose of the project was to provide emergency assistance. It therefore
did not address issues of sustainability in the medium- and longer term of project results.



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
In April and May 1998, less than a year after the signing of the 1997 Peace Agreement - which put an end
to five years of civil war - several regions of Tajikistan were hit by strong rains that caused widespread
flooding. Housing, schools, and other public facilities, transport infrastructure, river embankments,
telecommunication and power lines suffered extensive damage. Total costs of the damages were estimated
at USD 40.00 million equivalent, or 2 percent of GDP. On June 11, 1998 the Government of Tajikistan
(GOT) asked IDA to help it deal with the consequences of the disaster. In response to the GOT request
IDA agreed to provide a SDR 3.80 million Credit (USD 5.00 million equivalent) for an 'Emergency Flood
Assistance Project' (EFAP) of a cost of USD 5.5 million equivalent to (a) support GOT in its efforts to
mitigate the economic and social effects of the floods through the repair and reconstruction of essential
infrastructure; (b) establish the conditions for resumption of economic exchanges and growth in the rural
areas affected by the floods; and (c) help reduce the risks of occurrence of future similar calamities. The
Credit was approved by the Board on August 27, 1998 and became effective on September 21, 1998.
The project was prepared, in accordance with OP/BP 8.50, as an Emergency Reconstruction Credit (ERC)'
on the basis of the preliminary results of a damage evaluation carried jointly out by the Government and an
International Assessment Group created in June 1998. The objectives of the project were clearly defined
and in-line with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed by the Board on July 30, 1998. The
CAS objectives were to help Tajikistan in its transition to market economy, to arrest the intensification of
poverty through measures aimed at fostering employment-intensive growth and, to that end, to support
basic assistance programs which would help mitigate the effects of economic decline on the country's most
vulnerable groups by war (or otherforce majeure type events).
3.2 Revised Objective:
Severe floods recurred a year later in June 1999, though, to a large extent, in different regions of the
country. Total damages were estimated at about USD 20.00 million (or 1% of GDP). IDA, to which GOT
again had turned for assistance, agreed to amend the Credit Agreement and to extend a SDR 1.50 million
(USD 2.00 million) Supplemental Credit. The program to be funded from the Supplemental Credit, of a
total cost estimated at USD 2.2 million equivalent, was appraised in August 1999. The Amendment to the
Credit Agreement was approved by the Board on December 14, 1999 and became effective on March 3,
2000. The Supplemental Credit Amendment did not change the original objectives of the project and its
only purpose was to increase the amount of resources available to GOT for the repair and reconstruction of
infrastructure damaged by floods including those of June 1999.
The IDA Supplemental Credit was complemented by a USD 5.00 million credit from the Asian
Development Bank (ADB). ADB agreed to coordinate its emergency flood assistance programs with IDA
and, in particular, to share the same Project Implementation Unit, the Republican Project Coordination Unit
or RPCU. As mutually agreed between the two institutions and GOT, IDA resources would be used for
reconstruction operations located in Southem Tajikistan, whereas the ADB credit would finance operations
in Northem Tajikistan's Sughd (then Leninabad) oblast. Moreover, ADB agreed to provide, as part of its
operation, grant funds for technical assistance to help GOT prepare a medium- and long-term strategy for
natural disaster prevention and mitigation. The need of such a strategy had also been a major concern to
IDA from the beginning of EFAP and the conclusion of an agreement with ADB was considered by IDA a
necessary step for the further implementation of EFAP and the Supplemental Credit.
- 2-



3.3 Original Components:
The original program of works to be financed under EFAP was estimated to cost a total of USD 5.50
million equivalent (USD 5.00 million base cost). It included the following two components:
(a) Transport infrastructure works (USD 4.00 million or 80 percent of base cost): The component was to
finance the reconstruction of nine bridges and other structures and repair works on a total of about 270 km
of roads. The works under this component also included, using labor-intensive techniques, the repair and
reconstruction of embankment protections of various lengths in proximity of repaired and/or rebuilt bridges
and road sections exposed to river scouring, as well as the construction of small-scale protection structures
to prevent further erosion of existing roads and bridges in areas at risk.
(b) Other infrastructure works (USD 1.00 million or 20 percent of base cost): The component was to
finance infrastructure rehabilitation works in the areas of agriculture (repair of flood protection dikes and
irrigation systems), power (repair and replacement of small rural hydropower plants and transmission
lines), and municipal services which could not be appraised in detail for lack of completed damage
evaluations and unavailability of reconstruction programs and designs, and which therefore would be
agreed on by IDA upon completion of the necessary studies by GOT.
3.4 Revised Comnponents:
The Supplemental Credit Program of a total cost of USD 2.20 million (USD 2.00 million base cost) was to
finance a complementary program of (a) transport infrastructure works that included the reconstruction of
two bridges and repair works on about 60 km of roads; (b) other infrastructure works that included 12 km
of river embankment reinforcement, repair of about 2 km of power lines, and reconstruction of 6 power
sub-stations, as well as (c) operating expenditures of the implementing agency, the 'Republican Project
Coordination Unit for Liquidation of Consequences of Natural Disasters' (RPCU).
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is considered marginally satisfactory. The reason for the rating is that IDA, while it
responding quickly to the GOT call for assistance and preparing a project in an extremely short time,
accepted, on country relation grounds, the institutional framework for implementation proposed by the
Govemment even though it bore a high risk of poor performance.
There was no review of the quality at entry by the Quality Assurance Group. The project was designed as
an Emergency Reconstruction Credit (ERC) in accordance with the guidelines of OP/BP 8.50 for Economic
Recovery Assistance.   It was processed in the short period   of about two months with
identification/appraisal carried out in mid-July 1998 and negotiations held, by video-conference, at the
World Bank Resident Mission in Tashkent (Uzbekistan) on July 23-24. Board approval was obtained on
August 27. The Credit Agreement was signed on August 31 and the Credit became effective on September
21, 1998. The original Closing Date was Jine 30, 2001. It was extended in 1999 to December 31, 2001 to
allow for the implementation of the Supplemental Credit Program.
EFAP was expected to benefit from the experience in the management of emergency assistance operations
which GOT was gaining from the Post Conflict Emergency Recovery Project - PCERP (Cr. 3037-TJ), a
project which had become effective in February 1998 and was closed in January 2001, (see ICR 22209,
dated June 8, 2001). To overcome the handicap of being set up as a new implementation unit lacking the
necessary experienced staff , RPCU was to receive assistance and advisory support from PCERP.
However, despite the combined efforts of PCERP and IDA, the transfer of skills and experience was not as
- 3 -



effective as expected. The implementation of EFAP remained fraught with problems throughout the
lifetime of the project. In addition to language and communication problems, a critical and persistent
challenge for IDA was the continuing instability and insecurity in the country, which severely restricted its
ability to adequately supervise the project.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The general outcome/achievement of EFAP is considered unsatisfactory.
The project objectives were to: (a) mitigate the social economic effects of the 1998 and 1999 floods through
the repair and reconstruction of transport and other essential infrastructure; (b) reestablish the conditions
for a resumption of economic exchanges and growth in the affected rural areas; and (c) reduce the risk for
future occurrences of similar damages. The project had no policy or institutional objective, was exclusively
targeted at physical output, and focused solely on mitigating the effects of the two successive disasters
The objectives were partially met through the reopening of a number of transport links vital for the
development of the local economies. However, the project was unable to use all the resources available and
its overall impact fell therefore somewhat short of its stated goals.
4.2 Outputs by cornponents:
Given the short preparation time, the nature of the damages, and the known weak capacity of the
Government agencies that were to be responsible for the project, IDA aimed at minimizing the risks
through simplicity in project design and implementation arrangements. A special effort was made to set
the conditions for the preparation of sub-projects in the most flexible way possible in order to enable GOT
to effectively respond to the needs as they would arise during project implementation. Simplicity of design
and implementation arrangements notwithstanding, the implementation capacity of RPCU, the
implementing agency, tumed out to be even weaker than anticipated and, as a result, the project only
partially achieved its objectives.
Achievements for each component (original EFAP Project and Supplemental Credit Program combined)
are evaluated below:
Transport infrastructure works (proposed USD 4.56 million equivalent, actual USD 3.71 million
equivalent): In the original 1998 EFAP program, the component included (a) the repair or reconstruction
of nine bridges and other structures; and (b) repair works on a total of about 270 km of roads. Under the
1999 Supplemental Credit Program, reconstruction of two bridges and repair works on about 60 km of
roads were added. On the other hand, one bridge that had been included in the original program was
subsequently excluded from the project because, upon closer review, it did not satisfy the eligibility criteria.
Similarly, a total of about 40 km of road works were dropped from the project for feasibility
considerations. At the closing date of the credit, on December 31, 2001, works on seven bridges and
structures were totally completed while on the remaining three some work needed to be finished. By the
same date, repair works on a total of about 210 km of roads were completed (with the actually damaged
sections totaling about 105 km) while repairs on another about 80 km needed to be finished. Overall quality
of works was poor owing to both the lack of experience of local enterprises, and the lack of technical
supervision by the RPCU. As discovered by Bank supervision missions, in a large number of cases the
enterprises neither followed (or, maybe, were unable to understand) the construction designs nor respected
the technical and quality specifications for construction materials.
4-4



Other infrastructure works (projected USD 2.29 million equivalent, actual USD 2.16 million equivalent):
The original purpose of this component was to provide room for the incorporation into the project of works
that would address needs that could not be identified precisely at appraisal or which required
complementary feasibility assessments and design works. Various river embankment strengthening and
power projects were identified during the first year. The 1999 Supplemental Credit Program identified an
additional program of about 12 km of river embankment strengthening works and reconstruction of eight
power sub-stations and 2 km of power transmission lines. At the date of credit closing, contracts for a total
of about 13 km of river embankmnent strengthening were completed. A total of 9 km of power transmission
lines were completed. Only three power sub-stations were completed, while the others were dropped from
the project because of the delays incurred by the RPCU in the preparation of procurement documents.
Execution quality of the works varied widely and, especially in the case of river embankment strengthening,
was poor for the reasons already mentioned under the previous section.
The implementation of both project components was managed by the RPCU under the nominal oversight of
the Ministry of Transport (MOTRA) for transport infrastructure works, the Ministry of Water Resources
and Land Reclamation (MWRLR) for river bank strengthening works, and Barki Tojik, the national power
company, for power lines and substations. Implementation was carried on the basis of the relatively
cumbersome procurement arrangements set up in the previous year for PCERP. Under these arrangements
construction materials and supplies were procured directly by the RPCU through either Intemational
Shopping (IS), National Competitive Bidding (NCB), or National Shopping (NS), while the provision of
labor and equipment works was procured through Direct Contracting (DC) with branches of specialized
State construction enterprises. Over the period of implementation a number of small private sector
enterprises emerged on the market for which the original procurement scheme could not be used. To adjust
to the new circumstances  and expedite implementation  IDA agreed to revise the procurement
arrangements on two occasions in 2000 and 2000. However, due to the RPCU's lack of management
capacity, the effects of these changes remained marginal and did not result in significantly improving the
implementation performance.
Although some of the works were reported to be not entirely completed by the closing of the credit on
December 31, 2001, a last mission carried out by a Bank consultant in March 2002 confirmed that roads
and bridges included in the project were operational and open to traffic. Elements to be completed
concerned primarily abutment protections and river embankment strengthenings, works that, in most cases,
can be easily extended or reduced within certain limits without negative effects on the primary purpose of
the infrastructure to which they are related.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
No economic analysis was carried out due to the ERC nature of the project.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return was calculated due to the ERC nature of the project.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Consistent with its nature as an ERC, EFAP had no specific institutional development objective.
Originally, the RPCU was created for the specific and exclusive purpose of managing the IDA project, but
saw its scope and lifetime expanded when it was given the responsibility of implementing agency for the
ADB project, (upon whose closing in 2002 it is expected to be dismantled). The management capacity and
- 5-



skills of the RPCU staff remained extremely weak until the end of the projecL It must be hoped that some
of the staff may nevertheless be able to make use of the skills they did acquire through their exposure to
IDA procedures and methods in the preparation of other projects financed by IDA and other international
or bilateral donors.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
An important factor affecting the implementation of the project was the insecurity that persisted in the
Tajikistan aeven though the civil war had ended in 1997. While less acute than in the preceding years,
security problems were still able to make it difficult for RPCU, at least in certain areas of the country, to
supervise project implementation with all the intensity that would have been desirable.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Although GOT had subscribed to the objectives and financing arrangements of the project, these
commitments did not translate into the effective and permanent support which an expeditious and efficient
implementation would have required.
Given the overall context of Tajikistan and shortage of technical and management expertise, EFAP was on
a difficult track from the outset as GOT refused to include in the project any funding for technical
assistance or, as proposed by IDA as an altemative, to combine the management of EFAP with that of the
concurrently implemented PCERP.
GOT displayed little willingness to tackle the issues of poor management of RPCU. After IDA had
discovered substantial procurement irregularities in Summer 2000 and requested the refunding of about
USD 588,463, GOT did not take any action against RPCU and waited to dismiss its manager until Fall
2001, more than a year later when the project was about to close.
Despite the relatively small amounts involved, timely availability of counterpart funding was a persistent
problem for project implementation. Even though GOT ultimately fulfilled all of its counterpart funding
obligations periodic shortage of such funding created substantial difficulties. Especially for contracts
executed by small contractors it led, in several cases, to temporary interruption or delayed completion of
works or to attempt to find 'innovative approaches' to financial contract management.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
RPCU was suffering from the outset from excessively weak administrative, technical, and financial
management capacity. Although EFAP did not include any funding for technical assistance it obtained
-under an informal agreement - occasional support from PCERP staff in the areas of procurement and
financial management until the closing of the latter project on December 31, 2000. In response to repeated
requests made by IDA supervision missions some attempts to improve the management quality of RPCU
were made in the last two years but they were too limited in their scope to effectively change the situation.
RPCU's weaknesses were most evident in three areas:
*   Procurement: Despite the assistance provided by IDA and PCERP, RPCU experienced serious
difficulties in carrying out procurement in a satisfactory manner. A post-review of contracts for
goods procured through International Shopping under the USD 200,000 threshold for prior review
-6 -



that was carried out by a supervision mission in Summer 2000 led to the conclusion -which was
confirmed by ECA Procurement Specialists - that contracts for a total value of over USD 1.20
million had been awarded to firms having made misrepresentations and engaged in likely collusion.
Upon completion of its investigation, IDA requested in October 2000 the refunding to the credit
account of USD 588,463 of payments already made on the misprocured contracts. GOT refunded
the amount requested in December 2000. (IDA acceeding to a plea from GOT agreed not cancel
the amount but to keep it available for other sub-projects).
*   Financial management: As in the case of procurement, RPCU received substantial assistance from
IDA and PCERP. In spite of these efforts the quality of financial management remained
extremely poor and resulted in slowing down IDA replenishments of the Special Account and
several IDA requests for reimbursements for inappropriately used funds. On some occasions,
invoices could not be reconciled with payments and over- and under-payment of invoices occurred
repeatedly without proper justification. Possibly in reaction to the frequent lack of counterpart
funding, credit resources were used on other occasions for the financing of ineligible expenses
which prompted IDA to request refunding totalling about USD 20,000 over the duration of the
project.
*   Supervision: Field supervision was weak. Contractors received little guidance and were subject to
only occasional and perfunctory control on quality or conformity with engineering designs. Record
keeping on site visits, bills of quantities, change orders, and other work execution related issues
was rudimentary at best even if some small improvements were made over time.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
RPCU was unable to identify, prepare and implement acceptable sub-projects in a timely fashion. Since, in
addition, IDA had agreed not to cancel from the credit account the refunds made for reasons of
misprocurement, the resources available for EFAP ended up exceeding the needs for sub-projects suitable
for IDA financing. As a result, upon closing of the credit accounts on April 30, 2002 a total of USD 2.44
million (SDR 1.93 million) equivalent to 35% of the total amount of IDA resources provided for the
project under the combined original EFAP and Supplemental Credit Program were canceled.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Given its ERC nature the project did not focus on the issue of sustainability. Natural disasters are a
recurrent problem in Tajikistan and to be addressed effectively would require a consistent and
comprehensive strategy of disaster prevention and mitigation. Because it would have required a longer
preparation time and because the Government objected to including technical assistance in the project,
EFAP did not include any action in this area. IDA strongly supported ADB in its initiative to provide
support to GOT in this area under its Emergency Assistance Program
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
All assets funded under the project were transferred by RPCU to the GOT authorities responsible for the
respective sectors, i.e. MOTRA, MWRLR, and Barki Tojik, through an "Act of Reception" which also
outlines the responsibilities for future maintenance and operations.
- 7 -



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
IDA's performance during preparation was mixed. On one hand, IDA response to GOT's request for
emergency assistance was rapid both in 1998 and 1999. Processing of the original EFAP project in 1998
was carried out in the short time of about two months. On the other hand, IDA was aware from the outset
that the GOT opposition to include funding for technical assistance in the project and/or to entrust project
implementation responsibility to RPCU (instead of the more experienced PCERP implementation unit)
could put the project at risk. The decision of IDA to agree to the GOT proposal to entrust the
responsibility for implementation to the newly created RPCU, a body which had no staff with necessary
expertise and/or technical assistance support may have been pragmatic. It resulted, however, in creating
project implementation conditions whose deficiencies could not be overcome by supervision, intensive as it
may have been.
7.2 Supervision:
IDA's performance during supervision was satisfactory.
The IDA project team made a considerable and consistent effort to address the problems that arose from
the management weaknesses of RPCU in a context marked by the scantiness of IDA resources available for
supervision and constraints imposed on timing of, and field visits by, supervision missions by the security
situation in Tajikistan. Technical advise and support were provided to RPCU through intensive use of
electronic communications and telephone, as well as on-site discussions with RPCU staff and contractors
during most supervision missions. IDA also showed considerable flexibility in adjusting the legal
requirements to the evolving needs of project implementation as demonstrated by the number of successive
amendments to the Credit Agreement.
After the discovery in Summer 2000, in the course of a regular procurement portfolio post-review, of
procurement irregularities, the IDA project team acted swiftly and in concert with INTIU, the Bank's
department responsible for investigating fraud and corruption. The quality of the IDA project team's
performance in this matter was recognized by ECA Regional Management through the award of a
Performance Award in 2001.
Aware of Tajikistan's economic difficulties and acceeeding to the pleas of GOT, IDA did not cancel the
total value of USD 1.2 million of misprocured contracts and agreed to keep the USD 588,463 which GOT
had to refund in the credit account for the funding of new sub-projects. Concurrently, it agreed to an
extensive revision of the procurement arrangements with a view to simplify procedures and increase the
efficiency of controls. Unfortunately, neither GOT and RPCU were able to take advantage of these new
arrangements.
Following a Spring 2001 supervision mission the project team recommended to IDA Regional Management
to give RPCU and the project a last chance and to restructure, to that effect, the procurement arrangements
again. A review of the financial management of RPCU carried out in August by the Almaty Resident
Financial Management Specialist led to the discovery of continuing irregularities in financial management
which made it impossible to upgrade the project status to satisfactory. Given the unlikely prospects for
satisfactory improvement, IDA decided not to accede to a GOT request of December 19, 2001 for an
extension of the closing date and closed the Credit as planned on December 31, 2001.
- 8 -



7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall IDA performance is rated satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
GOT contribution to project preparation was relatively limited and focused essentially on the discussion of
the overall structure of the project and the implementation arrangements. GOT's objections to the use of
any portion of the credit for the funding of technical assistance or to combine the management of EFAP
with that of PCERP had a lasting effect on the subsequent implementation of the project and were largely
responsible for its poor performance.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Once the RPCU was set up and operational, the direct involvement of GOT officials in project
implementation became limited to overall oversight and monitoring. Difficulties in the provision of
counterpart fuinding were eventually overcome in the course of implementation. GOT was slow in
addressing the issue of poor management of RPCU and let pass more than a year before taking action on
the issue of procurement irregularities noted by the IDA and dismissing the RPCU Director on an order of
the President of Tajikistan.
7.6 Implementing Agency.
The perfonnance of the RPCU is rated unsatisfactory.  RPCU management was unable to attract
adequately skilled staff or to foster any significant and lasting improvement of its performance. Field
supervision of works done by contractors was inadequate both technically and administratively.
Procurement perfonnance was poor and involved a case of major illicit procurement.  Financial
management was persistently of low quality, even though audits carried out by international auditors were
unqualified.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Even taLing into account the resource constraints and the circumstances prevailing in Tajikistan, the overall
performance of the Borrower must be rated unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
*   Projects such as EFAP, that are prepared in a very short time with a view to respond to a natural
disaster or another emergency, cannot be prepared with the same degree of detail as a traditional
operation. They have to be designed with a great built-in flexibility in order to be able to adequately
address unforeseeable needs as the)' evolve from the reconstruction process. Such operations are
necessarily more resource intensive than traditional operations and resource allocations for
supervision should be made accordingly on a case by case basis. Supervision arrangements should
also be tailored to the specific circumstances of the project and provide for a substantially larger
involvement of Country Office staff in day-to-day follow up and advisory support.
*   The procurement arrangements adopted for the project provide another example highlighting the
potential risks for conflict between IDA requirements and need for operational flexibility. At IDA's
-9-



insistence the project adopted the same arrangements as used for PCERP (and which, as mentioned
in the June PCERP ICR of June 2001, were of debatable effectiveness for that project, too). Under
these arrangements the procurement of construction materials was to be separated from the
procurement of works. The reason for the split was that, at the time of appraisal, few if any private
construction enterprises for roads, bridges, and river bank reinforcement works existed and that the
only possible solution was to use existing specialized State enterprises. Although the use of force
account as a procurement method for worlks is, in principle, accepted by IDA's procurement
guidelines, IDA Regional Management was of the opinion that accepting force account as a
procurement method would set a dangerous precedent and ultimately hinder private sector
development. While rational from a policy point of view, the arrangements proved to be too
complex and cumbersome for the limited management capacity of RPCU and, rather than
preventing mismanagement, opened the door to it. IDA eventually agreed to revise the procurement
arrangements and to make them more flexible. However, the decision was taken too late and did not
yield any benefits to the project.
*   There are two general questions that must be raised, however.
The first question is whether, in the case of emergency operations such as EFAP, the regular
implementation arrangements of IDA projects make sense in a circumstances such as those
prevailing in Tajikistan. The aim of such projects is not to contribute to institutional development
but to bring assistance to the population afflicted by a disaster in the shortest time and most
efficient way possible Faced with the reality of extremely weak goveimnent institutions lacking
the necessary resources both human and material, possibly a better altemative would be to have
such projects carried out, on behalf of the Govemment, by branches of international organizations
or NGOs having the necessary managerial expertise.
The second question is whether rapid response projects, though sensible from a social and economic
short-term point of view, are really useful. As shown by recent history, floods and landslides occur
in all areas of Tajikistan with regularity almost every year. In such an environment, replacing and
repairing damaged infrastructure over and over again might be useful only to a limited extent. What
would be needed is to help GOT deal with the more fundamental aspects of disaster management
and support the preparation and implementation of comprehensive, affordable and sustainable
natural disaster prevention and mitigation strategies. Govemments are often reluctant to address
longer term issues and difficult to convince that prevention is more effective than curing. Although
IDA provided a strong moral backing to ADB in its efforts to help GOT in the preparation of
natural disaster management strategy, the question remains whether a more active involvement
wouldn't have been appropriate given the importance of the issues for the prospects of Tajikistan's
future economic development
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
See Annex 8.
(b) Cofinanciers:
n.a.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
n.a.
- 10 -



10. Additional Information
N/A
-  1 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
,,.. o, . Ie.*at~tj rlMatr i x " .:.-  .. ' 1: ProiJs:4jdh'lastPSR  ' .    t~      t : m... _
No indicators proposed
Output Indicators:
.''n . tflhECMatdx',': ''' P ' , .............                               ........ ;ni ItSR  : , '  'alILt~  f  . nat
Number bdidgeslstructures             7 bridges/structures (64% of appraisal)  Same as last PSR
repaired/reconstructed
Number of kms of road rehabilitated   210 kms (64% of appraisal)           Same as last PSR
Number of kms of bank strengthening works 13 kms (83% of appraisal)        Same as last PSR
completed
Number of power sub-stations installed  3 stations (37% of appraisal)      Same as last PSR
Number of kms of power transmission lines  9 kms                           Same as last PSR
replaced
End of project
-12 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
J.  . Appraiisai  Actual/Latest: Percentage of
'Estirmate   -' ,:Estimate'    Appraisal
:Project Cos.tBy Component                ,$, m,llin,  US$, mllion
Repair / Reconstruction of Bridges                     2.16            2.13            106
Repair / Reconstruction of Roads                       2.40            1.58            104
Other Infrastructure Works (Rehabilitation of River    2.29            2.16            111
Embankments and Power Lines)
RPCU Operating Costs/Audit Services                    0.10            0.38            350
Total Baseline Cost                                    6.95            6.25
Physlcal Contingencies                                0.75            0.00
Price Contingencies                                   0.00
Total Project Costs               7.70            6.25
Total Financing'Required                7.70           6:25
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
"'EWndIfur-Categor  --B P-o,uremnt .ethod' N'.F. -O                                   . -
Works                          NCS          Oth~2      _____NC__
1. Works                       0.00          0.00         4.15          0.00          4.15
(0.00)        (0.00)        (3.75)       (0.00)        (3.75)
2. Goods                       0.00          1.10         2.25          0.00          3.35
(0.00)        (1.00)       (2.25)        (0.00)        (3.25)
3. Services                   0.00           0.00         0.00          0.20          0.20
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                       0.00          1.10          6.40          0.20         7.70
(0.00)        (1.00)       (6.00)        (0.00)        (7.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
.-.-.ExpeditureCate                   rou-:'   '':-: "'''  .:rment Metho.d N-.  ., T iCo
1. Works                       0.00         0.00          3.96          0.00         3.96
(0.00)        (0.00)       (2.99)        (0.00)       (2.99)
2. Goods                       0.00         0.17          1.15          0.59         1.91
(0.00)        (0.15)       (1.13)        (0.00)       (1.28)
3. Services                    0.00         0.00          0.38          0.00         0.38
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.21)        (0.00)       (0.21)
Total                       0.00          0.17         5.49          0.59         6.25
._______________________  (0.00)   (0.15)        (4.33)       (0.00)        (4.48)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
v'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
- 13 -



of the project mnanagement office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Tercenftage-ef Appraisal
§--.  .,,  Y~~~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~. ... .....P,. ,,,  ... .....  .... ..  ...iTifae  'ci  -      -
.Comoemt                 'Ap.... praisal E~tmI          Atua/at .*     XUt Estimate-.::--.: 
..A Dovt.            CF   ..    IDA_        ot.     ' Cot :: 1                _
Repair / Reconstruction of  1.95     0.21                 1.19       0.93               61.0   442.9
bridges
Repair / Reconstruction of  2.18     0.22                 1.27       0.31               58.3   140.9
roads
Other Infrastructure      2.09       0.20                 1.81       0.36               86.6   180.0
Works (Rehabilitation of
River Embankments and
Power Lines
RPCU Operating             0.10      0.00                 0.21       0.17               210.0   0.0
Costs/Audit Services
Unalocated (Physical       0.68      0.07                 0.00       0.00               0.0     0.0
Cont.)
Govemrnment contribution includes estimates for completing unfinished objects.
- 14 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Because of the emergency nature of the project EFAP was not subject to costs and benefits analysis (see
paragraphs 4.3 and 4.4)
-15-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage'of Project Cycle                 -.No. of Persons and Specialty            Perforiance Rating
:.... .. ,(e.g. 2 Econornists, I FMS, etc.)    I, mplementation Development.
Month/Year    :Count-          Specialty                       Progress.    Obiective
Identification/Preparation/App
raisaUNegotiation                        I    Urban Planner
June 1998
(EFAP)
I   Transport Specialist
I    Financial Management Specialist
AppraisaVNegotiation
July 1999                    1    Operations Officer
(Supplemental
Credit)
I   Transport Specialist
I    Procurement Accredited Staff
Supervision
November 1998                 1   Operation Officer                   S             S
I   Transport Specialist
May 1999                      1   Operation Officer                   S             S
I   Transport Specialist
August 1999                   1   Operation Officer                   S             S
I   Transport Specialist
November 1999                 I   Operation Officer                   S             S
I   Transport Specialist
March 2000                    1   Operation Officer                   S             S
I   Transport Specialist
May 2000                      1   Operation Officer                   S             S
I   Transport Specialist
November 2000                 1   Transport Specialist                U             S
April 2001                    1   Operation Officer                   U             S
I   Transport Specialist
August 2001                   I   Financial Management Specialist     U
ICR
April 2002                   1    Infrastructure.Specialist
- 16 -



(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle.                      AciiaUL.atest Estimate.
._.__________________....             No. Staff weeks                 US$ (!00)
Identification/Preparation/Appra                                             55
isaUNegotiation
Appraisal/Negotiation                                                         0
Supervision                                                                 173
ICR                                                                          25
Total                           _     _      _       _                     263
Identification/Preparation/Appraisal/Negotiation include the original EFAP and the Supplemenal Credit.
- 17 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
ED Macro policies                        O H   O SU O M    O N  * NA
] Sector Policies                        O H   O SU O M    O N  * NA
F Physical                               O H   * SU O M    O N  O NA
OI Financial                             O H   O SU O M    O N  * NA
O Institutional Development              0 H   O SU 0 M    0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                          0 H   C) SU C) M  0 N  0 NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction               OD H   OSUOM      C) N  *NA
C Gender                           OH OSUO(M ON *NA
O Other (Please specify)           O H   O) SU O M  O N   * NA
O Private sector development             C H   C) SU O M   0 N  O NA
S Public sector management               0 H   (D SU ( J M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                 O H   O SU (D M   O N  * NA
-18 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
? Lending                                           O HS*S       OLU    OHU
• Supervision                                       OHS *S       OLU    0 HU
0 Overall                                           n HS * S     O    U  0 HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
• Preparation                                       OHS OS       OU    0 HU
F Government implementation performance             0 OHS ( S    * u    0 HU
E Implementation agency performance                 C) HS () S   * U    (D HU
F Overall                                           () HS O S    * u    O HU
- 19 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. IDA Supervision Mission Aide-Memoires and PSRs
2. RPCU Quarterly Implementation Progress Reports
- 20 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
Republican Project Coordination Unit on
Liquidation of Consequences of Natural Disasters
(RPCU-LCND)
EMERGENCY FLOOD
ASSISTANCE PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION
REPORT
(in the rayons of Khatlon oblast, Sugd (Leninabad}oblast,
Gorno Badahshan Autonomic Regions and the Rayons of the Republican
Subordination)
Dushanbe, May 2002, Tajikistan.



Emergency Flood Assistance Project                 Implementation Completion Reporl
(IDA Credit 3123/3123-lTJ)                                               May, 2002
Republican Project Coordination Unit on Liquidation of
Consequences of Natural Disasters (RPCU-LCND)
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
EMERGENCY FLOOD ASSISTANCE PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
RPCU - LCND: IDA Credit 3123/3123-ITJ
Introduction
After obtaining of independence by Republic of Tajikistan, as a result of disintegration of
USSR all economic relations of the Republic of Tajikistan with other Union's republics were
destroyed, that has affected negatively the economy of the Republic. The past civil war has
worsened even more a social economic situation of the republic. After achievement of the peace
and consent in the republic, the country began to live with creative life. But unfortunately, in the
periods since May till June 1998, since July till August 1999 the intensive floods and landslides
have taken place in Republic as a result of intensive monsoon rains. All country has suffered. The
water level in the mountainous and other rivers sated with thawed snow in spring periods has been
raised because of intensive monsoon rains. Consequently there were occurred the massive
landslides from mountain slopes, landslips and extensive floods, that became the reason of the
people victims, and also damage of roads, bridges, power transmission lines, transformer
substations, houses, bank strengthening facilities, irrigation facilities, water supply systems and
drainages, schools, and also other social and public infrastructures. According to preliminary
estimates the amount of damage occurred from disasters on Republic has made more than $US 80
millions.
In the North the Republic of Tajikistan borders with the Republic of Kirgizstan, in the East
with the National Republic of China, in the South with Afghanistan and in the West with Republic
of Uzbekistan. The population of republic is about 6,2 million, the 80 % of the population - Tajiks,
the others - mainly have Uzbek, Kirghiz and Russian origins. In contradistinction to population of
Central Asia, the Tajiks and their language are of Persian origin, and the Islam is dominant
religion. In the administrative respect the country is shared into four regions (oblasts) for all that
the central region - Rayons of Republican Subordination (RRS), controlled directly from Dushanbe
Republican Project Coordinatfon Unit on Liquidation of
Consequences of Natural Disasters (RPCU-LCND)                         page 2 from 8



Emergency Flood Assistance Project                 Implementation Completion Report
(IDA Credit 3123/3123-1TJ)                                               May, 2002
(capital with the population of more than 500 thousands), 30 % of the population lives in city, other
part of the population lives in more than 3,000 small populated areas scattered in a countryside.
The main Proiect tareets and outline descriptions
The floods and landslides past in 1998-1999 years became the reason of serious damage to
a public infrastructure. There was existed an urgent necessity of assistance to the Government of
the Republic of Tajikistan to cope with natural disasters, especially with the view of budget limits.
The purposes of the Project assistance to the Government are as follows:
*     to rehabilitate a public infrastructure of the damaged areas;
*      to stop a process of poverty rising through measures aimed at development of the economic
project by   providing with employment.
For the target achievement, because of the project is an emergent, there were provided the maximal
flexibility, project framework simplicity, so that to obtain quickly the real results-of the Project
realization within the range of following components, during 3 years before the Closing Date of the
IDA credit:
I.     " Bridges and roads
* reconstruction of the bridges destroyed - 9 pieces, roads - 183.4 km.
2.     "Irrigation":
*    reconstruction of the bank strengthening protective structures destroyed - 14.32 km and
water supply facilities - 4 pieces
3.     "Power":
* reconstruction of power transmission lines destroyed - 17.1 km both substations and
transformers - 13 pieces.
The Proiect budfetine
The total project budgeting of the Republican project coordination unit on liquidation of
consequences of natural disasters (RPCU-LCND) (the IDA credit X23123 TJ and N23123-ITJ),
including the Government contribution, has made $US 7.700.000, including:
-      the IDA credit                                      $US 7.000.000
-      the contribution of the Government of Tajikistan    $US 700.000
Project Management
Project management, supervision and realization were carried out directly by the
Republican project coordination unit on liquidation of consequences of natural disasters (RPCU-
LCND), established under the order of the Government of Tajikistan from 14.08.1998, N2 311 as an
independent, specialized organization met the requirements of the World Bank. The organizational
Republican Project Coordination Unit on Liquidation of
Consequences of Natural Disasters (RPCU-LCND)                         page 3 from 8



Emergency Flood Assistance Project                 Implementation Completion Report
(IDA Credit 3123/3123-ITJ)                                               May, 2002
structure of the Center corresponded to Project Structure and, its structure was formed from the
national staff selected on a competitive basis. Financing of its activity basically was carried out
from the credit means and a part of the charges at the expense of means allocated by the
Government.
The Republican project coordination unit on liquidation of consequences of natural
disasters was responsible for:
-     general management of activity within the project framework, including coordination of
activity with the Ministries and other State institutions, local agencies of state departments and
international donor organizations;
-      procurement of the goods (close treating of all WB Procedures and Guidance on
procurement of goods) and payment of services financed within the project;
-      supervision and control over the quality of emergency reconstruction works carried out
and goods supplied;
-      financial management, i.e. project accounts, including withdrawal of credit funds and
transfer of sources from the special account;
-      estimates of the contractors' works implementation efficiency and maintenance of
continuous dialogue with the project beneficiaries;
-      rendering of assistance to Government and local agencies of state management
concerning project realization, its components and objects.
Developed by the RPCU-LCND and coordinated with WB the normative documents and
their appropriate use under Project realization in many respects promoted the duly planning of
realization and control over each component.
The RPCU-LCND has organized its activity based on the following basic documents:
*   the general status of the Center,
*   the forms of the documents and the order of the direct contract implementation on all
components;
* a package of invitation of quotes from goods suppliers and contract forms,
* Guidance on accounting and reporting.
Implementation and zettini! results
Within the project it was reconstructed 55 objects destroyed from flood, including:
*  6 bridges, 5 of which have republican importance;
*   I unit of artificial facilities and roads;
*   105.4 km. of roads, 29 km of which have republican importance;
*   1 piece gallery
*  Bank strengthening facilities with the length of 13.22 km. (protection of 20 settlements,
roads, bridges and irrigation lands), 4 pieces drainage facilities;
*   11 objects of power transmission lines (PTL) and transformer substations for power supply
of 18 settlements.
Republican Project Coordination Unit on Liquidaffon of
Consequences of Natural Disasters (RPCU-LCND)                         page 4 from 8



Emergency Flood Assistance Project                 Implementation Completion Report
(IDA Credit 3123/3123-1TJ)                                               May, 2002
Summary of components
* BRIDGES and ROADS
Within the given component it was reconstructed and surrendered for exploitation 21 objects of
road facilities (6 bridges, I item of artificial road facility, I gallery, 105.4 km of roads). All
Emergency Reconstruction works have been implemented according to the authorized norms and
standards of design works acting in the republic. The technical and design decisions on all
structures met the requirements and local conditions and were developed by the Design Institute
"Tajikgiprotransstroi" and approved by the Ministry of Transport of the Republic of Tajikistan. The
Emergency Reconstruction works were carried out according to the established by World Bank the
method of the direct contracting with divisions of the Ministry of Transport of the Republic of
Tajikistan. The remained uncompleted objects are: 3 bridges and 78 km of roads.
* IRRIGATION
Within the given component it was reconstructed and surrendered for exploitation 22 objects of
the Ministry of Melioration and Water Management 13,22 km of Bank strengthening works, 4
items of spillway structures. All Emergency Reconstruction Works have been implemented
according to the project documentation developed by Design Institute "Tajikgiprovodkhoz" and
approved by the Ministry of Melioration and Water Management of the Republic of Tajikistan. The
Emergency Reconstruction Works were carried out according to the established by the World Bank
a Method of the direct contracting with divisions of the Ministry of Melioration of the Republic of
Tajikistan. It was remained 3 -incomplete objects.
* POWER
On the given component it was restored and surrendered for exploitation II objects of State
Joint-Stock Holding Company (SJSHC) "Barki Tojik". All Emergency Reconstruction Works were
implemented according to the Schemes of acts of the Extreme Flood Commission (EFC), made by
the experts of SJSHC " Barki Tojik" together with the local administrative agencies of Hukumats
on the basis of norms and standards acting in the Republic of Tajikistan. The Emergency
Reconstruction works were carried out according to the established by the World Bank a Method
of direct contracts conclusion with divisions of SJSHC " Barki Tojik " of the Republic of
Tajikistan.
Procurement Manazement
Republican Project Coordination Unit on Liquidation of
Consequences of Natural Disasters (RPCU-LCND)                         page 5 from 8



Emergency Flood Assistance Project                Implementation Completion Report
(IDA Credit 3123/3123-1TJ)                                              May, 2002
Procurements of goods and works on Emergency Flood Assistance Project (EFAP) were
carried out according to the regulations of the Development Credit Agreements NXONo 3123/3123-.
ITJ and Bank Manual on Procurements: Procurements under the loans of IBRD and IDA credits,
published in January, 1995 (amended in January and August, 1996, September, 1999). On the basis
of need for goods to be available for project works implementation, there were made only 45
contracts on procurement of goods on the established procurement procedures including: on
National Competitive Bidding - 7 contracts, on International Shopping - 27 contracts, on National
Shopping - 11 contracts. In October, 2000 the Bank has recognized 14 contracts, made on
procedures of Intemational Shopping, ineligible for financing under the credit agreements and has
required the refund of $US 588,463 amount. It should be noted, that the reasons, on which the
Bank has accepted such decision (invalid and void organizations), are not related to the competence
of the Center, but the Bank has not accepted the reasons of the Center.
All procurement contracts on goods supply are executed. The supplied goods meet the
technical specifications, given in the contracts and acting in the Republic of Tajikistan. The
laboratory tests of the supplied goods were carried out in various laboratories of industrial
enterprises. A commission made the bills of quantity of the supplied goods immediately during
acceptance of the goods from the Suppliers.
All supplied goods under the procurement contracts were distributed and released to the
Contractors for implementation of reconstruction works on the direct contracts.
In 2001-2002 years under the decision of Bank the contracts on ongoing works were
changed by inclusion of the goods directly into works under the contracts. Based on the Bank
approval the Unit has made only procurement of electrical equipment and materials under the
procedure of National Competitive Bidding for amount of $US 67,829.
Owing to the late decision of issue on payment for supplied equipment and materials and
impossibility of works implementation on restored power objects till December 31, 2001 there was
accepted the decision on a storage of the supplied goods in a warehouse.
The made procurements of goods under the procurement contracts have allowed -the works
implementation according to the credit agreements on ongoing projects.
Beneficiaries AnDreciation in the Proiect Realization
While the project was an emergency, public opinion studying and concrete works
performance, with the view of this opinion, was failed. The Emergency Reconstruction works were
carried out strictly according to the lists of objects coordinated with the Government of the
Republic of Tajikistan and appropriate Ministries. But despite of it, during ERW implementation
on sites the local population was informed on Project realization, especially on objects of
"Reconstruction of bridges and roads and BSW". On some reconstructed projects it was taken
partially into consideration the opinions of the inhabitants from the near allocated settlements and
maintaining organizations. The Local Hukumats and Jamoats where ERW have been implemented
were informed on tasks, targets and course of the Project realization; there were close connections
with them. In final result, during the input of projects the opinions and proposals of local agencies
were taken into consideration.
Republican Project Coordination Unit on Liquidation of
Consequences of Natural Disasters (RPCU-LCND)                        page 6 from 8



Emergency Flood Assistance Project                 Implementation Completion Report
(IDA Credit 3123/3123-ITJ)                                                May, 2002
Maior factors affected the Proiect
Major factors, which had positively effected the Project realization are followings:
- a direct fast and active participation of Bank at an early stage of development process;
- Bank assistance during the project realization, regular (during first years) and intensive
implementation of Bank supervision and control under the purposes of the project
estimates achievement and accepting operative measures on decision of arisen issues;
- Preparation of workshops-meetings on procurement and financial issues and
procurement;
- daily electronic correspondence;
- effectual organization of the Project management, an active using of the international
organizations experience, available in republic, such as "Post-Conflict Unit", TASIF and
etc.;
- the interested participation and good will of the Government in development of project
realization process.
* The negative factors
The factors, which have negatively influenced the quality of Project realization, are:
-      absence of immediate and qualitative technical assistance;
-      absence of available skills, Unit personnel experience and knowledge of Bank procedures
in the beginning of the Project realization;
-      shortage of the qualified Contractors' organizations, absence of the staff, while after civil
war many experts have left for Russia on earnings;
* The basic learned lessons
The realization of the investment projects for Center was new because it was an emergency
and had its own realization line, principles and requirements. We have learned much throughout
realization investment "EFAP" project during meeting with the representatives of the World Bank
(Supervision Missions in 1999-2000-2001.) It may be expressed, that it was "a lesson of life
given us throughout project realization. These "lessons" are the following:
1.     Strict implicit observance of all World Bank requirements and execution of Bank
recommendations.
2.     Close interrelation with the design institutes and obligatory coordination with the World
Bank concerning all changes of actions and accepted decisions, obligatory consultancy
with the World Bank representatives.
3.     Organization of acting monitoring of project management;
4.    If once again it would be possible to work with investment projects, especially with the
IDA projects, we are sure that the work on project realization would put on a high level.
Additional Information
Republican Project Coordinaton Unit on Liquidation of
Consequences of Natural Disasters (RPCU-LCND)                          page 7 from 8



Emergency Flood Assistance Project                Implementation Completion Report
(IDA Credit 3123/3123-1TJ)                                              May, 2002
During terms of the RPCU Project realization from 1998 through 2001 there were
remained uncompleted 6 objects under component "Roads and Bridges" and 3 objects under
component "Irrigation" in total amount US$ 352,171.00 because of the delayed financing, purchase
of construction materials and etc.
RPCU Acting Director                                N. Iskandarov
Republican Project Coordinatfon Unit on Liquidation of
Consequences of Natural Disasters (RPCU-LCND)                        page 8 from 8






IMAGING
Report No.:        24209
Type:     ICR



