Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-7255 -TJ
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
EMERGENCY FLOOD ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
August 3, 1998
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Azerbaijan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Aral Sea Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of June 25, 1998)
Currency Unit  =  Tajik Rubles
TJR I = US$0.0013
US$1  =  TJR 754
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
The Tajik Ruble replaced the Russian Ruble on May 10, 1995, at an initial conversion rate of TJR I = RUR 100
RUR per US$1                   TJR per US$1
1993    932                    1995    95
1994  2,192                    1996   300
1997   748
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AKF       -      Aga Khan Foundation
ADB       -      Asian Development Bank
CAS       -      Country Assistance Strategy
DC       -     Direct Contracting
EFAP       -      Emergency Flood Assistance Project
EMP       -      Environmental Management Plan
FSU       -     Former Soviet Union
GDP       -      Gross Domestic Product
IBRD       -     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB             International Competitive Bidding
IDA      -      International Development Association
IS      -     International Shopping
MOTRA        -      Ministry of Transportation and Road Administration
NBF       -      Not-Bank-Financed
NCB       -      National Competitive Bidding
NGO       -      Non-Governmental Organization
NS      -      National Shopping
OCHA        -     UN Office for Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs
PCERP       -      Post-Conflict Emergency Reconstruction Project
PCU/EFAP        -     Project Coordination Unit for Emergency Flood
PCU/PCERP        -      Project Coordination Unit for Post-Conflict
PHRD       -      Japan Population and Human Resources Development
SCE       -     State Commission for Emergencies
SDR       -      Special Drawing Right
SOE       -     Statement of Expenditures
UNDP       -      United Nations Development Program
UNOPS        -     United Nations Office for Project Services
UTO       -      United Tajik Opposition
WFP       -      World Food Program
TAJIKISTAN'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn, ECA
Country Director:  Ishrat Husain, ECCOI
Sector Director:  Ricardo A. Halperin, ECSIN
Urban Sector Leader:  Margret Thalwitz, ECSIN
Project Team Leader:  Felix A. Jakob, ECSIN



REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
EMERGENCY FLOOD ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
L.               BACKGROUND  ...................................................................... 1
A.  Country Background .......................................................................1
B.         The April and  May  1998  Floods   ........                                      ..............................................................I
II.              INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY ASSISTANCE ...................................................................2
m.               BANK/IDA RESPONSE AND STRATEGY .......................................................................3
A.    World Bank/IDA  Strategy and Programs in Tajikistan ...........................................................3
B.    Lessons Leamed from  previous Bank/IDA Experience ..........................................................3
C.    Rationale for Bank/IDA Involvement .......................................................................4
IV.              PROJECT DESCRIPTION .......................................................................4
A          Project Preparation ..................................................................4
B.    Project Objectives and Design ..................................................................4
C.   Project Components .................................................................                                                                                                           5
D.    Project Cost and Financing Plan ..................................................................5
E.    Economic Justification ..................................................................7
F.    Environmental Impact ..................................................................7
V.               PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ......................................................................7
A.    Project Organization and Management ..................................................................7
B.    Implementation Arrangements ..................................................................8
C.   Mid-Term Review .................................................................                                                                                                              9
D.   Procurement ..................................................................9
E.    Disbursements .................................................................                                                                                                              11
F.         Accounts, Audits  and  Intemal Control .............................                                                  ....................................                             12
G.    Reporting and Monitoring .................................................................                                                                                                  12
VI               BENEFITS AND RISKS .....................................................................                                                                                                           13
VIIi             AGREEMENTS REACHED .....................................................................                                                                                                            13
ANNEXES
1. Damage Assessment Summary
2.  Detailed Cost Tables
3.  Institutional Arrangements
4.  Implementation Plan
5. Procurement Plan
6.  Performance Monitoring Indicators
7. Financial Management
MAP: IBRD 29751



I. BACKGROUND
A.    Country Background
I.    Tajikistan is among the poorest countries in the Former Soviet Union (FSU), with a 1997 per
capita income of US$330. Of the country's 5.8 million inhabitants about seventy percent live in rural
areas. Only some seven percent of the country's 143,000 square kilometers are arable, while the rest
consists of mountainous areas. Tajikistan's economic endowment rests on plentiful supplies of water - an
otherwise scarce commodity in Central Asia. Agriculture, which is largely based on extensive irrigation
schemes, contributes to about twenty-five percent of GDP and fifty percent of employment. The industrial
sector, which accounts for thirty-five percent of GDP but only for fifteen percent of employment, was
developed under the Soviet regime to take advantage of the easy availability of hydroelectric power which
resulted in the creation of a number of aluminum, chemical and other energy-intensive industries.
2.    Tajikistan became an independent country in September 1991. In 1992, a civil war started as
different regional and political groups struggled for a redistribution of power. The armed conflict
continued for the next four years with varying intensity. An estimated 50,000 people lost their lives,
600,000 people were displaced inside the country and some 60,000 fled to neighboring Afghanistan.
3.     The war had a severe impact on the whole country as it compounded the effects of the breakup of
the FSU (which resulted in cutting off trade links and stopping budget transfers that amounted to up to
forty percent of GDP), brought most economic activities to a standstill and plunged a large portion of the
population into poverty. GDP is estimated to have declined by fifty percent during the first half of the
1990s. A complex and protracted negotiation process between the Government of Tajikistan and the
United Tajik Opposition (UTO) began in 1994 and culninated in the signing on June 27, 1997, of the
General Agreement on the Establishment of Peace and National Accord in Tajikistan. Although the
implementation of the peace agreement has been uneven, significant progress has been made during the past
twelve months. Key UTO leaders have returned to the country and accepted cabinet level positions in the
Government. While relations between the two parties have been strained at times, especially during
outbursts of violence engineered by groups that remain outside the existing political framework, there is
clear evidence that both sides are committed to the implementation of the peace agreement.
B.    The April and May 1998 Floods
4.    Tajikistan, because of its geographical conditions, is a country exposed to a variety of natural
hazards. Along the many large mountain rivers that irrigate the country's lowland areas, minor floods are a
relatively common and periodic occurrence, especially in the Spring season. The geological instability of
the terrain in large parts of the country results in frequent landslides and mudflows. Last, most of
Tajikistan lies in an area of high seismicity and, although no major earthquake has taken place in recent
years, minor tremors are frequent and the threat of a major seismic event is permanent. However, the scale
of the natural risks is such that seeking solutions to fully and permanently protect Tajikistan's population
and economy from even relatively small-scale future natural disasters is unthinkable as it would require
technical and financial resources far beyond the country's present and likely future economic capacity.
5.    The floods of April and May 1998 were exceptional by any standards and the result of two
coinciding natural phenomena. As a result of heavier than usual snowfalls during the 1997/98 winter, the
flow levels of most mountain rivers were extraordinarily high throughout the Spring of 1998. Several
successive periods of torrential rains in the months of April and May caused many rivers to swell to levels
higher than any recorded in the last seventy-five years. This lead to extensive flooding, but also landslides



-2-
and mudflows in many parts of the country. Most severely affected was the Khatlon region in the south,
but other regions such as the Karategin-Tavildara valleys in the center-east, and the Panjikent district in the
North of the country suffered heavy damages as well. Over a hundred people died, numerous dwellings
were destroyed or damaged. Dozens of bridges and stretches of roads were washed away causing access to
entire areas being cut off. Agricultural losses were considerable. Future production was compromised due
to damages to, or destruction of, irrigation systems. Although precise figures are still extremely difficult to
establish because of the remoteness of many of the affected areas, total damnages are estimated to be in the
range of US$ 39 to US$ 77 million or between about 3% and 6% of GDP.
6.    From the previous regime Tajikistan has inherited a system of disaster response and civil defense
whose purpose is to provide immediate assistance to the population in the case of natural and other
disasters. However, like many other Govenmment structures, the civil defense system has been weakened by
years of conflict and economic decline and has lost a substantial part of its operational capacity. Aware of
the need to rebuild its capacity to respond to emergencies, such as the recent floods, the Govemment has
created a State Commission for Emergencies (SCE) which, under the authority of a Vice-Prime Minister,
operates as the coordinating body for all activities related to disaster relief, mitigation and prevention.
II.    INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY ASSISTANCE
7.    Intemational assistance is an important element in the economy of Tajikistan. Since 1993 over
US$ 180 million have been contributed by the international community to civil-war related emergency aid.
The largest part of this assistance has consisted of food aid, which even today is distributed to over 10
percent of the population. Economic reform support has been provided mainly by Bretton Woods
Institutions since mid-1996. Two Consultative Group Meetings (CG) were held for Tajikistan, the latest
taking place in Paris in May 1998. At this meeting about US$ 280 million were committed by the donors
(mainly bilateral) for an 18-month period (1998-99). Post-conflict reconstruction has been supported by
IDA through two operations and the IMF, (see para. 12 below).
8.    Immediate humanitarian and medical assistance to the victims of the April and May 1998 floods
was provided by the various UN agencies (OCHA, UNDP, UNOPS, WFP), the International Federation of
the Red Cross (IFRC), the Tajik Red Crescent Society and many international NGOs active in the country,
including the Aga Khan Foundation (AKF), Care, German Agro-Action, Merlin, Mission Ost, Save-the-
Children US and others.
9.     To help the Government address the most urgent reconstruction and social needs resulting from the
floods and landslides the International Monetary Fund (IMF) provided in June 1998, under the ESAF, a
budgetary support of about US$ 9 million equivalent for 1998 and 1999. The Asian Development Bank
(ADB) is considering making available up to US$ 6 million for the financing of emergency reconstruction
projects. In response to a Government request of June 11, 1998 IDA decided to extend an immediate credit
of US$ 5 million equivalent for the repair and/or reconstruction of critical transport infrastructure elements
in various parts of the country, (see para. 11, below). While substantial, this assistance will only cover a
fraction of the actual funding requirements and additional support from other donors will be necessary. To
support the above programs, the Government created in June 1998 an International Assessment Group,
comprised of experts of UN agencies and the major NGOs active in Tajikistan. Under the coordination of
the World Bank Group Field Office and in cooperation with the SCE and the local authorities of the
affected areas, this group has carried out a countrywide comprehensive evaluation of the physical and
financial effects of the floods, (see Annex 1).



-3-
10.    UNDP has begun to assist the Government in the development of a suitable strategy for prevention
and mitigation of possible future natural disasters and environmental hazards.  To this effect, it is
supporting the SCE in organizing specific disaster management training workshops for Government
officials and local experts, starting September 1998, with a view to use the results of the workshops as a
basis for: (a) preparing a broader follow up program of technical assistance and training; and (b) rebuilding
the local response capacity to natural disasters.
III. BANK/IDA RESPONSE AND STRATEGY
A.    World Bank/IDA Strategy and Programs in Tajikistan
11.    The Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Tajikistan was discussed by the Board
on July 30, 1998. The Bank Group strategy focuses on poverty reduction by concentrating on: (i)
restructuring farms under private ownership and investing in rural infrastructure as means of creating rural
growth and better livelihoods; (ii) reducing economic inefficiencies by transferring publicly owned
enterprises into the private sector; (iii) improving coverage, access and quality of social services; and
targeting assistance to the poorest groups; and (iv) enhancing institutional capacity. Because most of the
poverty is concentrated in rural areas, the primary emphasis of the CAS strategy is the transfer of
agricultural assets from public to private hands, enhancing incentives, and investing in rural infrastructure.
This will be complemented by investments in health, education, and social funds. Ensuring that the rural
road network is able to support the agricultural production system and that rural populations have adequate
transport conditions and access to markets for their production is therefore a particular priority for the
Bank Group.
12.    A Bank mission visited Tajikistan in July 1998 to identify and appraise an emergency assistance
program which will address a part of the reconstruction needs resulting from the April and May 1998
floods. The proposed Emergency Flood Assistance Project (EFAP) will follow up on the support to the
post-conflict reconstruction efforts in Tajikistan provided by IDA through the US$ 10 million equivalent
Post-Conflict Rehabilitation Credit - PCRC (approved in December 1997) and the US$ 10 million
equivalent Post-Conflict Emergency Reconstruction Project - PCERP (approved in January 1998), which
were complemented by a US$ 1.5 million PHRD Grant from Japanese Government to defray the costs of
technical assistance needed for the implementation of the two operations, and a US$ 165,000 special grant
from the Bank's Post-Conflict Program (approved in March 1998) to support the implementation of the
peace agreement.
B.    Lessons Learned from Previous Bank/IDA Experience
13.    The Bank Group's experience in working in Tajikistan is still relatively limited and too recent to
allow to draw specific lessons that are relevant for an emergency operation. The Bank and IDA have,
however, a large experience with emergency reconstruction projects in other parts of the world.
Assessment of past operations shows that successful implementation of reconstruction projects includes: (a)
early bank involvement in defining a reconstruction strategy; (b) a good assessment of damages and needs;
(c) flexible and expeditious programming, simplicity in design and implementation arrangements; (e) a
willingness to help local authorities with project preparation; and, when and where needed; (f)
diversification of reconstruction programming into various sectors; and (g) the use of pilot projects in
community-based activities and in programs to support local initiatives.  Additionally, experience
demonstrates that emergency reconstruction projects are management and staff intensive and, to be
successful, require a proactive involvement of senior management in key decisions, a strong commitment by



-4-
Country Directors and project teams, and existence of resident missions with adequate staffing and
delegation authority.
C.    Rationale for Bank/IDA Involvement
14.   The CAS for Tajikistan recognizes the need for IDA to assist the country in its transition from
armed-conflict to peace and from planned to market economy. The Peace Agreement between the UTO and
the Government represents an important opportunity for establishing an environment that is conducive to
macro-economic stabilization, structural reform and renewed growth. The current situation remains
extremely fragile, however, and there is a risk that it could get thrown off balance as the assistance and
reconstruction needs created by the recent natural disaster could overtax the available government
resources. IDA's support, together with that from other donors, is therefore a critical element for
stabilizing the economy and preserving the prospects for a successful transition of the country to market
economy. For this reason IDA has taken on a lead role in helping the Tajikistan authorities to establish
rapidly a comprehensive assessment of the damages and supporting the Government's reconstruction
efforts through the proposed operation.
IV. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A.    Project Preparation
15.   The proposed Emergency Flood Assistance Project (EFAP) has been prepared as an emergency
operation in accordance with the instructions of OP/BP 8.50 on the basis of the preliminary results of the
damage evaluation carried out, under the coordination of the World Bank Group Field Office, by the
International Assessment Group created by the Tajikistan Government in June 1998, (see para. 9, above)
and the findings of an identification/appraisal mission which visited Tajikistan in July 1998. Negotiations
were held, by video-conference, from the World Bank Resident Mission in Tashkent (Uzbekistan) on July
23, 1998.
B.    Project Objectives and Design
16.   The primary objective of EFAP is to provide emergency sup7ort: (a) support the Tajikistan
Government in its efforts to mitigate the economic and social effects of the floods of April and May 1998
through the immediate repair or reconstruction of transport and other essential economic infrastructure; (b)
establish the conditions for a rapid resumption of economic exchanges and growth, particularly in the
affected rural areas; and (c) reduce the risk for future occurrence of similar damages.
17.   To support the above objective the project has been prepared on the basis of a close consultation
with the SCE, the Ministry of Transportation (MOTRA), and local authorities of areas affected by floods.
Taking into account the project execution experience acquired to date under the PCERP Project (see para
12, above), EFAP has been prepared seeking a great simplicity and flexibility in its design in order to
ensure, in a context of severe and extensive resource constraints, a fast and efficient implementation. The
project is expected to start in September 1998 and to be completed by December 31, 2000 with a Credit
Closing Date of June 30, 2001.
18.   In keeping with the project's emergency nature, and because only a limited amount of IDA
resources can be made available to Tajikistan in the immediate term, the scope of EFAP has been kept
deliberately narrow focusing on short-term repair and reconstruction of critically needed transport and



-5-
other economic infrastructure. The limitation is justified by the fact that: (a) needs in other sectors are
already covered by other donors (see para. 9, above); and (b) broader structural problems in the water
supply and rural infrastructure sector will be addressed under other projects included in the CAS. These
latter projects, the preparation of which will be initiated shortly, will focus on re-reestablishing the financial
and institutional framework which is necessary for sustainable future development in these sectors. Bi-
lateral grant funding for technical assistance to help the Government establish a longer-term disaster
mitigation, prevention and risk reduction strategy for transport and other essential economic infrastructure
is being sought in order to complement and enhance the efforts already initiated in this area by UNDP, (see
para. 10, above).
C.    Project Components
19.    EFAP will include two components: (a) the repair and reconstruction of key elements of road
transport infrastructure in various regions of the country; and (b) the repair and rehabilitation of other
economic infrastructure pertaining to the agriculture, power and municipal service sectors, (see Annex 2
and Map IBRD 29751.
20.    Transport Infrastructure (80%  of base cost):  The component will include: (a) repair or
reconstruction of about nine bridges; and (b) repair and reconstruction of a total of about 270 kms of
damaged sections of roads. The works above will also include, using labor-intensive techniques, the repair
and reconstruction of embankment protections in proximity of repaired or rebuilt bridges and river
scouring-exposed road sections, as well as construction of small-scale protection works to prevent further
erosion of existing roads and bridges in areas at risk.
21.    Other Infrastructure (20% of base cost): The component will include a series of infrastructure
works in the sectors of agriculture (repair and reconstruction of flood protection dikes and irrigation
systems); power (repair and replacement of small rural hydropower plants and transmission lines); and
municipal services (repair of water supply systems) for which, however, additional technical preparation
studies are required prior to implementation.
D.    Project Cost and Financing Plan
D. 1    Project Costs:
22.    The total estimated cost of EFAP is US$ 5.5 million equivalent. The estimated costs and foreign
exchange by components are shown in Table 1 below. Detailed costs are shown in Annex 2.



-6-
Table 1: Project Costs
(in US$ million)
Component                      Cost              Foreign    % of Base           IDA     Govnt
Exchange     Cost
Local    Foreign    Total       %
1. TransportInfrastructure     2.9       1.1       4.0      28%        80%                3.7      0.3
2. Other Infrastructure Works   0.5       0.5      1.0      48%        20%                0.8      0.2
Total Base Cost                 3.4       1.6      5.0      31%       100%                4.5      0.5
Contingencies                   0.2       0.3      0.5                                    0.5
Total Project Cost              3.6       1.9      5.5                                    5.0      0.5
23.    All costs have been estimated in US Dollars due to the difficulties in forecasting exchange rates for
the local currency.  All cost estimates are based on detailed assessments of materials and labor
requirements including transport cost to the sites and cost-comparisons with similar works recently carried
out in Tajikistan under the PCERP Project (Cr.3037-TJ).
24.    The foreign exchange component of US$ 1.9 million equivalent represents 35%  of total project
cost. The foreign exchange component was estimated as follows: (a) 'Transport Infrastructure': 28% (civil
works); (b) 'Other Infrastructure': 48%  (civil works and equipment).  Given the short implementation
period of about two years no financial contingencies have been applied. Physical contingencies have been
estimated at 10%. Project costs include an estimated US$0.1 million equivalent in taxes and duties on civil
works and locally procured goods. Goods specifically imported for the project will be exempted from
custom duties and taxes.
D.2     Project Financing:
25.    The IDA Credit of US$ 5.0 million equivalent will finance 91% of total project cost (100% of the
foreign exchange component and 85% of the local cost component). The Government's contribution of
US$ 0.5 million equivalent will finance taxes and duties (US$ 0.1 million equivalent), operating costs for
the project coordination unit (US$ 0.2 million equivalent), and payments for implementation of labor-
intensive works (US$ 0.2 million equivalent).
Table 2: Project Financing
(US$ millior&
Local Costs   Foreign exchange   Total project costs   % of Total Cost
IDA                                            3.1             1.9              5.0             91%
Government                                     0.5             0.0              0.5             9%
Total                                          3.6             1.9      |       5.5            100%



-7-
E.    Economic Justification
26.   The main objective of EFAP is to contribute to the mitigation of the effects of the recent natural
disasters on the national economy through the repair and reconstruction of critically needed transport and
other economic infrastructure. The project will help rapidly restore adequate access to markets for the
population of the areas affected by the recent natural disasters and therefore contribute to a quick recovery
of the local economy especially in the agricultural sector. Many infrastructure protection works along
rivers have been damaged or weakened by the recent floods to a point that makes them unlikely to resist
even regular future seasonal rises of flow levels. Immediate repair and reconstruction of such protection
works will help significantly reduce the risk of economic and human life losses from possible future floods.
At this stage, however, because of both the scattered location of the project works and the lack of reliable
statistical data on current conditions of transport demand or on agricultural production it is neither possible
nor meaningful to estimate an Economic Rate of Retum (ERR) for the proposed project.
F.    Environmental Impact
27.    The project will have a limited environmental impact given the nature and size of the works funded
by it and has been classified as "B" for the purposes of OD 4.01. The project will focus on the repair,
rehabilitation andlor reconstruction of existing infrastructure. It will not raise any resettlement or property
rights issues and will be executed within the rights of way of the existing public roads network or
embankment protection systems. An environmental management plan (EMP) will be prepared for
minimizing the negative environmental impacts, (see para. 33, below). Environmental impacts associated
with the removal of damaged infrastructure, disposal of debris (broken up pavements, etc.), reconstruction
works, and any other project activities will be included in the EMP. The reconstruction works may require
secondary activities (for example quarrying, asphalt mixing, etc.) which, in turn, may produce additional
environmental impacts that must also be considered.  There will be temporary impacts during the
construction phase that will be analyzed and, if necessary, provided with appropriate mitigation.
Requirements of the appropriate environmental authorities concerning the disposal of wasted materials,
operation of asphalt mixing plants, quarrying activities, execution of reconstruction works and any other
relevant aspects of the project will be ascertained and copies of any compliance documentation will be
provided in the EMP. Possible environmental effects of all works or activities included in the project will
be reviewed on a case by case basis and, if required, will be subject to prior environmental impact
assessment as a condition for approval of financing under the project.
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Project Organization and Management
28.    The project will be implemented by the Project Coordination Unit (PCU/EFAP) which will be
specifically created in the Executive Office of the President of the Republic of Tajikistan for the
management of EFAP.
29.    The Director of PCU/EFAP will report to the Prime Minister. He will be of Tajik citizenship and
appointed by the Government. He will be assisted by a team of local experts. The PCU/EFAP Unit will be
provided by the Government with an annual budget sufficient to cover regular operating costs such as
rental of office space, utilities, salaries of personnel and other miscellaneous expenses. Specific Terms of
Reference and organizational arrangements for PCU/EFAP are included in Annex 3. Creation and



-8-
operatinig conditions of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU/EFAP) were agreed during negotiations. (see
para. 50 (a). below). Creation of PCU/EFAP will be a condition for Credit Effectiveness. (see para. 51,
below)
B.    Implementation Arrangements
30.   PCU/EFAP will be specifically responsible for: (a) overall management of the proposed project,
including the coordination of project activities with ministries and other government agencies, local
authorities, non-governmental organizations, and international donor agencies; (b) procurement of works
and goods financed under the project; (c) supervision and quality control of execution of works and delivery
of goods; (d) management of project accounts including credit withdrawals and disbursements from the
Special Account; (e) monitoring of the implementation performance of contractors as well as seeking
continuous feedback from beneficiaries on adequacy of project response to needs; and (f) assisting the
Government as well as local authorities in adequately informing the population about the project and its
different features, (see Annexes 3A. 3B). To facilitate the implementation of the project, the PCU/EFAP
will, as agreed with the Government, follow management procedures, including for procurement, identical
to those agreed upon with IDA for the PCERP project. A tentative Implementation Plan is included in
Annex 4.
31.   The works included in the 'Transport Infrastructure Works' component will be executed under
contractual arrangements between the PCU/EFAP and the two State enterprises (MOST-STROI and DOR-
STROI), which operate under the oversight of MOTRA and are the only two existing enterprises in
Tajikistan specialized, the first, in construction of bridges, and the second, in road construction and related
works. All works will be implemented on the basis of standard MOTRA engineering designs, construction
quality norms, and execution procedures. All design studies (including environmental review) will be
carried out by MOTRA's 'Design and Research Institute' and subrnitted to IDA for prior review. Under
the proposed arrangement, PCU/EFAP will procure all materials required for the works and funded through
the project following procurement procedures identical to those used for the PCERP Project and specified
in a PCU/EFAP Operations' Manual prepared in consultation with, and agreed upon by, IDA. MOST-
STROI and DOR-STROI will provide the necessary specialized personnel from their workforce, ensure the
transport of both personnel and materials from Dushanbe to the worksites, and execute the works in
accordance with the quality standards, timetable, and payment schedule agreed on in the contract.
32.   The works included in the 'Other Infrastructure' component will be executed under similar
contractual arrangements which will be discussed with, and reviewed by IDA, upon completion of the
necessary technical studies, with the authorities concerned. Special attention will be paid to ensure that all
designs for both 'Transport Infrastructure' and 'Other Infrastructure' adequately address, within reasonable
and economically sustainable limits, the issue of protection against, or resistance to, future natural
disasters.
33.   The environmental measures outlined in the EMP will be incorporated into the supervision
documents and arrangements made with the local authorities and contractors for their implementation.
Agreement on the preparation and implementation of the EMP was reached during negotiations (para. 50,
(b). below).



-9-
C.    Mid-Term Review
34.   In addition to intensive regular supervision by Bank staff and close follow up by the Bank Field
Office in Tajikistan, IDA and the Government will carry out by end of November 1999 a mnid-term review
to (a) assess progress in project implementation achieved until then; (b) identify constraints and obstacles
encountered; (c) discuss solutions and possibly required adjustments in the implementation of ongoing
components; and (d) agree on the completion program for the rest of the project. Subsequent periodic
reviews will take place according to a mutually agreed schedule but, in no case, no later than June 30,
2000. Agreement on the scope and scheduling of the mid-term review was reached during negotiations,
(see para. 50(c). below).
D.    Procurement
35.    All goods and works to be financed from the credit proceeds will be procured in accordance with
the IDA Guidelines for Procurement (Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits'
published in January 1995 and revised in January 1996, August 1996 and September 1997), including
amendments as of the credit signing date, using the Bank/IDA standard procurement documents. A
tentative Procurement Plan is included in Annex 5. All procurement arrangements will be identical to those
agreed on for the PCERP Project. Procurement arrangements were discussed and agreed at negotiations.
(see para. 50 (d). below).
Table 3: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                    Procurement Method                     Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB         NCB          Other        N.B.F
1. Works
0.0         0.0          3.1          0.0               3.1
(0.0)       (0.0)        (2.9)        (0.0)             (2.9)
2. Goods
0.0         0.7          1.5          0.2               2.4
(0.0)       (0.6)        (1.5)        (0.0)             (2.1)
Total                      0.0          0.7          4.6          0.2              5.5
(0.0)       (0.6)_       (4.4)        (().0)            (5.0)
Note: Cost estimates include taxes and duties. Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit
Other include:   Direct contracting for bridge and roads repair works    US$ 3.1 million equivalent
National Shopping                          US$ 0.2 million equivalent
International Shopping                     US$ 1.3 million equivalent
N.B.F. includes  Operating costs of PCU/EFAP             US$ 0.2 million equivalent



-10-
36.   Works: The persistence of security problems in Tajikistan and the scattered and remote location of
the worksites require an innovative approach to procurement. Due to the civil war in which the country
was engulfed for the last six years no major infrastructure works have been carried out for several years.
Therefore, for the works included in the project ICB is not expected to be suitable. Moreover, the size of
the contracts is small (below US$ 150,000 equivalent). Also, there are no private sector enterprises in the
country that have the capacity to carry out the civil works required under the project and National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) is, therefore, not feasible either. For the works carried out under the
'Transport Infrastructure' component, there are only two semi-autonomous State enterprises capable of
carrying out the works, MOST-STROI and DOR-STROI, which are specialized, the first in bridge
constructions, and the second, in road construction and related works, and have the equipment and skilled
personnel that is needed. Therefore, construction works with the help of those companies is the only
possible approach. In order to have an optimal solution, under the proposed arrangement all construction
materials will be procured by the PCU/EFAP directly in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA
and described in para. 36. PCU/EFAP will procure the execution of the works through nine individual
Direct Contracts with MOST-STROI (of an average value of about US$ 140,000) and eighteen such
contracts with DOR-STROI (of an average value of about US$ 105,000), on a sole-source basis for a total
value of about US$3.1 million. MOST-STROI and DOST-DROI will provide the breakdown for their
works, including labor costs for equipment. Corresponding rates will be subject to prior review by the
Bank. Under these contracts MOST-STROI and DOR-STROI would provide the specialized personnel
and equipment required to execute the works under the control of PCU/EFAP and technical supervision by
MOTRA (if additional construction equipment is needed it would be leased by PCU/EFAP). Payments to
MOST-STROI and DOR-STROI would be made according to a completion rates and time schedule
included in their respective contracts with PCU/EFAP. Conditions for works to be implemented under the
'Other Infrastructure' component are similar, but will be reviewed on a case by case basis upon completion
of the corresponding technical studies.
37.   Goods: Considering the emergency situation in the country and the need to expedite project
implementation, goods to be financed from the IDA credit consisting of construction materials readily
available from local suppliers in the country such as sand, gravel, crush stone, etc. will be procured for
contracts valued at less than US$ 200,000 equivalent and an aggregate amount of up to US$ 700,000
equivalent through National Competitive Bidding (NCB). International Shopping (IS). based on a
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at least two eligible countries,
will be used for the procurement of construction materials such as steel, timber, cement, etc. not available
m Tajikistan for contracts with a value not exceeding US$ 200,000 equivalent each and an aggregate
amount of US$ 1.3 million equivalent. National Shopping (NS) will be used for the purchase of
miscellaneous supplies costing less than US$ 50,000 per contract and for an aggregate value not exceeding
US$ 200,000 on the basis of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers.
38.   Bank Prior Review: All contracts awarded under NCB and IS of a value in excess of US$ 100,000
equivalent, and contracts awarded under DC of a value above US$ 10,000 equivalent will be subject to
prior review by the Bank. Additionally, the first two contracts for procurement under IS and NS will be
submitted to prior review irrespective of their value. All other procurement documents and contracts will
be subject to ex-post reviews by Bank supervision missions.
39.   Procurement Monitoring: Procurement will be carefully monitored by the PCUJEFAP. A tentative
procurement plan is attached (Annex 5). All procurement documentation will be kept at the PCU/EFAP
office in order to be available for review by Bank supervision missions and external auditors. Quarterly
reports will provide detailed information on procurement, (see para. 45, and para. 46, below).



-11-
E.    Disbursements
40.   The IDA Credit is expected to be disbursed in about two and a half years, including six months for
the finalization of accounts and submission of final withdrawal applications and other reports.
Table 4: Estimated Credit Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year             FY 1999               FY 2000               FY 2001
Annual                         0.5                    3.0                   1.5
Cumulative                     0.5                   3.5                    5.0
41.   The proceeds of the Credit will be disbursed as follows:
Table 5: Disbursement Categories
(US$ million)
Categorv                            Amount of Credit       % of expenditure to be financed
Works                                2.7                   90%
Goods                                1.8                    100% of foreign expenditure
100% of local expenditure [ex-
factory cost]
90% of local expenditures for
other goods procured locally
Unallocated                         0.5
Total                               5.0
42.   To facilitate timely project implementation the Government will establish, maintain, and operate
under conditions acceptable to IDA, a Special Account in US Dollars with an authorized allocation of US$
250,000 in a commercial bank that meets the requirements.  During the early stages of project
implementation, the initial allocation of the Special Account will be limited to US$ 100,000. However,
when the aggregate disbursements under the Credit will have reached the level SDR 350,000 equivalent, the
initial allocation may be increased to the authorized allocation of US$ 250,000 by submitting the relevant
applications for withdrawal. Replenishment applications should be submitted every three months and must
include reconciled bank statements, as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
43.   Disbursements for all contracts for works and goods of amounts of less than US$ 100,000 will be
made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Records of the Special Account proceeds and
outlays will be available for review by IDA supervision missions and subject to annual audit. Modalities of



-12-
Special Account management and disbursement arrangements were discussed and agreed during
negotiations. (see para. 50 (e). below).
F.    Accounts, Audits and Internal Control
44.   PCU/EFAP will maintain accounting procedures acceptable to IDA, and hire an independent
auditor acceptable to IDA, in accordance with the provisions of OPIBP 10.02. Detailed accounts should be
kept for each project component and their sub-components. The accounts will also reflect the status of
payments against each contract, use of the Special Account, and replenishments made by IDA; and sources
of funding used. The independent auditor will audit the Project Accounts and the Special Account
annually. The audit reports will contain a separate opinion on the use of SOEs. Audit reports in English
language will be submitted to IDA not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year. Terms of
Reference and selection of the auditor will be subject to prior review by IDA.
45.   A financial management system will be developed prior to project startup in collaboration with an
international financial consultant hired under the PCERC Project to ensure compliance with the provisions
of OP/BP 10.02, (see Terms of Reference in Annex 7). PCU/EFAP will prepare a specific Operations
Manual for financial management and set up an organizational structure that is based on a clear delegation
and segregation of duties, clearly established written standards and procedures, and a clear definition of
responsibilities, including levels of authority. An Action Plan for establishing the financial management
system is included in Annex 7.  Reporting, accounting and auditing arrangements, including the
implementation of the Financial Management Action Plan were agreed on during negotiations, (see para.
5-0. (f ). below).
G.    Reporting and Monitoring
46.   The PCU/EFAP will prepare quarterly progress reports for IDA according to an agreed format.
The reports will summarize the status of implementation of the different project components in terms of
procurement, work execution, and disbursement. A model for quarterly Financial Management Reports is
included in Annex 7. Annual Reports will be prepared by the PCU/EFAP and submitted to IDA no later
than April 30 of each year. The Annual Report will contain a summary of the progress of each component
and updated work plan for the coming year, including but not limited to, updated disbursement profile, key
performance indicators, and project budget estimates. An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) will be
prepared by the Government, no later than six months after the Closing Date of the Credit of June 30,
2001.
47.   A management information system will be established and implemented within the PCU/EFAP to
monitor the progress and problems in the execution of the different components of EFAP. Performance
monitoring indicators will be used to monitor the achievement of the project objectives. The indicators (see
Annex 6) reflect the concerns of the Government and IDA that the project will be implemented efficiently
and expeditiously. The monitoring of the indicators will also help to detect at an early stage possible
shortcomings in the project design and implementation arrangements and allow to quickly take remedial
action, if necessary.



-13-
VI.    BENEFITS AND RISKS
48.    The major benefits of the project consist in (a) reopening of adequate access to markets for the
population of the areas affected by the recent natural disasters and allowing a quick recovery of the local
economy, especially in the agricultural sector, and, (b) making, thereby, a significant contribution to the
reduction of rural poverty. Additionally, through the implementation of labor-intensive works, the project
will create a substantial number of, albeit temporary, jobs and help enhance the conditions for a rapid
improvement of the economic situation of the communities affected.
49.   The project faces considerable risks, many of which cannot be avoided. These risks fall into two
broad categories: (a) Political risks: Despite a promising start, the continuing successful implementation of
the peace agreement remains a fragile enterprise. Restoring the conditions for satisfactory social and
economic development in the context of Tajikistan represents a formidable challenge whose favorable
achievement could be jeopardized by a variety of factors. Political risks are difficult to manage and cannot
be addressed under an individual project but may be dealt with at the country strategy level; (b) Managerial
and technical risks: Effective and timely implementation of the project requires the early creation of the
PCU/EFAP, including the appointment of key staff. The diversion of credit resources to other uses is an
additional risk. The risks are minimized by: (a) the simplicity of the design of the project focusing on a few
key components; (b) the relatively unsophisticated nature of the works to be carried out; and (c) the close
follow up on project implementation by IDA. Placing the project under the responsibility of the Executive
Office of the President of the Republic should help ensure the appropriate use of funds and minimize the
risks of diversion.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED
50.   During negotiations agreement on the following points was obtained:
(a)    Creation and maintenance of Project Coordination Unit (PCU/EFAP), (see para. 28, and
para. 29, above);
(b)    Preparation and implementation of environmental management plan, (see para. 33, above);
(c)    Mid-term review (see para. 34, above);
(d)    Procurement arrangements, (see para. 35, above);
(e)    Special Account and disbursement management arrangements, (see para. 43, above); and
(f)    Reporting, accounting and auditing arrangements, ( see para. 45, above).
51.    Creation of PCU/EFAP will be a Condition of Effectiveness, (see para. 28, above)



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
EMERGENCY FLOOD ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Evaluation of April and May 1998 Floods Damages by International Assessment Group
Summary
INTRODUCTION:
1.    Heavier than usual snowfalls during the 1997/98 winter caused flow levels of most
mountain rivers in Tajikistan to be exceptionally high in Spring 1998. When in April and May
several successive periods of torrential rains occurred, a number of these rivers rose to levels
higher than any recorded during the last seventy-five years. As a result, severe flooding, landslides
and mudflows occurred in virtually all areas of the country. Most severely affected was the
Khatlon region in the south, but other regions such as the Karategin-Tavildara valleys in the
center-east, and the Panjikent district in the north of the country suffered heavy damages as well.
Over a hundred people died, numerous dwellings were destroyed or damaged. Agricultural losses
were considerable. Dozens of bridges and stretches of roads were washed away causing access to
entire areas being cut off, or at least made extremely difficult.
2.   To assess the damage and provide the basis for a coordinated response by the donor
community, the Govermment of Tajikistan requested on June 15,1998 the assistance of the donor
community to form an International Assessment Group. Under the coordination of the World Bank
Field Office, the group which was comprised of experts of UN agencies and major NGOs active in
Tajikistan ', carried out a countrywide comprehensive evaluation of the damages and their likely
cost in close cooperation with the Government's State Committee for Emergency Situations and the
local governments [hukumat] affected by disasters.
OVERVIEW OF DAMAGES
3 .   Karategin Valley (ravons of Garm. Darband. and Tavildara)
(a)   Social Sectors: At least one large school (700 pupils capacity) was totally destroyed and
numerous others were extensively damaged. Several health facilities also sustained severe
damages.
(b)    Infrastructure: A total of about 70 kms of high and low tension power transmission lines
was destroyed or damaged cutting off power supply to a large number of settlements.
Water supply systems were damaged in at least three localities. Around 115 kms of road
sections were made impassable in various locations, either because of landslides or river
scouring. Two large bridges in the Tavildara rayon were carried away and about 25 others
extensively damaged.
(c)   Agriculture: About 300 has of fields and orchards were flooded, and about 38 kms of
irrigation systems damaged or partially destroyed. Some 3,000 units of livestock were
reported killed.
The participating UN agencies and other international bodies were: IFRC, OCHA, UNDP, and
UNOPS. The participating NGOs were: Aga Khan Foundation, Care International, German Agro-
Action, Mission East, Save-the-Children US. Also participating was the Tajik Red Crescent Society.



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
(d)  Housing: About 600 houses were destroyed or damaged in various locations, primarily as a
result of landslides.
Estimated total cost of damages: US$ 4.5 million
4.   Khatlon Oblast
(a)   Social Sectors: One school was totally destroyed and two others damaged.
(b)   Infrastructure: At least 35 bridges were destroyed or severely damaged and a total of over
100 kms of roads were damaged. About 5 kms of power lines were damaged. Water
supply systems were damaged in several locations and, in particular, in the city of Khulyab.
(c)    Agriculture: About 2,000 has of cultivated land were flooded and, in some locations,
covered, to various degrees, with mud or gravel. About 35 kms of irrigation systems were
destroyed or extensively damaged.
(d)   Housing: About 250 houses were destroyed and up to 1,000 damaged, primarily because of
flooding.
Estimated total cost of damages: US$ 5.7 million
5.    Leninobod Oblast (ravons of Panjikent and Ainyv).
(a)   Social Sectors: n.a.
(b)   Infrastructure: About 65 bridges were destroyed or damaged and around 70 kms of road
made impassable.
(c)   Agriculture: About 70 has of cultivated land were flooded and largely made unusable.
About 33 kms of irrigation systems were destroyed or damaged.
(d)   Housing: About 160 houses were destroyed or damaged.
Estimated total cost of damages: US$ 3.0 million
6.   It must be noted, however, that while in the above three areas were the damages of the April
and May disaster were the most severe and concentrated, similar damages occurred in a
more scattered fashion in many other locations throughout the entire country. This is,
among other factors such as differences in the evaluation methodologies and criteria used
by the various international entities and government authorities involved, a main reason for
making it difficult to establish a final estimate of the countrywide cost of the damages and
their effect on the economy.



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
EMERGENCY FLOOD ASSISTANCE PROJECT
DETAILED COST TABLE
------------------Cost-
(in US$ thousand)
Project Component                Local     Foreign     Total   % of total cost
1.    Transport Infrastructure
Repair /Reconstruction of Bridges    1,170     830     2,000
Repair/Rehabilitation of Roads   1,750        250      2,000
Subtotal           2,920       1,080     4,000        80%
2.     Other Infrastructure Works
450         500       950
Subtotal            450         500        950        20%
Total Base Cost                         3,370       1,580     4,950        100%
Physical Contingencies (10%)             200         350        550
Total Project Cost                      3,570       1,930     5,500



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
EMERGENCY FLOOD ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Transport Infrastructure Component
(tentative list subject to review)
Detailed Costs
NO             Description            Road   Bridge             Cost Estimate (US$)
Length  Spans    Total   Material  Equipt.    Labor
(km)    (m)
1  Bridge on 76th km of road Vose-            11+2x17   228,000   123,000   57,000     48,000
Khovaling near Lohuti Settlement
2  Bridge through Obi-Mazor river near       11+23+15   348,000   188,000    83,000    76,500
Khovaling Settlement
3  Road Khovaling - Mazori Sulton with a   5        16  120,000   29,000    53,000     35,000
bridge
4  Bridges through Yakh-Su river in            Various  720,000   396,000   163,000    161,000
Tomin Kolkhoz
5  Road Vose- Khovaling (13-18 km)      5     11+2x17   480,000    91,000  211,000    177,500
6  Bridge for 1 km of access road to Nurek         33  240,000   112,000   75,000      54,000
City
7  Road Dangara-Kangurt / I             10               66,000    16,500   30,000     20,000
8  Road Dangara-Kangurt (10-25 km) / II   15             108,000   27,000   48,500     32,500
9  Road Kofarnihon-Panj (45-97 km) / I  52               72,000    18,000   32,500     21,500
10 Road Sovetsky-Kangurt                5                19,000    5,000     9,000      6,000
11 Road Kulab-Muminabad with bridges    19               72,000    18,000    32,500    21,500
(20-39 km)
12 Road Boldjuan-Khovaling-Dektur with    7              84,000   21,000    38,000     25,000
bridges (0-7 km)
13 Road Kulab-Shuroabad-Hirmanjou       15               87,000   22,000    39,500     26,500
14 Road Teppai Samarkandi-Magmurud      15               48,000    12,000   21,500     14,500
15 Road Laur-Isamboy-Shortuguy          70      24+18   102,000   25,500    46,000     30,500
16 2 pipes on 88-89th km of road                    15  120,000   30,000    54,000     36,000
Dushanbe-Khorog
17 Road Dushanbe-Tashkent (11-36 km)    25              360,000    90,000   162,000    108,000
18 Bridge on the Hissar rayon                      18   36,000    18,000    9,000       9,000
19 Road Kofarhihon-Ramit (19-35 km)     16              120,000   30,000    54,000     36,000
20 Road Kofarnihon-Panj (38-40 km) / II    2             42,000    10,500    19,000     12,500
21 Road Dushanbe-Khorog (60-64 km)      4                72,000    18,000   32,500     21,500
22 Bridge on the 46th km of road                 2x33   192,000   85,000    53,500     53,500
Dushanbe-Termez
23 Road and a bridge in Penjikent rayon  2     Various  132,000   33,000    59,500     40,000
24 Road and a bridge in Aini rayon      2      Various   132,000   33,000    59,500    39,500
TOTAL TRANSPORT                             4,000,000 1,451,500 1,442,500  1,106,000
INFRASTRUCTURE



ANNEX 3A
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
EMERGENCY FLOOD ASSISTANCE PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT
In support of the implementation of the EFAP Project the Government will establish in the
Executive Office of the President of the Republic of Tajikistan a Project Coordination Unit
(PCU/EFAP) and will appoint its Director. As agreed with IDA, the PCU/EFAP Director, assisted
by qualified personnel, will be responsible for the overall management of the Emergency Flood
Assistance Project, with the following responsibilities:
*    coordinating the activities carried out under the project with the concerned line-ministries
and ensuring that they are consistent with these ministries' standards, priorities and criteria;
*    preparing, in consultation with IDA, an 'Operations Manual' specifying the procedures to be
followed for the execution of the different components including procurement procedures, as
well drafting Chart of Accounts and Manual of Accounts and Accounting Procedures;
*    coordinating the execution of works, including periodic visits to work sites as required;
*    monitoring, in association with MOTRA and, when and where required, other ministries, the
technical quality of the works carried out and/or goods delivered by contractors, monitoring
the general performance of contractors; and taking remedial action, if required;
*    coordinating the activities carried out under the project with the local authorities of the
communities concerned in order to ensure sustainability, ownership and effectiveness of the
different operations;
*    reviewing, and signing all contracts, payment orders and disbursement requests related to the
execution of the project;
*    monitoring progress in procurement, including the creation and operation of a computerized
Procurement Management System;
*    preparing periodic progress reports for the Government including, in an appropriately
defined format acceptable to, and agreed with, IDA, a Financial Management Report;



ANNEX 3A
Page 2 of 2
*    coordinating the implementation of preparatory technical studies (final designs, bills of
quantities, etc.) by consultants or government agencies including obtaining necessary
approvals, permits, etc. from relevant authorities;
*    arranging for annual extemal audits of project accounts by an independent auditor;
*    monitoring feedback from beneficiaries on the adequacy of the project response to the needs
of the population concerned and, if needed, providing, in consultation with IDA, for
adjustments in the project implementation arrangements, or project content; and
*    assisting the Government and the local authorities in informing the population about the
features and other aspects of the project.
Within the PCU/EFAP a separate unit will be created to be specifically responsible for
procurement and accounting and, in particular, for
*    carrying out all project related procurement activities for goods and works, and ensuring that
IDA procurement procedures are consistently applied to all contracts for goods, works or
services for which IDA funds will be used to disburse part or all of the contract amount;
preparing tender documents, evaluating offers, preparing award proposals, negotiating and
preparing the relevant contracts;
*    controlling the quality of goods delivered and providing, and arranging, if necessary, for
temporary storage;
    establishing payment orders and disbursement requests and;
*    establishing a suitable financial management system with a view to set up project accounts
in accordance an appropriately designed format acceptable to the Bank.



ANNEX 3B
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
EMERGENCY FLOOD ASSISTANCE PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF PCU
Executive Office
of President of Republic
PCUIEFAP
PCU DIRECTOR
PROCUREMENT
ACCOLTNTING 
TRANSPORT                               OTHER
INFRASTRUCTURE                         INFRASTRUCTURE
SPEZIALIZED                             SPEZIALIZED
ENTERPRISES                             ENTERPRISES
Note: The above diagram only indicates functional relationships
within the PCU/EFAP and does not imply any hierarchical
relationships and/or specific staffing requirements.
Internal organization of 'Other Infiastructure' services will be set
up in accordance with the specific needs resulting from the
components as they will be identified.



ANNEX 4
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
EMERGENCY FLOOD ASSISTANCE PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Target Date                           Activity                                      Agency
1998
August 15       PCU/EFAP established
September 1     Appointment of PCU/EFAP Director                               Government
September 15    Completion of the first two designs for works / Bridges        MOTRA
September 15    Completion of the first two designs for works / Roads          MOTRA
September 20    PCU/EFAP operational                                           PCU/EFAP
September 30    Credit Effectiveness                                           IDA
October 1       Contracts signature for first two bridges                      PCU/EFAP
October 1       Contracts signature for first two sections of roads            PCU/EFAP
October 15      Preparation of further studies to carry out the "other infrastructure  MOTRA
works" component
October 15      Supervision mission and Procurement workshop                   IDA
October 20      Preparation of the first tender for procurement of goods       PCU/EFAP
October 30      Begin works for Bridges and Roads component                    PCU/EFAP
December 15     Completion of the design for all bridges                       MOTRA
December 15     Completion of the design for all sections of roads             MOTRA
' 1999
March 20        Start of the works for the "other infrastructure works"        PCU/EFAP
March 31        Supervision Mission                                            IDA
May 15          Completion of the first two bridges                            PCU/EFAP
May 31          Completion of the first two sections of roads                  PCU/EFAP
October 15      Mid -Term Review documents completed                           PCU/EFAP
November 30     Mid -Term Review                                               IDA



ANNEX 5
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
EMERGENCY FLOOD ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PLAN
(tentative list of works subject to review)
A -   Direct Contracting:
Estimated  Procur.   Docs  Invitation Contract  Contract
Description                 Ty'pe   cost    Method  submitted  to bid   signing  completion
(US$)             to Bank
Bridge on 76h km of road Vose-Khovaling near  CW      105,000   DC      Nov-98      na     Dec-98   Jun-99
Lohuti Settlement                                            I_I
Bridge through Obi-Mazor river near Khovaling  CW     160,000   DC      Nov-98      na     Dec-98   Jun-99
Settlement
Road Khovaling - Mazori Sulton with a bridge  CW       88,000   DC      Oct-98      na     Nov-98   May-99
Bridges through Yakh-Su river in Tomin Kolkhoz   CW   324,000   DC      Feb-99      na     Mar-99   Nov-99
Road Vose - Khovaling (13-18 kIn)             CW    387,000   DC        Oct-98      na     Nov-98   May-99
Bridge for I km of access road to Nurek City  CW      129,000   DC      Dec-98      na     Jan-99   Aug-99
Road Dangara-Kangurt / I                       CW      50,000   DC      Nov-98      na     Mar-99    Jul-99
Road Dangara-Kangurt (10-25 km) / II          CW       81,000   DC      Dec-98      na     Mar-99   Sep-99
Road Kofarnihon-Panj (45-97 km) / I            CW      54,000   DC      Nov-98      na     Mar-99    Jul-99
Road Sovetsky-Kangurt                         CW       15,000   DC      Nov-98      na     Mar-99   Jun-99
Road Kulab-Muminabad with bridges (20-39 km)   CW      54,000   DC      Nov-98      na     Mar-99   Jul-99
Road Boldjuan-Khovaling-Dektur with bridges
(0-7 km)                                      CW       63,000   DC      Dec-98      na     Mar-99   Sep-99
Road Kulab-Shuroabad-Hirnanjou                CW       66,000   DC      Dec-98      na     Mar-99   Sep-99
Road Teppai Samarkandi-Magmurud               CW       36,000   DC      Dec-98      na     Mar-99    Jul-99
Road Laur-Isamboy-Shortuguy                   CW       77,000   DC      Mar-99      na     Jun-99    Sep-99
2 pipes on 88-89th km of road Dushanbe-Khorog    CW    90,000   DC      Apr-99      na     Jul-99    Oct-99
Road Dushanbe-Tashkent (11-36 km)              CW    270,000   DC       Mar-99      na     Jun-99    Jan-00
Bridge on the Hissar rayon                    CW       18,000   DC      Feb-99      na     Jun-99   Nov-99
Road Kofarhihon-Ramit (19-35 km)              CW       90,000   DC      Jun-99      na     Sep-99   Mar-00
Road Kofarnihon-Panj (3840 km) / II           CW       32,000   DC      Feb-99      na     Jun-99   Nov-99
Road Dushanbe-Khorog (60-64 km)               CW       54,000   DC      Feb-99      na     Jun-99   Nov-99
Bridge on the 46th km of road Dushanbe-Termez    CW   107,000   DC      May-99      na     Aug-99   Jun-00
Road and a bridge in Penjikent rayon          CW      100,000   DC      Jun-99      na     Sep-99   Nov-99
Road and a bridge in Aini rayon               CW      100,000   DC      Mar-99      na     Jun-99   Dec-99
Work contract for other infrastructures / Tranche I   CW  150,000   DC  Nov-98      na     Feb-99   Nov-99
Work contract for other infrastructures / Tranche II  CW    200,000   DC  Mar-99    na     May-99   May-00
B -   National Competitive Bidding:                                                 .
Estimated  Procur.   Docs  Invitation Contract  Contract
Description                 Type    cost    Method  submitted  to bid   signing  completion
(US$)             to Bank
Construction materials from local suppliers /
Tranche I                                      G      120,000  NCB    Sep-98   Oct-98   Nov-98   Dec-98
Construction materials from local suppliers /
Tranche II                                     G      120,000  NCB    Sep-98   Oct-98   Nov-98   Dec-98
Construction materials from local suppliers /
Tranche III                                    G      120,000  NCB    Dec-98   Dec-98   Jan-99   Mar-99
Construction materials from local suppliers /
Tranche IV                                     G      120,000  NCB    Mar-99   Mar-99   Apr-99   May-99
Construction materials from local suppliers /
Tranche V                                      G      120,000  NCB    May-99  May-99   Jun-99    Jul-99



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
C -   National ShoppinZ:         _.
Estimated  Procur.   Docs  Invitation Contract  Contract
Description                Type   cost    Method submitted  to bid   signing completion
(US$)            to Bank
Purchase of mniscellaneous supplies / Tranche I  G  40,000   NS        Na       na      Oct-98   Nov-98
Purchase of miscellaneous supplies / Tranche II  G   40,000   NS       na       na     Dec-98   Jan-99
Purchase of miscellaneous supplies / Tranche Im    G0    40,000   NS   na       na    Mar-99   Apr-99
Purchase of miscellaneous supplies / Tranche IV  G  40,000   NS        na       na    May-99   Jun-99
Purchase of miscellaneous supplies / Tranche V  G   40,000   NS        na       na      Jul-99   Aug-99
D -   International Shopp ing:
Descriptin .Type Estimated Procur.   Docs  Quotation Contract  Contract
Descniption                        cost   Method submitted            signing  completion
(US$)           to Bank
Supply of goods for bridges / Tranche I      G    200,000   IS       Sep-98   Oct-98   Dec-98   Feb-99
Supply of goods for bridges / Tranche II     G    200,000   IS      Dec-98   Dec-98   Mar-99   May-99
Supply of goods for bridges / Tranche III    G    200,000   iS      Mar-99   Mar-99  May-99   Aug-99
Supply of goods for bridges / Tranche IV     G    200,000   IS      May-99   Jun-99   Aug-99   Nov-99
Supply of goods for other infrastructure works /
Tranche I                                    G    200,000   IS       Sep-98   Oct-98   Dec-98   Feb-99
Supply of goods for other infrastructure works /
Tranche IH                                   G    200,000   IS       Dec-98   Jan-99   Mar-99   Jun-99
Supply of goods for other infrastructure works I
Tranche III                                  G     125,000   IS     Mar-99  May-99   Jul-99    Oct-99
Supply of goods for roads                    G     125,000   IS      Sep-98   Oct-98   Dec-98   Feb-99
CW           Civil Works;
G     =      Goods;
DC           Direct Contracting;
NCB  =       National Competitive Bidding;
NS           National Shopping;
IS    =      Intemational Shopping.



ANNEX 6
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
EMERGENCY FLOOD ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PERFORMANCE MONITORING CRITERIA
Roads and Bridges:
*  Design for all bnrdges completed by                    December 31, 1998;
*  Design for all sections of roads by                    December 31, 1998;
*  Number of bridge/road construction contracts signed by  December 31, 1998
June 30, 1999
October 31, 1999 *
*  Number of bridge/road contracts in execution by        March 31, 1999
October 31, 1999 *
March 31, 2000
October 31, 2000 *
*  Number of bridge/road contracts completed by           June 30, 1999
October 31, 1999 *
March 31, 2000
October 31, 2000 *
Other Infrastructure Works
-  Approval of the first tranche for works by             December 31, 1998;
-  Approval of the second tranche for works by            March 31, 1999;
*  Number of contracts signed by                          March 31, 1999
June 30, 1999
October 31, 1999 *
March 31, 2000
October 31, 2000 *
*  Number of contracts in execution by                    June 30, 1999
October 31, 1999 *
June 30, 2000
October 30, 2000   *
*  Number of contracts completed by                       December 31, 1999
June 30, 2000
October 31, 2000 *
* Annual Progress Review



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
EMERGENCY FLOOD ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
Draft Terms of Reference for Financial Consultant
The financial consultant to be hired under the PCERP Project will assist PCUIEFAP in preparing
the detailed design and implementation plan for the accounting system for the Project. To this
effect, the Consultant will help PCU/EFAP to:
(a)    establish an appropriately designed format acceptable to and agreed with IDA for the
submission of accounts to ensure that financial transactions are recorded adequately,
accounting data are reliable and that sufficient financial information is provided for
managing and monitoring the project activities;
(b)    draft the Terms of Reference for an independent auditor acceptable to IDA;
(c)    establish the format of the Project Financial Management Report (FMR). which
PCU/EFAP will submit quarterly to the IDA;
(d)    select and install software for project accounting and reporting;
(e)    draft the Manual of Accounts and Accounting Procedures;
(f)    draft the Chart of Accounts for the project;
(g)    draft the Operations/Procedures Manual; and
(h)    establish the financial management system.
The Consultant will also help PCU to link the financial expenditure data to the
corresponding level of physical output achieved, under a computer environment, which will
enable PCU to produce the adequate financial management reports.
The final Terms of Reference for the financial consultant to be hired will be subject to
prior review by IDA.



ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 3
Action Plan For Establishing Financial Management System
Actions                      Dates                      Comments
PCU Established             August 15, 1998              PCU established by a
Government Decree
Financial Consultant        October 30, 1998
Recruited by PCERP
Termns of reference for hiring    November 30, 1998      Assistance provided by
independent auditor and related                          PCERP financial consultant.
contracting documents are sent
to IDA for comments
Chart of Accounts Drafted   December 15, 1998            Assistance provided by
PCERP financial consultant.
Manual of Accounts and      December 31, 1998            Assistance provided by
Accounting Procedures                                    PCERP financial consultant.
Drafted
Operations Manual Drafted   December 31, 1998            Assistance provided by
PCERP financial consultant.
Appropriately Designed      January 15, 1999
Format and Financial
Management System
Acceptable to IDA Established
Independent Auditor         January 31, 1999
Acceptable to IDA hired
First Project Financial     January 31, 1999
Management Report (FMR)
submitted to IDA



ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 3
Project Financial Management Report (FMR)
Quarterly Report
Financial Statements
1-A    Sources and Uses of Funds (cash basis)
Provides details on the sources of funds by financing source and the uses of funds by disbursement
categories.
1-B   Uses of Funds by Project Activities (cash basis)
Provides details on the uses of funds by project activities.
I-C   Cash Withdrawal
Provides the calculation for the eligible IDA disbursement
I-D   Cash Forecast
Provides forecast for cash requirement for the project, by disbursement categories.
1 -E   Special Account Statement
Summarizes transactions concerning the special account.
1-F   Output Monitoring
Provides the linkage between financial information and the project's physical output.
2.           Project Progress Report
Sununary of project status and explanation of variances in key project indicators.
3.           Procurement Management
3-A   Contract Expenditure Report-Goods & Works
Details of contracts.
3-B   Contract Expenditure Report-Consultants
Details of contracts.
3-C   Procurement Management Report-Goods & Works
Status of procurement/bid process for contracts.
3-D   Procurement Management Report-Consultants
Status of procurement/proposal process for contracts.
The Project Financial Management Report (FMR) will be comprised of tables
providing the above information. A model of FMR has been provided to the
Borrower so that, in consultation and agreement with IDA, it can be adapted to the
needs of EFAP. The PCU/EFAP will comply with the above reporting requirement
starting January 30, 1999.



K,A2AK,STAN /69'                                                                                                     TAJIKISTAN
i   Ii                                            ,9                                                        EMERGENCY FLOOD
\ Sz'-~~                                                      <9rosbkent wASSISTANCE PROJECT
)                     t        o      UZBEKISTAN            *        Project Sites                                     Roads
ro Gahistan   >           W     UJAND 9, _K    h oQvqon                      *    Selected Cities elected Cities                   Railroads
ZAFAROBOD                I Khod        -              KONIBODOM                      0    Autonomous Oblast Centers                        Rural Districts
1(nibodoin    I                         batCne
-   ~~-~ssJ   0    Oblost Center                                     Autonomous ~~~Oblast Boundaries"
noDotnon                   r       ' Fsi                                                 $    National Capital                                        Oblast Bo undaries
.. *      U-'                                                alona                     1t PROkETAR .................     r      7 ---International Boundaries
1TYf\    h*,    -OE A                                                Area uith no oft-eeadministrative divisions, where royons are under direct republic jvrisdiction.
U Z BE K ISTAN                                               P .                        . ,         s         An oblast is nomed only when its name differs from that of its adeinistrative center.
SHAH-RISTON          sye                                                         ____________________________________________
G                                        KYRGYZ           RE P.     72'                       T.                                          75.
P = < _ ) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C H  I N  A 
Pendz t!             .      AyAINI                                   GHARM         _ iO
~ I,     NE                  r                        MAT* * CF -I\    z    W KOr\I   I               J
-o eav.w\/ Cg  rSzHAIN&   ANH   
5HA~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~DR tlD',                                                                                            Ozr e;- Ta ShuAKHtsHAN
SHAHRINAV  J       VAR  8    KOFARNIHON                                                                                  K 55hzOokuElK0
A   /  I  TAVILDARA                      K                              S       Z
TUJRSL'NZADE-T                   0                                                                                                              '
This~~~~~~~ mop                                                                                    Vs rdcdb e,/-}_  ZiKSANCH
' x~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lo
Bank. TAhe boundories. colors     50   100   150 KILOMETERS                                                     go b -Z       L .
>B A D A K H S H A N s o(IS AN           A        S TAN
OThie napas=n piruovd bny th                                                         50                                                          I        100                   MIESrPKISTAN  . ,Dsaqnsb-
_______LtK_____________H__/TUKEGSANKANOZ E
-  any territory, or any endorsrnenrtIEAt RBP                                                                                                                    *'-      /"-.2   o           a   CHIN    's
ro  or   ncvnpta,,va of such   boundaries.  69't                                                                      72'                           O  I RLAMI RE        -,                                 " f H NITN .  H N
T.  7rmi'-'. r/'                                                                                                                                                          r



