Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3123-1 TJ 
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement
(Emergency Flood Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 20, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3123-1 TJ 
AGREEMENT AMENDING DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 20, 1999 between REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Emergency Flood Assistance Project) dated August 31, 1998 (the 
Development Credit Agreement), for the purpose of providing support during the 
execution of the Emergency Flood Assistance Project, as described in Recital of the 
Development Credit Agreement (the Project);
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide further additional 
assistance in the support of the Project by increasing the amount made available under 
the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to one 
million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,500,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement
Page  2
Section 1.01.  Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by 
deleting the "and” at the end of Subsection (a), substituting “; and” for “.” at the 
end of Subsection (b) and adding a new Subsection (c) as follows: 
“(c) “Amending Agreement” means the agreement amending the Development 
Credit 
Agreement (Emergency Flood Assistance Project) between the 
Borrower and the Association, 
dated August 31, 1998”.
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
“Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to five million three 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 5,300,000) (the Credit), which 
includes: (a) an original amount in various currencies 
equivalent to three 
million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,800,000) 
(the Initial 
Financing); and (b) an additional amount in various currencies equivalent to 
one 
million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,500,000) (the Additional 
Financing).”
Section 1.03. Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows: 
“Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later 
date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such 
later date.”
Section 1.04. A proviso is added at the end of Section 2.04 (b) (i) of the 
Development Credit Agreement reading as follows: “; provided however that the 
commitment charge on the Additional Financing shall accrue from a date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Amending Agreement.”
Section 1.05. Schedule 1 of the Development Credit Agreement is hereby revised 
as indicated in the Annex to this Amending Agreement.
Section 1.06.  Part A of Schedule 2 of the Development Credit Agreement is 
amended by deleting the “nine (9)” in Paragraph 1, substituting “eleven (11)” and 
deleting “270 kms” in Paragraph 2, substituting “320 kms”.
Section 1.07. Part B of Section I of Schedule 3 is amended as follows: 
(a)
The aggregate amount of contracts for goods and works under National 
Competitive Bidding Procedure is revised to read “$1,150,000”; 
(b)
The aggregate amount of contracts for goods under International Shopping 
is revised to read “$1,900,000”; 
(c)
The aggregate amount of contracts for goods under National Shopping is 
revised to read “$300,000”; and 
(d)
The aggregate amount of contracts for works under Direct Contracting is 
revised to read “$4,050,000”.
ARTICLE II 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that the 
execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been 
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or 
opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association 
showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has been duly 
Page  3
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and 
is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03.  This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its 
acceptance of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04.  If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and 
effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this 
Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, 
unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section.  If 
this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the 
Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this 
Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
By /s/ Sadriddin Akramov 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Kazuko Ogawa 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
ANNEX SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works 
   2,610,000
90% 
(2)
Goods
   2,020,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 90% of local
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(3)
Incremental
     270,000
90% 
Operating Costs
(4)
Unallocated
     400,000
Page  4
TOTAL
   5,300,000
