                                     Document of
                                 TheWorld Bank




                                                        ReportNo.: 43838-TJ




                  PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                             REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN

                    EMERGENCY FLOODASSISTANCE PROJECT
                               (CREDIT 31230 & 31231)




                                     May 28,2008




Sector Evaluation Division
Independent Evaluation Group (World Bank)

                                              11



Currency Equivalents(annual averages)

Currency Unit = Tajik Somoni (TJS); Currency Unit = Tajik Rubles (TR)

1999                     US$l.oo               TR 1436.00
2000                     US$l.OO               TJS  2.20
2001                     US$l.oo
                         US$l.OO               TJS  2.55
2002                                           TJS  2.95
All currencyunits are US dollarsunless otherwisenoted.
Abbreviationsand Acronyms

ADB          Asian DevelopmentBank                Km       Kilometer
AH           Agency for Hydrometeorology          MOP      Memorandumofthe President
CAS          CountryAssistance Strategy           MOTRA    Ministry ofTransportationand
CES          Commission for Emergency                      RoadAdministration
             Situations                           MWRLR    Ministry ofWater Resources and
DIPECHO DisasterPreparednessECHO                           LandReclamation
ECA          Europeand CentralAsia                NGO      Non-governmentalOrganization
ECHO         EuropeanUnion, HumanitarianAid       OED      OperationsEvaluationDepartment
             Department                           PCU      ProjectCoordinationUnit
EFAP         EmergencyFloodAssistance             PPAR     ProjectPerformanceAssessment
             Project                                       Review
ERL          EmergencyRecovery Loan               PRSP     PovertyReductionStrategy Paper
ERR          Economic RateofReturn                REACT    EmergencyAssessment and
GDP          Gross DomesticProduct                         CoordinationTeam
GOT          GovernmentofTajikistan               RPCU     RepublicanProjectCoordination
IBRD         InternationalBank for                         Unitfor theLiquidation of
             Reconstructionand Development                 ConsequencesofNaturalDisasters
ICR          ImplementationCompletionReport       SDC      SwissAgency for Development
IDA          InternationalDevelopment                      and Cooperation
             Association                          TA       TechnicalAssistance
IEG          IndependentEvaluationGroup           UN       UnitedNations
IEGWB        IndependentEvaluationGroup           UNDP     UnitedNationsDevelopment
             (World Bank)                                  Programme
INT          DepartmentofInstitutional            UNDRMP UnitedNationsDisasterRisk
             Integrity                                     Management Project
IWRM         IntegratedWater Resources            USAID    United States Agency for
             Management                                    InternationalDevelopment
JICA         Japan InternationalCooperation       WRM      Water ResourcesManagement
             Agency                               wss      Water Supply and Sanitation



FiscalYear

Government:               January 1 -December 31


Director-General,IndependentEvaluation                : Mr.VinodThomas
Director, IndependentEvaluationGroup (World Bank)     : Ms.CherylW. Gray
Manager, Sector EvaluationDivision                    : Ms.MonikaHuppi
Task Manager                                          : Mr.RonaldS. Parker
Consultant                                            : Ms.SilkeHeuser

                                                              1

I IEGWB Mission: Enhancingdevelopment effectiveness through excellence and independence inevaluation.                  I
 About this Report
        The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
 first, to ensure the integrity of the Banksself-evaluation process and to verify that the Banks work is producing the
 expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
 dissemination of lessons drawn from experience.As part of this work, IEGWBannually assesses about 25 percent of
 the Banks lendingoperations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those
 that are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for
 which Executive Directors or Bank managementhaverequested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
 important lessons.
        To prepare a ProjectPerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR), IEGWB staff examine project files and other
 documents, interviewoperationalstaff, visit the borrowingcountry to discuss the operation with the government,
 and other in-country stakeholders,and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquartersand
 in local offices as appropriate.
        Each PPAR is subjectto internal IEGWBpeer review, Panel review, and managementapproval. Once cleared
 internally,the PPAR is commentedon by the responsibleBank department. IEGWB incorporatesthe comments as
 relevant.The completed PPAR is then sent to the borrowerfor review; the borrowers' commentsare attached to
 the document that is sent to the Banks Board of Executive Directors.After an assessment report has been sent to
 the Board, it is disclosedto the public.

 About the IEGWB Rating System
        IEGWB's use of multipleevaluationmethods offers both rigor and a necessarylevel of flexibility to adapt to
 lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEGWBevaluators all apply the same basic method to
 arrive at their project ratings. Followingis the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion
 (additional information is availableon the IEGWBwebsite: http:/hvorldbank.org/ieg).
        Outcome: The extent to which the operation's major relevant objectiveswere achieved, or are expected to
 be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance,efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
 relevanceof objectives and relevanceof design. Relevanceof objectives is the extent to which the project's
 objectives are consistentwith the country's current development priorities and with current Bank country and
 sectoral assistance strategiesand corporategoals (expressed in Poverty ReductionStrategy Papers, Country
 Assistance Strategies,Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevanceof design is the extent to which
 the project's design is consistentwith the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project's objectives
 were achieved, or are expectedto be achieved,taking into account their relative importance.Efficiency is the
 extent to which the projectachieved,or is expected to achieve, a return higherthan the opportunitycost of capital
 and benefits at least cost comparedto alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
 operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, ModeratelySatisfactory, Moderately
 Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory,HighlyUnsatisfactory.
        Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that developmentoutcomes(or
 expected outcomes)will not be maintained(or realized). Possibleratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High
 Significant,Moderate, Negligibleto Low, Not Evaluable.
        Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
 operation and supported effective implementationthrough appropriatesupervision (includingensuring adequate
 transition arrangementsfor regularoperation of supported activities after loanlcredit closing, toward the
 achievementof developmentoutcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
 Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, ModeratelySatisfactory, Moderately
 Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
        Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (includingthe government and implementing
 agency or agencies)ensured quality of preparation and implementation,and compliedwith covenants and
 agreements,toward the achievementof development outcomes.The rating has two dimensions: government
 performanceand implementingagency(ies) performance. Possibleratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
 Satisfactory, Satisfactory, ModeratelySatisfactory, ModeratelyUnsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly
 Unsatisfactory.


                                                                     ...
                                                                     111



Contents

PRINCIPALRATINGS            ....................................................................................................................      V


KEY STAFF RESPONSIBLE                  ..........................................................................................................     V


PREFACE ......................................................................................................................................       vi1


SUMMARY  .....................................................................................................................................        IX


1.    BACKGROUNDAND CONTEXT                                 ......................................................................................     i

         IDA Involvement........................................................................................................................       1


2.    OBJECTIVESAND DESIGN                          .............................................................................................      2
         Project Objectives......................................................................................................................      2
         Project Components..................................................................................................................          2


3.    IMPLEMENTATIONEXPERIENCE                                 ...................................................................................     4

         Monitoringand EvaluationDesign. Implementation.and Utilization..........................................                                      5
         Safeguards.Fiduciary Compliance. and UnintendedOutcomes...............................................                                        6


4.    OUTPUTS AND OUTCOMES BY OBJECTIVE                                            ................................................................    7

         Objective 1.................................................................................................................................  7
         Objective2                                                                                                                                    9
         Objective 3................................................................................................................................  11


5.    RATINGS       ..........................................................................................................................        12

          Risk to DevelopmentOutcome
          Bank Performance.......
          Borrower Performance


6.    LESSONS        .........................................................................................................................        16


7.    BROADER ISSUESARISING FROMTHE EVALUATION                                                        .............................................   17

          IntegratedWater ResourceManagementin Tajikistan.............................................................                                17
          Disaster Management.............................................................................................................. 18


REFERENCES      ..............................................................................................................................       20


ANNEX A.BASIC        DATA SHEET               .................................................................................................      23

                                                                               iv


ANNEX B AGENCIES MET IN TAJIKISTAN
               .                                                            ..............................................................................     26


ANNEX C POST-PROJECTASSESSMENT
               .                                                            ..............................................................................     29


ANNEX D IEG PPAR MISSIONSITE VISITS
                .                                                            .............................................................................     33


ANNEX E IEG PPAR MISSION PICTURES
               .                                                          ................................................................................     37


ANNEX F RECOMMENDATIONSAND PROGRESSIN IMPROVING FLOOD MANAGEMENT
.......................................................................................................................................................
               .
                                                                                                                                                               39


ANNEX G BORROWERCOMMENTS
                .                                                 ........................................................................................     43



Tables
Table 1 Potentialfor an IntegratedApproach to Water Management...........................................................................                       17
Table 2 Louis Berger International Inc.April 2002                                                                                                               29
Table 3 2007 Mott McDonaldAssessment of a 2002 Strategy for ImprovedFlood Management.................................
         ...                                                        . Post-ProjectCompletion             Assessment ...........................................
                                                                                                                                                                39



Figures

Figure 1 Cereals Production for 1991-2006.....................................................................................................................
          .                                                                                                                                                     9




reportwas editedby William B.Hurlbut. and Marie Charlesand RomayneD.Pereiraprovided
This reportwas preparedby Silke Heuser. who assessed the project inNovember andDecember2007.The

administrativesupport            .

                                                    V




PrincipalRatings

                                         ICR*                 ICR Review*                   PPAR

Outcome                 Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory             Moderately
                                                                               Unsatisfactory
Institutional           Moderate                    Negligible
Development
Impact**
Risk to                                                                        Substantial
Development
Outcome
Sustainability***       Unlikely                    Unlikely
Bank                    Satisfactory                Satisfactory               Satisfactory
Performance
Borrower                Unsatisfactory              Highly Unsatisfactory      Unsatisfactory
Performance
* The ImplementationCompletion Report(ICR) is a self-evaluationby the responsibleBank department. The
ICR Review is an intermediateIEGWBproductthat seeks to independentlyverify the findings of the ICR.
**As of July 1,2006, InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact is assessed as part of the Outcome rating.
***AS of July 1, 2006, Sustainabilityhas been replaced by Riskto DevelopmentOutcome. As the scales are
different, the ratingsare not directly comparable.




Key StaffResponsible

Project              TaskManagerILeader               Division Chief/             Country Director
                                                      SectorDirector
Appraisal                 FelixA. Jakob              MargretThalwitz               lshrat Hussain
Completion              Gailius Draugelis           Sumter Lee Travers             Dennisde Tray


                                               vii




Preface

This is a ProjectPerformance AssessmentReview (PPAR) of the Emergency Flood Assistance
Project (EFAP) inTajikistan, for which Credit 31230-TAJ inthe amount of $5 million was
approvedinAugust 1998and made effective inSeptember 1998. A SupplementalCredit 31231-
TAJ inthe amount of $2 million was approved inDecember 1999. The SupplementalCredit was
complementedby a $5.00 million credit from the Asian DevelopmentBank (ADB), which was
implementedusingthe sameProject CoordinationUnit(PCU). The original Closing Date of June
30,2001 was extended in 1999to December 31,2001 to allow for the implementationofthe
Supplemental Credit Program. The Credit was closed on December31,2001. OnApril 30,2002
$2.44 million (35% ofthe original IDA commitmentandthe Supplement) was canceled.

The PPAR was preparedby the Independent Evaluation Group (IEG). It is basedon the
Memorandumofthe President (MOP), sector and economic reports, special studies, Country
Assistance Strategies(CASs), Policy FrameworkPapers, credit documents, review ofthe project
files, and discussions with Bank staff. An ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR, ReportNo.
24209, datedJune 13,2002) was prepared by the Europeand CentralAsia Region. An IEG
missionvisited Tajikistan inNovemberandDecember 2007 and discussed the effectivenessof
the Bank's assistance with governmentofficials, other developmentorganizations,beneficiaries,
and stakeholders (see Annex B). Their kindcooperationand invaluable assistance inthe
preparationofthis report are gratefully acknowledged. Specialthanks go to Ashurov Nurullo
Ashurovich, SodiqAbduvalievich Haitov, TakhminaMukhamedova, BobojonYatimov, and
JannaYusupjanova.

The IEGPPAR missionselected the full universeof sub-project sites inone out ofthree regions
where infrastructure was rehabilitated. Basedon these field visits and interviews with officials
and beneficiaries,this PPAR supports ICR findings inall important particularsand finds it to be
an accurate portrayal ofthe difficulties encounteredduring implementation.IDA effectively
supervised an extremely weak implementationagency under a tight supervisionbudget and ina
difficult security situationstemmingfrom the civil war. IDA discoveredmisprocurementand
dealt with it effectively, which was recognizedby ECA regional management through a
performance awardin2001.

Furthermore,this report reviewschanges inthe country's overall disaster management structure,
especiallywith respectto other internationaland bilateral organizationsandNGOs. It also takes a
broader look at longer-termwater and flood management inTajikistan, which was coveredby an
ADB loan. Inparticular,this PPAR identifies lessons learnedfor future in-country work with
respect to the water-energy link important for Tajikistan's and the region's future.

Copies of the draft PPARwere sent to the relevant governmentofficials and agencies for their
review and comments. Comments from the borrower havebeentaken into account and are
includedinAnnex G.


                                             i x



Summary

Tajikistan is prone to natural disasters. Ruggedmountainranges reachingupto 7,000
meters, meltingglaciers inspringand summer, and degraded hillsides lead to annual
flooding inthe highlypopulatedvalleys where most o f Tajikistan's 6.7 million people are
concentrated. Floods affect not only settlements, roads, andbridgesbut also wash away
valuable topsoil on critical crop land. In2007 alone, Tajikistan suffered $20 million in
economic damage from 33 floods, multiple mudflows, landslides,earthquakes, and snow
avalanches.'

The World Bank financedthe EmergencyFloodAssistance Project (Credit 31230 and
Supplemental Credit 31231;$5 and $2 millionrespectively) inresponse to devastating
floods in 1998 and 1999. The Board approved the projectjust two months after the
project identification mission andthe project became effective soon afterwards. The
design o fthe EFAP focused on reconstructing infrastructure vital to help the rural
population o fTajikistan to resume their social and economic activities. The project did
not have any institutional objectives (not even technical assistance for the newly
established Project Coordination Unit)andassigned assistancewith medium- and longer-
term flood management planningto the ADB. The project's two main components were:
(i)reconstruction o fbridges, roads, andembankments; and(ii)     reconstructionandrepair
ofprotection dikes, irrigation systems, hydropower plants, transmission lines, andwater
supplysystems. Under the supplemental credit, target numbersofinfrastructureto be
reconstructed were increased and the operating expenditures o fthe Project Coordination
Unit( P o were covered.

To mitigate the economic and social effects o f the floods (objective l),critical "lifeline"
facilities were reconstructed or repaired. This includedreconstructiono froads and
bridges. Inaddition, the PCUattempted to reinvigoratethe local economy (objective 2).
Since most families depended on agriculture, restoring access to markets was a priority.
Irrigation canals vital for cottonproduction, the predominant crop planted inflood-
affected areas, were repaired. Local labor was usedto fabricate gabions for some o fthe
riverbank strengthening. Finally, bridgeswere designed to withstand a once-in-one
hundredyear flood, and other mitigation measuresprovedmore effective thanexpected
(objective 3).

Withrespect to disaster management, the government o fTajikistanwas assistedbymore
than70 internationalorganizations, bilateraldonors, andNGOscooperating inmonthly
meetings. Two flood management planswere developed with financing from ADB and
the Japanese government, andawater management strategy was developed with the
assistance o fUNDP. The EFAPwas not alignedwith any strategic longer-term flood
management plans.

Project outcome i s ratedmoderately unsatisfactory, risk to development outcome i s rated
substantial. This i s a slight upgrade compared to the ImplementationCompletion Report


1.The Committee ofEmergencySituationsandCivilDefense underthe Government ofTajikistan.
DisasterOverviewfor 2007.

                                               A




(ICR). The reason for this upgrade i s that although the implementation agency was
extremely weak, the project achieved results that encouraged the revival o f social and
economic activities in areas damagedby the floods. Infrastructurereconstructed to higher
design standards was also found to have been sustainable.

Bankperformanceisratedsatisfactory becauseofquick project appraisal andextensive
supervision. Borrower perfonnance is rated unsatisfactory because the government did
not agree to use an existing experienced PCUand or to finance technical assistance in
support o f the newly created PCU. As a result, the EFAPwas fraught with problems
throughout its lifetime.

The lessons learned under the project are the following:

       Itis important for the Bank to beat a disaster site early, but a false senseof
       urgency may compromise the quality of what is being constructed.

       Donor coordination i s important not only with respect to damage and needs
       assessmentbut also inthe transition from the reliefto the recoveryphase o f a
       disaster.

       The Bank would bewell advised ifit involved local specialists inthe
       identification and design o f flood reconstructionprojects.

       Underthe EFAP, a PCUwas set upunderthe Executive Office o fthe Presidento f
       the Republic. While inmanydisaster situations a direct linkto the highest levels
       o fpower is important, line agencies inTajikistan may bebetter equipped for
       project implementation, giventheir technical know-how, to provide for medium-
       andlong-termrehabilitationneeds.

       A water strategy that integrates flood management with the Tajikistan's irrigation
       andhydropowerneeds couldprevent hture flooding rather than providing only
       temporary relief.




                                                                             c


                                                                     Vinod Thomas
                                                                     Director-General
                                                                     Evaluation

                                                  1



1. BackgroundandContext

1.1     Tajikistan i s prone to natural disasters. Rugged mountainranges reaching upto
7,000 meters, meltingglaciers inspringand summer, and degraded hillsides leadto annual
flooding inhighlypopulatedvalleys, where most o f Tajikistan's 6.7 million people are
concentrated. Floods affect not only settlements, roads, and bridges but also washes
valuable topsoil from crop land. In2007 alone Tajikistan suffered $20 million ineconomic
damage from 33 floods, inadditionto multiplemudflows, landslides, earthquakes, and
avalanches? The probability o f economic losses exceeding $860 million inone year i s
estimated at about 0.5 percent, or about 71 percent o fthe country's GDP.3

1.2     Duringthe Soviet era, the government o fTajikistan builtlarge amounts o f
massive infrastructure, such as dams, embankments, roads and irrigationsystems. This
construction used low-cost techniques that required highmaintenance. Maintenance was
neglectedwhen the Soviet Union collapsed and internal rivalries emerged inTajikistan.
Riversthat had been squeezed into tight channels to gain more land for farming
occasionally flooded, rippingloose parts o f roads and embankments and threatening
human settlements and farmland.

1.3     An especially destructive flood occurred in 1998. Heavier than usual snowfalls
duringthe 1997/98 winter and several successive periods oftorrential rains inApril and
May caused many rivers to swellto levels above any recorded inthe previous 75 years.
Over 100people died, and numerous dwellingswere destroyed or damaged. Dozens o f
bridgesand stretches o froads were washed away, cutting off accessto entire areas.
Agricultural losseswere considerable. Future production was compromised by damage to
irrigation systems. The economic damage was estimated at $40 million. More floods
occurred in 1999 causing damage estimated at about $20 million.

IDA Involvement

1.4     Tajikistan gained independence from the Soviet Union in 1991 and became a
memberofIBRDand IDA inJune 1993. Before signingthe credit for the Emergency
FloodAssistance Project (EFAP), IDA had been involved insix operations. These
operations were marked by extremely difficult circumstances due to the civil war, during
which an estimated 50,000 people were killedand 600,000 displaced. When the war
ended with a peace agreement in 1997, IDA fielded a mission to prepare a Post-Conflict
Emergency ReconstructionProject. Thus, when the floods occurred in 1998, IDA was
already assisting Tajikistan with emergency reconstruction. The government turned to
IDAonJune 11, 1998, to request assistancefor reconstructionafter the flooding.


2. The CommitteeofEmergency Situationsand Civil Defenseunderthe Governmentof Tajikistan.
DisasterOverview for 2007.
3. Pusch, Christoph(2004), PreventableLosses: SavingLives and Property through Hazard Risk
Management.A ComprehensiveRisk ManagementFramework for Europe and CentralAsia. (Disaster Risk
ManagementWorking Paper Series, No. 9). Washington, DC: The World Bank.

                                               2


1.5     InJune 1998,the government createdan International Assessment Group
comprisedo f experts from the Asian Development Bank (ADB), UnitedNations agencies,
and the majorNGOsactive inTajikistan. A damage and needs assessmentwas conducted
underthe coordinationofthe World Bank's field office and incooperationwith the
Commission for Emergency Situations (SCE) and local authorities o fthe affected areas.
The World BankandADB initially were to split responsibility for reconstruction according
to geographic boundaries, the World Bank providingfinancial assistancefor the severely
damaged south and the ADB for the northern region. This approach changed during
implementation, the World Bank providingassistance inthree o fthe four regions o f
Tajikistan (Khatlon inthe south, Sughd inthe north, andthe Regions o f Republican
Subordinationaroundthe capital Dushanbe) and theADB for all four regions.




2. Objectives and Design

Project Objectives

2.1     The Emergency FloodAssistance Project (EFAP) focused on reconstructing
infrastructure that existed before the floods. This approachwas tailored to the difficult
circumstances o f a country ravagedby civil war and inwhich a good part o f the old
Moscow-supported political elite had fled, depriving the country o f institutional memory
and technical know-how. The Memorandum o fthe President (MOP) specified three
objectives for the project: (a) support the Tajikistan government inits efforts to mitigate
the economic and social effects o f the floods through the immediate repair and
reconstruction o f essential infrastructure; (b) establish the conditions for a rapid and
effective resumption o f economic exchanges and growth inthe rural areas affected; and
(c) helpreduce the risk o f future occurrence o f similar damage.

Project Components

2.2     The project components consisted ofinfrastructureto be repairedor reconstructed.
As flooding occurs every year inTajikistan it is importantto finish a subproject before
flash flooding inspringcan damage unfinishedworks. In 1999 another especially heavy
flooding season affectedmostly parts o fthe country not under the EFAP. Only some o fthe
Bank-financed works were affected and had to be reconstructed again. As a result, the
government asked for a supplemental credit o f $2 million with a total cost estimated at $2.2
million. The supplemental credit was appraised inAugust and approvedinDecember 1999.
Neitherthe objectives nor components ofthe project changed, butfinancing for more
infrastructure subprojects was made available. The original closing date o f June 30,2001,
was extended in 1999to December 3 1,2001, to allow for the implementation o fthe
Supplemental Credit Program. OnApril 30,2002, $2.44 million (35 percent o fthe original
IDAcommitment andthe Supplement) was canceled.

                                                  3


2.3     The 1998 MOP specified two project components:

     0  Transport infrastructure works: Transport infrastructure providing for the
        repair or reconstructiono f about nine bridgesand a total o f about 270 kilometers
        o f damaged roads invarious regions o f the country, includingthe reconstruction
        o f embankment protections (using labor-intensive work methods) inthe proximity
        o f the works implemented to prevent future damage from floods, river-scouring,
        or erosion.

        Other infrastructure works: Providingfor the repair or reconstruction o f
        infrastructurepertainingto the agriculture (repair o f flood protection dikes and
        irrigation systems), power (repair of small ruralhydropower plants and
        transmission lines), and municipal services (repair o fwater supply systems) sectors.

Inaddition, the 1999 SupplementalCredit Programwas to finance (a) transport
infrastructure works that included reconstruction o f two additional bridgesand repair
works on about 60 kilometers o f roads; (b) other infrastructure works that included 12
kilometers o f riverbank reinforcement, repair o f about 2 kilometers o f power lines, and
reconstructiono f 6 power substations; and (c) operating expenditures o f the Republican
Project Coordination Unit (RPCU).

2.4     The lending instrumentchosen for the project, an Emergency Recovery
Loadcredit (ERL), was selected to respond quickly to the flood emergency. Given the
standard three-year implementation periodo f ERLsat the time, it was important to focus
on the infrastructureworks, so little attention was given to the operation o fthe RPCUor
to sustainability issues. Inhindsightit would have been preferable to include inthe
project design training on World Bank procedures for the newly created RPCU. Doing so
would have helpedprevent the misprocurement that later occurred. Inaddition, training
RPCU staff ineffectively supervising implementation would have improved the quality
o f reconstructed infrastructure. Finally, a more forward-looking project design would
have taken into account the recurrent nature o f disasters inTajikistan, perhaps with the
development o f a flood management planto improve project sustainability. These
shortcomings were the consequence o f rushedpreparation, a general tendency in older
emergency projects that was addressed inthe Bank's revised policy for a Rapid Response
to Crises and Emergencies (March 2007). The new OPBP 8.00 ensures that
reconstructionprojects are not pressed ina three-year time limit, which was exceeded
anyway in 91 percent o f all ERLs completed between 1984 and 2005.4 Not havingto
deliver a project inthree-years opens up opportunities to more carefully select and design
subprojects, which i s beneficial for the longer-term recovery process.




4. IEG-World Bank (IndependentEvaluation Group; formally OED). 2005. NaturalDisasters:Response,
Recovery and Mitigation: Project Timing. IEGBackgroundPaper inpreparationfor the Natural Disaster
Study, October 2005, p. 5 (available on request).

                                                  4


3. ImplementationExperience

3.1      Guided by its policy on emergency recovery assistanceat the time (OPBP 8.50),
IDAgranted a $5 million credit onAugust 27, 1998,a little morethantwo months after the
government's request for as~istance.~       The credit became effective one month later, on
September 21, 1998. The Memorandum o fthe President (MOP) from August 1998
identifiedBank experience relevant for disaster reconstructionthat the project design was
to take into account: (a) early Bank involvement indefining a reconstruction strategy and
(b) willingness to helplocalauthoritieswithproject preparation. The Bank's fieldoffice
quickly assessed damages incoordinationwith other donors and developed a reconstruction
strategy. However, since the government didnot agree to finance technical assistance (TA),
no international consultant was available to help select and prepare subprojects. After the
project became effective inNovember 1998,there was a six-month gap insupervision for
security reasons (from November 1998 untilMay 1999),the most critical time for
subproject selection and for training the RPCUinWorld Bank financial management and
procurement procedures.

3.2      The ADB had acquired Japanese Trust Funds in order to provide TA to the newly
established RPCU-an        implementation unit for project coordination and supervision
under the President's o f f i c e w h i c h both agencies shared. However, since it took the
ADB untilDecember 1999to approve its Emergency FloodRehabilitationProject, and
since the Japanese Trust Fundwas approved only inDecember,6 no training was
available for the inexperienced RPCU at the o u t ~ e t .Although there was effective
                                                               ~
coordination at the disaster site, the project would have benefited, had Bank and ADB
staff communicated better and aligned their timing and actions back at headquarters.

3.3      The RPCU's lack o f experience with the requirements and procedures o f
international organizations created difficulties with procurement, financial management,
and supervision. Procurementprovedparticularly difficult because works and goods had
to be procured separately. Metal, cement, and other construction material was procured
centrally and shippedto rural flood-affected regions where local government agencies
were rebuilding infrastructure. Coordinating the delivery o f goods with the availability o f


5. Elapsedtime betweenthe flooding inApril and May of 1998 and the presentationof the credit to the
Bank's BoardofExecutiveDirectorswas alittle morethantwo months (77 days). The average amount of
time that elapsedbetweenan emergency event andthe presentationof aloanor creditto the Bank's Board
ofExecutiveDirectors(for all Bank-financedERLsbetween 1984and2005) was 6.7 months (201days).
Comparedwith the Bank's averagefor ERLprocessing,this creditwas preparedinavery short amount of
time.
6. Japan SpecialFund, TA 3319-TAJ, inthe amountof$205,000, approvedon 2 December 1999.
7. Accordingto the ADB's 2007 evaluationreport, "The impactofthe TA on project implementationand
contract managementwas limited becausethe assignments ofthe Dh4Eswere not aligned with
implementationofthe Project.[...]The TA funded about 7 person-monthsof services of international
disaster managementexperts(DMEs).The 7 person-monthswere utilized by three DMEs, who visited
Tajikistanon an intermittentbasis betweenFebruary 2000 and January 2003. The first DMEconductedtwo
workshops and preparedadraft disastermanagementplan and abenefits monitoringplanfor the loan
project. The secondDMEwas replaced, and the third DMEassistedDEES [DepartmentofEnvironment
and EmergencySituations] in monitoringand evaluatingthe civil works and inreportingprogressto ADB.
The DMEs submittedan inceptionreport, six field visit reports, and afinal report."

                                              5


local constructionworkers and finishing construction before the reoccurrence o f annual
flooding in springwas a problem. A post-review o f contracts found that contracts for a
total value o f over $1.20 millionhad been awardedto firms that had made
misrepresentations and engaged incollusion. IDA requested the refundinginto the credit
account o f $588,463 o fpayments already made on the misprocured contracts, the
government complied with the request inDecember 2000.

3.4     Eventhough the civil war had ended in 1997, insecurity persisted inTajikistan,
complicating early project efforts. Security problems made it difficult to supervise project
implementation incertain areas o f the country until2000. The project, preparedbased on
a damage assessment undertaken inJune 1998,was then affected by severe floods that
struck again before reconstructioncould be fully initiated. InJune 1999,regions o f the
country that had escapedthe first catastrophe were also devastated. This distracted the
government and made attaining the project's economic recovery goals more challenging.
Total damages from the second event were estimated at about 1 percent o f GDP. In
response to the event and the government's request, IDA amended the Credit Agreement
(approved by the Board on December 14, 1999)to increase the amount o f resources
available for repair and reconstruction.

3.5     The amount o f infrastructure damaged by both floods challenged the
administrative capacity the government had dedicatedto emergency-related operations.
The implementation o f the EFAPwas constrained by institutional weaknesses from start
to finish. The continuing instability and insecurity inthe country severely restricted
IDA'Sability to supervise the project, which inturnrobbed ito fdetailed insights into the
location and nature o f capacity deficiencies. While efforts were made to ensure flexibility
inthe identification andpreparationof subprojects, the government was nevertheless
overtaxed and therefore never effectively responded to the problems that arose during
project implementation.

3.6     Bythe time the credit closing date arrived, numerous works, includingboth free-
standing infrastructure and roadrepair, were incomplete. Not surprisingly, supervision
reports, when missions could make it to the field, found overall quality o f the works to be
poor. The overall suboptimal result was seen (insupervision reports) attributed to the lack
of experience o f local enterprises and the lack o ftimely technical supervision by the
RPCU. Enterprisesneither followed the construction designs nor complied with the
specifications for construction materials.

3.7     Eventhough many o f the works could not be completedby closing, a post-closing
mission inMarch 2002 reportedthat the roads and bridgesincluded inthe project had
beenfinalized and opened to traffic. Notwithstanding, critical infrastructure that
supported and protectedthe roads and bridges, such as abutment protections and river
embankments, were left for the government to finish with its own resources.

MonitoringandEvaluationDesign,Implementation,andUtilization

3.8     Monitoringand evaluation i s rated modest based on the lack o f outcome
indicators at the M&Edesign stage, limiteduse o f output indicators to track progress, and
a lack o f beneficiary surveys or impact evaluations to assessproject outcomes.

                                              6


3.9     Both the MOP and the supplemental MOP providedtarget values for outputs-the
number o f bridges, kilometers o f roads, embankments, and transmission lines to be
rehabilitated. Neither included outcome indicators. The output indicators were usedto
establish steps to be taken and to set completion dates inthe project's TA. The MOP
stated that agreement had been reachedwith the borrower duringnegotiations on methods
and arrangements for continuous monitoring o fproject performance. The Technical
Annex added that performancemonitoringindicators would be usedto monitor the
achievement o f the project objectives.

3.10    With respect to M&Eimplementation, the Project Status Reports (PSRs) tracked
output indicators and describedthe achievement against targets. They also listed actions
to be undertaken to reach targets. However, while the ICRtracked the achievement o f the
five basic output indicators, includingtheir costs (see Annex A), it did not discuss M&E
inameaningful way.

3.1 1 Due to the limited nature o f output indicators and the absence o f any beneficiary
surveys, indicators were not usedto provide feedback to the various stakeholders. The
only time that output indicators were revised was when Bank staff found that one bridge
selected for rehabilitation hadnot been destroyedby flooding. As a result o f the review
the bridge was takenoff the list o f infrastructureto be rehabilitated.

Safeguards,FiduciaryCompliance,and UnintendedOutcomes

3.12    The policy on Emergency Recovery Assistance OPBP 8.50 allowed for safeguard
compliance through environmental assessments undertaken after project approval. Inthe
case o f EFAP, the MOP and Technical Annex stated that the projectwould have a limited
environmental impact given the nature and size o f the works it would fund. The project
was classified Category B for the purposes o f OD 4.01, since it repaired, rehabilitated,
andor reconstructedexisting infrastructure. The project did not raise any resettlement or
property rights issues and was executed within the rightso f way o f the existing public
roads network or embankment protection systems. The potential for mitigation measures
related to construction disturbances were to be discussed with construction teams and
were to be included inthe contractors' agreements.

3.13    The ICR did not discuss safeguards. However, supervision reports and contracts
reviewed by the IEGmission provided evidence that environmental and safety concerns
were monitored duringimplementation as far as security inthe country and the poor
condition o f equipment allowed.

3.14    As discussed earlier, the RPCUfacedmajor difficultieswith fiduciary
compliance. Contracts for a total value o f over $1.20 millionhad been awarded to firms
that made misrepresentations and likely engaged in collusion.

3.15    Interms ofunintendedoutcomes, the IEGmissionnoticedthat a large area
adjacent to a river that flooded every year was no longer cultivated. This corresponds to
the latest thinking on flood management-designating as floodplain anarea o f cultivated
land that is regularly flooded. This not only makes economic sense but also provides
ecological benefits.

                                               7


4. Outputs and Outcomesby Objective

4.1     The three project objectives identifiedby the MOP were partially achieved as
follows.

Objective1

Support the Tajikistan government in its efforts to mitigate the economic and social
efsects of thefloods through the immediate repair and reconstruction of essential
infrastructure (modest).

4.2     Critical "lifeline" facilities were reconstructed or repaired. This included
reconstructiono f roads and bridges. Under the project, roads were cleared o f rubble, and
the most damaged sections in210 kilometers o froadswere repairedand asphalt sealed
(of an original target o f 330 kilometers). Inaddition, the project funded reconstruction o f
seven bridgesand undertook repairs on three additional ones (of an original target o f 11
bridges).Since the project was terminated early, it fell short o fthe targetedkilometers o f
roads and numbers o f bridges to be reconstructed, thus providing access to markets and
social facilities to fewer communities than originally intended (see Annex A).

4.3     A post-project assessmentwas conducted inApril 2002 by an engineer from
Louis Berger International Inc. The consultant visited project sites where works had been
implemented betweenJune 2000 and December 2001 and verified civil works undertaken
under 17 (out o f 59) contracts and assessedthe quality ina detailed report supported by
about 200 photographs.

4.4     The Bergerassessment considered whether infrastructure was completed or not;
the quality o f infrastructuredesigns; discrepancies between designsand implementation;
and the quality o f rehabilitated infrastructure (see Annex C). The assessment found that
10 o f the 17 works contracts had been completed, while seven were incomplete. Works in
the amount o f $1,120,566 were implemented comparedwith $1,330,093 o f contracted
amounts. Designsreviewed by the engineers were assessedas preliminary at 10 project
sites. This means that construction plans and longitudinal profiles were produced as a
sketch without topographicalAayout surveys, which made it difficult to calculate the
precise quantities o f materials needed for works required. Designs for seven project sites
were assessedas satisfactory by the engineer. Works at five sites deviated significantly
from original designs. Infour cases deviations had negative effects on the quality o f
works (embankments were eroded, or the road showed potholes). At one site the design
deviation had a beneficial effect since the road was directed away from the riverbank.
Overall quality was describedas satisfactory insix project sites, less than satisfactory in
seven project sites, and unsatisfactory intwo project sites.

4.5     Projectdesignand supervision:The IEGmissionfoundthat the quality o fthe
bridgesvariedwith respectto designas well as implementation (see pictures inAnnex E).
Infrastructure designsfor bridgesand roads were generally prepared or reviewedby the
Tajikgyprovodkhoz Design Institute. Dueto the collapse o fthe Soviet Unionand the civil
war, many o fthe younger engineers at the time of implementationhad leftthe institute for
private firms and other countries. Therefore, most o fthe designs were drawn by a single

                                                    8


engineer, who lacked modernequipment. This may explain why designs were often prepared
as sketcheswithout topographical surveys or longitudinalprofiles4uringthe Soviet era, it
was assumedthat construction was supervised and quantities strictly controlled.

4.6      There were several deviations from the original designs during implementation,
only some o fthem approved by the design institute. For example, the IEGmission saw
one bridge that spanned only 32 meters, while it would have been necessary to be about
twice the length to span the valley. An embankment topped by a road leading to the
bridgewas being eroded by flooding, andthe bridge was indanger of beingwashed away
(see pictures inAnnex E, Box 3). Inaddition, the bridgewas constructedwithout anchors
for fixing pedestrian railings on some o f the slabs. Therefore, to this day, the pedestrian
rail i s missing,puttingpedestrians injeopardy. Inother cases, deviations from the
original design were justified, as inthe case of a road that had previously been atop an
almost vertical embankment. Deviating from the original design, the local engineer
decided to construct the road further inlandaway from the riverbed. Inthis case,
deviation from the designmet the project's objective o f helping reduce the risk o f future
occurrence o f similar damages.

4.7      Lack of maintenanceis worseningthe riskof flooding:Bridge maintenance
varied between districts depending on the designs, availability o f funds for maintenance,
and the level o f engagement o f the responsible maintenance team. Appraisal documents
had already noted a chronic lack o f maintenance inTajikistan and had attributed some o f
the damage causedby floodingto neglectedmaintenance.

4.8      Roads to some bridges had been eroded by floods and insome cases holes inthe
concrete structures had not been fixed. Furthermore, since surface drainage had not been
considered inthe construction o f some bridges, the asphalt had been damaged and had
not been repaired. As noted earlier, one bridge spanned only halfway over the river
valley. The dam leading up to the bridge, which consistedo f gravel, had been heavily
eroded. For lack o f other material, such as concrete or boulders, junk cars had been used
to preventfurther erosion.

4.9      The IEGmission did observe a roadmaintenance team at work on one bridge.In
that particular district, the effectiveness o fthe maintenance was a function o f effective
and dedicated leadership. Inaddition, judging by the condition o f embankments and
gabions, a recently painted railing, and the road it seemed apparent that more funds were
available for maintenance.8




8. According to the 2007 ADB evaluation o fthe Tajikistan: Emergency FloodRehabilitation Project,
"Tajikistan's 26,000 kms roadnetwork consistso f4,700 kms o f national roads and 21,300 kms o f local
roads. The Ministry of Transport hasjurisdiction over 13,700 kms, including all national roads and 9,000
kmsof local roads, and is responsiblefor planning and coordinating the maintenanceofthese roads.Road
maintenanceand construction are funded from the general state budget. The Ministry o f Transport's current
road budgetis about $11.3 million, ofwhich 80% is spent for construction and rehabilitation and 20% for
maintenance.Ona per-kms basis, an average of $100 is available for road maintenance. This amount is
grossly inadequateconsideringthe climate and topography o f Tajikistan andthe substantialbacklog in
deferredmaintenance."

                                               9


Objective2

Establish the conditionsfor a rapidand effective resumption of economic exchanges and
growth in the rural areas afected (modest).

4.10     The RPCUattemptedto reinvigoratethe localeconomy to some degree. Since
most families dependedon agriculture, restoring accessto markets was a priority.
Irrigationcanals were repaired, which are vital for cotton production, the predominant
crop planted inflood-affected areas. Local labor was used for some o f the riverbank
strengthening by fabricating gabions under the supervision o f the local officials from the
IrrigationDepartment under the Ministry o f Water Resources and Land Reclamation.
Thirteen kilometers o f riverbanks were protectedto prevent farmland from being
damaged by future floods. Inaddition, 9 kilometers o f power lines and three generators
were reinstalled. These outputs were below targets due to slow implementation and early
project termination (see Annex A).

4.1 1    Flood control structures and the rehabilitation o f roads and bridges have
contributed to Tajikistan's economic and social recovery from the civil war, two major
floods, and a drought in2000/2001. No surveys were undertaken to assess project
impacts. While attribution to this particular project i s not possible, the economy and
living standards have improvedmarkedly inTajikistan. According to the 2006 PSIA,
"over the last five years the GDP growth rate has averaged about 8 percent, while poverty
rates, measured at $2.15 per day (at purchasingpower parity), have fallen-from       81
percent in 1999to 64 percent in 2003." Inaddition, cereal yields increaseddramatically
between 2000 and 2006 (see Figure l),    indicating improvements inliving standards for
Tajikistan's rural residents, who rely heavily on bread for their diet.

Figure 1. Cereals Productionfor 1991-2006



  ` 1,000,000

     800,000

     600,000

     400,000

     200,000

           0
                1991   2000     2001    2002     2003      2004    2005      2006
                                            Years

Source:WB Resident Mission

4.12     Low-qualityconstructioncompromisessustainability:The IEGmission visited
half o f the sites where riverbanks had been strengthened. Several methods had been used:
gabions, concrete lining o f riverbanks, and prefabricated ferroconcrete blocks inthe form
o f cones or tetrahedrons, which were bound together by iron cords.

4.13      Quality varied between project sites and structure types. A detailed description o f
the sites visited isprovidedinAnnex D. Generally, gabion protection worked well.
However, some gabions were made out o f wire meshtoo thinto withstand the impact o f

                                            10


annual flooding. In some sections, they were properly fixed, but knots injoints were not
strong enough to resist the water stream, which resulted indamage to small sections. In
each o f the eight places with such makeshift gabion structures, the IEGmission observed
that a few gabion nets had been damaged: some had been sliced open or stones had
washed through the mesh. The same was true for gabion baskets constructed closer to
international standards. Inthose cases, the net cells were too large, and no extra lines o f
steel wire had been used to stop more stones from beingwashed out o f the baskets.
Stretches most affected by flooding were at the toe o f a pylon or embankment, or at the
beginningo f a gabion structure. Overall, however, after seven years o f annual flooding
gabions were still protecting riverbanks.

4.14    Insix locations, where flow velocity duringthe springhadbeen calculated as
relatively low, riverbanks hadbeenplastered over with concrete. Here as well the picture
was mixed. While some o f the concrete hadbeeneroded, the basic function o f protecting
riverbanks and nearby fields and settlements was fulfilled. Trees planted on top o fthe
riverbank and inthe river bedprovidedadditional mitigationagainst flooding.

4.15    A more controversial method was the construction of spur dykes as flood breaks.
Spur dykes, which are builtat a 30 or 80 degree angle into the river, are intendedto
deflect water flow away from the riverbank. The deflection reduces flow velocity and
encourages siltation. Spur dykes are commonly used inTajikistan, especially inwide,
meandering rivers. They are constructed at intervals o f 40 to 90 meters depending on the
site. Spur dykes that the IEGmission visited had been built out o f pre-cast ferroconcrete
tetrahedrons with metalloops ontop o f the structure. They were bound together with
relatively thinwire, which was missinginmany places. According to local engineers,
some o f the tetrahedrons and iron cords had been stolen, though poor quality seems a
more likely reason for their absence. Project supervision reports reveal that at the time o f
construction, cement for concrete blocks was not strictly controlled, and the concrete mix
was not compacted well. This ledto early erosion insome o f the tetrahedrons.

4.16    The mission visited a water supply channel where water for irrigationwas
collected from the mountains and channeled into an aqueduct under a bridge. The channel
was accurately aligned and appeared recently cleaned, and was serving its function well.

4.17    Seven years after project completion, rehabilitated road sections were still
unblemishedby potholes, with shoulders leveled and smoothed and guard rails inplace
except where there were signs o f a recent accident. While inthe rural areas o f Tajikistan
roads are usually poorly compacted and constantly needto be repaired, this was not true
for the World Bank-financed sections.

4.18    By project closure onDecember 31,2001, electrical equipment hadbeen
purchased and stored at a pumpingstation with installation havingpresumably started.
The IEGmission was not able to visit any o f the 9 kilometers o fpower transmission lines
or three power substations referredto inthe ICR. However, the ADB, which usedthe
same RPCU for the implementation o f electrical equipment under its Emergency Flood

                                               11


RehabilitationProject, reportedthat "subprojects inpower and telecommunications
performed best and are rated highly successfu1."9

4.19    One explanation for the relatively poor quality o f works was low costs. All civil
work contracts under the project followed the existingState Standards (SNiPs) and
Regulations (EniR) inforce inTajikistan since Soviet times. Since contracts were
awarded by direct contracting to local government departments and unit rates were
identified based on state-regulated tariffs and prices, which were extremely low, there
was little incentive for maintaining good quality. As reported in a supervision report in
2002, one hour's work o f machinery was pricedbetween $3 and $5 including cost o f fuel
and labor, whereas similar equipment inTajikistan as per international contracts would
cost between $12 and $64. Costs for labor ranged between $8 and $20 per month,
whereas ininternationally procured contracts for labor, costs would have ranged between
$60 and $150 per month. Quality o f works would have probably improved, hadthere
been international competition. However, giventhe scattered nature o f subprojects and
the precarious security situation inthe country, no interestwas signaledby foreign firms.

Objective 3

Help reduce the risk of future occurrenceof similar damages (substantial).

4.20    Bridges were reconstructedto higher designstandards, taking the risks o f a once-
in-one hundredyear flood into account. Inaddition, bridge pylons were protectedthrough
gabion structures and prefabricated concrete blocks to preventbridges from beingwashed
away. Riverbanks were protectedthrough concrete liningand gabion nets and baskets.
The project protected fields and settlements by reinforcingembankments and by
constructing spur dams. The mission found evidence o f at least one road relocated further
inland away from the river to prevent future damage. However, nothing was done to
stabilize steep hills or to preventerosion on bare hillsides.

4.21    Mitigation measures more effective than expected: The project's approach,
conceptualizedbefore the establishmento f the World Bank's Hazard Management Unit,
had been to reconstruct infrastructurethat existed before the flooding. Thus, no longer-
term disaster-risk reductionmeasures were planned, except that infrastructure was to be
reconstructedto design standards able to withstand future flooding. Inaddition, World
Bank staff contacted duringthe PPAR process were critical o f the project's design, which
didnot sufficiently take account o fthe recurrent nature o f floods. Appraisal and
supervision documents, however, show that mitigationwas discussed with officials with
the unexpected result that mitigationmeasures were implementedat five sites visited by
the IEGmission. Some o fthese mitigationmeasures are discussed below.

4.22    Inadditionto the roadthat hadbeenmovedfurther inlandto prevent erosion and
future flood damage, bridgeswere adjusted to accommodate a once-in-one hundredyear
flood, the designs and calculations being undertakenby the DesignInstitute Tajikigpro-
vodkhoz following recommendations by World Bank staff. Inaddition, an embankment
was reconstructedto a greater elevation, made thicker, and the slopes were reinforced


9. ADB 2007: Tajikistan: Emergency FloodRehabilitationProject. Performance Evaluation Report.

                                                 12


with concrete and flood diversion boulders (ferroconcrete tetrahedrons, and ferroconcrete
slabs). Furthermore, a large part o f the floodplain that used to be irrigated by a well was
left fallow, thus returning some parts o f the floodplain to the river.

4.23     As o f December 2007, the reinforced embankment is effectively protecting some
22,000 people from annual flooding and bridges effectively connect remote villages to
markets. Thus, though mitigation was not an explicit objective o f the project, it was
implemented quite effectively in some locations.




5. Ratings

5.1      This assessmentrates project outcome as moderately unsatisfactory, riskto
development outcome as substantial, Bank performance as satisfactory, and borrower
performance as unsatisfactory. This i s a slight upgrade compared to the ICR with respect
to project outcome and riskto development/sustainability.The reason behindthis
upgrade i s that although the implementation agency was extremely weak, the project
achieved results that encourage the revival o f social and economic activities inareas
damaged by the floods. Infrastructure reconstructedto higherdesign standards has also
been found sustainable.

5.2      Outcomeis rated moderatelyunsatisfactory.The project achieved highly
relevant physical and institutional objectives, but with major shortcomings. The quality
o f infrastructure reconstructed is fair to poor, but roads, bridges, and embankments still
serve their basic functions. Maintenance o f infrastructure varies between districts.
Mitigation was better than expected, but Tajikistan still lacks an operational plan for
flood management, an objective implemented inparallel by the ADB. Per unit cost o fthe
infrastructure constructedwas comparatively low, but quality was correspondingly poor.

5.3      Relevanceis rated high.The project was conceptualized after major floods had
destroyedimportant transport links.The population was suffering because entire villages
had been cut off from access to the main road and to electricity. Inaddition, Tajikistan
was under transition from the Soviet systemto a market economy, which fundamentally
changed the functioning o f government and institutions. Furthermore, Tajikistan had
suffered from a five-year civil war, inwhich much o f the existinginfrastructure had been
destroyed or neglected, and duringwhich the Russian elite and other highly skilled
people had left the country.

5.4      The project i s still relevant to what was describedby the 2005 Country Assistance
Strategy as primary objectives: (i)    to encourage equitable, labor-intensive economic
growth, with an emphasis on exports; (ii)     to support the efficient and fair provision o f
basic social services; (iii)  to target support to the poorest groups o f the population; and

                                                   13


(iv) to improve governance and security. Inaddition to the above objectives, the 1998
CAS had emphasized investments inrural infrastructure. lo

5.5      Project design and selection of the ERL instrumentwas relevant inresponse to the
flood emergency in 1998. The ERL instrument expedites project preparation and takes
less time to get to approval by the Board o f Directors. The EFAP was approved in a little
more than two months and became effective soon afterwards. Therefore, both IDA and
the government o f Tajikistan can be commended for quickly processing and makingthe
credit effective. However, as the 2006 IEGevaluation Hazards of Nature, Risks to
Development pointedout, there is a trade-off between careful project preparation and
quick action. The quick-preparation approachhad a cost however-poor                     design and
insufficient attention to maintenance, as well as a failure to take account o f medium- and
long-term disaster management issues. The intended "benefits" o f speedy preparation
consist inreopening transport links, allowing accessto markets and improvingpeople's
livelihoods. The new policy OPBP 8.00 allows for both. It expedites the processingo f
the loadcredit, andthen leaves enough time to carefully select, prepare, and implement
subprojects by allowing more time for implementation and completion. For the EFAP,
more supervision or TA would have been necessary immediately after project appraisal.
However, the security situation withinthe country did not allow for any supervision at
the time and the government didnot agree to finance TA, which accounts for the
project's poor performance.

5.6      Efficacy i s rated modest.This rating is based onthe assessment o foutputs and
outcomes by objectives inthe preceding chapter. Reopening o f roads and bridges helped
rural families in isolated areas regain access to markets, schools, and hospitals. Access to
markets was especially important, since many families depended on agriculture for their
livelihoods. Areas most affected by the 1998 floods were situated inthe cotton growing
areas o f Tajikistan. Harvested cotton needed to be transported to cotton gins, and inthe
absence o f bridges, farmers had to walk or drive through river beds to reach the main
road, puttingthe harvest at risk and making rivers even more vulnerable to flooding by
destroying grass cover and contributing to erosion.

5.7      Efficiencyis rated negligible.This rating is based on the low implementation and
supervision capacity within the RPCU. For example, procurement arrangements
separated into goods and works did not prove efficient. They were adopted from the 1998
Post-Conflict Rehabilitation Credit Project, but made implementation cumbersome.
Giventhe difficulties inprocuring and transporting goods, state contractors were often
not able to carry out their work. However, in some cases because civil works hadto be
terminated before the next flood season, some government agencies managed to complete
works with their own funds before beingreimbursed.



10. According to the 1998 Tajikistan - Country Assistance Strategy, Report No. 18075 TJ: The Bank
Group's strategy focuses on poverty reduction by concentratingon: (i)restructuring farms underprivate
ownership andinvesting inrural infrastructure as means of creating rural growth and better livelihoods; (ii)
reducing economic inefficiencies by transferring publicly owned enterprises into the private sector; (iii)
improvingcoverage, access and quality of social services; and targeting assistanceto the poorest groups;
and (iv) enhancing institutional capacity.

                                                   14


5.8      The project introduced international and national shopping methods for the
procurement o f goods, which enabled the RPCUto obtain a higher quality o f products at
a betterprice. However, direct contracts for works did not benefit from competition for
the following reasons: (i)At the time ofimplementationthere was no market for
contractors. Only one contractor per regionwas able to undertakethe works. (ii)                Prices
were set according to a price list that was decided by the government. Contractors did not
price their works as they had to conduct all civil works activities according to the price
list. Project objectives did not include a reform o f this practice because o f the project's
emergency nature.

5.9      Since EFAP was an emergency roject, no economic analysis was done either at
appraisal or inthe ICR on completion.'p7h, argument for conducting cost-benefit
analysis for disaster reconstruction i s that infrastructure wiped out during a disaster needs
to be reconstructedto allow for the resumption o f economic and social activities.
Therefore, not only economic but also social, political, and cultural aspects are important
when deciding whether infrastructure needs to be reconstructed. Floodprotection
measures inthe United States usually show highreturns on such investments. In
Tajikistan, however, agencies are still not willing to share data on flood occurrences over
time and damage estimates, so it was not possible ex post to calculate the benefits o f risk
reductionmeasures taken under this project.

5.10     The project was cost-effective inthat at least some bridgesand embankments
were reconstructedto withstanda once-in-one hundred year flood. Calculations were
based on flood events over a 53-year period. While these calculations were important,
they may still underestimate future flood occurrences, since they do not take the
dynamics o f variations inclimate into account, given melting glaciers and increasing rain
and drought events.

Riskto DevelopmentOutcome

5.11 Riskto development outcome is rated significant.Roads were constructed to
higher design standards, and some bridgeswere designedto withstanda once-in-one
hundredyear flood. So far most o fthe infrastructure has withstood annual flooding.
However, nothing has been done to address medium- and long-term issues o f flood
management, such as planting trees on hillsides, enforcing grazing bans on fragile lands,
and stopping deforestation. Inaddition to nonstructural mitigationmeasures, more needs
to be done with respect to developing an integrated water strategy for Tajikistanand
exploring the watedenergy nexus by generating energy while also protecting from
flooding (discussed further at the end o f this report).

Bank Performance

5.12     Bank performance i s rated satisfactory.Quality at entry i s considered satisfactory
with minor shortcomings. The reason for the rating is that the Bank respondedquickly to


11.BP/OP 8.00 relaxesthe economicanalysisrequired at appraisalfor emergencyresponseoperations,
sayingthat "if essentialdata cannot be obtained within a reasonableperiod o ftime, cost-benefit
calculations are not required".

                                               15


the government requestfor assistanceandprepared the project inan extremely short time.
Nonetheless, it implemented the project with an inexperiencedRPCUwithout any
technical assistance, even though it bore a highrisk o f poor performance. Inaddition,
IDA quickly approved a supplementalcredit after more floods caused damage inthe
following year. The Quality Assurance Group has not reviewedthe quality at entry.

5.13    Bank supervision is considered satisfactory. Inspite o f the precarious security
situationthat characterizedTajikistan after the civil war, Bank supervision was frequent
(nine supervision missions betweenNovember 1998 and April 2002). Supervision
compensated for some o f the TA not approved by the government o f Tajikistan. Bank
staff frequentlywent out into the field to improve record keeping.

5.14    The quality o f infrastructure rebuilt under the project could have been improved
hadthere been competition between local and international contractors. However, given
Tajikistan's transition from a command to a market economy, the Bank took the right
course indeciding to use line agency specialists to execute the works in accordance with
Tajikistan's quality standards and regulations, especially giventhe urgency o f need for
the infrastructure. Inaddition, the Bank complied with its policy onEmergency Recovery
Assistance, which states that ERLsdo not attempt to address long-term economic,
sectoral, or institutional problems.

5.15    A regular procurementportfolio post-review discoveredprocurement
irregularities inthe summer o f 2000. According to the ICR, the IDA project team acted
swiftly and inconcert with the Bank's Institutional Integrity Department (INT), which is
responsible for investigating fraud and corruption. The quality o f the IDA project team's
performance inthis matter was recognizedby ECA Regional Management through a
PerformanceAward in2001.

Borrower Performance

5.16    Borrower performance i s rated unsatisfactory.The government did not consent
to use an experiencedProject Coordination Unit for implementation, nor did it agree to
finance technical assistance to help the newly created project coordination unitto become
familiar with the procurement procedures and financial managementrequired by
international organizations. Once misprocurement had been detected, and the borrower
was asked to replace the RPCUdirector, it took the government a year to fulfill the
Bank's request.

5.17    Performance o fthe implementingagency is rate unsatisfactory as well. Subproject
selection was slow, and the RPCUwas not able to spendthe funds available even though
the country's infrastructurewas indire need.After misprocurementwas discovered, the
Bank revisedprocurement rules for Tajikistan and did not cancel the $1.2 million o f
misprocuredcontracts. It did agree to keep the $588,463 the government hadto refundin
the credit account for the funding o f new subprojects. However, even under the new
procurement arrangements, the RPCUwas not able to implement more subprojects.

                                             16




6. Lessons

0 It is importantfor the Bank to be at a disaster site early, but afalse sense of urgency
   may compromisethe quality of what is being constructed.Infrastructure design,
   implementation, and supervision take time. Rapid reopening o f transport linkswas
   important for Tajikistan inthe short term, but given that floods and landslides damage
   the same roadsrepeatedly, scarceresources may have beenbetter usedto find long-
   term solutions, such as reinforcing hillsides or relocating roads away from hazard-
   prone areas. Although detailedplanning would have been more time-consuming, it
   would more likely have preventedrepeated repairs inthe future. This experience i s
   reflected inthe Bank's revisedpolicy on emergency lending (OPPB 8.00) o f March
   2007, which ensuresthat reconstructionprojects are no longer pressed into a three-
   year time limit.

   Involve local specialists in the identijkation and designofjlood reconstruction
  projects. Tajikistan inherited a highly centralized institutional structure from Soviet
   times. This is why, duringproject preparation, subprojectswere identifiedand
   designedinthe capital Dushanbewithout consulting highly skilledtechnical people in
   far-flung valleys o f rural Tajikistan where the floods occurred. Inhindsight,project
   identification and design would likely have been improvedhad local staff been
   consulted.

0  A water strategy that integratesjlood management with the county's irrigationand
   hydropower needs couldpreventfuture jlooding rather thanproviding only
   temporary relie$ Floods and landslides regularly occur throughout Tajikistan. It
   would have been useful to helpthe government learn to deal with the fundamentals o f
   disaster management and to support the preparation and implementation o f a
   comprehensive, affordable, and sustainable natural disaster prevention and mitigation
   strategy that also took other water management aspects into account.

0  Donor coordination is important not only with respect to damage and needs
   assessment but also in the transitionfiom the relief to the recoveryphase of a
   disaster.More coordination betweenthe World Bank and the ADB would have been
   beneficial, especially since both organizations shared the same RPCU.

                                                  17




7. BroaderIssuesArising from the Evaluation

Integrated Water Resource Management in Tajikistan

7.1      Tajikistan i s rich inwater. Annual flow volumes consist o f 64 cubic kilometers
per year o f water from some 25,000 watercourses, 1,300 lakes, and 24,000 glaciers with a
volume o f 845 cubic kilometers. Much o f the water runs through riparian countries o f
Afghanistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, and Kazakhstanto the Aral Sea. Water has
obvious benefits, but also the potential for destruction. For example, there are 142
settlements inTajikistan that flood constantly and 490 settlements that flood seasonally.12
Flooding is not the only risk. Environmental degradation, contamination o f water sources,
earthquakes, pests and drought also create setbacks for the rural population and have a
particularly debilitating effect on the poor. Severe energy shortages inthe winter lead
people to cut down trees on fragile hillsides. Goats and sheep graze the hills and destroy
grass cover. When water pours down inwinter and snowmelt from glaciers sets on in
spring, water carries with itmudfrom the hills, destroying infrastructure and settlements.

7.2      World Bank strategy papers such as Country Assistance Strategies (CASs) and
the country's ownPoverty Reduction Strategy Papers (PRSPs) have addressed different
aspects o f water at different times (see Table 1). While the first CASs focused on more
efficient use o f water supply for irrigation, the 2003 CAS more fully considered the root
causes o f flooding, such as environmental aspects o f soil degradation and deforestation.
The most recent 2007 CAS progress report explored the watedenergy nexus and
highlightedthe great potential for hydropower development. Tajikistan could be
generating 317 billion kilowatt hours per year, but currently produces only 5 percent o f
its p0tentia1.l~While every CAS has given some attentionto flooding and other natural
disasters, the link betweenbetter water management and the potential for hydropower has
not been explicit. Thus, future CASs could take a broader view o f water management by
integrating the different aspects o f water management into one strategy.

Table 1. Potentialfor an IntegratedApproach to Water Management
CAS           Irrigation
                   -        WSS      WRM          Hydropower
                                                    . .            Flooding/ ND Environmental
                                                                           -
                                                                                     Degradation
1996 CAS            X                    X                               X                   X
1998 CAS            X         X                                          X                   X
2003 CAS                                 X               X               X                   X
2005 CAS                                                                 X                   X
2007 CAS
Prog. Rep.                    X          X               X               X

Source:IEG


12. The Ministry ofIrrigationandWater Managementof the Republic of Tajikistan, UNDP, theExecutive
Committeeof the International Fund for Saving the Aral Sea. 2006. Water Sector Development Strategy in
Tajikistan. Dushanbe.
13. Ministry o fIrrigationand Water Managementofthe Republic of Tajikistan, et al. 2006, p. 15.

                                                   18


DisasterManagement

7.3      Project design focused on simplicity and flexibility, but did not take account o f
the medium-and long-term issues o f disaster management. Medium-.and long-term flood
management was left to the ADB, which approved a parallel project inthe amount o f
$6.25 million inDecember 1999.14Inaddition, the ADB, usingJapanese trust funds,
completed a "Strategy for ImprovedFlood Management"'s inFebruary 2002. That
strategy describedthe institutional arrangements for disaster management inTajikistan,
cooperation among international donors, and forecasting and preparedness mechanisms
for institutions and local communities. Among the 10 recommendations offered by the
strategy (see Annex F), little progress can be recorded for six (implemented mostly by
international donors and NGOs). Two recommendations have been fully implemented:
one on changes to Tajikistan's legal and policy framework, the other on the Lake Sarez
riskmanagement program, which was fundedby the World Bank and other donors. One
recommendation that has not been acted upon concerned institutional reform. Tajikistan
has four agencies that deal with flood warning, evacuation, and rehabilitation.16Nothing
has changed so far with respect to developing an institutionally integrated approach to
flood management, as recommendedby the strategy. The ADB's evaluation department
criticized the flood strategy for not havingbeenput into operation and assessedthe
overall outcome o f the consultancy as uns~ccessfU1.'~Notwithstandingthe ADB's
evaluation, the IEGmission was informedby the Tajikistan CES that an emergency flood
plan would be ready for implementation by January 2008.

7.4      After the floods o f 2005, which damagedone World Bank-funded embankment,
the ADB began implementation ofa follow-up operationthat involves developing a



14. The World Bank 1999:MOP for SupplementalCredit. This document states the "during discussions
with thejoint IDA-ADB appraisalmissioninAugust 1999, the Governmenthas recognizedthat borrowing
finds for recurringnaturaldisasters, thoughextraordinaryinthis case, is not sustainablewithout aflood
management strategy. Followingthese discussions,the Governmenthas requestedthe assistance ofIDA
and ADB for astudy that would develop acomprehensive flood managementplan.The study would most
likely include(a) areviewofthe current situation; (b) recommendationsfor short -,medium- and long-term
mitigation measures; (c) improvements inhydrologicalcriteriafor works; (d) improvementsindesignsand
techniques for roadandbridgeconstructionas well as embankmentremediationmeasures; (e) designof a
flood forecasting andwarning system; and (0an actionplanthat helpsthe Government coordinate agencies
and organizations when a flood occurs."
15.Inaddition, a grant amountingto $205,000 was providedby Japan (TA 3319-TAJ). This grant was to
finance adisaster specialist for sevenmonthsto develop aflood managementplanandto provide TA to the
implementationunitjointly usedby the ADB and the World Bank.
16. Key agencies responsiblefor flood relief andmitigation are the following: The CES, the Ministry of
Water Resources and LandReclamation(MWRLR) andthe Agency for Hydrometeorology(AH). As a
more recentADB-funded study on flood management inTajikistanfound, the institutions' "specific roles
and responsibilitieswith respectto flood management are not completelyspecifiedinthe underlying
legislationand are not integratedor well coordinatedwithin a coherent system." ADB TA 4811-TAJ,2007:
KhatlonFloodManagementProject.DraftFinalReport.Mott MacDonald.
17. Accordingto the ADB's evaluationreport, "The TA hadlimited impacton capacity building, and the
draft ofthe disaster management planpreparedunderthe TA has yet to be convertedinto an operationally
usefuldocument. [...]The TA is rated relevant, less effective, and inefficient, and its sustainability is
unlikely. Overall, the TA is ratedunsuccessful."

                                                19


detailedflood management plan for Tajikistan's southern regionKhatlon." This time the
ADB is working inparallelwith JICA, which also developeda flood managementplan
and is implementing an operation inthe same region, though at somewhat different
locations. Cooperation betweenthe more than 70 international organizations and NGOs
with in-country representationis facilitated by a donor coordination group called REACT
(Emergency Assessment and Coordination Team). REACT, which was founded in2000
by ECHO, meets every monthwith the CES. Minutes from these meetings as well as
disaster statistics are posted on the UNDP's local website," a novelty for a country that
usedto keep its statistics and information highly aggregated and secret.

7.5     The EFAP did not include any component on institutional strengthening.
However, at the time o f project negotiations, the government decided to place the newly
created RPCU underthe Executive Office o f the President o f the Republic. Itwas to
coordinate international assistance and oversee the implementationo fprojects to
rehabilitate and reconstruct infrastructure after disasters. As the IEGstudy Hazards of
Nature, Risks to Development found, involvement o f the highestlevels o f government is
important for successful project implementation. Inthe EFAP, however, government
officials would have deemed it more appropriate to have the PCU report to the Ministry
o f Water Resources and LandReclamation, which specializes in structural aspects o f
water management. Inaddition, local engineers experienced inreconstruction after
flooding wanted to be consulted on subproject selection. Such consultation would have
been easier hadthe RPCU been set up under a line agency rather than the President's
office. Thus, while inmany disaster situations a direct link to the highest levels o f power
i s important, line agencies in Tajikistan may be better equipped, given their technical
know-how, to provide for medium-and long-term rehabilitation needs.

7.6     The Bank may be well advisedto plan carefully for the transition from the
emergency to the recovery and reconstructionphase o f a disaster. Under the new OP/BP
8.00, no time limit will hurry a project to completion. Therefore, more time can be taken
to carefully planprojects, taking medium- and long-term mitigation measures into
account.




18. ADB Loan4811-TAJKhatlonFlood ManagementProject.
19. DisasterManagement in Tajikistan: www.untj.org/react.

                                                20




                                     REFERENCES


AsianDevelopmentBankandMott MacDonald. 2007. Khatlon FloodManagementProject. TA
        No. 4811-TAJ.DraftFinalReport. May 2007.

Asian DevelopmentBank, Mott MacDonald, Environmental Consultants inAssociation with:
        DHIWater andEnvironmentTajik NIIGiM.2002. Strategyfor Improved Flood
        Management.TA No. 3495-TAJ. FinalReport.February 2002.

Asian DevelopmentBank. 1999.Report andRecommendationof thePresidentto the Board of
        Directors on a ProposedLoan and TechnicalAssistance Grant to the Republic of
        Tajikistanfor the Emergency Flood Rehabilitation Project. RRP:TAJ 33483. November
        1999.

Asian DevelopmentBank.2004. Project Completion Reporton the Emergency Flood
        Rehabilitation Loan 1714-TAJ(SF) in Tajikistan. PCR: TAJ 33483. June 2004.

AsianDevelopmentBank.2007. Performance Evaluation Report. Tajikistan: Emergency Flood
        Rehabilitation Project. ProjectNumber: 33248, LoanNumber: 1714. Operations
        EvaluationDepartment. March2007.

IEG-World Bank (Independent Evaluation Group; formally OED). 2005. Natural Disasters:
        Response,Recovery and Mitigation: Project Timing.IEG BackgroundPaper in
        preparationfor the Natural Disaster Study, October2005, p. 5 (available onrequest).

IEG-WorldBank (Independent Evaluation Group; formally OED). 2006. Hazards of Nature,
        Risks to Development.An IEG Evaluation of WorldBankAssistancefor Natural
        Disasters.Washington, DC.

MinistryofIrrigation andWater Management ofthe Republicof Tajikistan, UNDP Office inthe
        Republic ofTajikistan, and ExecutiveCommitteeofthe InternationalFundfor Savingthe
        Aral Sea. 2006. Water Sector DevelopmentStrategy in Tajikistan.Dushanbe.

Moench, M.,Mechler, R., Stapleton, S. 2007. GuidanceNote on the Costs andBenefits of
        Disaster Risk Reduction.Preparedfor ISDRHighLevel Platform on DisasterRisk
        Reduction,June 4-7,2007.

Pusch, Christoph. 2004. PreventableLosses: SavingLives andProperty through HazardRisk
        Management.A Comprehensive Risk ManagementFrameworkfor Europe and Central
        Asia. (Disaster RiskManagement Working Paper Series, No. 9). Washington, D.C., The
        World Bank.

Sattar, S. and Mohib, S. 2006. "Tajikistan. Cotton FarmlandPrivatization." In:The World Bank,
        Poverty and Social Impact Analysis of Reforms: Lessons and ExamplesJi.om

                                              21


       Implementation.Edited by Aline Coudouel, Anis A. Dani, Stefan0 Paternostro.
       Washington, D.C.

The World Bank, 1998-2002.Emergency FloodAssistance Project. MissionReports, Tajikistan.

The World Bank. 2007. Implementation Completionand Results Report (IDA-33880, JPN-52115,
       SWTZ-23507) on a Credit in theAmount of SDR 0.40 Million (US$0347Million
       Equivalent) to the Republic of Tajikistanfor a Lake SarezRisk Mitigation Project.
       Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit. Central Asia
       Country Unit.Europe and CentralAsia Region. ReportNo: ICR0000363.Washington,
       D.C., June 26,2007.

Toderich K., Tsukatani T., AbbdusamatovM., RakhmatullaevR., Latipov R., and Khujanazarov
       T. 2006. A Farm in Kumsangir of Tajikistan: A Perspective of WaterAand Use along
       Pyandsh River. Kier DiscussionPaper Series.DiscussionPaperNo. 619. Kyoto Institute
       of Economic Research. Kyoto University. Kyoto, Japan, May 2006.


                                         23                             Annex A




ANNEX A. BASIC DATASHEET

EMERGENCY        FLOOD    ASSISTANCEPROJECT   (CREDIT31230&31231)

K e y Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                     Appraisal    Actual or      Actual as % of
                                      estimate current estimate appraisal estimate
Total projectcosts                       7.7        6.25              81 %
Loan amount                              7.0        4.48              64 %
Cofinancing                               0           0
Cancellation                              0         2.44



Project Costs (amounts in US$million)
                                     Appraisal    Actual or      Actual as % of
                                      estimate currentestimate appraisal estimate
Repair/ Reconstructionof bridges         2.16       2.13              99 %
Repair/ Reconstructionof roads           2.40       1.58              66 %
Other InfrastructureWorks                2.29       2.16              94%
(Rehabilitationof River Embankments
and Power Lines)
RPCUOperatingCostdAudit Services         0.10       0.38              380%
Total Baseline Cost                      6.95       6.25
PhysicalContingencies                    0.75       0.00
          Total Project Costs            7.70       6.25

ANNEX A                             24


OutDut Indicators(amounts in US$million)
                                      Appraisal      Actual or      Actual as % of
                                      estimate    current estimate appraisal estimate
Numberof bridges/structures
repairedlreconstructed                   11              7               64%

Number of kms of road rehabilitated     330            210               64%
Number of kms of bank strengthening
works completed                         15.7            13               83%

Number of powersub-stationsinstalled      8              3               38%
Number of kms of powertransmission
lines replaced                            0              9



ProjectDates
                                            Original                 Actual
Initiatingmemorandum                                               06/24/1998
Negotiations                                                       071241998
Boardapproval                                                      08/27/1998
Signing                                                            08/31/I998
Effectiveness                             11/30/1998               09/21/1998
Closing date                              01/31/2000               12/3112001


StaffInputs(staffweeks)
                                                                   Total
Preappraisal                                                        55
Appraisal                                                            0
Negotiations                                                         0
Supervision                                                         173
Other                                                               25
Total                                                               253

                                       25                               Annex A


Mission Data
                      Date     No. of   Specializations    Performan Rating
                 (month/year)  persons    represented          ce    trend
                                                            rating
Identification/ June 1998         3   Urban Planner,
Preparation     (EFAP)                Transport Specialist,
                                      Financial
                                      Management
                                      Specialist
Appraisal       July 1999         3   Operations Officer,
                (Supplemental)        Transport Specialist
                                      Procurement
                                      Accredited Staff
Supervision     November 1998     2   OperationOfficer
                                      Transport Specialist
                May 1999          2   OperationOfficer
                                      Transport Specialist
                August 1999       2   OperationOfficer
                                      Transport Specialist
                November 1999     2   OperationOfficer
                                      Transport Specialist
                March2000         2   OperationOfficer                 S
                                      Transport Specialist
                May 2000          2   OperationOfficer                 S
                                      Transport Specialist
                November2000      1   Transport Specialist             S
                April 2001        2   OperationOfficer                 S
                                      Transport Specialist
                August 2001       1   Financial
                                      Management
                                      Specialist
Completion      April 2002        1   Infrastructure
                                      Specialist

                                            26                                 Annex C




ANNEX B.AGENCIES METINTAJIKISTAN

The WorldBank,DushanbeOffice

IFC, DushanbeOffice

CentralGovernment Agencies
International CooperationDepartment,Committeeof Emergency Situationsand Civil Defense
The Ministryofthe Improvement of the Soil and Water Resources
Geodesy Cartographyand LandUse Agency

LocalGovernmentAgencies
State IrrigationManagementSystems, KhatlonOblast
MinistryofWater ResourcesandLandReclamation
KhatlonOblast Water ResourcesMinistry,Kulyab Region
KhovalinkRegionWater Resources Ministry,KhatlonOblast
Mayor's Office, Khovalink Region, KhatlonOblast
PeredvijnayaMehanizirovannayaKolonna inKhamadoniy Region, Khatlon Oblast
Pumping StationNo.3, Yavan Region
Pumping StationNo.4, Yavan Region
PumpingStation40 years of Tajikistan (Khujand)

PIUS
ImplementationCenter ofthe LandRegistrationand Cadastre System for SustainableAgriculture
Project
State Institute "Project ManagementUnitFerghana Valley Water ResourcesManagementProject''
GovernmentalCenter ofthe Farm Privatization Support Project
Project Implementation Unitof the Farm Privatization inYavan Region

NationalAgricultural TrainingCenter

Non-BankingFinancialOrganizations(NBFOs)
Non-Banking Financial Organization,Yavan Region
"Omad" Micro-Finance Organization,Khujand

Water User Associations
WUA - Water Users Association inthe Yavan Region
WUA "Mirob" Water UsersAssociation inthe Former"Leningrad" Collective Farm
WUA "Chilton" Water Users Association inthe Former"Varzob" Collective Farm
       --
WUA -"Kanz" Water User Association

Other DonorOrganizations
UNISDR
EU Delegation ofthe EuropeanCommissionto Tajikistan
    -

                                         27                             Annex B


EBRD
EU-ECHO
ADB
AgaKhanDevelopmentNetwork
GermanAgro Action-Welt HungerHilfe
FA0
UNDP
SIDA
DFID
FOCUSHumanitarianAssistance, an affiliateofthe AgaKhanDevelopmentNetwork


                                             29                                  Annex C




ANNEX C.POST-PROJECTASSESSMENT

Table 2. Louis Berger International Inc. April 2002. Post-Project CompletionAssessment
Contract Name Status and        Contract       QualityofDesign      Quality of    Deviations
                 Durationof     Amount                              Construction inWork
                 Construction and                                                 Itemsand
                 inApril 2002 Amount                                              Quantities
                                Disbursed                                         from
                                for                                               Designs
                                Works in

BSW onthe        Completed          $35,136    Preliminary designs  Less than     There
Road                                           without              satisfactory  were no
Kafanigan,       September 1,                  topographical/                     variations
Kolhoz           2000  -                       layout surveys                     inwork
Leningrad,       September                                                        itemsand
Contract 2000-   27, 2001                                                         certified
12s                                                                               quantities
                                                                                  did not
                                                                                  exceedthe
                                                                                  designed
                                                                                  quantities
BSW onthe        Incomplete       $7,162 of Preliminary designs     Satisfactory  None
riverIlok,                          $22,522    without
kolhoz                                         topographical/
Leningrad,                                     layout surveys
Contract 2000-
13s
BSW and road     Completed       $76,585 o f Satisfactory quality   Satisfactory  None
Dushanbe-                           $81,191    of design,
Tashkent         July 2000 -                   documentation
(Section 36-85   December                      prepared by
km), Contract    2001                          Tajikgiprotransstroy
2000-15AS                                      Design Institute
Road             Completed                     Design documents     Less than
Kofarnihon-                                    presentedby low      satisfactory
Panj (38-40 km)                                quality sketches and
Contract 1998-                                 scope o f work
09                                             calculated
                                               approximately
Road             Completed                     Designs were         Satisfactory
Kofarnihon-                                    prepared by
Panj (45-97 km)                                Tajikgiprotransstroy

ANNEX  c                        30


Contract 1998-                         with detailed
09                                      drawings.
Reconstruction  Completed      $76,500 Design documents       Satisfactory  None
of central                              are detailed,
effluent,       June 2000 -             however,no
Contract 2000-  November                provisions were
03S             27,2001                 made for the
                                        protectionofthe
                                        outlet ofthe
                                        emergency
                                        discharge pipe
BSW on river    Completed     $230,000 Preliminary designs    Less than     None
Toir-Su,                                                      satisfactory
sovhoz.Kangurt, May 5,2001 -
Contract2000-   December
1os             24, 2001
BSW on River    Incomplete   $19,630 of Preliminary designs   Satisfactory, The actual
Obi Mazor,                     $30,000                        engineer      site
Contract2000-                                                 improved      deviated
09s                                                           design        from
                                                                            designed
                                                                            sketches
Roadand Bank    Completed      $75,954 Constructionplan       Less than     None
Strengthening                           was producedas a      satisfactory
on road to      April 2001-             sketch without
Khovaling,      December               topographical/layout
Contract 1999-  2001                    surveys and
12                                      longitudinal profiles
RoadKulyab-     Incomplete  $26,626 of Designswere            Less than     None
Muminabad                      $43,006 lacking the vertical   satisfactory
(20-39 km),                             alignment and there
Contract 1999-                         were no location
11                                      schedules. Designs
                                        did not cover
                                       pavement, traffic
                                       forecasts, rational
                                       for the adopted
                                        category ofthe road.
                                       As per design
                                       drawings the road
                                       was being upgraded
                                       from category 4 to
                                       category 3
Chapaeva        Incomplete     $96,169 Designdocuments        Less than     None
bridge in                           of were prepared by       satisfactory
Kulyab,                      $124,715 the
contract2000-                          Tajikgiprotransstroy
07s                                    and are satisfactory
Bridge over the Completed      $75,538 Designdocuments        Satisfactory  None
Kulyabdarya                            were prepared by

                                                31                                  Annex C


canal, contract                                 the
1999-40                                         Tajikgiprotransstroy
                                                 and are satisfactory
Bridgeover the     lncompiete          $160,240  Designdocuments      Unsatisfactory Significant
Kulyabdarya                                  o f were preparedby                    deviations
canal (Ilich),                         $211,822 the
contract 1999-                                   Tajikgiprotransstroy
40B                                              and are satisfactory
Bridge over the    Incomplete           $83,166  Designdocuments      Less than     None
Kulyabdarya                                  o f were preparedby      satisfactory
canal (Tugarak),                       $153,709  the
contracts 1999-                                  Tajikgiprotransstroy
40A                                              and are satisfactory
BSW on river       Completed            $70,000  Preliminary designs  Unsatisfactory Flow-
Toir-Su,                                                                             directing
sovhoz.K~g~fiAugust 2000-                                                            protection
inthe Shinabai     December                                                          dikes were
section, contract  24, 2001                                                         not placed
2000-10AS                                                                            as shown
                                                                                     inthe
                                                                                     sketch
BSW River          incomplete           $38,559  Designdocuments      Unsatisfactory Significant
Vahshin                                      o f were preparedby                     deviations
Kolhoz                                  $50,000  the contractor and                  from the
Nuriddinova,                                     reviewed by                         design
contract 2000-                                   Tajikgiprovodkhoz.
16s                                              Designswere
                                                 satisfactory
BSW on             Completed            $49,301  Design documents     Less than      Significant
Kafanigan                                    o f were prepared by     satisfactory   deviations
River(Kollhoz      August 2000-         $50,000  the contractor and                  from the
Kommunim),         November                      reviewed by                         design
Contract 2000-     2001                          Tajikgiprovodkhoz
01s                                              DesignInstitute.
                                                 Designswere
                                                 satisfactory
Source: Louis Berger International Inc.


                                         33                                        Annex D




ANNEX D.IEGPPARMISSIONSITE VISITS

  Subproject                      Assessment

  Vose district

  Bridge and river bank           A bridgewas constructedto improved design standards
  protection at the Kulyabdarya   providing higher elevation, including a sidewalk. The
  canal, close to Tugarak Village mission found potholes inthe road leadingto the bridge.
                                  River banks were protectedby prefabricatedconcrete
                                  slabs and cones, some ofwhich were washed down into
                                  the canal bed.
                                  Trees were plantedon top ofthe river bank and inthe
                                  canal bedto provide additional protection from river
                                  bank erosion.

  Bridge and river bank           A bridge was reinforced and constructedto higher
  protection at the               elevation, without extendingit from spanning32 meters
  Kulyabdarya canal, close to     to arequired80 meters. The railing was missing, putting
  Larhobi Village                 pedestrians at risk.
                                  The road leadingto the bridge consisted of gravel with
                                  potholes.The embankment was severely eroded and
                                  damaged by floods. It was only poorly protectedbyjunk
                                  cars, which were used for lack of other protection
                                  material. The river bank protectionconsisted of gabions,
                                  partly ingood condition and partly damaged by floods,
                                  especially at the pylons. Pylonswere inneedof urgent
                                  maintenance.
                                  Inaddition, atributary drainagecanalwas excludedfrom
                                  the project, which may cause apotential riskduring
                                  flooding inspring.

  River bank protectionat the     The river bank was protectedwith prefabricatedconcrete
  Yakh-suv river                  cones to divert floods. At another section, the river bank
                                  was concrete lined. The embankment effectively protects
                                  20,000 people living inVose district. Fields bordering
                                  the embankment have beenleft fallow to increase the
                                  flood plain and prevent crops from being damaged.

  Bridge and river bank           A bridgewas constructedto higher designstandards,
  protectionat the                including higher elevation. It was provided with a
  Kulyabdaryacanal, closeto       sidewalk including railing, thoughthe railingwas
  ShobikaVillage                  damaged inone section. The river bank was protectedby
                                  gabions, partly ingood condition except for some metal
                                  meshwearing away.
                                  Onthe other side ofthe river, gabionbasketswere used.

ANNEXD                           34


   Subproject                     Assessment
                                  While still protecting the embankment, stone boulders
                                  were washed away becausethe wire meshwas too large
                                  and no extra wire was usedfor further protection.
                                  Inaddition,the PPARmissionnoticedasignificant
                                  amount of debris and siltation around gabionbaskets.

   Kulyabdistrict

5. RoadsectionKulyab-             3.5 kilometers of roadwere rehabilitated.The road i s
   Muminabad                      asphalt-sealedwith minor potholes, but overall it is still
                                  ingoodcondition.

6. River bank protection ofthe    Flow directing spur dikes of ca. ten meters inlengthwere
   Kizilsuriver, close to         constructedat an angle of ca. 80 degrees into the river.
    Khanabadvillage               Some prefabricatedconcrete blockswere missing. Wire
                                  binding concrete blocks together was missing inmany
                                  places.
                                  River banks were concrete linedalongthe very steep and
                                  eroded embankment wall. The roadwas directedfurther
                                  inland, away from the river bank.
                                  Gabions were ingood condition, further protecting the
                                  dyke.

7.  Water supply channelto new    A water supply channel was constructed. Itprovides
    Khanabad village onthe        irrigation water to new Khanabadvillage. The quality of
    Yakhsuriver (road and bridge  constructionwas good, especially with respect to the link
    to Khovaling)                 ofthe effluent to the aqueduct. The concrete-linedcentral
                                  effluent was well maintainedandgenerally ingood
                                  condition.
                                  The bridge was protectedby prefabricatedconcrete
                                  blocks ingood condition.
                                  The roadwas pavedand generally ingood condition as
                                  well.

    Khovalingdistrict

8.  Bridge and river bank         A bridge was reconstructed, asphalt-sealed, and provided
    protectionat Obi-Mozor River, with apedestrianrailing. However, concrete slabs ofthe
    Khovaling city                old bridge were left inthe river bed, increasingits
                                  elevationand posing apotential riskfor damage.
                                  The river bank was concrete lined. Three reversed
                                  irrigation gutterswere also usedto protect the
                                  embankment. While this may be goodpractice during
                                  emergencies, it shouldbe replacedby concreteslabs.
                                  Gabionnets were inpoor conditionwith metal mesh
                                  wearing away. Sections around the pylons were severely
                                  damaged.
                                  Stone bouldersfrom gabionbasketsunderneaththe
                                  bridge were washed away becausethe wire covering
                                  basketswas not strongenough.

                                          35                                      Annex D


   Subproject                     Assessment

9. Bridge and river bank          A bridge was reconstructed, asphalt-sealed, and provided
   protection at the Obi-Mozor    with a pedestrian railing. Surface drainage was not
   river, Lahutivillage           performedas requiredby designs. As aresult, the asphalt
                                  was coveredwith potholes. Small tubes installed later did
                                  not remedy the problem.
                                  Prefabricatedconcrete blocks, boundtogether by iron
                                  cords, were severely impactedby floods.
                                  Gabionnets lookedto be ingood condition. However,
                                  the last stretchwas coveredbyjunk cars insteadof
                                  gabionnets.
                                  Gabionbasketswere inpoor condition with stones
                                  washed out ofthe baskets and with other baskets almost
                                  completelycoveredby silt.
                                  Concrete-linedriver banks were affectedby erosion, but
                                  still protectingthe river bank.

    Baldzhuvan district

10. Bridge andriver bank          A metal bridgewas constructedover one river arm.
    protection at Surhob river,   There was no evidence that a former bridge hadbeen
    Baldzhuvanvillage             damaged by the 1998 or 1999 floods.
                                  Ferroconcretetetrahedrons at one end ofthe bridge were
                                  eroded.
                                  Gabionbasketswere constructedwith sufficiently small
                                  wire meshto keep stones from being washed away. They
                                  were also well tied together and effective inprotecting
                                  the roadliningthe river.

    Sovetsky district

11. River bank protectionat Toir- The river bank was protectedby gabions; they were in
    suriver, Kangurt city         fair condition with some metalmeshwearing away.

    Moscow I Khamadony
    district

12. Metalbridge and bank          A metalbridgewas constructed, which seems to have
    strengtheningat Chubek canal, beenusedfrequently. A damagedconcrete bridge is still
    Moskovskiy city               standingandneedsto be dismantledfor safety reasons.
                                  Concrete liningis still infairly good condition.
                                  Gabions, however, are almost completely coveredby silt.

13. Bankprotection at Pyandzh     Flow directing spur dikes made out of prefabricated
    river on the border to        concrete tetrahedrons were constructedto protect villages
   Afghanistan                    from flooding. They were boundtogether with iron
                                  cords, thoughsome ofthe cords were missing.In2005
                                  part ofthe embankmentwas breachedcausing several
                                  villages to be flooded. The breachedpart of the
                                  embankment was reconstructedwith ADB funding

 ANNEXD             36


      Subproject    Assessment
                    reallocated from the Loan 2124-TAJ(SF) Irrigation
I Source:IEG        Rehabilitation Project.

                                            37    Annex E




ANNEX E.IEGPPARMISSIONPICTURES



Box 1. Bridge and river bank protectionat the
Kulyabdaryacanal, closeto Tugarak Village




Source: IEG




Box 2. Bridge and river bank protection at the
Kulyabdaryacanal

ANNEX E                             38


Source: IEG                                         1

Box 3. Bridge and river bank protectionat Obi-Mozor
River, Khovalingcity




Source: IEG




Box 4. Bridgeand river bank protectionat the Obi-Mozor
river, Lahutivillage




Source: IEG

                                               39                              Annex F




ANNEX F.RECOMMENDATIONSAND PROGRESSIN
IMPROVINGFLOODMANAGEMENT

Table 3.2007 Mott McDonaldAssessment of a 2002 Strategy for
Improved Flood Management

Improved River Gauging Station Network Re-establishand extendthe
                                             -
existingnetworkto provideadequate coverageto support the necessary
measuresfor improvedflood management,forecastingandwarning.
Update: Very littleprogress made nationally or in Khatlon Province except in
specific locations whereNGOs have assisted or intendto assist e.g.Mission
East, Oxfam
Rehabilitation of Hydrometeorological Stations Re-establishand extend
                                                   -
the existingnetworkto provideadequatecoverageto support improvedflood
management, forecastingandwarning.
Update: Very littleprogress made nationally or in Khatlon Province
Improved Hydrometeorological Data and Analysis The database
developedunderTA 3495     - TAJ,                      -
                                 andthe new technologydigital
instrumentationproposedfor the flow gauging stations and some ofthe
climate monitoringstationswill be usedto simplify datahandlingprocedures
andanalysis. This will assistbetter analysisof flood events to develop
updateddesignparametersandunderstandflood mechanisms.
Update:According to theAgencyfor Hydrometeorology the database
software provided by TA 3495-TAJis no longerfunctional, the data are
inaccessible and the trainedpersonnel are no longer employed by theAgency
Approach to Flood Management Floodmanagementshouldcontinueto be
                                   -
coordinatedby Government butwith greater emphasisonthe mobilizationof
community resourcesandNGOs.Floodmanagement shouldbe holistic
incorporatingstructuralandnon-structuralmeasures.
Update:Major structuralflood managementactivities arepolarized around
the Ministry of Water Resources and Land Reclamationmainly in response to
the catastrophicflood in Khamadoni in 2005. Small scale local structural
improvements are being carried out by NGOs.Non-structuralflood
management activities,particularly floodpreparedness, are gathering
momentum with the Committee of Emergency situations as thefocus of
activity (see UNDRMP,DIPECHO, JICA).
Improved Flood Forecasting and Warning To develop more accurate,
                                             -
reliableandflexible flood alertwarningsystems on anationalbasis, with
developmentofmore sophisticatedforecastingandwarning systems ontwo
pilot areas. To improveforecasts ofproblems from mudflows from the
smaller, steep catchments.
Update: TheAgencyfor Hydrometeorology appears to have made little
progress with the development offorecasting and warning tools except in the

ANNEXF                                   40


case of a snowmelt modelfor the VakhshRiver (with assistance9om SDC).
The WorldBank has installed a warning system downstreamof Lake Sarez
complemented by a local warning system in Khamadoni installed with the
assistance ofFocus in 2003.
Planning,Design andImplementationofProjects To enable planning,
                                                     -
designand implementationofappropriatestructuralflood protection measures
usinginternationalbest practiceappropriateto Tajikistan whilst developing
and strengtheningnational resources inplanning, designand construction.
Update: The Water EngineeringDesign Institute of the Ministry of Water
Resources andLand Reclamationhas developedmodern spurs designs which,
in appropriate locations,appear to be superior to earlier designs used in
Tajikistan. However constructionmaterials, methods and supervision is
generally not up to international standards so that thepotential of the new
spurs designs may not be realized.
InstitutionalReform Indevelopingan integratedapproachto flood
                         -
management it will be essentialto ensure that flood managementis
coordinatedby a single authority andthat Governmentmaintainsa strong
power of regulationthrougha single regulating authority.
Update: There is no single coordinating authority or single regulating
authority.forflood management.
ImprovedFloodPreparedness The developmentof better
                                     -
communications,improved preparednessof institutions and communitiesand
the provision of equipmentand resources.
Update:A number of donors (ECHO, SDC, USAID) are assisting the
Committee of Emergency Situations to improve communications, train
ofJicialsand thepublic inflood preparedness and evacuationplanning.
Sarez Agency Programme With regardto the disaster preparednesswork,
                                -
there seems no reasonto propose modifications to the present project plans
that already allow for adaptationonthe basis of experience as the activities
proceed.
Update: TheLake Sarez Risk Management Project is complete.
Changesto LegalandPolicyFramework The legalandpolicy framework
                                             -
ofthe Republic must be compatiblewith the proposedinstitutional
arrangements and, moreover, must support the regulatory responsibilitiesin
the flood management sector. This will includethe developmentand amended
legislation andthe training of staff inits implementation.Other associated
regulatory mechanisms suchas insurance and resettlementalso require
review.
Update: Therehave been relevant legal changes since 2002.
CommunityInvolvement A number ofrecommendationshave been
                               -
formulatedto increasethe effective role ofbeneficiary communitiesinflood
management. Communitieswill need guidance and some instruction inorder
to fulfill these roles, and it is recommendedthat community liaison officers
are appointedwithin the proposedstrengthenedRPCUto carry out this role.
Perhapsthe most important change is neededwithin the government
institutions, which needto look moretowards seekingand assistinglocal
communities' participation, achievingmutual benefits.
Update: Generally community participation inflood management is notyet

                                             41                                 Annex F


widespread.Exceptions to this rule are in Khamadoni whereFocus installed
a localflood warning system operated by the
Source:ADB TA 481I-TAJ Khatlon Flood Management Project. Draft Final Report.
Mott MacDonald. May 2007


                                                 43                                          Annex G




ANNEX G.BORROWERCOMMENTS


                                                                CommitteeofEmergencySituationsand
                                                                    CivilDefense under the Government
                                                                             ofthe Republic of Tajikistan

                                                              734013, Republicof Tajikistan,Dushanbecity,
                                                          Lohuti street, 26. Tel.: 223-31-58.Fax: 221-13-31.
                                                             E-mail: nagot@,rs.tg.Web-address: www.khf.tg


                                                                                          Mr.JohnHeath,
                                                           Acting Manager, Sector EvaluationDivision,
                                                                    Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)


        The Committee ofEmergency Situationsand Civil Defense, under the Governmentofthe
Republic of Tajikistan, would like to state its great respect for the World Bank and express deep
appreciationfor providing overall assistance.

        We would liketo suggest that you provide specific shortcomingsand lost opportunities
during the implementationofthe project inthe mainbody ofthe report.

        Ingeneral, we think thatthe evaluationofthe projectwas carriedout inanappropriateway,
and we do not have any other additions or comments on the ProjectPerformanceAssessment Report.

        The Committee of Emergency Situations and Civil Defense, under the Government ofthe
Republic of Tajikistan, would liketo use this opportunity to assurethe World Bank of its high
respect.



        Chairman(colonel)                                  Latipov H.

ANNEXG    44




                m e 3a XOIIOM

45    Annex F


