                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 37788

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (IDA-36440 FSLT-71160)

                                                  ON A

                                        LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$6.81 MILLION
                       (US$3.00 MILLION LOAN & SDR2.91 MILION CREDIT)

                                                 TO THE

                                ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES

                                                 FOR AN

              EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND DISASTER MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                                            December 1, 2006




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective July 1, 2006)

                        Currency Unit = Eastern Caribbean Dollar (EC)
                              EC 1.00 = US$ .37
                                US$ 1 = EC 2.70

                              FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1 to December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL        Adaptable Program Lending
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CIMH       Caribbean Institute for Meteorology and Hydrology
CMO        Caribbean Meteorological Organization
EOC        Emergency Operations Center
ERDMP      Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project
ICZM       Integrated Coastal Zone Management
IPR        Independent Procurement Review
MTWH       Ministry of Transport, Works and Housing
NDC        National Disaster Coordinator
NEAC       National Emergency Advisory Council
NEMO       National Emergency Management Office
NHMC       National Hazard Mitigation Council
NMS        National Meteorological Service
NPV        Net Present Value
ODP        Office of Disaster Preparedness
OECS       Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
PCU        Project Coordination Unit




                       Vice President:   Pamela Cox
                     Country Director    Caroline D. Anstey
                      Sector Manager     John H. Stein
      Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Francis Ghesquiere

                         ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
                   Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            28

Project ID: P069923                                                  Project Name: Emergency Recovery and Disaster
                                                                     Management Project
Team Leader: Francis Ghesquiere                                      TL Unit: LCSFU
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 1, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management               L/C/TF Number: IDA-36440; FSLT-71160
                            Project
   Country/Department: ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES                                     Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (60%); Information technology (20%); Other industry
                            (10%); Irrigation and drainage (10%)
                  Theme: Natural disaster management (P); Participation and civic engagement (S); Social risk coping
                            (S); Vulnerability assessment and monitoring (S); Land management (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 12/01/1998                                     Effective: 09/11/2002                09/04/2002
     Appraisal: 03/09/2001                                         MTR: 02/25/2004                  02/25/2004
      Approval: 05/29/2002                                      Closing: 01/31/2006                 06/30/2006



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          SAINT VINCENT & THE GRENADINES/MINISTRY FINANCE AND
                                           PLANNING; SAINT VINCENT & THE GRENADINES/ODP; SAINT
                                           VINCENT & THE GRENADINES/MINISTRY WORKS
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     David de Ferranti
Country Director:               Caroline Anstey                                Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:                 John Henry Stein                               Jeffrey S. Gutman
Team Leader at ICR:             Francis Ghesquiere                             Bernard Becq
ICR Primary Author:             Marc Forni


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

    The original project objective was to strengthen St. Vincent and the Grenadines' resilience,
    preparedness and response to natural disasters. This objective was to be achieved by:

        · Building the capacity of the Office of Disaster Preparedness (ODP) and other relevant
        public agencies to perform their respective responsibilities more effectively prior to and
        during a crisis;
        · Strengthening the country's institutional disaster preparedness and management
        procedures, rehabilitating a designated Emergency Operations Center (EOC) which would
        also serve as ODP headquarters, and procuring specialized and emergency equipment;
        · Implementing selected priority mitigation and prevention measures to protect key
        infrastructure and lifeline facilities before disasters strike, on a pilot basis;
        · Retrofitting shelters and health centers to improve the safety of the populations,
        particularly in poor areas;
        · Improving environmental protection through better standards with regards to disaster
        management and environmentally sound prevention measures; and,
        · Promoting community involvement through organizing, training and equipping
        community disaster committees, and enhancing their role in disaster preparedness and
        mitigation and recovery operations.

    The objective was clearly stated and highly relevant to the situation in St. Vincent and the
    Grenadines, which has long been vulnerable to severe storms and hurricanes resulting in loss
    of life and infrastructure and property damage. In addition, the country's institutional capacity
    to cope with such events was weak. The project financed structural and non-structural
    measures to protect people, infrastructure and property from future hurricane damage. In
    addition, it sought to build institutional capacity at the national and local levels, including the
    public and private sectors, in order to manage natural disasters more effectively in the future.
    The project supported two main goals of the June 2001 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS):
    building human and institutional capacity, and reducing income insecurity and vulnerability at
    aggregate and household levels ­ which included mitigating disaster risks to the extent
    feasible.

    At the time of preparation, establishing individual loans and credits for all five participating
    countries was considered inefficient. Therefore, rather than financing a series of individual
    emergency operations in each country, the Bank opted in support of a regional facility to
    address disaster risks. To do this, the standard Adaptable Program Lending (APL) approach
    was modified to allow countries to enlist in different phases, based on their stages of
    preparation (APL1-3). At the same time, an innovative contingent facility was established,
    with allowance for post-disaster mitigation work--accessed in the event of a natural disaster
    (APL4). This emergency funding would take advantage of the shared risk characteristics of
    the group of countries as a whole. The St. Vincent and the Grenadines project was part of a
    second phase APL operation in the five member countries of the Organization of Eastern
    Caribbean States (OECS).


                                                   - 2 -

       · The first phase of the program (APL1) supported the immediate reconstruction and
       rehabilitation of infrastructure in St. Kitts and Nevis, while over the longer term it
       encompassed disaster mitigation works and institutional strengthening on those islands, in
       addition to St. Lucia and Dominica. This first phase has been successfully completed and
       Implementation Completion Reports have been issued.

       · The second phase (APL2) continued to support these same disaster mitigation and
       institutional strengthening activities in Grenada and St. Vincent and the Grenadines.

       · APL3 was to focus on additional physical investments identified through hazard
       mapping analysis and provide further long-term institutional strengthening. Funding for
       this phase was eventually allocated to APL2 because of financing constraints. As a result,
       APL3 did not materialize as originally expected.

       · APL4 was to provide contingency funding for any eligible OECS members in case of a
       severe natural disaster during the six year program period. Funding for this phase was
       made available to Grenada immediately after the devastating impact of Hurricane Ivan in
       September 2004.


3.2 Revised Objective:

    The project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

    I. Strengthening Disaster Management Capacity (US$3.34 million)

       a. Institutionalizing and strengthening the Office of Disaster Preparedness (ODP)
            through (i) technical assistance to elaborate/revise disaster management and
            emergency procedures (ii) rehabilitation of a dedicated Emergency Operations Center
            (EOC) which will also serve as ODP headquarters, (iii) purchase of emergency
            equipment and supplies (portable generators, emergency lighting and rescue tools,
            etc.) to improve day-to-day functioning of ODP, and (iv) training at various levels for
            ODP staff and other related agencies, and public awareness activities.

       b. Improving emergency communications and early warning systems through the
            provision of (i) communications equipment (HF, VHF, CB and satellite radio
            communications equipment) to be installed and/or stored at the EOC, and (ii) technical
            assistance, training and equipment (weather stations and computers) to the National
            Meteorological Service (NMS).

       c. Implementing a shelter program through (i) the retrofitting of selected public buildings
            (schools and community centers), shelters, and (ii) the provision of technical assistance
            and training for the development of a National Shelter Program.


                                                 - 3 -

        d. Strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of Transport, Works and Housing
            (MTWH) to manage emergency situations through (i) the provision of a stock of
            prefabricated metallic bridges, including launching equipment, training of maintenance
            crews and the purchase of assembly manuals, as well as the procurement of a stock of
            gabion baskets to protect piers and abutments, and (ii) technical assistance and training
            to improve MTWH's capacity to carry out environmental assessments and to monitor
            mitigation measures.

   II. Preventive Physical Mitigation (US$2.77 million)

        a. River flooding protection through (i) civil works and gabionage to protect selected
            river crossings against floods and storm surges, and (ii) preparation of feasibility and
            design study for priority river training and flood protection investments.

        b. Coastal erosion protection through (i) an Integrated Coastal Zone Management
            (ICZM) study to define a prioritized sea defense and road alignment investment
            program, and (ii) priority sea defense works at Layou.

        c. Preparation of a comprehensive drainage improvement, flood control and watershed
            management program for the Kingstown area through a comprehensive study to
            design an optimal storm drainage system.

        d. Retrofitting works for priority health centers and clinics.

   III. Project Management (US$0.70 million)

        a. Provision of a Financial Manager/Accountant for the duration of the project and a
            Disaster Management Specialist until such time as ODP is adequately staffed.

        b. Provision of office equipment and supplies for the functioning of the Project
            Coordination Unit (PCU).

        c. Financial audits and selective technical audits to ensure that retrofitting and
            rehabilitation works have been designed and carried out according to acceptable
            international disaster-resistant standards.

3.4 Revised Components:

    The project components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

    Project preparation started in 1999 but took longer than expected because of weak
    government commitment and involvement due to several factors. First, located farther south
    than other OECS countries, the Government perceived its vulnerability to hurricanes to be


                                                  - 4 -

    substantially lower than other Caribbean states. In addition, due to the electoral cycle, the
    project was not seen as an urgent priority to the Government.

    During this time, the Bank team continued its dialogue with the Government. This increased
    the technical authorities understanding of the disaster risks they faced.       When a new
    administration was elected in early 2002, the Government was able to focus on longer term
    objectives, including disaster management. The project was re-activated and put on a fast
    track processing.

    The project framework was well conceived and its design incorporated lessons learned from
    the implementation of APL1. Whereas the first phase under APL1 was rapidly conceived and
    prepared (including both emergency response and longer-term mitigation), the design for the
    Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project (ERDMP) concentrated on balancing
    a longer-term approach to disaster management with preventive mitigation. Besides this new
    approach, the project benefited from immediate and close coordination with donors, resulting
    in agreements on key activities and focused co-financing within the APL framework.

    Project design, however, suffered from poor cost estimates made on very preliminary designs,
    particularly for the major civil works.     In hindsight, the Bank should have paid greater
    attention to reviewing designs and updating cost estimates. In doing so, substantial cost
    overruns for major civil works (paid for by the government) during implementation could have
    been avoided or at least reduced.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:


    Overall the outcome of the project is rated satisfactory.

    The first objective, strengthening key economic and social infrastructure and facilities with
    the aim of minimizing damage caused by future disasters and reducing the disruption of
    economic activity in the event of disaster emergencies (pre-disaster works), was
    satisfactorily met through the completion of all physical mitigation measures financed under
    the project, albeit with some delays. This included the rehabilitation and expansion of the
    EOC, retrofitting of schools and health centers, road rehabilitation and sea defense works at
    Layou, and preparation of technical studies. It should be noted that because of cost overruns,
    the government provided some US$1 million to cover the financing gap and complete the
    works.

    The second objective, strengthening the Government's disaster response capacity, was fully
    met through extensive training of ODP (renamed National Emergency Management Office or
    NEMO in early 2003) staff and purchase of emergency and communications equipment.
    NEMO has made good use of the technical assistance provided under the project to revise
    emergency procedures, establish adequate information and distribution systems, and launch
    effective public awareness programs




                                                - 5 -

    The third objective, strengthening the country's institutional capacities to prepare for and
    respond to disaster emergencies in an efficient and effective manner, was fully met, as a
    result of the project. Together with strong political support and financial backing of the
    government, NEMO has been established as a full-fledged disaster management agency with a
    permanent staff and a separate budget line in the Prime Minister's Office. It is now expanding
    its activities at the local community level with its own resources and additional assistance
    received from other donors. Though somewhat improved, the capacity of the Ministry of
    Works to undertake mitigation activities still remains a concern.

4.2 Outputs by components:

    I. Strengthening Disaster Management Capacity (Appraisal US$3.07 million/Actual US$2.37
    million)

    The strengthening disaster management capacity component is rated satisfactory

    Implementation can be judged fully successful as the Government provided strong support and
    adequate human and financial resources to strengthen the country's disaster management
    capacity.

    a. The ODP has been transformed into the National Emergency Management Office
        (NEMO) with an expanded disaster management mandate directly under the Prime
        Minister. A permanent National Disaster Coordinator (NDC) and a Deputy NDC have
        been recruited. NEMO is fully operational at the rehabilitated EOC and has a staff
        complement of nine professionals supplemented by short-term experts as needed.

        The rehabilitation of the EOC was originally delayed because of incomplete design and
        foundation problems that were discovered when construction started. The EOC has now
        been completed and is fully equipped; it serves as headquarters to NEMO.

        All emergency equipment and supplies (3 sets) have been purchased and delivered to the
        EOC. NEMO has stored this equipment at a facility provided by South COM and has
        prepared a detailed plan for distribution and emergency arrangements.          In addition,
        NEMO has established a computerized database to monitor and manage emergency
        equipment and supplies.

        A comprehensive public awareness campaign and training program has been developed
        under the project. Training manuals have been prepared for i) EOC management, ii)
        disaster management, iii) shelter management, iv) damage and needs assessment, and v)
        community mobilization. A full scale community management training program has also
        been initiated with the assistance of bank financed experts in media, hazard mapping,
        search and rescue and disaster management.

    b. All emergency communications equipment has been purchased and installed at NEMO.
        Training for NEMO staff in the use of this equipment has also been provided.



                                                - 6 -

    Early warning systems, including procurement of equipment and training for the National
    Meteorological Service (NMS), originally planned to be financed under the project was
    provided by the Caribbean Institute for Meteorology and Hydrology. Savings were used
    to compensate for part of the additional cost incurred on civil works.

c. The government initially planned for a shelter retrofitting program of about a dozen
    facilities. Because of higher costs than originally expected, a total of 7 shelters were
    retrofitted, including five schools and two community centers. A training plan for shelter
    management and operations has also been completed.

d. The stock of metallic bridges and gabion baskets was purchased in 2002 and stored at the
    Ministry of Works. The ministry has yet to identify candidates and determine the date for
    training in the use of the bridge equipment.

e. The technical assistance to improve the capacity of the Ministry of Works to carry out
    environmental assessments and monitoring has been executed but its recommendations are
    yet to be implemented.

II. Preventive Physical Mitigation (Appraisal US$2.45 million/Actual US$4.20 million)

The preventative physical mitigation component is rated satisfactory

The sea defenses and road rehabilitation works at Layou were long delayed because of lack of
design and bill of quantities from the Ministry of Works, as well as limited follow up action on
the part of the PCU. Due to this delay, outside engineering consultants were recruited to
prepare the detailed design and bidding documents. The final estimated cost of the works was
about 320 percent more than the appraisal estimate. To proceed with construction of the
Layou sea defense, the Government decided to reallocate some of the project savings and
make available US$1 million from its own resources in order to make up for the funding
shortfall. Also, thanks to the impetus given by the new PCU management team, overall
implementation of this component improved. At project completion, in addition to the Layou
Sea Defense and Road Rehabilitation, river bank and flood protection works were completed
at Langley Park, Buccament and Colonrie. Seven hurricane shelters, including five schools,
were retrofitted and strengthened, along with five health centers.

Studies under Physical Mitigation
All studies were initially delayed for about two years and were eventually contracted when a
new PCU management team was put in place. By the closing date of the project, each study
envisioned under the project had been completed, with final drafts delivered to the
Government. These studies include the Integrated Coastal Zone Management Study, the
Flooding Risk, Hazard Mapping and Critical River Crossing Study and the Feasibility Study
for Kingstown Drainage. In the case of the final two studies, the consultants who conducted
the analysis made presentations to cabinet, including their findings and recommendations for
follow-on action. The Government, in collaboration with NEMO, is now in the process of
developing a program to address these needs.



                                             - 7 -

   III. Project Management (Appraisal US$0.68 million/Actual US$0.71 million)

    Despite high turnover, the Borrower managed to maintain key staff (Financial Management
    and Procurement Officers) in position for most of the project. The project financed some
    equipment for the PCU, including office equipment and vehicles. Financial reporting was
    initially deficient but gradually improved through support from the project team and additional
    training. For the most part, financial audits were submitted on time

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

    At project close, all planned investments had been completed, although the project
    experienced cost over-runs of US$1 million, or 17 percent of the value of the project - and
    some activities were scaled back. The cost over-runs were financed by the Government to
    ensure that key infrastructure improvements were completed.

    The original outcome of the analysis was a Net Present Value (NPV) of US$26.3 million.
    Actual expenditures were taken into account, which reflected increased costs and higher
    expenditures in the last two years of project implementation. Estimated benefits as a result of
    infrastructure work were reduced from 10 percent to 9 percent of GDP to take into
    consideration a reduction in the amount of work financed including a reduced number of
    health centers and shelters retrofitted and riverbanks strengthened. The result of this analysis
    was a revised NPV of $21.3 million. Despite this drop, the value of the project is readily
    apparent and highly positive.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

    This analysis is not applicable since this is a non-revenue generating project

4.5 Institutional development impact:

    The project has proven to be an effective vehicle to sensitize core government agencies to
    disaster management issues. Through the provision of an adequate mix of structural and
    non-structural measures, the project had a substantial impact on improving the country's
    capacity to handle future disasters. Executive levels of government have fully recognized the
    importance of disaster management and the government have displayed strong support and
    leadership to adequately staff NEMO and to provide the financial resources needed to sustain
    its operations.

    NEMO is a full-fledged disaster management agency directly under the Prime Minister's
    office. It is now developing disaster management capacity at the community level through the
    provision of training financed by government resources directly allocated under a separate
    budget line. Through dynamic leadership and by actively working with communities around
    the country, NEMO seems to have gained the trust of the nation. By involving communities,
    the issue of disaster management has resonated and NEMO has been awarded with substantial
    funds to maintain operations after project close.




                                                  - 8 -

    Overall, the combined effect of this project and the strong commitment of the government
    point to an improved institutional capacity to prepare for, mitigate and respond to disasters in
    St. Vincent and the Grenadines.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

    Although Hurricane Ivan, which passed through the OECS in September 2004, did not cause
    as severe damage as it did in neighboring Grenada, the Government fully grasped the
    importance of having good disaster management systems in place when this event occurred.
    This event, combined with the change of PCU staff constituted a key turning point for the
    project and the overall performance and outlook improved markedly thereafter.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

    Government's commitment to develop NEMO into a full-fledged disaster agency and to
    provide substantial resources needed to offset cost overruns on major civil works was critical
    to the successful achievement of project objectives.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

    From the start, the PCU was weak and unfamiliar with bank requirements and procedures.
    Despite heavy hand holding from the Bank, the performance of the PCU remained poor and
    the project was rated unsatisfactory for more than a year. In October 2004, a new project
    coordinator was appointed and a highly motivated engineer/procurement officer was assigned
    to the PCU. From that point, implementation rebounded and improved steadily.

    Throughout project implementation, the Ministry of Works could not mobilize sufficient in
    house technical expertise to prepare and monitor the implementation of the components falling
    under its responsibility. As a result, substantial delays occurred in the preparation of designs
    and technical studies.

    NEMO's pro-active leadership was critical to the successful implementation of the
    institutional strengthening component.

5.4 Costs and financing:

    There were substantial cost overruns on the Layou Sea Defense and Road Rehabilitation and
    the EOC retrofitting because of lack of detailed design and only rough cost estimates available
    at appraisal. Moreover, additional expenses were incurred on the rehabilitation of the EOC
    because building foundation problems were found when construction started. Instead of
    requesting supplemental financing from the Bank, the Government made available an
    additional US$1 million from its own resources to cover the financing gap and complete the
    works.

    At project completion, the total project cost was US$7.12 million.



                                                     - 9 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:


    On balance, overall sustainability is likely. NEMO has successful in increasing disaster
    risk management awareness at the community level. However, the capacity of the
    Ministry of Works to adequately maintain new assets and follow through with
    recommendations for follow-on mitigation work is questionable.

    The gains made under the project to strengthen the country's disaster management capacity
    are the most likely to be sustained. Placed directly under the Prime Minister, NEMO is now
    full-fledged organization well staffed with qualified professionals supplemented by short-term
    consultants as needed. The government is backing up its commitment to maintain an effective
    disaster management agency by providing some US$500,000 from its own resources in 2006
    to NEMO. It also plans to allocate additional resources in the order of US$750,000 for 2007
    and 2008.

    Awareness of disaster management issues has successfully taken hold throughout the country.
    Local disaster committees meet regularly and through these meetings, knowledge is
    disseminated to the communities. Two key factors have led to this success. First, the near
    misses of Hurricane Ivan in 2004 and Hurricane Emily in 2005 highlighted the Government's
    need to install adequate institutional infrastructure to ensure an effective response to such
    events. While not directly affected by these storms in a significant manner, the hurricanes
    provided the means to raise community understanding of the threats posed by such events.
    Strong leadership within NEMO also proved successful in promoting disaster management.
    Officials actively communicated with communities affected by civil works financed under the
    project to provide background and rationale to the interventions. Through these meetings, in
    addition to strengthening the physical infrastructure, NEMO was able to promote community
    level awareness and boost support for the local disaster committees.

    Provided adequate budgetary resources are made available, all physical investments provided
    under the project are expected to be sustainable. However, the limited capacity of the Ministry
    of Works is a concern as to the adequate maintenance of assets. Moreover, the capacity of
    the Ministry of Works to ensure that the recommendations of the technical studies become
    operational is questionable.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

    Maintenance of sea defense works at Layou is the responsibility of the Ministry of
    Communications and Works. Additional gabion baskets are available for mitigation works
    and metallic bridge sections are available for emergencies.

    All communication equipment and emergency supplies are properly stored at the EOC and
    NEMO has developed detailed plans and procedures to distribute them in case of an
    emergency.



                                                  - 10 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:


    Bank performance for lending is rated marginally satisfactory.

    The Bank's preparation work adequately reflected lessons learned from the implementation of
    APL1. By continuing a dialogue with the Government between 2000 and 2002, the team was
    able to increase the capacity of the Government to understand its vulnerability to natural
    disasters.   The team's project documentation provided a good basis for implementation.
    However, detailed cost estimates of major civil works (Sea Defense and Road Rehabilitation
    at Layou and the EOC) could have been assessed in greater detail during project preparation.

7.2 Supervision:


    Frequency and quality of supervision is rated satisfactory.

    During implementation there were 15 supervision missions. Most missions consisted of a
    disaster management specialist, an operations officer and a civil engineer/procurement
    specialist. Most missions also provided substantial hand holding to the PCU. In three cases,
    missions were by individual experts, twice by a financial management specialist and once by a
    procurement specialist who carried out an Independent Procurement Review (IPR). There
    was a comprehensive annual review in 2003 when a range of implementation issues was
    discussed. Supervision reports were well prepared and thorough. They included detailed
    checklists and timetables for tracking the progress of each component. These checklists,
    which were updated by each mission, provided a good basis to monitor progress and to assess
    the final results.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:


    Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

    Despite the lack of accurate cost estimates at appraisal, given the country's weak project
    preparation and implementation capacity, Bank preparation and supervision efforts were
    consistently thorough. The Bank team provided strong support in a responsive and flexible
    manner during implementation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:


    Government performance during preparation is rated marginally satisfactory.

    Project preparation was initially delayed because of lack of commitment from the Government
    due to weak awareness of the risks they faced and general the elections in the country at the



                                               - 11 -

    time. By maintaining a dialogue with the Bank during this time, the Government began to
    better understand its vulnerabilities to adverse natural events. Once the project preparation
    was re-activated by a newly elected administration in 2002, the Government demonstrated its
    commitment to the project and rapid processing of project components.

7.5 Government implementation performance:


    Government implementation performance is rated satisfactory.

    The Government gave strong support to the project, especially after it realized the importance
    of having sound disaster management systems in place to cope with an event of the magnitude
    of Hurricane Ivan that struck neighboring Grenada in September 2004. The Government also
    took decisive action to improve the PCU management when project implementation was rated
    unsatisfactory. It provided the necessary financial and human resources required to develop
    NEMO into a full-fledged disaster management agency. The Government also mobilized its
    own resources to cover the cost overruns incurred on the Sea Defense and Road
    Rehabilitation at Layou, a clear testimony of its commitment to a successful outcome.

    It also appears that the Prime Minister Office took a strong interest in enhancing disaster
    mitigation in the wake of Hurricane Ivan.       This was evidenced by the professional and
    organized preparation of the Government for the onset of Hurricane Emily in July 2005, as
    witnessed by a Bank team.

7.6 Implementing Agency:


    On balance, implementing agency performance is rated marginally satisfactory.

    From the start, the PCU management was weak and its staff was unfamiliar with Bank
    fiduciary requirements and procedures.       Despite considerable support provided by Bank
    supervision missions, the performance of the PCU remained poor and the project was rated
    unsatisfactory for about 16 months. In October 2004, a new project coordinator and a highly
    motivated engineer/procurement officer were appointed at the PCU. From that point on, the
    performance of the PCU improved steadily and the project was completed satisfactorily, albeit
    with a six month delay.

    Throughout the project, the performance of the Ministry of Works was weak as it faced a
    critical shortage of experienced technical staff and remained reluctant to call for outside
    expertise in order to compensate for this shortfall. As a result, preparation of detailed designs
    and bidding documents for civil works was substantially delayed. Also, the Ministry's input in
    the preparation of the technical studies was limited.

    From the outset, NEMO performed well its advocacy and coordination role under strong
    leadership.   It played an important role in developing the trust and ownership of local
    communities benefiting from the implementation of civil works through public consultations
    and awareness campaigns. Thanks to strong commitment and financial support from the
    Government as well as donors, NEMO has evolved into a well run and technically sound



                                               - 12 -

    full-fledged organization, possibly one of the most effective disaster management agencies in
    the OECS countries.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:


    Overall borrower performance is rated satisfactory.

    Most of the project components, including the most important works, studies and equipment
    procurement were implemented - albeit with a six month delay due to slow initial
    implementation. Throughout the project, the Government remained committed to achieving
    successfully the project objectives; it took remedial action to improve project management
    when implementation was lagging behind schedule and provided the necessary resources to
    complete all works and develop NEMO into an effective organization. In the end, St. Vincent
    has an improved physical infrastructure capable to better withstand the impact of catastrophic
    events and possesses a much enhanced institutional capacity to prepare for, respond to, and
    mitigate disasters.

8. Lessons Learned


    Harnessing the trust and ownership of local communities is essential to successfully undertake
    major mitigation works. In the case of this project, the early involvement of the disaster
    agency (NEMO) in building community awareness and informing the local population of the
    purpose and benefits of major mitigation works was a key factor to achieving a positive
    outcome of the project.

    When a project is put in abeyance during preparation and subsequently re-activated on a fast
    track processing schedule, the Bank needs to pay closer attention to the revision of design and
    cost estimates for major civil works. This would help avoid or at least limit, the potential for
    substantial cost overruns experienced under this project.

    When faced with critical shortage of technical expertise as it was the case for major civil
    works with the Ministry of Works, the Government should consider more systematic
    recruitment of outside expertise. The cost of this expertise is most likely to be offset by the
    cost overruns incurred because of delays in preparation of detailed design and bill of
    quantities.

    The Bank needs to consider requiring performance guarantees in consultant contracts and
    applying penalties for late submission of expected outputs.




                                               - 13 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
    Executive Summary

    The Government of St. Vincent and the Grenadines (GoSVG) received a loan from the
    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) in the amount US$3.0
    million and a credit from the International Development Association (IDA) in the amount
    US$2.4 million equivalent, towards the cost of the Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
    Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project (SVGERDMP). The counterpart
    financing as per loan agreement was US$0.9 Million, but the Government committed an
    additional US$1 million, contributing US$0.45 million to finance cost over-runs. This ensured
    the completion of critical infrastructure contracts that exceeded the original budgetary
    allocation.

    The Project was declared effective on 11th September 2002. The project was scheduled to be
    implemented over a three-year time frame but was extended for an additional six (6) months
    to ensure the completion of several activities.

    The project preparatory phase was long and challenging. Limited institutional capacity at the
    ministerial level, among other issues, delayed the project start-up. During implementation,
    this issue plagued the project and resulted in numerous delays and cost escalation. Thankfully,
    swift action was taken to avert the challenges from extending beyond irreparable limits. In the
    end, the main objectives of the project were met and the project was declared satisfactory.

    Credit must be given to the World Bank team that worked with the government during the
    planning and implementation of the project. Overall, their performance on this project was
    good.

    The life of the project certainly extends beyond the official closing date of 30th June 2006.
    The performance of the many civil works interventions would now be put to the test and the
    recommendations of the various studies would have to be implemented. It is critical that the
    necessary maintenance of the new and refurbished infrastructure be diligently completed to
    prolong the useful life of the infrastructure. Recommendations made in the studies ought to
    be translated into tangible projects as soon as possible to maximise benefits.

    Background

    Borrower/Implementing Agency: Ministry of Finance, Economic Planning, National Security,
    Legal Affairs and Grenadines Affairs (previously Ministry of Finance, Planning and
    Development).

    Implementing partners: Ministry of Transport and Works; Ministry of National Security,
    Ministry of Telecommunication, Science Technology and Industry, National Emergency



                                                 - 14 -

Management Organisation (NEMO), Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Meteorological
Services, National Telecom Regulatory Commission.

The Project Coordinating Unit was staffed as follows:

        PCU Staff                  Current                  Predecessors            At Appraisal
Project Coordinator        Hudson Nedd                *1 (Decima Corea)        Hudson Nedd
Project Accountant         David Telesford                       n/a                    n/a
Procurement Specialist     Maurice John               Maurice Anderson &            n/a
                                                      Peter Cateau
Administrative Asst.       Ronette Jordon             Betty Murphy, *2Janelle           n/a
                                                      Allen & Diane Dacon;
                                                      *3Alisha Francis
Notes: *1Acted for 1 yr. (09/04-09-05); *2Assigned temp. (2003-04); *3Served at Start-up

Quality at Entry

The SVGERDMP was part of a regional programme involving the five members of the
Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS).            Though it followed a template, the
Government of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines determined the areas that it assessed to be
most critical.    The World Bank's evaluation of the weak institutional base in disaster
management mandated that a bonafide disaster management unit, staffed with a basic
minimum number of personnel, be established as a condition of effectiveness.

The responsibility for project execution shifted ministries several times before finally settling
down in the Ministry of Finance. The Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) was created to
facilitate the coordination of all project activities and implementing partners alike. The bank
contributed significantly to the strengthening of the PCU by sending in personnel to assist in
setting up the unit. However, this intention was never fully realised due to several mitigating
factors.   It became apparent that there were several ill-defined activities in the project.
Several activities lacked appropriateness in terms of cost estimates and the technical
specifications were at best minimal.

The Ministry of Transport and Work's limited in-house capacity led them to rescind their offer
of technical assistance. As a result, project costs increased and the PCU was forced to take
on additional responsibility, which slowed the rate of implementation. Some of the agreed
responses to their lack of participation included reducing the scope of works for some of the
activities, recruiting consultancy services where appropriate, and cancelling items.

Achievement of Objectives

The objective of the project, as described in the Loan Agreement, was to assist the Borrower
(the Government of St. Vincent and the Grenadines) enhance the management and mitigation
of disasters through the provision of resources and infrastructure necessary to respond to
hazards brought on by hurricanes. The program also aimed at enhancing the capacity of
disaster management agencies to mitigate the adverse effects of disasters that regularly strike



                                             - 15 -

the island, including floods, landslides and sea surges. To this end, the program aimed to
support the strengthening of physical infrastructure to better withstand the effects of natural
disasters and to enhance institutional capacity to improve responsiveness once disasters have
struck.

The overall objectives of the project were achieved to a satisfactory level. At the revised
closing date of the project, 30th June 2006, all but two activities agreed upon in the Project
Appraisal Document were successfully implemented. The civil works, goods, services and
training delivered through the project were for the most part relevant and timely. Despite the
limited capacity residing in the agencies concerned, they provided reasonable support.

The Government of St. Vincent and the Grenadines was very committed to the success of the
project to the extent that it contributed additional financing to the project to ensure
completion of the activities. The Government and all the relevant stakeholders must act
quickly to implement follow-on projects to ensure that the objectives of the project are
sustained and even improved over time.

Institutional Development Impact

The design of the project took into consideration all the weak areas of disaster management in
St. Vincent and the Grenadines. The components reflected a balanced approach to addressing
the challenges.   A key element of institutional strengthening was the establishment and
equipping of a National Emergency Management Office. Other agencies were targeted for
strengthening but lost opportunities due to their limited participation.

The project design incorporated several assumptions, including the ability of the implementing
partnering agencies to execute the project, in particular, the Ministry of Works. The agency
did not programme project commitments into their annual work programme citing limited staff
among other things. The withdrawal of their support at the last minute prompted the
procurement of outside support and resulted in the increased cost in the project. In most
cases, the knowledge transfer opportunities were minimal.

The project revitalised disaster management at the community level.          The revision and
enactment of emergency instruments and plans and the creation of public education material
impacted the country in a positive way. As a result of institutional strengthening achieved
under the project, NEMO is better poised to benefit from regional and international support.

The issue of ownership in disaster management was an area of weakness cited during project
design. As a result of limited capacity, the project was designed with very little contribution
from the borrower. This contributed to significant delays in the implementation process.
There were other physical site-specific constraints (size, orientation and adjoining land uses)
working contra to the project designs.

The borrower established the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) to manage the Disaster
Management Project. It took some time to become fully organised and there was staff



                                           - 16 -

attrition at critical junctures that put the projects at risk. The PCU was at times stretched to
the limits with the concurrent management of the SVG Emergency Recovery and Disaster
Management Project and three other projects. The staff had too many issues to address at
once, and often times had to lead many of the activities in order for them to be implemented.
The staff turnover in the PCU, in particular, three Procurement Officers and four
Administrative Assistants, also presented some challenges. However, the staff persevered to
see the implementation ratings moved from unsatisfactory to satisfactory.

Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank

The World Bank provided good support during the planning and appraisal and implementation
of the project. They provided expert advice to keep the project on course using regular
follow-up missions. Lending was relatively fast, i.e. the appraisal and approval process was
short. Notwithstanding, the procurement procedures along with project design limitations
contributed to slow-downs.

The Bank's support for the project contributed to the success of the project. The team from
the Bank was able to create a useful link between the OECS member state that were
implementing similar projects, which created opportunities for sharing related experience and
knowledge. The Bank has on several occasions and in various forms, provided relevant
training to the PCU.

In general the Bank's performance and association with the project, particularly during post
`effectiveness' was excellent. Invaluable guidance was provided to the PCU all along the
implementation phase of the project.

Borrower

The Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project is not the first project to be
funded by the World Bank in St Vincent and the Grenadines. However, the Government of
St. Vincent and the Grenadines had to establish a new execution unit to implement the project.
Building the organisation took some time and its strengthening its capacity also took time.
However, the team was very enthusiastic and accelerated the learning curve.

The PCU was challenged by the limited capacity within the Ministry of Works. The void
created was filled by recruiting the necessary design and supervision consultants. Beneficiary
agencies had very limited technical knowledge of many of the subprojects. They were,
however, cooperative and made use of every training opportunity provided under the
subprojects.

Counterpart funding was never limited on this project. The Government of St. Vincent and
the Grenadines provided adequate and timely financial support for the project to ensure that
the project was successfully implemented.



                                              - 17 -

    Overall, the borrower performed satisfactorily despite many challenges along the way. The
    human resource capacity of the PCU and the stakeholder agencies has increased several fold.
    Some of the benefits accruing to the borrower include:

    1. Formalising the disaster management processes into mainstream planning.
    2. Establishing a cadre of trained disaster management assistants at the community level.
    3. Deepening of the partnership between the lender and borrower.
    4. Strengthening of the regional (OECS) networking for the management of World Bank
    funded projects.
    5. Increasing project management capacity within St. Vincent and the Grenadines. The PCU
    along with the other stakeholders were further educated on the importance of coordination in
    project implementation.
    6. Training of PCU staff in World Bank procurement and financial procedures.
    7. Provision and strengthening of critical infrastructure designed to mitigate against disaster
    events.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                - 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                      1
                Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Operational emergency procedures and              National Disaster Management Plan             100% achieved
mobilization guidelines in place as per           completed
international standards by June 2004.

Improved reporting of weather information by Implemented by the NMS (National                   100% achieved
the National Meteorological Service (NMS) to Meteorological Service), with support from
the Office of Disaster Preparedness (ODP)         Caribbean Institute for Meteorology and
with: a) regularity (at least once daily); and b) Hydrology
quality (verified by missions of the Caribbean
Meteorological Organization (CMO),
Caribbean Institute for Meteorology and
Hydrology (CIMH).

Enhanced ability of ODP to accurately             The following emergency management plans 100% achieved
analyze incoming information and data on          are complete (i) EOC Management; (ii)
emergencies and serve as a single "clearing Disaster Management; (iii) Shelter
house" for early warning information and          Management; (iv) Damage and Needs
dissemination (as evidenced by timely             Assessment; and (v) community mobilization.
decision making, the triggering of emergency
procedures and timely dissemination of
warnings by ODP to populations at risk).

Increased number of people serviced by            7 Shelters (5 schools and 2 community         Mostly achieved, although scaled down from
adequate shelters due to retrofitting program. centers) retrofitted                             original 20 shelters

Strengthened capacity in the Ministry of          Goods and equipment and technical analysis Somewhat achieved
Transport, Works and Housing (MTWH) to            for environmental management have been
carry out works during emergencies, and           delivered, but training has not taken place.
prepare EIAs and monitor mitigation
measures.


Output Indicators:
                                                                                      1
                Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
1.1 Existing National Emergency Advisory          Permanent Director and Deputy Director of     100% achieved
Council (NEAC) streamlined by the end of          the National Emergency Management Office
calendar year 2003 into a full-fledged            have been assigned, along with 7-full time
National Hazard Mitigation Council (NHMC). and 4 part-time staff. Budget line item
1.2 Adequate staffing and financial resources     created for the sustainability of NEMO.
for ODP in line with the civil service reform
recommendations. 1.3 Draft legislation by
mid calendar year 2003 to formalize ODP as
an agency with specific authority to
coordinate all disaster management activities
and agencies involved during emergencies.
1.4. Training of High-level Government
Officials in disaster and emergency
management.


2.1 At least 72-hour advance warning for          Meteorological equipment installed by outside 100% achieved
NMS to ODP of impending tropical events.          assistance. # District Disaster Coordinators
2.2 Number of District Disaster Coordinators      in place.
(DDCs) reached, and reduced response time
of those coordinators to an emergency.


3.1 Efficient shelter management procedures 7 Shelters (5 schools and 2 community               Mostly achieved, although scaled down from
in place. 3.2 Number of shelters retrofitted.     centers) retrofitted along with shelter       original 20 shelters
3.3. Number of shelter mangers actually from      management plan.
communities. 3.4 At least one shelter
manager per shelter trained and in place.




                                                                      - 19 -

4.1 Capacity in the MTWH to erect on-site     Metallic bridges purchased, technical        Somewhat achieved
metallic bridges of a 10 to 15 meter span in  analysis delivered, but training has not yet
less than 4 days. 4.2 Design standards and    taken place.
monitoring guidelines elaborated; Ministry of
Health and Environment, Environmental
Management Unit trained in preparing EIAs;
and MTWH staff trained in monitoring the
implementation of mitigation measures.


5.1 Sea wall reconstructed at Layou. 5.2      Construction completed for Layou Sea         100% achieved
Flood protection/gabion works at selected     Defense and riverbanks strengthened at
river-crossing sites (Georgetown,             Langley Park and Colonrie.
Buccament, Colonrie) completed.


6.1 Recommendations of three major studies Studies completed. Funds have been              100% achieved
financed by the project reviewed by           allocated by the Government for
Government before December 2004, and          implementation of a number of
approved recommendations implemented          recommendations made.
before December 2005.

1 End of project




                                                                - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
1. Strengthening Disaster Management Capacity
   a. ODP Strengthening                                      0.78            0.98             125
   b. Emergency Communications/Early Warning                 0.50            0.33              66
   c. Shelters Program                                       1.33            0.88              66
   d. Strengthening MTWH Capacity                            0.46            0.18              40
2. Preventative Physical Mitigation
   a. River Training and Protection                          1.00            1.10             110
   b. Coast Protection                                       0.70            2.24             322
   c. Feasibility Study for Kingstown Drainage               0.20            0.23             114
   d. Health Centers Rehabilitation                          0.55            0.63             114
3. Project Management                                        0.68            0.55              81

Total Baseline Cost                                          6.20            7.12
 Physical Contingencies                                      0.60
 Price Contingencies                                         0.00
                           Total Project Costs               6.80            7.12
                    Total Financing Required                 6.80            7.12


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB           NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                             0.57           3.47         0.00         0.00          4.04
                                    (0.49)         (2.95)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (3.44)
2. Goods                             1.07           0.00         0.12         0.00          1.19
                                    (1.02)         (0.00)      (0.11)         (0.00)       (1.13)
3. Services                          0.00           0.00         1.54         0.00          1.54
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (1.31)         (0.00)       (1.31)
4. Operating Expenses                0.00           0.00         0.03         0.00          0.03
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.02)         (0.00)       (0.02)
   Total                             1.64           3.47         1.69         0.00          6.80
                                    (1.51)         (2.95)      (1.44)         (0.00)       (5.90)




                                                - 21 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 2.04               3.15              0.00             0.00              5.19
                                           (1.63)             (2.51)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (4.14)
   2. Goods                                 0.59               0.00              0.10             0.00              0.69
                                           (0.52)             (0.00)            (0.07)            (0.00)           (0.59)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              0.99             0.00              0.99
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.74)            (0.00)           (0.74)
   4. Operating Expenses                    0.00               0.00              0.25             0.00              0.25
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.20)            (0.00)           (0.20)
       Total                                2.63               3.15              1.34             0.00              7.12
                                           (2.15)             (2.51)            (1.01)            (0.00)           (5.67)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Strengthening Disaster
Management Capacity
a. ODP Strengthening            0.61         0.17                     0.79         0.20                  129.5    117.6
b. Emergency                    0.46         0.05                     0.30         0.03                  65.2      60.0
Communications/Early
Warning
c. Shelters Program             1.00         0.33                     0.69         0.19                  69.0      57.6
d. Strengthening MTWH           0.40         0.06                     0.15         0.03                  37.5      50.0
Capacity
2. Preventative Physical
Mitigation
a. River Training and           0.76         0.25                     0.86         0.26                  113.2    104.0
Protection
b. Coast Protection             0.52         0.17                     1.74         0.49                  334.6    288.2
c. Feasibility Study for        0.50         0.15                     0.18         0.05                  36.0      33.3
Kingstown Drainage
d. Health Centers               0.41         0.14                     0.49         0.15                  119.5    107.1
Rehabilitation
3. Project Management           0.53         0.15                     0.45         0.11                  84.9      73.3




                                                           - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The economic rationale for disaster management and mitigation is based on the premise that
improved recuperative capacity of the economy will lower any adverse longer term impacts on the
country's economic growth trajectory. The costs of disasters can be broken down into two parts:
firstly, the opportunity cost of not being able to safeguard the population and their property, and
secondly, the opportunity cost of lost economic activity, especially if damages to physical
infrastructure leads to prolonged disruptions in economic activity. Due to the unpredictable nature
of adverse natural events ­ and the difficulty in measuring total damages averted due to activities
financed by the project - the examination was completed using sensitivity analysis.

An economic analysis was completed during project preparation. The project's investment costs
and expected benefits were calculated over a twenty year period and variables used included a
base assumption of 10 percent likelihood of the passage of a major hurricane over St. Vincent and
the Grenadines. For damages averted as a result of the project, the base assumption made was
that on average, the investments from the project can save a value equal to 10 percent of GDP
that would otherwise have been destroyed by a major hurricane (or that could result from
damages caused by storm surges).

At project close, all planned investments had been completed, although the project experienced
cost over-runs of US$1 million, or 17 percent of the value of the project and some activities were
scaled back.     The cost over-runs were financed by the Government to ensure that key
infrastructure improvements were completed.

To reflect these changes, the same analysis as conducted during project preparation was applied at
project close. The original outcome of the analysis was a Net Present Value (NPV) of US$26.3
million.     Actual expenditures were inputted, which reflected increased costs and higher
expenditures in the last two years of project implementation. Estimated benefits as a result of
infrastructure work were reduced from 10 percent to 9 percent to take into account a reduction in
the amount of work financed including a reduced number of health centers and shelters retrofitted
and riverbanks strengthened. The result of this analysis was a revised NPV of $21.3 million.
Despite this drop, the value of the project is readily apparent and highly positive.




                                                 - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              01/21/2000                8    LEAD SPECIALIST, TTL (1);
                                             URBAN SPEC. (1);
                                             TRANSPORT SPEC. (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             SPEC. (1); ECONOMIST (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1);
                                             DISASTER SPEC. (2)
              05/24/2001                1    LEAD SPECIALIST, TTL (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/12/2001                2    LEAD SPECIALIST, TTL
                                             (1); CIVIL ENGINEER (1)

 Supervision
              02/12/2002                3     LEAD SPECIALIST, TTL            S               S
                                             (1); ENGINEER,
                                             CONSULTANT (1);
                                             PROGRAM OFFICER (1)
              10/17/2002                5     LEAD SPECIALIST, TTL (1);       S               S
                                             PROGRAM OFFICER (1);
                                             INTERN (1); ENGINEER (1);
                                             DISASTER SPECIALIST (1)
              02/15/2003                3     LEAD SPECIALIST, TTL (1);       S               S
                                             CIVIL ENGINEER (1);
                                             PROGRAM OFFICER
              08/26/2003                2     LEAD SPECIALIST, TTL (1);       U               S
                                             CIVIL ENGINEER (1)
              02/27/2004                1     LEAD SPECIALIST, TTL (1)        U               S
              09/12/2004                3     LEAD SPECIALIST, TTL (1);       U               S
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER
              11/29/2004                3    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);          S               S
                                             DISASTER SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CIVIL ENGINEER (1)
              01/29/2005                1    ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC (1)           S               S
              04/13/2005                2    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);          S               S
                                             CIVIL ENGINEER (1)
              05/18/2005                1    DISASTER SPEC. (1)               S               S
              07/12/2005                2    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);          S               S
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1)
              11/09/2005                2    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);          S               S
                                             CIVIL ENGINEER (1)




                                              - 24 -

 ICR
               02/25/2006             3     OPERATIONS OFFICER                S    S
                                            (1); OPERATIONS SPEC.
                                            (1); CIVIL ENGINEER (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               22                           62
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    15                           42
  Supervision                              27                          105
  ICR                                       4                           11
  Total                                    68                          220




                                            - 25 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

-Project Appraisal Document - Report No. 24050-STV
-Environmental Impact Assessment - March 2002
-Document Credit Agreement No. 36440-SV, June 13, 2002
-Document Loan Agreement No. 71160-SV, June 13, 2002
-Mid Term Review, February 25, 2004
-Loan/Credit Extension, November 29, 2005
-Financial and Audit Reports 2003-2006
-Project Files




                                               - 28 -

- 29 -

