Report No. PID8714
Project Name                     St. Vincent and the Grenadines-St Vincent (@+)
and the Grenadines-OECS Emergency Recovery
& Disaster Management Program (APL)
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Other Public Sector Management;
Other Non-sector Specific
Project ID                       VCPE69923
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF ST VINCENT AND GRENADINES
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY FINANCE AND PLANNING, PCU,
ODP, MINISTRY WORKS
P.O. Box 608, Kingstown, St. Vincent and the
Grenadines
Tel: 784 457 1746
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                June 29, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         May 31, 2000
Projected Board Date             October 3, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
St. Vincent and the Grenadines is an archipelagic state covering over
10,600 square nautical miles of water and comprising 32 islands, nine of
which are inhabited. The country lies in the Atlantic hurricane belt and
has an active volcano, which last erupted in 1979. St. Vincent is very
vulnerable to floods, and during the last century, it has been struck by
four hurricanes, experienced four major floods, and suffered three
volcanic eruptions. As recently as November 1999, storm surges resulting
from Hurricane Lenny served to highlight the country's vulnerability to
hurricanes. While the storm did not inflict severe damages to the island,
it caused significant coastal erosion along the leeward side of St.
Vincent. The country faces special challenges due to its small size--the
island is about 340 sq. km., with a population of roughly 110,000 people,
and a GNP per capita of US$ 2,420 in 1998. Its mountainous terrain and
low population densities make the cost of providing and maintaining
economic and social infrastructure high. St. Vincent also lacks
preparedness and the institutional arrangements required to manage
emergency situations in an effective manner. In order to minimize the
adverse impacts of disasters on economic activity and to protect
communities, the government is thus seeking to strengthen the institutions
responsible for managing natural disaster situations.Tourism and
Agriculture. Tourism has become the most important foreign exchange
earning sector in St. Vincent. Agriculture has historically been
important, it represented 9.2% of GDP in 1998, but tourism and related
activities have shown rapid growth, representing roughly two-fifths of GDP
in 1998. Natural disasters can, however, have a devastating impact on the
tourism industry, since tourists are generally wary about visiting a
country that has been devastated by a tropical storm. In addition, it
also takes time following a disaster to rehabilitate the infrastructure



needed to serve the tourism industry. However, most hotels have already
protection/evacuation plans and emergency procedures, and are usually the
most proactive in repairing their facilities after hurricanes.
Agriculture is also vulnerable to natural hazards due to its dependence on
foreign trade and because it still plays an important role in contributing
to the island's economic wealth. Exports from the agricultural industry
still forms an important source of foreign exchange revenue for St.
Vincent. Roads, Transport and Coastal Areas. The transport and
communication networks are increasingly vital to St. Vincent in terms of
output (comprising over 159 of GDP), and the transport network is vital
for transporting both merchandise and people. The country's physical
infrastructure, especially the road network and the coastal areas, are
particularly vulnerable, as witnessed by the coastal erosion caused by the
storm surges associated with Hurricane Lenny in November 1999. Many
populated areas are also vulnerable to disasters, such as landslides and
floods, which not only threatens living conditions, but also have a
significant negative impact on road conditions and the road network, hence
possibly also disrupting road transport activities. Selective
strengthening of roads and bridges in key sections of the network is
needed to help minimize disruptions in transport and economic activities.
The main Eastern Coast Road will be rehabilitated under a large program of
civil works, including bridges repairs at key locations such as Argyle,
Gorse and Georgetown, a bypass road in Mount Grenan, and drainage and
flooding protection, as well as studies of options for the Byera tunnel,
and the crossing of the Rabacca river. Shelters. The government of St.
Vincent and the Grenadines has identified the existence of safe and
hurricane resistant shelters and health centers as key to disaster
management. Shelters and health centers are currently not hurricane
resistant, and not adequately managed.    There is a lack of clear
guidelines with regard to shelter management, no regular training for
shelter managers, and they are also poorly equipped for effective
functioning during an emergency (i.e. lack of generators, water supply,
etc.). In addition, the shelter managers also tend to be school
principles, who may not reside within the community where the shelter is
located.Community Involvement in Disaster Management. While District
Disaster Committees exist, they are not well trained, have weak
mobilization capacity to handle emergencies, and are not properly equipped
to effectively deal with emergency situations. Currently, District
Disaster Committees exist at the local level, but they are purely
voluntary and do not coordinate with the local level government structures
for disaster management.   The District Disaster Committees tend to act as
relief" committees rather than committees that can play an active role in
disaster preparedness and mitigation. There is thus a need to restructure
these committees, institutionalize them, and facilitate better cooperation
between them and local government structures.Public Sector Capacity.
Expertise in the public sector is generally very limited with regard to
disaster management, in spite of the existence of a dedicated disaster
management agency, the Office of Disaster Preparedness (ODP). ODP is
currently still critically understaffed, with only one professional staff
on a part-time basis, and is not housed in an appropriate office. The
current disaster management structure (Emergency Advisory Committee) also
has no real decision-making power, has many sub-committees with unclear
mandates, and hence has a need for a less bureaucratic and more
operations-oriented institutional framework.The lack of capacity within
St. Vincent's public sector institutions with regard to disaster
- 2 -



management is also reflected in the fact that: (i) there is little
planning for disaster investments and a lack of proactive efforts to
improve preparedness measures; (ii) the national disaster plan dates back
to 1986, making it operationally outdated, and it has no legal authority;
(iii) disaster emergency procedures are not regularly tested; (iv) there
is a need for better collaboration between all stakeholders, and for all
to be closely associated with emergency measures (e.g. disaster
committees, community leaders and organizations); (v) there are no real
regulations to prepare and/or enforce zoning and new building code; and
(vi) there are no early warning systems, as well as a lack of good
emergency communications.Government Strategies. The government's strategy
to strengthen disaster management capacity is to adopt and implement
institutional measures aimed at improving preparation for and response to
disaster emergencies, increase staffing in concerned agencies and
implement a comprehensive training program, and put in place sustainable
procedures to ensure quick response in case of natural disasters. The
main thrusts of the government's strategy are to:strengthen the human
resource capacity of ODP through additional professional staff financed by
Government as permanent positions, and improved disaster planning and
operational emergency procedures;institutionalize disaster management into
mainstream government functions, in particular through specialized
technical training for ODP and all concerned branches of government, as
well as other agencies, the private sector and communities;sensitize
communities to disaster preparedness and mitigation to demonstrate the
effectiveness of properly organized committees representing all sectors of
the community such as churches, schools, the business community,
etc.;review the current institutional location of ODP, and make a decision
regarding an eventual shift to the Prime Minister's office or the Ministry
of Finance; designate and renovate the building that will house the
national Emergency Operations Center (EOC), and also serve as the
headquarters of the ODP.streamline the existing National Emergency
Advisory Council (NEAC) as a full-fledged National Hazard Mitigation
Council (NHMC), with new procedures and members to serve as an
inter-ministerial body consisting of high level representatives from each
of the concerned ministries and agencies; andincrease investments in
mitigation and prevention measures.
2. Objectives
The primary development objective of the project is to strengthen St.
Vincent and the Grenadine's resilience, preparedness, response to tackle
natural disasters.This objective will be achieved by:strengthening the
country's institutional structures;building the capacity of the Office of
Disaster Preparedness (ODP) and other concerned public agencies to perform
their respective responsibilities more effectively during a
crisis;implementing a few mitigation and prevention measures to protect
key infrastructure and lifeline facilities before disasters strike, on a
pilot basis; retrofitting shelters to improve the safety of the poorer
populations;improving natural resource management; andpromoting community
involvement through organizing, training and equipping community disaster
committees in disaster preparedness and mitigation, and enhancing their
role in disaster preparedness and recovery operations.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Disaster Mitigation Experience. The Bank has gained experience,
particularly over the last five years, in preparing a number of emergency
-3 -



disaster mitigation projects, including for floods, cyclones, and El Nino
effects throughout the Latin America and Caribbean Region, as well as in
other developing countries outside this region. The lessons and best
practices from these experiences are being applied to this
project.Regional OECS Projects. The Bank has already worked on a number
of regional projects for the OECS/CARICOM countries and has established
strong working relationships, as well as experience in coordinating
regional efforts.External Expert Advice. Through the Bank's Disaster
Management Facility (DMF), the project team from the Bank includes staff
from the U.S. National Weather Service, the USAID Office of Foreign
Disaster Assistance (OFDA), and the U.S. Federal Emergency Management
Agency to provide practical, operational and state-of-the-art approaches
to emergency management. The team is also drawing upon the experience of
the Organization of American States (OAS) and USAID/OFDA in these
areas.Donor Coordination. The project has been designed in collaboration
with donors and other international organizations, in particular the CDB,
OAS and USAID/OFDA. The Dutch trust fund was used to finance the use of
consultants during project preparation.
4. Description
The APL 2 project will consist of two major components: A. strengthening
disaster management capacity, aimed at improving the country's capacity to
prepare for and respond to disaster emergencies; and B. preventive
physical mitigation, aimed at minimizing disaster-caused damages through
priority preventive infrastructure investments and associated supervision
services, as well as the necessary preliminary studies to assess the risks
and damages, and prepare detailed designs for critical priorities to be
subsequently financed. It will also include a project management
component to assit Government in discharging its overall coordination,
financial management, procurement, and reporting
responsibilities.Initially, as outlined in the original PAD prepared for
APL 1 the program sought to differentiate and support the funding of both
institutional strengthening and capacity building. Institutional
strengthening was defined as measures aimed at improving the regulatory
framework as it applies to disaster planning and mitigation (such as
improving the regulatory framework, developing a national building code,
disaster insurance, hazard analysis and vulnerability mapping), and
strengthening disaster management capacity sought to strengthen the
capacity of national institutions responsible for disaster preparedness,
mitigation and management (such as staffing, training, and equipment for
disaster-related agencies). APL 2 has been slightly restructured to focus
primarily on strengthening disaster management capacity rather than on
institutional strengthening as defined above due a number of factors: (i)
the general lack of preparation of the related activities discussed for
funding under the Bank project; (ii) the fact that other donors and
organizations in the region --which are better equipped to intervene in
these areas compared to the Bank due to their substantial experience in
the region in these matters and ability to provide funding under more
adapted regional procedures-- have expressed a willingness to continue
financing such activities under the framework provided by the APL program;
(iii) the weak country's ability to implement and enforce regulatory
reforms, so that activities aimed at institutional reform such as mapping
and zoning should be pursued only after the government's enforcement
capacity has been enhanced; and (iv) the need to streamline the Bank
projects to fit the assessment that the existing capacity within national
-4 -



institutions responsible for disaster management is still fairly weak.The
strengthening disaster management capacity component includes: 1.
institutionalizing and strengthening the Office of Disaster Preparedness
(ODP), including rehabilitating the newly-dedicated Emergency Operations
Center (EOC), strengthening its human resource capacity through a
comprehensive training program open to other agencies and communities,
elaborating/revising emergency proedures (including protection/evacuation
plans and emergency procedures for hotels), procuring emergency equipment,
rescue tools and supplies, and preparing a comprehensive disaster
management training program; 2. developing a country-wide early warning
and emergency communications system, including technical assistance and
procuring specialized equipment; 3. implementing a shelters program,
including training and retrofitting selected public buildings (schools and
community centers); and 4. capacity-building measures for the Ministry of
Communications and Works (MCW), including training and procuring stocks of
prefabricated metallic bridges and gabions.The preventive physical
mitigation component includes: 1. civil works to protect bridges and
culverts against floods, associated supervision services, and a
feasibility and design study for priority river training investments to be
carried out during the subsequent phase of the program or financed by
other donors; 2. coastal erosion protection through limited sea defenses
at Layou, and an Integrated Coastal Zone Management (ICZM) study to define
a prioritized coastal protection/sea defense and road realignment
investment program; 3. drainage and flood control, through the preparation
of a comprehensive Kingstown drainage improvement program; and 4. a
program of retrofitting works for priority clinics.The project management
component includes the funding of: 1. the specialists to be recruited in
the PCU (procurement/contract management specialist, financial
manager/accountant, and part-time disaster management specialist); 2.
office equipment; 3. separate technical and financial audits; and 4.
operating expenditures.Total costs for the project's components are listed
below (the front-end fee will be determined at negotiations).
A. Strengthening Disaster Management Capacity
B. Preventive Physical Mitigation
C. Project Management
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT                       0.91
IBRD                             2.98
IDA                              2.95
Total Project Cost               6.83
6. Implementation
Project Coordination and Management. A Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
headed by a full-time Project Coordinator (PC) has been set up within the
Ministry of Finance and Planning to coordinate and manage the project, and
will be responsible for project implementation. This Project Coordination
Unit (PCU) will be responsible for managing the different aspects of the
project, coordinating implementing agencies, keeping accounts, and
reporting to the World Bank. The PCU will also include a
procurement/contract management specialist on a part-time basis, a
full-time financial manager/accountant, and a part-time disaster
management specialist (until the ODP can be fully staffed).The National
Emergency Advisory Council will be streamlined to serve as a steering
- 5 -



committee to coordinate country-wide policy issues, approve the selection
of priority investments, and help ensure compliance with government
commitments. The committees would consist of representatives of relevant
sector ministries involved in the project, as well as representatives from
the private sector and NGOs.The preventive physical mitigation component
will be implemented by the Ministry of Communications and Works (MCW).
The shelters program will also be implemented by MCW, with the Ministry of
Education and the Ministry of Housing, Youth, Sports, Local Government and
Community Development both providing inputs to this component. ODP will
be the implementing agency for most of the component dealing with the
strengthening of disaster management capacity, and will monitor all other
activities under this component that are managed by other agencies. The
implementing agencies will work under the auspices of the PCU, and will
provide progress reports to the PCU on a monthly basis. The PCU will in
turn report on a bi-annual basis to the World Bank, and an annual
performance review will be conducted.Financial Management, Accounting, and
Auditing ArrangementsA Financial Management Assessment of the existing
financial management procedures, accounting system and administrative
controls of the Ministry of Finance and Planning was carried out and
cleared by the World Bank in February 2000. To assist with financial
management, the PCU will hire an internationally qualified
accountant/financial manager for the duration of the project. The PCU
will maintain two separate accounts for project incurred expenditures, one
account for IBRD/IDA funds (Special Account) and one account for
Government's counterpart funds (Project Account). In accordance with the
Bank's Loan Administrative Change Initiative (LACI), the PCU will on a
quarterly basis produce and submit to the World Bank a Project Management
Report (PMR), which allows for the simultaneous monitoring of financial,
physical and procurement activity of the project, while also serving as an
application for disbursement from the loan/credit account. The World Bank
also assessed the capacity of the Auditor General to perform the annual
independent audit of the PCU. Given the limited resources of the Office
of the Auditor General, the audit will be contracted to an external
accounting firm according to the Bank's procurement guidelines. The PCU
will ensure that an annual independent audit is carried out and completed
by a qualified International Auditing firm, with a final report issued to
the Bank no later than six months after the end of the fiscal year. The
hiring of an audit firm acceptable to the Bank was a condition of
negotiations.
7. Sustainability
Preventive Physical Mitigation. Inadequate maintenance has been a key
issue in the lack of sustainability of infrastructure, as was witnessed by
the damages caused during the sea surges associated with Hurricane Lenny.
For each of the physical investment components of the project therefore, a
legal covenant will stipulate that, prior to annual reviews, each relevant
sector ministry will prepare and submit to the Bank for review and
approval an O&M plan and budget for all relevant physical components
financed under the project. Although capacity exists among local
contractors, key risks are the ability of the local construction industry
to carry out the civil works appropriately, and the ability to supervise
both the large and small civil works to ensure that adequate technical
standards are maintained.Strengthening Disaster Management Capacity for
the Long Term. From a project point of view, both ODP and the line
ministries are stretched too thin to manage the project and/or project
- 6 -



components as they are currently staffed and organized. The assessment of
procurement and contract monitoring capacity, as well as financial
management capacity, in line ministries shows weaknesses, except for
procurement-related matters in the Ministry of Communications and Works
(MCW). The project would provide assistance to ODP to assist them in
preparing for and managing emergency situations, and support to Government
via the PCU on procurement and project management. To ensure
sustainability in the long run, the project would seek government
commitment of staff and financial resources to these agencies to ensure
their long-term viability after the project is completed. The bulk of the
assistance provided to these agencies from project resources would be in
setting up systems and guidelines for response activities, as well as for
equipment and training. This important "setting-up" first phase will be
followed by further support for longer-term institutional reforms in
disaster preparedness and management through APL 3.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Bank-wide experience of successful emergency programs and previous
projects undertaken in the Caribbean, including the APL1 projects, and
incorporated into this project are: (i) project simplification with fewer
components and implementing agencies to facilitate project coordination
and implementation in a weak institutional capacity context; (ii) early
dialogue with government on necessary institutional reforms with regard to
disaster management and preparedness, and up-front strong government
commitment as evidenced by actions to be agreed before negotiations; (iii)
longer and better preparation of project components, and clear agreements
between implementing agencies and the Bank; (iv) focus on strengthening
the capacity of existing institutions to effectively discharge their
responsibilities with regard to disaster management and preparedness; and
(v) investing in capacity-building measures in this first phase of the
program for Grenada to increase the Borrower's ability to mitigate the
effects of future disasters and avoid ad-hoc requests for emergency
assistance following disasters.Specific lessons from APL1 are mostly that:
(i) preparation in the prevailing emergency situation resulted in a
certain number of ill-prepared proposals, delays during implementation to
complete tender documents and launch activities, and the need to
restructure some components or sub-components; (ii) activities earmarked
for co-financing but with undefined donors resulted in the need for an
increased effort during implementation to coordinate with other donors,
and seek those with a longer experience with certain institutional
strengthening issues and a better ability to provide more adapted regional
funding; (iii) projects which are very complex by nature (multi-sector and
new area of assistance) could not be easily implemented in a context of
rather weak project management and administrative capacity; (iv) national
institutions responsible for disaster management are still too much in
infancy to take on the management of all the complex dimensions of project
management and coordination of all concerned agencies; and (v) the Bank
was better placed to focus on long-term prevention (both institutional and
physical investments) than on short-term emergency measures, which other
donors are often better organized to deliver.While this phase will
primarily build the institutional capacity of the country with regard to
disaster management and emergency response, its preparation has also
highlighted weaknesses within various specific government agencies to
respond to and manage disasters that are fairly similar to those
above-captioned. This was very much accounted for in identifying the key
-7 -



investments and capacity strenthening activities that the project has
finally settled on. In addition, the importance of shelters during an
emergency has helped identify related assistance necessary for the use of
shelters to be effective, general experience with communications and early
warning systems has helped restructure these very important sub-components
in more easily implementable activities, the lack of capacity to
coordinate and manage the projects has resulted in more focused technical
assistance to ODP, and the general lack of managerial capacity has helped
in the choice to elaborate and implement a comprtehensive training program
for staff of all concerned agencies, as well as for disaster managers and
community committees.This led to streamline the Bank-financed projects to
focus primarily on capacity-building and preventive physical mitigation.
Better up-front coordination with donors allowed a more focused approach
to co-financing and the agreement that a number of key activities such as
in particular institutional strengthening (regulatory framework, disaster
planning, building code, disaster insurance, hazard analysis and
vulnerability mapping) would be financed by other donors within the APL
framework.Specifically, for the five OECS countries covered by this APL,
including St. Vincent and the Grenadines, the need for training is of
utmost importance to ensure rapid response and effective management of the
situation during and immediately after a natural disaster strikes.
Training in Bank procedures, such as procurement and financial management,
will prove vital to enable successful project implementation. Also, in
building the country's institutional capacity with regard to disaster
management over time, emphasis is given to technical assistance in the
form of training to various government bodies, such as ODP, MCW, and the
PCU staff, who are part of the MFP. This on-the-job training will build
local capacity through actively transferring relative knowledge to local
agency staff from both within St. Vincent and internationally. Also, Bank
assistance through the provision of documents to aid in project
preparation has proven to be crucial.Another important aspect given
special attention was ensuring that the borrower was committed to both the
short run implementation of the current project, as well as the long run
sustainability of a disaster management program. In terms of
implementation, the coordination and management role of the PCU vis-a-vis
the other government agencies (such as MCW, for example) responsible for
executing the various project components, was clearly spelled out to avoid
conflicts later on during project implementation. The PCU also needs a
clear mandate enabling it to coordinate various other government agencies,
and housing it within the Ministry of Finance and Planning aided this
process.As for disaster management and response, the role and legal
authority of ODP has to be clearly defined, and the its existence needs to
be institutionalized and backed by Government, if it is to act effectively
during an emergency. In addition, the response at the local level is also
critical and community involvement via the district disaster committees
has been incorporated into the project design. Again, training for both
ODP staff, the district disaster committees and communities in disaster
management and response is critical. In order to ensure that the shelters
are properly utilized and accessible during an emergency, the project has
emphasized the need for shelter managers to be selected from, and
preferably living in, the local community where the shelter is
housed.Inadequate maintenance of physical infrastructure has also been a
key issue in increasing the vulnerability of infrastructure facilities.
In the case of St. Vincent, the coastal erosion caused during the storm
surges associated with Hurricane Lenny showed the adverse effects
- 8 -



resulting from the lack of proper resource management. Therefore, a Legal
Covenant will be included that will require that prior to each annual
review, each relevant sector ministry will prepare and submit to the Bank
for review and approval its O&M plan and budget for all relevant physical
components financed under the project.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        Key sections of the coastline of St. Vincent have
been retreating in association with rises in sea level and increasing
frequency of storms, trends which are predicted to continue. Because of
the inland topography, coastal areas are vital to the country's economy;
they are the locus for major population centers and highways. Steep
inland topography also channels storm water runoff into river gullies
which are increasingly responsible for flash flooding and danger to life
and property in populated areas. In an effort to mitigate these problems,
the project proposes to fund limited civil works on a pilot basis in two
critical locations: reinstating sea-walls to ensure coastal erosion
control in the Layou area, and strengthening river banks in the greater
Kingstown area, which includes the North and South Rivers. The Ministry
of Communications and Works (MCW) feels that the situation in these and
similar areas constitutes a significant hazard, and has prioritized the
areas according to perceived threat. The potential environmental and
social impacts are expected to be limited. An EIA will be carried out for
the rehabilitation of sea defenses at Layou. Simplified EIAs for other
projects are sufficient, and are being performed by the regional
consultants. Since there are no national EIA guidelines, the EIAs will be
prepared based on existing IDA/IBRD EIA guidelines.The need for support to
community efforts related to the cleaning-up of beaches and preventing
uncontrolled construction on the coast and flood plain has also been
identified. In addition, illegal sand mining undermines coastal
protection efforts. Government aims at introducing various legal
documents, formulate land-use regulations and environmental management in
the country. While environmental management, planning and land-use
developments are still not mainstreamed into regular development
practices, Government is currently reviewing different options with regard
to strengthening environmental management. Government has recognizing the
importance of environmental management for the country, and a special unit
responsible for environmental management was established in 1995 within
the framework of the Ministry of Agriculture. It currently has a limited
budget and a lack of equipment to monitor environmental conditions on the
islands, and there is thus a need to strengthen Government's capacity in
environmental management.The project will provide some assistance to
Environmental Unit within the Ministry of Health and Environment (MHE) and
to MCW to strengthen their capacity in environmental management within the
context of disaster preparedness. In particular, assistance will be
provided through reviewing environmental legislation and developing EIA
standards with regard to disaster mitigation and preparedness, and
providing training to MCW staff and the MHE Environmental Unit in carrying
out environmental assessments.The project will also finance two major
studies in connection with Coastal Zone Management and Watershed
Management: Integrated Coastal Zone Management (ICZM) study, and
Integrated Watershed Management (IWM) study. The general consultant who
carries out the general EIA will also review the TORs for these two
-9-



studies to include appropriate EIA requirements, and suggest modifications
as appropriate in light of the necessary environmental requirements to be
accounted for in the design of future civil works, and mitigation measures
which should be carried out as part of the proposed investments.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Bernard A. Becq
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473-4392
Fax:   (202) 676-9594
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 30, 2000.
- 10 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the
borrower prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report
is required, once it is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in
accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment, it will be
filed as an annex to the Public Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an
EA annex; the findings and recommendations of the EA will be
reflected in the body of the PID.



