Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 24050-STV
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 3.0 MILLION
AND SDR 2.4 MILLION (US$ 2.91 MILLION EQUIVALENT) RESPECTIVELY
TO SAINT VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
FOR THE
EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND DISASTER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE SECOND PHASE OF THE
ORGANIZATION OF EASTERN CARIBBEAN STATES
EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND DISASTER MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
May 9, 2002
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Country Management Unit--LCC3C
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 31, 2001)
Currency Unit = EC$
EC$ 1.0 = US$0.37
US$1 = EC$ 2.7
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL              Adaptable Program Loan (World Bank)
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy (World Bank)
CIMH             Caribbean Institute for Meteorology and Hydrology
CMO              Caribbean Meteorological Organization
DDC              District Disaster Committee
EOC              Emergency Operations Center
GoSVG            Government of St. Vincent and the Grenadines
IBRD             International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank)
ICZM             Integrated Coastal Zone Management
IDA              International Development Association (World Bank)
LHDC             Land and Housing Development Corporation
MEYS             Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports
MFP              Ministry of Finance and Planning
MHE              Ministry of Health and the Environment
MTST             Ministry of Telecommunications, Sciences and Technology
MTWH             Ministry of Transport, Works and Housing
NDPC             National Disaster Preparedness Coordinator
NDP              National Disaster Plan
NEAC             National Emergency Advisory Council
NHMC             National Hazard Mitigation Council
NMS              National Meteorological Service
OAS              Organization of American States
ODP              Office of Disaster Preparedness
OECS             Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
PC               Project Coordinator
PCU              Project Coordination Unit
Vice President:  David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:  Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager/Director:  Danny M. Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Bernard A. Becq/Amaud M. Guinard



ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND DISASTER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                                 Page
1. Program purpose and program phasing                                               3
2. Project development objective                                                     4
3. Key performance indicators                                                        5
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    6
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        6
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                9
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                10
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                               10
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    12
3. Benefits and target population                                                   13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    13
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        15
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        17
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                              18
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  19
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      20
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         21
2. Financial                                                                        21
3. Technical                                                                        21
4. Institutional                                                                    22
5. Environmental                                                                    24
6. Social                                                                           25
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               27



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   27
2. Critical risks                                                                    28
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    30
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          30
2. Other                                                                             30
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        31
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        31
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         32
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   39
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        45
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary          46
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary   51
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      52
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    63
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  64
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 65
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           67



ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSFU
Date: May 9, 2002                                Team Leader: Arnaud Marie Guinard
Country Manager/Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos  Sector Manager/Director: Danny M. Leipziger
Project ID: P069923                              Sector(s): BY - Other Public Sector Management, MY -
Non-Sector Specific
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)  Theme(s): Public Sector
Poverty Targeted Interventioii: N
Program Financing Data
Estimated
APL             Indicative Financing Plan       Implementation Period         Borrower
(Bank FY)
IBRD/IDA          Others      Total    Commitment   Closing
USS m     %      US$ m       US$ m        Date       Date
APL 1        19.57    82.3    4.22       23.79    01/31/1999  06/30/2003 St. Kitts & Nevis, St. Lucia,
Loanl 14.07/                                                        Dominica.
Credit 5.50
APL 2        15.99    86.0    2.61       18.60    03/02/2000  01/31/2006 St. Vincent & the Grenadines
Loan/ 8.06                                                          (US$ 6.81 m total); Grenada
Credit 7.93                                                         (US$ 11.79 m total).
APL 3         0.00    0.0     0.50        0.50                          Reallocated to APL 2.
Loan/ 0.00/
Credit 0.00
APL 4        10.00   83.3     2.00       12.00    01/31/1999  03/31/2005 APL 1 & APL 2 countries
Loan/ 5.00/                                                         following a declared local
Credit 5.00                                                         disaster emergency.
Total       45.56             9.33       54.89
[ ] Loan    [I Credit    [1 Grant      [ Guarantee       1 Other:
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Loan Currency: United States Dollar
Amount (US$m): 3.00 IBRD (Libor-based single currency loan); 2.91 equivalent (SDR 2.4 million) IDA (standard
credit)
Initial choice of Interest-rate basis: Auto. Rate Fixing by amount (specify)US$3.0 million
Type of repayment schedule:
[X] Fixed at Commitment, with the following repayment method (choose one): level
[ ], Linked to Disbursement
Conversion options: [X]Currency  [X]Interest Rate  [ ]Caps/Collars:



Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                           Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                      0.24           0.66          0.90
IBRD                                                          0.60           2.40          3.00
IDA                                                           0.52           2.39          2.91
Total:                                                        1.36           5.45          6.81
Borrower: SAINT VINCENT & THE GRENADINES
Responsible agency: MINISTRY FINANCE AND PLANNING, ODP, MINISTRY WORKS
Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
Address: P.O. Box 608, Kingstown, St. Vincent and the Grenadines
Contact Person: Mr. Hudson Nedd, Project Coordinator
Tel: 1 (784) 457-1746          Fax: 1 (784) 456-2430          Email: cenplan@caribsurf.com
Other Agency(ies):
Office of Disaster Preparedness (ODP)
Contact Person: Mr. Howie Prince, National Disaster Preparedness Coordinator
Tel:             Fax: 1 (784) 457-2152          Email:
Ministry of Transport, Works and Housing
Contact Person: Mr. Alistair Campbell, Deputy Chief Engineer
Tel: 1 (784) 457-2569          Fax: 1 (784) 457-1289          Email: pwds@caribsurf com
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2002       2003       2004      2005
Annual      0.74      2.53       2.21      0.43
Cumulative     0.74       3.27      5.48       5.91
Project implementation period: 3 years
Expected effectiveness date: 09/15/2002  Expected closing date:  01/31/2006
OS APL PAD F-m P  WM 2ZO
-2-



A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
This project for St. Vincent and the Grenadines, along with a similar project for Grenada, approved in
October 2001, forms the second phase (APL 2) of an Adaptable Program Loan (PAD Report No. 18645
LAC) that covers five Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) member countries. The program
aims at strengthening the OECS countries' ability to manage efficiently and effectively emergency
situations, in order to reduce the likelihood of loss of life and assets. The program also aims at enhancing
the capacity of disaster management agencies and mitigate the adverse effects of disasters that regularly
strike the island, in particular floods, landslides, sea surges, and hurricanes. To this end, the program aims
to support the strengthening of physical infrastructure to better weather natural disasters and enhancing
institutional capacity in order to improve responsiveness once disasters have struck.
The entire program consists of individual lending operations in five OECS countries (Dominica, St. Lucia,
St. Kitts & Nevis, Grenada and St. Vincent and the Grenadines). It originally was expected to be
implemented over a period of approximately six years. The program supports the following comprehensive
set of activities:
* Physical prevention and mitigation investments: Key social and economic infrastructure will be
protected and strengthened before disasters strike so as to reduce the likelihood of loss of life and
assets--alternatively, they will be rehabilitated or reconstructed in the aftermath of a disaster.
*   Capacity building and strengthening disaster management capacity: The capacity of national
emergency management and disaster preparedness agencies will be strengthened to enable them to
perform more effectively.
*   Community preparedness: Community-level disaster committees will be organized, trained and
equipped to enhance their role in disaster preparedness, mitigation and recovery.
APL 1: The first phase of the program (APL 1) is now well underway in St. Kitts & Nevis, Dominica and
St. Lucia, where credit and loan agreements have been effective since respectively April, June and August
1999. By and large, the implementation of these projects has generally been slow at the beginning due to a
general lack of project management capacity in Governments, the difficulty to coordinate all agencies
involved, the lead-time necessary to prepare detailed proposals and complete tender documents, and the
lack of proactive management of the procurement process. Implementation is now proceeding satisfactorily
and closing dates have recently been extended.
APL 2: Both projects for St. Vincent and the Grenadines and Grenada under the second phase of the
program required substantially more funding than was originally allocated for APL2 projects (about US$
10 million vs 2 million for Grenada, and about $6 million vs $4 million for St.Vincent and the Grenadines).
The needed additional funds (about 10 million overall) have been taken from APL 3, leaving no IBRD and
IDA funds for this phase, which has therefore been canceled. Additional funding for the St.Vincent and the
Grenadines project is required to strike the proper balance between pilot physical mitigation measures and
support to strengthening disaster management capacity. The amount for the APL 4 phase --the
contingency funds-- remains identical to maintain the comprehensiveness of the program. The funding
reallocation, as well as changes in the triggers to access the contingency funds under APL4 (see below),
were approved by the World Bank Board of Executive Directors on October 17, 2000, when the Grenada
project was approved.
APL 3: All countries participating in APL 1 and APL 2 require long-term support in order to improve
capacity to prepare and respond to disasters. The APL 3 phase was originally to allow the Bank to provide
continued support for long-term strengthening of disaster management capacity and focus on continuing
- 3-



and enhancing the process of community outreach and involvement, and finance additional physical
investments for which feasibility and detailed engineering studies will be carried out during APL 1 & APL
2. With this phase cancelled for lack of available funds, APL 1 & APL 2 will thus strengthen the capacity
of the countries to manage disasters and provide for some preventive physical mitigation measures, and
APL 4 will allow for quick response following an emergency. Should the countries need additional
financing for further capacity building in disaster management and preparedness, or for further preventive
physical mitigation measures (which APL 3 would have provided), additional World Bank support would
take the form of new and separate projects, and/or supplemental loans and credits. This course of action is
justified on the basis of the slow implementation of APL I projects in all participating countries, and
limited results and progress at this stage, as the APL3 phase was to be conditioned by: (i) the satisfactory
implementation and completion of APL I or APL 2 (depending on the country); (ii) the evidence of
adequate maintenance of infrastructure (in particular those funded under APL 1 or APL 2); and (iii) the
existence of formal disaster committees and disaster-resilient communities to finance more
community-based investments.
APL 4: Through APL 4, the program will make contingent financial resources readily available to the
Government of any of the five participating countries to assist in restoring, inter alia, critical public
facilities, should a severe natural disaster strike them during the program period. This phase will run in
parallel with APL 1 and APL 2, meaning that as long as a country has signed for either APL 1 or APL 2,
they would be eligible to access the contingency funds. The contingency fund was originally to be triggered
by first a declaration of a national disaster emergency by the respective Government seeking to access the
fund and its recognition by the international donor community, and second evidence of said Government's
commitment to improving disaster mitigation policies as demonstrated by the effective implementation of its
project under either APL 1 or APL 2. The first trigger was amended to the declaration of a local disaster
emergency by the respective Government seeking to access the fund and recognition by the World Bank of
such an emergency, which was approved by the Board in October 2000. This reflects the well-recognized
fact that it is hardly possible for any of the OECS countries to declare a state of national disaster
emergency when their economies are so much depending on tourism which would be very negatively
affected by such declaration for a long period of time.
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The primary development objective of the project is to strengthen St. Vincent and the Grenadines'
resilience, preparedness, and ability to respond to natural disasters.
This objective will be achieved by:
* building the capacity of the Office of Disaster Preparedness (ODP) and other concerned public
agencies to perform their respective responsibilities more effectively prior to and during a crisis;
* strengthening the country's institutional disaster preparedness and management procedures,
rehabilitating a designated Emergency Operations Center (EOC) which would also serve as ODP
headquarters, and procuring specialized and emergency equipment;
* implementing selected priority mitigation and prevention measures to protect key infrastructure and
lifeline facilities before disasters strike, on a pilot basis;
* retrofitting shelters and health centers to improve the safety of the populations, particularly in poor
areas;
* improving environmental protection through better standards with regard to disaster management, and
environmentally-sound prevention measures; and
* promoting community involvement through organizing, training and equipping community disaster
committees, and enhancing their role in disaster preparedness measures, and mitigation and recovery
operations.
-4 -



3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The following project performance monitoring indicators will be used to measure project progress and
impact.
Outcome Indicators:
* Operational emergency procedures and mobilization guidelines as per international standards in place
by June 2004.
* Improved reporting of weather information by the National Meteorological Service (NMS) to the
Office of Disaster Preparedness (ODP) with: a) regularity (at least once daily); and b) quality (verified
by missions of the Caribbean Meteorological Organization (CMO), Caribbean Institute of Meteorology
and Hydrology (CIMH) or equivalent institution).
*   Enhanced ability of ODP to accurately analyze incoming information and data on emergencies and
serve as a single "clearing house" for early warning information and dissemination (as evidenced by
timely decision making, the triggering of emergency procedures and timely dissemination of warnings
by ODP to populations at risk).
*   Increased number of people serviced by adequate shelters due to the retrofitting program.
*   Strengthened capacity in the Ministry of Transport, Works and Housing (MTWH) to carry out works
during emergencies, and in MTWH and the Ministry of Health and Environment (MHE)
Environmental Unit to prepare Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) and monitor mitigation
measures.
Output Indicators:
*   Existing National Emergency Advisory Council (NEAC) streamlined by the end of calendar year 2003
into a full-fledged National Hazard Mitigation Council (NHMC) through the elaboration of a charter
establishing new procedures and the appointment of new members.
* Adequate staffing and financial resources for the Office of Disaster Preparedness (ODP) in line with
the civil service reform recommendations: (i) "upgrading" before mid calendar year 2004 of the
National Disaster Preparedness Coordinator (NDPC) position to a higher level in the civil service
pay-scale; and (ii) appointment respectively before the end of calendar year 2004 and mid calendar
year 2005 of two additional high level staff in ODP --Technical/Data Specialist and Deputy Disaster
Coordinator.
*   Draft legislation by mid calendar year 2004 to formalize ODP as an agency with specific authority to
coordinate all disaster management activities and agencies involved during emergencies, and to adopt
revised operational guidelines;
* Training of High-level Government Officials in disaster and emergency management.
* At least 72-hour advance warning from NMS to ODP of impending tropical events.
*   Number of District Disaster Coordinators (DDCs) reached, and reduced response time of those
coordinators to an emergency.
*   Efficient shelter management procedures in place.
*   Number of shelters retrofitted.
*   Number of shelter managers actually from communities.
*   At least one shelter manager per shelter trained and in place.
*   Dedicated unit in MTWH capable of erecting on-site metallic bridges of a 10 to 15 meter span in less
than 4 days.
*   Design standards and monitoring guidelines elaborated; MHE Environmental Unit trained in preparing
EIAs; and MTWH staff trained in monitoring the implementation of mitigation measures.
-5 -



*   Sea wall reconstructed at Layou.
*   Flood protection/gabion works at selected river-crossing sites (Georgetown, Buccament, Colonarie)
completed.
*   Rehabilitation of priority health centers and clinics completed.
* Recommendations of studies financed by the project reviewed by Government before December 2003,
and approved recommendations implemented before December 2004.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 22205-LAC Date of latest CAS discussion: 06/28/01
The program directly supports the principal goals of the new OECS Country Assistance Strategy (CAS):
building human and institutional capacity, and reducing income security and vulnerability at aggregate and
household levels --which includes mitigating disaster risks to the extent feasible. As St. Vincent and the
Grenadines develops further into a service-based economy, strengthening infrastructure and ensuring their
reliability will become increasingly important, especially to increase the country's resilience to disasters and
prevent economic activities from being interrupted. The program is expected to have a tangible poverty
reduction impact, both direct through the provision of shelters and health clinics which will benefit the
poorer populations whose houses cannot withstand strong hurricanes, and early warning and better
communications which will allow those populations to seek refuge in time, and indirect by reducing the
economic and social risks, income loss, and vulnerability of the usually more exposed poorer populations.
In addition to risk minimization measures and to the strengthening of Governments' capacity to prepare for
and manage natural disasters, there is a need for improved availability of affordable catastrophe insurance
which another Bank-funded project will help providing, and for support to the OECS Governments in
monitoring and managing the effects of global climate changes which a Bank AAA study and a proposed
GEF project will assist in identifying.
Economic development. During the 1980s, rapid growth was driven largely by a favorable external
environment, characterized by concessional aid flows, which financed a large portion of public investments
in infrastructure, preferential market access, favorable agricultural export commodity prices, and fast
growth in the tourism sector. In the 1990's, however, real GDP growth has slowed considerably from an
annual average of 6.2% in the 1980s to roughly 3.5% for the following decade. This slowdown in growth
has been largely due to a reversal in the extemal environment, with extemal flows slowing down
considerably and concessional aid flows declining rapidly. During the 1990s, the main economic trend in
St. Vincent and the Grenadines, as with other OECS countries, has been the rapid transition from an
agriculture-based economy to a service-based one, primarily driven by increased tourism. The prospects
for growth have improved somewhat and real GDP is expected to grow by an annual average of 3.7 % to
4.4% over the next five years, due mainly to the expansion of the tourism sector in substitution of the
agricultural industry as the main foreign exchange earner. The challenge that St. Vincent and the
Grenadines faces is that both of its main foreign exchange sources --tourism and agriculture-- are
particularly vulnerable to natural disasters.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
St. Vincent and the Grenadines is an archipelagic state covering over 10,600 square nautical miles of water
and comprising 32 islands, nine of which are inhabited. The country lies in the Atlantic hurricane belt and
has an active volcano, which last erupted in 1979. It is very vulnerable to floods, and during the last
century, it has been struck by four hurricanes, experienced four major floods, and suffered three volcanic
- 6 -



eruptions. As recently as November 1999, storm surges resulting from Hurricane Lenny served to
highlight the country's vulnerability to hurricanes. While the storm did not inflict severe damages to the
island, it caused significant coastal erosion along the leeward side of the island of St. Vincent. The country
faces special challenges due to its small size. The country is about 340 sq. km., with a population of
roughly 110,000 inhabitants for the entire archipelago, and had a GNP per capita of US$ 2,720 in 2001.
Its mountainous terrain and relatively low population density make the cost of providing and maintaining
economic and social infrastructure high. St. Vincent and the Grenadines also lacks preparedness and the
institutional arrangements required to manage emergency situations in an effective manner. In order to
minimize the adverse impacts of disasters on economic activity and to protect communities, the
Government is thus seeking to strengthen the institutions responsible for managing natural disaster
situations.
Tourism and Agriculture. Tourism has become the most important foreign exchange earning sector.
Agriculture has historically been important, and still represented about 10% of GDP in 2000, but tourism
and related activities have shown rapid growth, representing roughly two-fifths of GDP in 2000. Natural
disasters can, however, have a devastating impact on the tourism industry, since tourists are generally wary
about visiting a country that has been devastated by a tropical storm. In addition, it also takes time
following a disaster to rehabilitate the infrastructure needed to serve the tourism industry. However, most
hotels have already protection/evacuation plans and emergency procedures, and are usually the most
proactive in repairing their facilities after hurricanes. Agriculture is also vulnerable to natural hazards due
to its dependence on foreign trade and because it still plays an important role in contributing to the
country's economic wealth. Exports from the agricultural industry still forms an important source of
foreign exchange revenues.
Roads, Transport and Coastal Areas. The transport and communication networks are increasingly vital,
in terms of output (comprising over 15% of GDP), and the transport network is vital for transporting both
merchandise and people, particularly the St. Vincent island road network and the maritime and air links
between the main island and the Grenadines. The country's physical infrastructure, especially the road
network and the coastal areas, are particularly vulnerable, as witnessed by the coastal erosion caused by
the storm surges associated with Hurricane Lenny in November 1999. Many populated areas are also
vulnerable to disasters, such as landslides and floods, which not only threatens living conditions, but also
have a significant negative impact on road conditions and the road network, hence possibly also disrupting
road transport activities. Selective strengthening of roads and bridges in key sections of the network is
needed to help minimize disruptions in transport and economic activities. The rehabilitation of most of the
main Western Coast Road has been completed last year with the Government-funded rehabilitation of the
Layou to Wallilabou section. The main Eastern Coast Road will be rehabilitated under a large program of
civil works to be partly financed by the European Union (EU). The program is expected to include bridges
repairs at key locations such as Argyle, Gorse and Georgetown, a bypass road in Mount Grenan, and
drainage and flooding protection, as well as studies of options for the Byera tunnel, and the crossing of the
Rabacca river.
Shelters. Government has identified the existence of safe and hurricane resistant shelters and health
centers as key to disaster management. Shelters and health centers are currently not hurricane resistant,
and not adequately managed. There is a lack of clear guidelines with regard to shelter management, no
regular training for shelter managers, and they are also poorly equipped for effective functioning during an
emergency (i.e. lack of generators, water supply, etc.). In addition, shelter managers also tend to be school
principals, who may not reside within the community where the shelter is located.
- 7-



Community Involvement in Disaster Management. While District Disaster Committees (DDC) exist,
they are not well trained, have weak mobilization capacity to handle emergencies, and are not properly
equipped to effectively deal with emergency situations. Currently, DDCs exist at the local level, but they
are purely voluntary and do not coordinate with the local level Government structures for disaster
management. They tend to act as "relief' committees rather than committees that can play an active role in
disaster preparedness and mitigation. There is thus a need to restructure these committees, institutionalize
them, and facilitate better cooperation between them and local Government structures.
Public Sector Capacity. Expertise in the public sector is generally quite limited with regard to disaster
management, in spite of the existence of a dedicated disaster management agency (ODP). ODP is currently
still critically understaffed, with only one professional staff on a part-time basis, and is not housed in an
appropriate office. The main disaster management inter-Governmental structure, NEAC, has no real
decision-making power, includes too many sub-committees with unclear mandates to be effective, hence the
need for a less bureaucratic and more operations-oriented institutional framework.
The lack of capacity within the public sector institutions with regard to disaster management is also
reflected in the fact that: (i) there is little planning for disaster investments and a lack of proactive efforts to
improve preparedness measures; (ii) the national disaster plan dates back to 1986, making it operationally
outdated, and it has no legal authority; (iii) disaster emergency procedures are not regularly tested; (iv)
there is a need for better collaboration between all stakeholders, and for all to be closely associated with
emergency measures (e.g. disaster committees, community leaders and organizations); (v) there are no real
regulations to prepare and/or enforce zoning and new building code; and (vi) there are no early warning
systems, as well as a lack of good emergency communications.
Government Strategies. The Government's strategy to strengthen disaster management capacity is to
adopt and implement institutional measures aimed at improving preparation for and response to disaster
emergencies, increase staffing in concerned agencies and implement a comprehensive training program, and
put in place sustainable procedures to ensure quick response in case of natural disasters. The main thrusts
of the Government's strategy are to:
*   strengthen the human resource capacity of ODP through the appointment of qualified professionals in
permanent positions financed by Government;
*   improve disaster planning and preparedness, and operational emergency procedures;
*   institutionalize disaster management into mainstream Government functions, in particular through
specialized technical training for ODP and all concerned branches of Government, as well as other
agencies, the private sector and communities;
*   sensitize communities to disaster preparedness and mitigation to demonstrate the effectiveness of
properly organized committees representing all sectors of the community such as churches, schools, the
business community, etc.;
*   designate and renovate the building that will house the national EOC and serve as the headquarters of
ODP.
*   operate the existing NEAC as a full-fledged National Hazard Mitigation council (NHMC), with new
procedures and members consisting of high level representatives from each of the concerned ministries
and agencies and from the private sector; and
*   increase investments in mitigation and prevention measures.
- 8-



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The Government's key priority areas are: (i) the strengthening of the institutional capacity of ODP and
other institutions concerned with disaster management; (ii) the protection of the populations during
emergencies through a program to retrofit shelters, particularly in poorer areas; (iii) the protection of key
lifeline facilities to avoid disruptions of economic activities; (iv) the improvement of the access of
populations to health care after emergencies; and (v) the protection of the populations who are particularly
exposed to storm surges and floods, and in particular those living along the main Eastern Road due to the
undersea Kick-em Jenny volcano threat.
The project will support these objectives by focusing on two strategic activities, namely (i) strengthening
disaster management capacity through institutional development and capacity-building measures, including
a comprehensive training program available to staff involved with disaster management in all concerned
agencies, and support to strengthening community involvement in disaster preparedness, mitigation and
response; and (ii) preventive physical mitigation, focusing on selected priority investments and pilot
measures, and the engineering and feasibility studies necessary to prepare for more extensive works
programs.
The strengthening of disaster management capacity aims at addressing the capacity issues and improving
the country's preparedness and response to natural disasters. In St. Vincent and the Grenadines, this
capacity is particularly weak in ODP --the principal Government agency dealing with disasters-- which is
ill-organized, suffers from inadequate staffing, lacks resources, and does not possess a dedicated office
building. The project will support the creation of a well-staffed and well-equipped ODP with a mandate,
legal authority and adequate procedures to prepare for and manage emergency situations, and housed in an
appropriate structure where the EOC would also be located. It will also assist in implementing a
comprehensive training program open to all Government staff and communities leaders involved in disaster
management, as well as strengthening the Government capacity with regard to environmental guidelines and
monitoring. Additional priorities, to be supported by the Project and aimed at improving early warning,
include the setting up an effective emergency communications system between ODP, concerned agencies
and communities, and the strengthening of the weather monitoring and reporting functions of the National
Meteorological Service (NMS) under the Ministry of Telecommunications, Science and Technology
(MTST).
An important aspect to protect populations is the retrofitting of shelters, which ensures that the bulk of the
population (particularly the poor living in vulnerable homes) has access to safe accommodation during and
immediately following a natural disaster. Thus a number of shelters in high density and high vulnerability
areas will be retrofitted and shelter management operations improved. District Disaster Committees
(DDCs) are at the core of the strategy to respond to and manage disasters and emergencies at the
community level. Their capacity, however, needs to be strengthened in order to prepare community disaster
plans and organize community activities related with disaster prevention and mitigation.
The preventive physical mitigation measures are all intended to help maintain the smooth functioning of the
island during an emergency, and protect areas where there is a high concentration of population and
economic activity at risk. To this end, Government intends to first and foremost address the critical issue
of maintaining access in the St. Vincent island which largely depends on road transport. The two key
measures are to protect priority roads and bridges from floods, and to preserve coastal areas --where most
of the population lives-- from sea surges. The sea defense works at Layou will serve to protect an
important and currently very vulnerable town center on the western side of the island. Other selected
physical mitigation measures under the project are intended to test --on a pilot basis before all the necessary
-9-



studies are completed-- flood protection measures. In addition, providing metallic bridges, gabions and
technical assistance to MTWH is necessary to improve its ability to effectively intervene to keep the
country functional during emergencies, while also enabling it to conduct quality repair works immediately
after disasters. Finally, the rehabilitation of priority health centers will help maintaining an adequate
medical response during emergencies.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
The detailed program description is provided in Section A. 1 of this document. The table below outlines the
triggers for additional investments in all countries participating in the APL program, and the triggers
required for APL 4 to be effective.
Loan Type        Triggers to activate loan/credit
Subsequent        1 . Satisfactory and on-time completion of physical investments within budget, and with
loans/credits        adequate technical quality under APLI and APL2.
and/or            2. Evidence of adequate maintenance of infrastructure vulnerable to disasters.
supplemental      3. Fully staffed disaster management agencies (ODP in St. Vincent and the Grenadines)
loans/credits to     with clear mandates and sufficient human and financial resources.
APL1 and/or       4. A program of preparedness and mitigation activities at the national and community
APL2                 levels, including a complete National Disaster Preparedness and Response Plan for
(APL3                natural and man-made disasters.
canceled)         5. An operational plan within disaster management agencies (ODP in St. Vincent and the
Grenadines) to carry out disaster awareness, preparation, and response training
activities at the community level, including at schools and private businesses.
6. A fully staffed meteorological service (National Meteorological Service in St. Vincent
and the Grenadines) with a clear mandate and sufficient human and financial resources
to issue timely weather and flood warnings, as well as an operational island-wide
emergency communications systems to transmit the information to communities and
businesses.
APL 4             1. Declaration of a local disaster emergency by Government, and approval by the Bank
after consultations with the international community.
2. Satisfactory implementation progress of the projects under APL 1 and/or APL 2.
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The St. Vincent and the Grenadines project will consist of two major components: (A) strengthening
disaster management capacity, aimed at improving the country's capacity to prepare for and respond to
disaster emergencies through technical assistance, training, the rehabilitation of a Government-owned
building into an Emergency Operations Center (EOC) and headquarters for ODP, and the procurement of
specialized equipment, emergency supplies and rescue tools; and (B) preventive physical mitigation, aimed
at minimi7ing disaster-caused damages through selected priority and pilot preventive infrastructure
investments and associated supervision services, as well as the necessary preliminary studies to assess
- 10 -



disaster-related risks, elaborate comprehensive long-term mitigation investment programs, and prepare
detailed designs for critical priorities to be subsequently financed. It will also include a project
management component to assist Government in discharging its overall coordination, financial
management, auditing, procurement, works supervising, environmental monitoring, and reporting
responsibilities.
Initially, as outlined in the original PAD prepared for APL 1, the program sought to differentiate and
support the funding of both institutional strengthening and capacity building. Institutional strengthening
was defined as measures aimed at improving the regulatory framework as it applies to disaster planning
and mitigation (such as improving the regulatory framework, developing a national building code, disaster
insurance, hazard analysis and vulnerability mapping), and strengthening disaster management capacity
sought to strengthen the capacity of national institutions responsible for disaster preparedness, mitigation
and management (such as staffing, training, and equipment for disaster-related agencies).
APL 2 has been slightly restructured to focus primarily on strengthening disaster management capacity
rather than on institutional strengthening as defined above due a number of factors. First of all, there was a
general lack of details in the documentation of the proposals discussed for funding under the Bank project,
and most tender documents remained incomplete. Second other donors and organizations that already have
substantial experience and a long involvement in disaster management in the region, and have adapted
funding mechanisms for regional activities, have expressed a willingness to continue financing such
activities under the framework provided by the APL program. Third, the country's inability to implement
and enforce regulatory reforms does not allow for activities aimed at institutional reform --such as hazard
mapping and zoning regulations-- to be pursued before the Government's enforcement capacity has been
enhanced. Finally, the Bank project has been streamlined to reflect the current weak capacity of ODP, the
national institution responsible for disaster management.
Component A of the Project, Strengthening Disaster Management Capacity, will include four
sub-components: 1) Institutionalizing and strengthening the Office of Disaster Preparedness (ODP),
including inter alia elaborating/revising emergency procedures, rehabilitating the newly-dedicated
Emergency Operations Center (EOC) and ODP office, procuring specialized equipment, emergency
supplies and rescue tools, and developing and implementing a comprehensive disaster management training
and public awareness program; 2) Developing emergency communications and improving meteorological
assessment capacity on a country-wide basis, including technical assistance and training, and the
procurement of specialized equipment; 3) Implementing a shelter program, including technical assistance,
training, and the retrofitting of selected public buildings; and 4) Capacity-building in the Ministry of
Communications and Works (MTWH) to effectively respond to disaster emergencies through training and
the procurement of strategic stocks of prefabricated metallic bridges and gabions, and strengthening the
environmental capacity of MTWH and the Environmental Unit of the Ministry of Health and the
Environment (MEH) through training and technical assistance to establish standards and guidelines, and
monitor mitigation measures.
Component B, Preventive Physical Mitigation, will include four sub-components: 1) river flooding
protection through civil works and gabionage to protect selected river crossings against floods and storm
surges and the associated design review and supervision services, and a feasibility and design study to
define priority river training and river flood protection investments; (b) coastal erosion protection through
minor priority sea defense works at Layou and the associated design review and supervision services, and
an Integrated Coastal Zone Management (ICZM) study to define a prioritized sea defense and road
realignment investment program and to elaborate the corresponding design; (c) flood control through a
comprehensive drainage improvement, flood control and watershed management study to design an optimal
- I 1 -



storm drainage system for the Kingstown area; and (d) health centers and clinics through a program to
retrofit priorities.
Component C, project management, includes the funding of: 1) the specialists to be recruited in the PCU
(financial manager/accountant, procurement specialist and part-time disaster management specialist) and
training of Government staff appointed to the PCU; 2) office equipment and project vehicles; 3)
independent yearly financial audits, and selective technical audits; and 4) operating expenditures, including
communications services and secretarial support.
Total costs for the project's components are listed below.
(Bank financing is to be understood as the total under the IBRD loan and the IDA credit, and including the US$ 30,000
front-end fee).
Indicative             Bank-      % of
Component                   Sector         Costs     % of     financing   Bank-
(US$M)     Total     (US$M)    financing
A. Strengthening Disaster         Other Public Sector    3.34      49.0      2.95       49.9
Management Capacity               Management
B. Preventive Physical Mitigation  Non-Sector Specific  2.77       40.7      2.35       39.8
C. Project Management             Other Public Sector   0.70       10.3      0.61       10.3
Management
Total Project Costs                    6.81     100.0       5.91     100.0
Front-end fee                     0.00        0.0      0.00        0.0
Total Financing Required                      6.81     100.0       5.91     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Institutional reforms will be sought in the area of disaster preparedness, prevention and mitigation, in
particular through various capacity-building measures, namely: (i) enhancing the capacity of ODP to
perform its role effectively and in a timely manner, in particular through appropriate staffing and a
recognized authority to act; (ii) ensuring that the National Disaster Plan (NDP) is updated and disaster
management procedures are in place; (iii) formulating a national environmental protection policy and
guidelines, and strengthening the institutional capacity --in particular in MTWH-- to preserve the
environment; and (iv) protecting and maintaining infrastructure facilities through increased funding for
maintenance, improved construction standards, better capacity to enforce disaster mitigation regulations,
and enhanced MTWH capacity to quickly react during emergencies.
The overall Government program aims at financing initiatives to enhance preparedness to manage future
emergency situations in the long-term. To address pervasive flooding and coastal protection issues, this
first project in support to the overall program will finance engineering studies to prepare investment
programs. The rest of the program includes activities which would be funded by other donors or under a
next phase of the program, including inter alia hazard analysis, vulnerability mapping and risk assessment;
building legislation; and seismic and volcano monitoring. In addition, all investments on the Eastern Coast
are incorporated in an EU-financed rehabilitation program.
Government is committed to reducing its vulnerability to natural disasters through further reforms and
restructuring actions, in particular regarding staffing and training, awareness and information. To this end,
Government would during the life of the project take action with regard to inter alia: (i) appointing a
full-time NDPC as a high-level civil servant with the unique function of bringing together diverse groups to
- 12-



promote disaster mitigation, stimulate preparedness and to coordinate relief operations; (ii) staffing ODP
(now under the Prime Minister Office) with professional and permanent civil servants; (iii) developing an
appropriate institutional process to engage/mobilize all parts of society and stakeholders in disaster
preparedness and emergency management; (iv) engaging business and industry resources to support public
projects; and (v) encouraging the private sector to develop plans to protect their own productive capacity.
In addition, Government will with direct support from the Project: (i) undertake disaster-related training
and drills in order to improve emergency management skills; (ii) draft and support laws and regulations to
strengthen national and community disaster awareness and protection; and (iii) improve the degree of
preparation of MTWH to respond to emergency situations and its capacity to quickly proceed with the
removal of debris to reopen road transport infrastructure and carry out repairs.
3. Benefits and target population:
The main benefits of the project would be to: (i) ensure that people can move quickly to safe areas (such as
shelters) thanks to better emergency procedures, improved early warning, and a new communications
system; (ii) protect assets through the rehabilitation of selected infrastructure and the retrofitting of public
facilities (shelters and clinics) to better withstand disasters; (iii) contribute to gradually decreasing the cost
of disasters through improved response capacity and appropriate infrastructure protection; (iv) facilitate
protecting the environment, and raise awareness and capacity in this regard; (v) increase the effectiveness,
timing and coordination of interventions during and following disasters; and (vi) carry out the necessary
engineering and feasibility studies to prepare a comprehensive preventive mitigation program for the
country.
The main beneficiaries will be the population at large who will benefit from improved disaster
preparedness, in particular through enhanced early warning and better and quicker meteorological
information, and revised emergency procedures. They will also benefit from improved Governmental
capacity to intervene and carry out more rapidly the rehabilitation/reconstruction of damaged
infiastructure. Some populations will benefit from the minimization of the disruption of economic activity
due to the prevention and mitigation works financed under the project in selected areas, and more secured
access to health care during disasters. The project will also benefit many lower income groups as it will
improve access to the safety of retrofitted shelters in the most risk-prone areas, which are usually inhabited
by poorer sections of the population. The involvement of local communities through the disaster
coordination committees will ensure that people can move quickly to safe areas and shelters if a disaster
strikes. Government agencies, such as ODP, the Central Planning Division and the Physical Planning
Section of the Ministry of Finance and Planning (MFP), and other implementing agencies, especially
MTWH, will benefit from capacity building through training and technical assistance.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Institutional arrangements have been streamlined to account for lessons from the implementation of APLI
projects, in particular the difficulty to coordinate too many implementing agencies. They are mainly based
on the establishment of a full-fledged Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to coordinate and manage the
project, and the devolution of part of the implementation responsibility --under the monitoring and with the
assistance of the PCU-- to only two implementing agencies: ODP and MTWH. In addition, in order to
facilitate the handling of disaster management matters on a sustainable basis, Government will strengthen
ODP through additional staffing and proper offices, and streamline the current NEAC to serve as a steering
committee (NHIC) for policy matters.
The PCU will be responsible for the implementation of the project, including inter alia coordinating
implementing agencies, keeping financial accounts and files, carrying out and monitoring the procurement
- 13 -



process, and reporting to the Government and to the World Bank. The implementing agencies will in turn
monitor all activities under their component, including those that may be directly involving other agencies,
and coordinate with other concerned stakeholders as may be needed.
Project Coordination and Management.
The PCU, which has been set up within the Central Planning Division of the MFP, will be retained during
the whole duration of the project. It is headed by a Project Coordinator (PC) --to be fully dedicated to the
project, at least during the early implementation phase. The PCU will also include --under project funding--
a full time procurement specialist, a full-time financial manager/accountant and a clerical administrative
assistant for the whole duration of the project, and a part-time disaster management specialist (initially for
a one-year period to be extended as needed until a second professional staff has joined ODP as committed
by Government). Detailed terms of reference for each PCU staff, and a description of the respective
responsibilities of the PCU and implementing agencies have been prepared and included in the Project
Implementation Manual (PIM).
The implementing agencies will work under the auspices of the PCU, and will provide progress reports to
the PCU on a quarterly basis. The PCU will supervise and be ultimately responsible for managing the
procurement and contract management process for all components of the project, and will discharge this
responsibility in full coordination with the implementing agencies which would retain responsibility for
substantive matters such as the preparation of terms of reference (TORs) and specifications, engineering
aspects, etc... The PCU will report on a bi-annual basis to the World Bank. Annual performance reviews
will be conducted, with the one to be held during the second year of implementation also serving as
mid-term review.
ODP will be the implementing agency for Component A (Strengthening Disaster Management Capacity).
In this regard, it will directly manage sub-component 1), while coordinating with NMS for sub-component
2) regarding meteorological and communications systems, MTWH and the Ministry of Education, Youth
and Sports (MEYS) for sub-component 3) regarding shelters, and with MTWH and the Environmental Unit
of MvHE for sub-component 4) regarding the strengthening of the Government emergency response and
environmental monitoring capacity.
MTWH will be the implementing agency for Component B (Preventive Physical Mitigation). MIHE will be
involved with MTWH in the management of the sub-component dealing with the rehabilitation of health
centers and clinics.
Finally, the steering committee (NHMC, ex NEAC) will coordinate country-wide policy issues, approve the
selection of priority investments, and help ensure compliance with Government commitments. The
committee would consist of representatives of relevant sector ministries involved in the project, as well as
representatives from the private sector and NGOs. Government has committed to complete this by the end
of calendar year 2003.
Financial Management, Accounting, and Auditing Arrangements
A Financial Management Assessment of the existing financial management procedures, accounting system
and administrative controls of the Ministry of Finance and Planning was carried out and cleared by the
World Bank in February 2002. To assist with financial management, the PCU has retained an
internationally qualified accountant/financial manager for the duration of the project. The PCU will
maintain two separate accounts for project-incurred expenditures, one account for IBRD/IDA funds (the
Special Account) and one account for Government's counterpart funds (the Project Account).
- 14 -



Financial statements and reports will be prepared in formats satisfying the Government and IBRD's
monitoring and fiduciary purposes. On a monthly basis, the PCU will prepare the project's basic Statement
of Expenditure, a matrix classifying receipts by financing source and expenditures by financing source and
disbursement category. This report will be submitted to the Office of the Accountant General and to the
MFP.
In addition to Statement of Expenditure, the monthly financial reports will include the Special Account
Reconciliation Statements. Any difference in the amount of expenditures reported under the two financial
statements must be clearly explained. The project financial statements, along with the physical progress and
procurement sections of the FMRs, will be submitted to the Bank on a quarterly basis, and will be
submitted no later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each quarter. The contents of the FMRs have
been discussed, and the formats of the reports will be finalized by loan negotiations.
The World Bank also assessed the capacity of the Auditor General to perform the annual independent audit
of the PCU. Given the limited resources of the Office of the Auditor General, the audit will be contracted
to an external accounting firm according to the Bank's procurement guidelines. The PCU will ensure that
an annual independent audit is carried out and completed by a qualified International Auditing firm, with a
final report issued to the Bank no later than three months after the end of the fiscal year. An audit firm
acceptable to the Bank was hired prior to negotiations. Detailed financial management, accounting and
auditing arrangements are given in Annex 6.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
This project forms the second phase of an APL for five OECS countries. The rationale for the entire APL
program is described in detail in the Project Appraisal Document for the APL 1 (Report No. 18645 LAC),
and the program's phasing is described in Section A. 1 of this document.
The first alternative would have been to focus the project on short-term priority measures and help the
country reduce its vulnerability to hurricanes and mostly finance physical mitigation investments to repair
past damages (particularly those caused by the effects of Hurricane Lenny in November 1999). This quasi
ad-hoc approach would have limited the assistance impact as it would not have addressed the key issues
which are to improve the country's preparedness to withstand and manage disasters over the long term
through both preventive mitigation investments and strengthening disaster management capacity.
A second alternative would have been to finance a more complex project, in particular including an
institutional strengthening component (as defined in Section C of this document and the original PAD for
the APL 1 phase) with such activities as (i) hazard analysis, vulnerability mapping and risk assessment,
building codes and zoning regulations; (ii) seismic and volcano monitoring; and/or (iii) disaster insurance.
The first two sets of items were not retained due to the weak implementation capacity within the country,
the added difficulty to coordinate the additional implementing agencies that such an approach would have
involved, and the low degree of preparation of activities in these areas. In addition, a number of other
organizations in the region --which are well equipped to intervene in these fields due to their long
experience in the sub-region, and have a proven capacity to exchange best practice and finance such
activities on a regional basis-- have indicated their willingness to finance these types of activities or are
already doing so. Given the high cost of financing such activities, retaining these under the present project
could also have been premature as currently there are neither accompanying zoning regulations to enable
Government to control land use, nor capacity to enforce building regulations. Regarding catastrophic
- 15 -



insurance, the Bank is currently in the process of finalizing a separate regional loan for the OECS
countries.
A third alternative would have been to include in the project additional preventive mitigation investments.
It was not retained due to the limited implementation capacity within the country, the generally
insufficiently justified proposals from both economic and disaster management points of view, the high risk
associated with the fact that most identified priority investments were ill-prepared and not supported by
appropriate engineering studies, and the lack of detailed environmental and social impact analysis. The
emphasis has been put on small pilot investments to demonstrate and replicate in further phases. The
project is part of a larger program which addresses all needs in a phased way and in coordination with
other donors who have committed funds for potential investments, hence the timing of disaster-related
investments over the medium to long term.
A fourth alternative would have been to prepare a larger infrastructure sector project based on up-front
policy reforms to address the need for restructuring a fairly inefficient public sector, increasing
infrastructure funding and cost recovery, and organizing adequate routine and periodic maintenance which
should be financed under regular Government budget. This would, however, have proved difficult in the
disaster management and preparedness context where the overarching objective is to focus on strengthening
long-term disaster management capacity rather than just financing physical infrastructure, and target
priority investments to prevent or mitigate the impact of disasters. Addressing all infrastructure sector
issues would have resulted in too complex a project and loosing the focus on capacity building in disaster
management.
The project was designed bearing in mind the need for a balance between capacity-building in disaster
management and preventive mitigation. A choice was therefore made to include two major components,
one to strengthen the country's institutional capacity to manage and respond to disasters, the other to carry
out preventive physical mitigation measures. minor preventive civil works have been selected as pilot
projects: sea defenses at Layou, and works to protect critical bridges and culverts against floods at priority
locations. They aim at minimizing any major devastation from storms and/or sea swells works and
supporting long terrn physical mitigation, and enabling emergency repairs. With the related design and
supervision consultancies, they represent roughly 41% of the total project cost. The remaining
expenditures under the project are largely focused on strengthening key disaster management capacity
activities, including 25% of the total project cost for civil works, namely the retrofitting of priority shelters
and the rehabilitation of the newly-designated EOC and ODP building.
Recognizing the need for a longer term approach to disaster management and prevention, the project will
lay the foundation for future financing --under further phases of the program as well as under other donors'
programs and Government funding-- of priority needs once they have been properly assessed. These
further initiatives will also provide funding for additional support to long-term strengthening of disaster
management capacity. This project will finance a series of feasibility and design studies to define phased
programs of sea defenses, drainage and flood control, and river training and slope protection. Investments
on the Eastern Coast are already incorporated into a comprehensive EU-financed rehabilitation program,
and most critical parts of the Western Coast have already been financed. The priorities to be financed
under the next phases of the program and/or future Bank/donors operations will --pending satisfactory
environmental impact assessments-- focus on completing priority physical preventive mitigation
investments such as sea defenses, drainage improvement, and river training.
- 16 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Strengthen monitoring capacity &   Global Environmental Facility    S             S
analysis of global climate change to  GEF Planning for Adaption to
determine potential impact on coastal  Global Climate Change
areas; identify areas vulnerable to  Project--I997
adverse effects of global climate change (implemented by the
& sea level rise.                  Organization of American
States-OAS, and the Caribbean
Community and Common
Market-CARICOM).
Introduce pro-competitive reforms in  OECS: Telecommunications      S              S
telecommunications sector and increase Project--1998.
supply of informatics-related skills.
Protect the environment and reduce  OECS: Solid Waste                S             S
public health risk.                Management Project--1995.
Improve the preparedness and response OECS Emergency Recovery        S             S
to natural disasters in five OECS  and Disaster Management
countries.                         Program (APL 1)--1998 for
three countries St. Kitts and
Nevis, Dominica, and St. Lucia.
Other development agencies
Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance  Institutional support to disaster
(OFDA) of the United States Agency  preparedness agencies on a
for International Development (USAID) regional basis.
Caribbean Development Bank (CDB)   Sea Defenses in selected areas.
United Kingdom Department for      Technical assistance for disaster
International Development (DFID)   management.
United Nations Development Program  Technical assistance to the
(UNDP)                             Caribbean Disaster Emergency
Relief Agency (CDERA).
Canadian International Development  Technical assistance for disaster
Agency (CIDA)                      management.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 17 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Bank-wide experience of successful emergency and disaster management programs and previous projects
undertaken in the Caribbean, including the APLl projects, and incorporated into this project are: (i) project
simplification with fewer components and implementing agencies to facilitate project coordination and
implementation in a weak institutional capacity context; (ii) early dialogue with Government on necessary
institutional reforms with regard to disaster management and preparedness, and up-front strong government
commitment as evidenced by institutional measures agreed and implemented before negotiations; (iii) more
advanced and detailed preparation of project components and activities; (iv) clear understanding between
the Bank and the Borrower regarding project implementation arrangements, and clear and agreed project
management responsibilities for the coordination unit and the implementing agencies; (v) focus on
strengthening the capacity of existing institutions to effectively discharge their responsibilities with regard
to disaster management and preparedness; and (vi) investing in capacity-building measures in this first
phase of the program to increase the Borrower's ability to mitigate the effects of future disasters and avoid
ad-hoc requests for emergency assistance following disasters.
Specific lessons were derived from the implementation of the APLI projects. First of all, project
preparation in the prevailing emergency situation resulted in many ill-prepared proposals and henceforth
delays during implementation to complete tender documents and launch activities, and often the need to
restructure some components or sub-components. Second, activities earmarked for co-financing with
undefined donors resulted in the need for an increased effort for both the Government and the Bank during
implementation to leverage the required additional resources --sometimes to no avail, leaving a few
activities not carried out. Third, disaster management projects --which are very complex by nature
(multi-sector and new area of assistance)-- cannot be easily implemented in the prevailing context of limited
project management capacity. Fourth, national institutions responsible for disaster management are still
very much in infancy and unable to handle all the complex dimensions of project management and the
coordination of too many agencies. Finally, the Bank is better placed to focus on long-term prevention
(both institutional and physical investments) than on short-term emergency measures, which other donors
are often better organized to deliver.
While this phase will primarily build the institutional capacity of the country with regard to disaster
management and emergency response, its preparation has also highlighted weaknesses within various
specific government agencies to respond to and manage disasters that are fairly similar to those
above-captioned. This was very much accounted for in identifying the key investments and capacity
strengthening activities that the project has finally settled on. In addition, the importance of shelters during
an emergency has helped identify related assistance necessary for the use of shelters to be effective.
General experience with communications, meteorology and early warning systems has helped structure
related sub-components in more easily palatable activities. The lack of capacity to coordinate and manage
the projects has resulted in more focused technical assistance to ODP, and the general lack of managerial
capacity has influenced the choice to elaborate and implement a comprehensive training program for staff
of all concerned agencies, disaster managers and community committees.
This led to streamline the Bank-financed project to focus primarily on capacity-building measures and
selected priority preventive physical mitigation investments. Better up-front coordination with donors
allowed a more focused approach to co-financing and the agreement that a number of key activities,
particularly those regarding institutional issues (such as the regulatory framework, disaster planning,
adoption and enforcement of a new building code, catastrophic insurance, hazard analysis and vulnerability
mapping) would be implemented within the APL framework under the funding of other donors and/or
Government using alternative financing resources.
- 18-



Specifically, for the five OECS countries covered by this APL, including St. Vincent and the Grenadines,
the need for training is of utmost importance to ensure rapid response and effective management of the
situation during and immediately after a natural disaster strikes. Training in Bank procedures, such as
procurement and financial management in particular for the PC and relevant PCU staff, will prove vital to
enable successful project implementation. Also, in building the country's institutional capacity with regard
to disaster management over time, emphasis is given to technical assistance to ODP and MTWH, and to a
lesser extent to other implementing agencies, and to on-the-job training. This is aimed at building local
capacity through actively transferring knowledge to local agency staff from experts within Saint Vincent
and the Grenadines or internationally recruited. Also, Bank assistance to project preparation through the
provision of documents, and the sharing of best practice and experience, has proven to be crucial.
Another important aspect given special attention to was the Borrower commitment to both the short run
implementation of the current project, as well as the long run sustainability of a disaster management
programn. In terms of implementation, the coordination and management role of the PCU vis-a-vis the other
government agencies (such as MTWH and ODP in particular) responsible for executing the various project
components, was clearly spelled out to avoid conflicts later on during project implementation. The PCU
also needed a clear mandate enabling it to coordinate various other government agencies, and housing it
within MFP aided this process.
Regarding disaster management and response, the role and legal authority of ODP has to be more clearly
defined, and Government has committed to institutionalize its existence during the project implementation
period. Although ODP needs to be able to act independently, it also needs to be backed by Government if it
is to act effectively during an emergency. For that purpose, ODP has recently been placed under the
trusteeship of the Prime Minister office. In addition, the response at the local level is also critical, and
community involvement via the district disaster committees has been incorporated into the project design to
provide in particular inputs into the streamlining of emergency procedures. Training for both ODP staff,
the district disaster committees and communities in disaster management and response will be critical. In
order to ensure that the shelters are properly utilized and accessible during an emergency, the project has
emphasized the need for shelter managers to be selected from, and preferably living in, the local commnunity
where the shelter is housed.
Inadequate maintenance of physical infrastructure has also been a key contributing factor to the
vulnerability of infrastructure facilities. In the case of St. Vincent, the coastal erosion caused during the
storm surges associated with Hurricane Lenny showed the adverse effects resulting from the lack of proper
resource management. The Borrower will submit to the Bank, prior to each annual review, an Operations
and Maintenance (O&M) plan and a budget for all relevant physical sub-components financed under the
project.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
A higher profile has been given to disaster management following on the impact of Hurricane Lenny in
November 1999. The new Government -which came on board in April 2001-- has endorsed the approach,
and indicated its commitment to reducing the country's vulnerability to natural disasters, and to building
capacity in agencies responsible for --or concerned with-- disaster management.
Cooperation among various government agencies will be critical for the smooth implementation of this
multi-sector project. Government has given assurance in this regard to ensuring that the implementing
agencies be proactive in assuming control of their respective components. Government has, therefore,
- 19 -



established the PCU in the Central Planning Division of MFP which has overall responsibility for
donor-funded projects, and a new Project Coordinator from this division has been in place since Fall 2000.
Government has also taken a number of steps during project preparation that demonstrated its commnitment
to the project content and objectives, in particular: (i) the preparation of a draft disaster management
training program for all concemed agencies; (ii) the completion of terms of reference for most studies and
consulting services to be recruited under the project; (iii) the preparation of preliminary engineering studies
and bills of quantities for the shelters retrofitting and the health centers and clinics rehabilitation programs,
the preliminary design for the renovation of the ODP/EOC building, and the feasibility and preliminary
design of coastal erosion protection and flood protection civil works; and (iv) the elaboration of a draft
Implementation Manual (Project Operations Manual).
The new Government has confirmed the approval by the previous one of the Development Program
Agreement of the OECS Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Program, and the signing by the
former Government of the Program Letter for the Adaptable Program Loan. It also confirmed the terms of
the April 7, 2000, letter which: (i) committed to appoint in the mid-term a deputy National Disaster
Coordinator, a Technical Data Specialist, and other clerks in ODP, and to recommend and draft legislation
to formalize ODP; and (ii) designated the Land and Housing Development Corporation (LHDC) building
as both the ODP office and EOC headquarters. In a letter dated September 26, 2001, the Government has
also indicated its commitment to: (i) appointing before Loan Signing the National Disaster Preparedness
Coordinator (NDPC) as a full-time position with a minimum grade of 10 in the civil service scale (to be
later "upgraded" to a higher level as part of the ongoing civil service reform); (ii) appointing before
Effectiveness a Disaster Management Specialist in the PCU who would remain until the ODP
Technical/Data Specialist has been recruited; and (iii) institutional reforms (also in an additional legal
covenant) regarding the streamlining of the existing National Emergency Advisory Council (NEAC) into a
full-fledged National Hazard Mitigation Council (NHMC), the amendment of the legislation regarding
ODP and disaster management activities and agencies, and the staffing and financing of ODP in line with
the civil service reform recommendations.
In addition, Govemment indicated that it intends to: (i) update the National Disaster Plan (NDP),
streamline the emergency operating procedures, and review the conditions for calling both a local and
national state of emergency; and (ii) prepare a plan for coordinating the roles of governmnent agencies,
private sector and volunteers in the early warning/emergency communications systems.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Disaster Mitigation Experience. The Bank has gained experience, particularly over the last five years, in
preparing and monitoring the implementation of a number of emergency and disaster mitigation projects,
including for floods, cyclones, and El Nino effects throughout the Latin America and Caribbean Region, as
well as in other developing countries outside this region. The lessons and best practices from these
experiences are being applied to this project. Throughout project preparation, the project team liaised
closely with the Bank's Disaster Management Facility (DMF) on disaster management related issues.
Regional OECS Projects. The Bank has already worked on a number of regional projects for the
OECS/CARICOM countries and has established strong working relationships, as well as experience in
coordinating regional efforts.
External Expert Advice. The Bank project team liaised and coordinated with several international and
national agencies in practical, operational and state-of-the-art approaches to emergency management. The
- 20 -



Bank team also drew upon the experience of donor agencies, in particular the Organization of American
States (OAS) and the USAID Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance (OFDA).
Donor Coordination. The project has been designed in collaboration with international organizations and
bilateral donors, including inter alia the CDB, UNDP, OAS, PAHO, USAID/OFDA, DFID, CIDA. The
Dutch trust fund was used to finance the use of some consultants during project preparation.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Amnex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$26.328 million; ERR = 46.7 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
Given the non-revenue generating nature of the project, benefits are estimated based on expected damages
averted due to the investments pursued in this project. Expected benefits are a combination of physical
losses avoided, and the costs of lost economic activity and disruptions in social welfare minimized. The
analysis includes the costs and expected benefits of the minor coastal and flood protection works and
rehabilitation works for health centers and clinics (under the preventive physical mitigation component),
and the shelters retrofitting and reconstruction of the ODP and EOC (under the strengthening of disaster
management capacity component). The economic analysis is described in greater detail in Annex 4.
The NPVs and ERRs shown below are for the base-case scenario, which assumes (i) that the objective
probability of a major hurricane striking St. Vincent and the Grenadines is at least 10% per year (this is the
lower bound of the probability range estimated by the U.S. National Ocean and Atmospheric
Administration), and (ii) that the minimum damage averted due to the project's investments equals a 10%
value of GDP. In Annex 4 the expected benefits are also subjected to sensitivity analysis by varying the
probability of a hurricane striking the island and simultaneously varying the value of damages averted (as a
percent of GDP).
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
This analysis is not applicable, since it is a non-revenue generating project.
Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal impact is expected to be limited, with government counterpart. funding amounting to less than
1% of GDP per year during construction, and a negligible amount in post-project years. The effect on the
country's debt position is also expected to be minimal given the IBRD/IDA blend nature of the financing.
Of greater concern is the capacity within government to undertake the project, and maintain momentum
once the project is completed.
3. Technical:
River Flooding: the reconstruction of gabion walls and protection works for selected bridges is based on
sound and simple engineering design, taking into account the need for environmental mitigation measures to
avoid any damage to the river basins downstream and the surrounding settlements. A study will be carried
out to prepare a national program of priority bridges repairs, and flood protection and river training works,
bearing special attention to environmental and social aspects.
- 21 -



Coastal Erosion: the technical design of the sea defense at Layou is based on existing sea defenses in St.
Vincent and the Grenadines and the region, including designs for similar works in other countries
participating in the Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Program. A feasibility and design
study (Integrated Coastal Zone Management-ICZM) will be carried out to prepare a national program of
priority sea defense and road realignment investments.
Drainage and flood control: no works are actually financed under the project, as most proposals were too
sketchy and no technical solution to the overall Kingstown watershed and storm drainage system issues has
been elaborated. The study to prepare a comprehensive drainage improvement, flood control and watershed
management program for all sub-basins of Kingstown, South River and Kingstown North River, will focus
inter alia on run-off and drainage analysis, and environmental aspects.
Construction design standards and civil works specifications: the design of the rehabilitation/retrofitting
works, for both the shelters and the health centers and clinics, is based on design standards compatible with
other OECS countries, especially the specifications established by USAID/OFDA and OAS under the
CDMP program. The renovation of the existing shelters and the rehabilitation of the health centers and
clinics are based on materials specifications and construction techniques aimed at ensuring that structures
will be resistant to hurricanes. The shelters' renovation also takes into consideration the minimum
requirements needed for the well being of the tenants. The selection of the shelters to be retrofitted
prioritizes areas of high population density which are more at risk and usually among the poorest in the
nation, while taking into account the costs of the works to be undertaken.
Reliability of cost estimates: the project cost estimnates are based on detailed engineering cost breakdowns
and the result of past bidding processes carried out for similar works in the island during the last five years.
Capacity of the local construction industry: three or four large construction firms have the capacity to
carry out significant infrastructure works, purchase materials and manage construction contracts. About
200 or so "local operators" carry out the majority of maintenance work for the Government, where the
Government purchases the materials, and give labor contracts to the operators. The maximum value of
these labor contracts is about EC$ 20,000 For housing construction, there are eight or nine large
construction firms who have the capacity to purchase materials and carry out construction, and another 100
or so local operators working with labor contracts. This capacity will be adequate with regard to the scope
and quantity of works to be implemented under the proposed Bank-financed project.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
Government has engaged on an effort to down-size its 5,700 strong civil service through the redeployment
of civil servants, particularly at the middle and lower levels, with the assistance of a EU Stabex-funded
institutional development program.
Government's experience with and capacity to handle the management of complex and multi-faceted
projects is quite limited. This is mostly due to under-staffing in a number of agencies, the lack of staff
experienced in project management at all levels, and the lack of well-defined mechanisms and procedures.
The capacity issue is particularly acute with regard to managing donor-funded projects.
- 22 -



MTWH, which is inter alia responsible for all infrastructure-related matters and often acts on behalf of
other Ministries in this regard, has demonstrated little capacity during project preparation to complete in a
timely manner the tasks that were entrusted upon it. Its Public Works Department --which is organized
horizontally, meaning that professional staff work on different sectors as needed-- has, however, some
potential to deliver, provided that Government exerts its influence to mobilize resources and prioritize
tasks.
ODP has been somewhat involved in project design by helping to identify communications gaps and needs
regarding equipment and supplies, but contributed little to the detailed project preparation. The structure is
particularly weak in the OECS context, with a National Disaster Coordinator only recently recruited, and
previously under the trusteeship of the Ministry of Housing with offices located in a very inappropriate and
unequipped office. As a result, the country does not benefit from an effective disaster preparedness system,
and capacity at the community level must be urgently built to prepare for and respond to disasters. The
role of the district disaster coordinators and committees in particular would have to be strengthened.
4.2 Project management:
Both ODP and line ministries are stretched too thin to effectively manage the project, and are also
constrained by their current staffing and organizational structures. Capacity-building with regard to
project management is thus of the essence, but difficult to achieve due to the small size of the economy
which cannot easily sustain the necessary critical mass of expertise in administrative and managerial
services. The lack of capacity issue is the main rationale for creating a PCU to be operated during the
whole project implementation period, the idea being to mainly recruit local staff and train them in project
management matters, including procurement and financial management. This would eventually form the
basis for a longer-term solution to the issue of limited Government capacity in project management.
A Procurement Assessment was carried out during project preparation, and approved by the Bank's
Regional Procurement Advisor in February 2000. The procurement and contracting of contractors,
suppliers, and consulting firms will follow World Bank guidelines. The PCU will be responsible for the
procurement and management of contracts, while the implementing agencies --which have been involved
during project preparation in designing the various sub-components and activities -- will provide
substantive inputs to tender documents (terms of reference for consultancies, lists and specifications for
goods, design and specifications for works) and be involved in the day to day supervision of the activities
and management of implementation issues.
The publication of the General Procurement Notice (GPN) will take place before Effectiveness.
Advertisements of Bidding Documents and Requests for Proposals (RFP) as well as Special Procurement
Notices (SPN) --if required-- will be published in Development Business and national newspapers
respectively for all ICB works and for studies estimated to cost over US$ 200,000. The preliminary design
and environmental impact assessment for the sea defense and gabion protection works have been carried
with the assistance of consultants.
Advanced Procurement has taken place for the recruitment of the PCU staff and the auditors, and
retroactive financing will be used to cover the relevant expenses. Retroactive financing will also be used to
cover expenditures related to the procurement of office equipment for the PCU as may be needed. Total
retroactive financing will not exceed US$100,000 equivalent.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Recruitment of a Procurement Specialist is a condition of effectiveness.
- 23 -



4.4 Financial management issues:
See Financial Management Plan.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Key sections of the coastlines of the several islands of St. Vincent and the Grenadines have been retreating
in association with rises in sea level and increasing frequency of storms, trends which are predicted to
continue. Because of the topography of the main island of St. Vincent, coastal areas are vital to the
country's economy; they are the locus for major population centers and highways. Steep inland topography
also channels storm water runoff into river gullies which are increasingly responsible for flash flooding and
danger to life and property in populated areas. In addition, illegal sand mining undermines coastal
protection efforts. The need for support to community efforts related to the cleaning-up of beaches and
preventing uncontrolled construction on the coast and flood plain is key.
Environmental management, planning and land-use developments are still not mainstreamed into regular
development practices, and there is a crucial need for formulating land-use regulations and introducing
legal documents in this regard, and generally strengthening environmental management in the country.
Government has recognized this, and identified the improvement of environmental management and
monitoring as a priority for effective disaster mitigation and prevention. A special unit responsible for
environmental management --the Environmental Management Unit under the responsibility of the National
Environmental Coordinator-- was established in 1995 in what has now become the Ministry of Health and
the Environment (NMIHE). This unit currently has a limited budget and lacks equipment to monitor
environmental conditions on the islands.
In an effort to mitigate these problems, the project proposes to fund minor civil works on a pilot basis in
two critical areas: reinstating sea-walls to ensure coastal erosion control in the Layou area, and protecting
from floods river crossings and banks in three critical areas. MTWH assessed that the situation in these
and similar areas constitutes a significant hazard, and has prioritized the areas according to perceived
threat.
The project will also assist MTWH and the MHE Environmental Management Unit in strengthening their
environmental assessment and management capacity within the context of disaster preparedness. This will
take the form of technical assistance to: (i) prepare environmental standards and guidelines for the
infrastructure (urban and transport) sector; (ii) review the organizational and administrative relationships
of the Environmental Unit of MHE with MTWH and other relevant Government agencies with regard to
disaster mitigation and preparedness; and (iii) review environmental legislation, and develop environmental
regulations and EIA guidelines with regard to disaster mitigation and preparedness. In addition training
will be provided to staff from MTWH and the Environmental Management Unit of MNHE, in particular in
carrying out environmental impact assessments. Government will in addition review the national
environmental institutional structure, including the determination of staffing profiles and training needs, and
the organizational and administrative relationships of MHE with other relevant Government agencies such
as MTWH.
The project will also finance three major studies in connection with: (i) coastal protection through the
ICZM study; (ii) drainage, flood control and watershed management through the Integrated Kingstown
Drainage Improvement, Flood Control and Watershed Management (Kingstown DIFCWM) study; and (iii)
-24 -



river flooding protection, river training and slope protection through a study to define priority bridges
repairs and river training & flooding protection investments (including assessing flooding risks and drawing
a hazard map of flood-prone areas. These studies will all address environmental and social issues, and
define mitigation measures. The TORs for these studies include specific wording to ensure that appropriate
environmental requirements are accounted for in the design of future civil works, and that
recommendations are made as to the type of mitigation measures which should be carried out as part of the
proposed investments to be carried out during the subsequent phase of the program or financed by other
donors.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) study for the whole project has been carried out by a regional
consultant, and Government has submitted to the Bank the final EIA report in May 2001. The potential
environmental and social impacts have been deemed to be limited, and no major issues have been identified.
The EIA did not identify any resettlement issues associated with the civil works or any other project
components. The EIA includes specific mitigation measures for the rehabilitation of the Layou sea
defenses and gabion protection works. They will, in addition to the usual mandatory good construction
practices, be strictly abided by during project implementation (specific covenant).
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: May 2001
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Meetings regarding the above-captioned specific sub-projects were held at the community level at Layou
and at the three river sites by MTWH, in coordination with the MEHE Environmental Management Unit, at
the time of completion of the final detailed design of the proposed works. In addition, a workshop --to be
organized by the Secretariat of the Physical Planning Board (namely the Physical Planning Section of the
Central Planning Division of MFP)-- will be held as part of the launch workshop at the inception of project
implementation.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Mitigation measures have been included in the bidding documents for civil works. Close supervision will
be undertaken during execution and provision has been made to carry out technical and environmental
audits. In addition, strengthening of the MHE and MTWH environmental management capacity will be
undertaken through technical assistance.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The project is expected to have a positive social impact because a majority of the components would
restore and retrofit basic infrastructure such as sea defenses, roads, and schools, all infrastructure that is
used on a day-to-day basis by the general population. The project will benefit communities by
strengthening the capacities of the agencies that are in charge of warning citizens of impending disasters
and improving their ability to manage the situation efficiently and effectively during and after such
emergencies. ODP procedures will be reviewed to focus more on reaching out and consulting with
communities. The actual review of the procedures will also be carried out in consultation with
- 25 -



communities. In addition, the project will finance technical assistance to MTWH and training of its staff to
prepare EIAs and monitor/enforce environmental and social measures to be implemented under all MTWH
projects.
The project will also assist in developing a training program in disaster management activities for the
disaster committees and communities. Such training will include the functions of a District Disaster
Commnittee, surviving a disaster, and specialized training like emergency search and rescue, donations
management, etc. The training program will also include community-level training and other activities to
promote community participation in disaster preparedness and mitigation. As a part of this effort, the
project will finance the production of training and education materials, including pamphlets for public
distribution through the District Disaster Coordinators and public centers like post offices, community
centers, churches and major employers.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The project will benefit communities directly through:
* support to District Disaster Committees and community volunteers through training and equipment,
including communications equipment such as hand held radios;
* ensuring that shelter managers are from the communities (as opposed to defacto school principals),
which should be reflected in the drafting of the new Shelter Policy;
*   the procurement of a new country-wide communications and early waming systems to improve the
local capability to wam communities of impending emergencies, and facilitate the management of
disaster situations at the community level; and
* the review of the ODP procedures (aimed at focusing more on reaching out and consulting with
communities) which will be carried out in consultation with communities.
ODP and MTWH are among Government agencies the primary stakeholders to benefit from the Project
through technical assistance and training. NMS and MHE are the secondary beneficiaries of the Project.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Local communities and NGOs were consulted during preparation and will continue to be involved in the
project execution as mentioned in para 6.2
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
At local level, District Disaster Committees and community volunteers would receive training and
equipment. At central level, ODP will be strengthened and coordinate the activities of relevant agencies.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Assessments and evaluations will conducted at the conclusion of each training session and an evaluation of
the District Disaster Committees and ODP's capacity will be undertaken as part of the project supervision.
- 26 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  O Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         O Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             O Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Disaster Management Capacity. Both ODP, the line ministries such as MTWH and MHE, as well as
other Government agencies such as NMS, cannot effectively manage activities under the project and/or
project components as they are currently staffed and organized. The project will provide assistance, mostly
to ODP, to prepare for and manage emergency situations. It will also assist in building capacity with
regard to emergency management, disaster preparedness and environmental monitoring in MTWH, the
Environmental Management Unit of MHE, and NMS. The bulk of the assistance provided from project
resources would be in setting up systems, elaborating procedures and guidelines to improve response and
preparedness capacity, providing training, and procuring the specialized equipment necessary to operate
efficiently. This important "setting-up" phase will be followed by further support to longer-term
institutional reforms in disaster preparedness and management, and emergency response through possible
additional loans/credits from the World Bank Group or under other donors' financing.
Preventive Physical Mitigation. Inadequate maintenance has been a key issue in the lack of sustainability
of infrastructure, as was witnessed by the damages caused during the sea surges associated with Hurricane
Lenny. In accordance with Section 9.01 of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements, each relevant sector ministry will, prior to annual reviews, prepare and submit to the Bank for
review and approval an O&M plan and budget for all relevant physical components financed under the
project.
Implementation Capacity. The assessment of procurement and contract monitoring capacity, as well as
financial management capacity, in line ministries showed significant weaknesses, except for
procurement-related matters in MTWH. The project will, therefore, provide assistance to the Government,
via the PCU, to discharge its project management responsibilities, particularly with regard to procurement
and financial management. Capacity exists among local contractors and all civil works are of a limited
scope, so that the local construction industry should be able to carry out the civil works appropriately.
Local consulting firms are not usually involved in the supervision of donor-funded projects, but their
-27-



capacity --on their own or in association with regional firms-- is deemed sufficient to supervise the
relatively simple and small civil works and ensure that adequate technical standards are enforced for the
rehabilitation of the EOC, and the retrofitting of the shelters and of the health centers and clinics.
Long Term Sustainability. The Govermment has committed to the hiring of permanent professional staff in
ODP to ensure sustainability and capacity in the long run, and to provide financial resources to ensure their
viability after the project is completed.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating           Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Parliament has not approved various        H        Government commitment to prepare and present
necessary legislations to improve                   needed legislation;
emergency operations, in particular with            Preparation and adoption of revised disaster
regard to ODP's lack of authority to                management procedures;
assume leadership role during an                    Government strong commitment to the
emergency;                                          appropriate financing and staffing of ODP;
Disaster management procedures untested             Public awareness and communications
and not well understood and known by                campaign;
communities and Government agencies;                Revised procedures to improve maintenance
ODP still lacks staff and financial                 operations and safe storage of emergency
resources;                                          equipment.
Emergency equipment is not effectively
stored and maintained, and not properly
distributed during an emergency.
NMS and ODP do not have enough            M         Government budget for appropriate staffing and
adequately qualified staffed to                     maintenance of equipment and facilities;
respectively use emergency                          Training and assistance to District Disaster
communications and early waming                     Committees by ODP;
equipment, and properly act upon the                Public awareness program and participation in
receipt of information;                             procedures and drills;
Communities are unwilling and unable to             Improved country-wide communications and
mobilize and organize before an                     early warning systems.
emergency.
Communities, in particular poorer         M         Community leaders' involvement and training in
households, are unable to access shelters           disseminating relevant information;
during an emergency;                                Government commitment to keep access roads
Shelters' construction/retrofitting is not          open;
technically adequate.                               Enforcement of appropriate standards for the
retrofitting of shelters, and adoption of efficient
shelter management procedures.
MTWH is not properly budgeted and          S        Government commitment to elaborate national
staffed to discharge its quick post-disaster        environmental standards and monitoring
response responsibilities;                          guidelines, present relevant environmental
Environmental mitigation guidelines and             legislation, and subsequently enforce it and
- 28-



legislation are neither adopted by                  implement mitigation measures.
Parliament, nor enforced by Government.              MIE Environmental Management Unit to be
trained in preparing EIAs and MTWH staff to
be trained in monitoring the implementation of
mitigation measures
Financial and human resources devoted to   H         Adequate Government budget for O&M,
the maintenance of key infrastructure are            allocation of enough staff to maintenance, and
insufficient; and                                    training;
Civil works are neither adequately                   Selective technical audits to monitor compliance
designed nor carried out with proper                 with hurricane-resistant design standards and
construction standards and regulations,              construction standards and regulations.
with regard to hurricanes.
Government has not prepared preventive     S         Government commitment to complete three
mitigation investment programs and/or                major preventive mitigation studies, review
secure resources to finance them.                    recommendations, and secure resources for at
least priority investments.
From Components to Outputs
Slow adoption of revised emergency and     S         Legal Covenant in the Loan Agreement for
disaster management procedures and                   Government to hire additional professional staff
status for ODP;                                      in ODP, adopt new procedures, and create a
ODP staff not trained in disaster                    NHMC with new members and appropriate
management;                                          procedures, with technical assistance financed
ODP Headquarters and EOC not                         under the project;
operational.                                         Staff training, and EOC/ODP rehabilitation
works financed under the project.
Emergency communications equipment         M         Staff --of agencies responsible for managing the
and meteorology equipment are not                    equipment-- to undergo continuing education
adequately maintained and used.                      and training in the use of new systems by their
suppliers.
Local construction industry has limited    M         Improved and harmonized design standards and
capacity to carry out works to retrofit              materials and construction specifications and
shelters and rehabilitate health centers and         regulations;
clinics to hurricane resistant standards.            Project-financed assistance to the design and
supervision of civil works by consultants.
MTWH has improved neither its capacity     S         Project-financed procurement of stocks of
to respond during and after emergencies,             specialized equipment;
nor its capacity to enforce environmental            Project-financed technical assistance to the
guidelines and regulations, and monitor              MHE Environmental Management Unit and
mitigation measures.                                 MTWH, including the development of
environmental guidelines and regulations, and
training.
MTWH has limited capacity to properly      S         Project-financed technical audits;
supervise contractors.                               Project-financed recruitment of consultants for
supervision of civil works.
- 29-



PCU experts are not well-qualified and    M         Recruitment of qualified staff in the PCU prior
unable/unwilling to transfer their                 to negotiations with precise terms of reference
know-how.                                           and fixed-term contracts to be assessed during
annual reviews.
Overall Risk Rating                        s
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*   A completed Project Implementation Manual (P1M) has been submitted to the Bank and found
acceptable (i.e. including finalized Financial Management and Procurement Sections);
* An Eastern Caribbean Dollar Project Account for Government counterpart funds has been opened in
the National Commercial Bank with an initial deposit in an amount of US$ 450,000 equivalent;
* The Financial Management Plan has been completed satisfactorily;
* A Procurement Specialist has been recruited.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Additional covenant
The Government commits to:
* (i) streamline the existing National Emergency Advisory Council (NEAC) into a full-fledged National
Hazard Mitigation Council (NHMC) through the elaboration of a charter establishing new procedures
and the appointment of new members by the end of calendar year 2003;
* (ii) recommend and draft legislation to formalize ODP as an agency with specific authority to
coordinate all disaster management activities and agencies involved during emergencies, and to adopt
revised operational guidelines, by mid calendar year 2004; and
* (iii) ensure adequate staffing and financial resources for ODP in line with the civil service reform
recommendations (NDPC position "upgraded" to a higher level in the civil service pay-scale, and
appointment of two additional high level staff in ODP --Technical/Data Specialist and Deputy Disaster
Coordinator-- respectively before the end of calendar year 2004 and mid calendar year 2005).
Additional financial covenant
* The Borrower shall deposit into the Project Account the balance of counterpart funding (US$ 450,000
equivalent) required for the project one year following project effectiveness.
Environmental covenant
*   The Borrower shall take all environmental and social recommendations set forth in the Environmental
Impact Assessment (ELA) report prepared for the Project dated May 2001, and ensure that all
mitigation measures are implemented by contractors and properly monitored by the Ministry of
Transport, Works, and Housing (MTWH);
* All recommendations from the EIA report regarding the sea defense works at Layou, and the flood
- 30-



protection works and gabion walls reconstruction at Georgetown, Buccament and Colonaire, shall have
been referenced in the bidding documents and reviewed by the Bank before invitations to bid are
issued;
* The Borrower shall review legislation regarding land ownership and loss to the sea in coastal areas as
well as public/private delimitation in riverbeds and riverbanks, and conduct public awareness
campaigns to explain the danger of occupying such lands.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
El 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
FI 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
H 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
I 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Ara  Mare%ie   ard              Danny M. Ieipziger               Orsali Kal ntzop ulos
Team Leader                      Sector Manager/Di  0o             Country Manager/Director
- 31 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES: Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management
Project
Key Performance       Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:       Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Strengthen infrastructure and  Social and economic  Data on growth, income, and  Macroeconomic policy
safeguard the environment.  disruptions following a  socio-economic indicators.  conducive to growth.
natural disaster.
Program Purpose:          End-of-Program Indicators: Program reports:         (from Purpose to Goal)
Ensure that all five      APL 1: Reconstruction and  World Bank missions' Aide  All countries have a stable
participating OECS member  rehabilitation of        Memoires, Back to Office  economic and political
nations have the ability to  infrastructure, and support  Reports (BTOs) and Project  environment.
adequately respond to natural disaster mitigation   Status Reports (PSRs).
disasters.                investments in St. Kitts &  Annual reviews and mid-term
Nevis, St. Lucia and      reviews (MTR).
Dominica.                 Implementation Completion
APL 2: This second phase  Report (ICR).
brings St. Vincent & the  Semi-annual Reports of the
Grenadines and Grenada into Project Coordination Unit
the program. The projects,  (PCU).
similar to those in APL 1,
focus on strengthening
emergency preparedness and
response, and preventive
physical mitigation.
Provide additional investment Additional Loans/Credits  World Bank project     Continued Governments'
to strengthen both physical  and/or Supplementals to  preparation and quality  commitment to disaster
infrastructure and        APL1 or APL2 (APL 3       assurance mechanism.      management.
institutional capacity building. cancelled): Demonstration  Governments' enforcement of
of: (i) satisfactory      key policies.
implementation of APL1&2  Governments' budgets devoted
projects; (ii) continued  to maintenance.
adoption by the respective
Governments of good disaster
management policies; (iii)
adequate maintenance of
infrastructure, particularly of
those assets vulnerable to
disasters.
Establish a contingency credit APL 4: Contingency funds to Governments declaration of a Effective donor coordination.
facility for participating  mitigate natural disaster  local disaster emergency, and
countries to access emergency strikes during the program  appraisal/approval mission by
funds in the event of a severe  period. APL 4 triggered by a World Bank.
natural disaster emergency.  declaration of local disaster  Evidence of implementation
emergency by Govermnents.  of disaster mitigation policies.
Technical audits.
- 32 -



Key Performance       Data Collection Strategy T
Hierarchy of Objectives |        Indicators      T                          |  Critical Assumptions
Project Development       Outcome / Impact          Project reports:          (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:                Indicators:
Strengthen St. Vincent and  Operational emergency   Quarterly implementation  Effective coordination among
the Grenadines' resilience,  procedures and mobilization  progress reports from each  government agencies.
preparedness, and ability to  guidelines as per international implementing agency to the
respond to natural disasters.  standards in place by June  PCU.
2004.
Improved reporting of     Mission reports of the CMO  Effective coordination and
weather information by the  or other equivalent     timely communications
National Meteorological   organization.             between ODP and NMS.
Service (NMS) to the Office
of Disaster Preparedness
(ODP) with: a) regularity (at
least once daily); and b)
quality (verified by missions
of the Caribbean
Meteorological Organization
(CMO), Caribbean Institute
for Meteorology and
Hydrology (CIMH), or an
equivalent institution).
Enhanced ability of ODP to  ODP reports.            Accurate and timely reporting
accurately analyze incoming  Annual reviews and MTR.  to ODP by all public agencies,
information and data on                             private sector and NGOs
emergencies and serve as a                          involved.
single "clearing house" for
early warning information
and dissemination (as
evidenced by timely decision
making, the triggering of
emergency procedures and
timely dissemination of
warnings by ODP to
populations at risk).
Increased number of people  Beneficiary surveys.    Adequate progress with the
serviced by adequate shelters                       construction of new shelters
due to the retrofitting                             and the retrofitting of existing
program.                                            ones to appropriate standards.
Strengthened capacity in the  Performance indicators.  Contingent budget for MTWH
Ministry of Transport, Works                        emergency activities, and
and Housing (MTWH) to                               enforcement of environmental
carry out works during                              regulations.
emergencies, and prepare
EIAs and monitor mitigation
measures.
-33 -



Key Performance       Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicators                                 I Critical Assumptions
Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:         (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. ODP capable of effectively 1.1 Existing National  1.1 Final Charter approved.  Parliament has approved all
preparing for disasters and  Emergency Advisory Council                      the necessary legislation.
managing emergency        (NEAC) streamlined by the
situations.               end of calendar year 2003 into                     Proper emergency and disaster
a full-fledged National Hazard                     management procedures are
Mitigation Council (NHMC)                          tested, well understood and
through the elaboration of a                       known by communities and
charter establishing new                           Govemment agencies.
procedures and the
appointment of new members;
1.2 Adequate staffing and  1.2 Civil Service Ordinances  ODP has sufficient authority
financial resources for ODP in and relevant budgets.  to assume leadership role
line with the civil service                        during an emergency, and
reform recommendations: (i)                        enjoys appropriate staffing
"upgrading" before mid                             and financial resources.
calendar year 2004 of the
National Disaster                                   Emergency equipment is
Preparedness Coordinator                            effectively stored and
(NDPC) position to a higher                        maintained, and properly
level in the civil service                          distributed during an
pay-scale; and (ii)                                emergency.
appointment respectively
before the end of calendar
year 2004 and mid calendar
year 2005 of two additional
high level staff in ODP
--Technical/Data Specialist
and Deputy Disaster
Coordinator;
1.3 Draft legislation by mid  1.3 Final legislative text.
calendar year 2003 to
formalize ODP as an agency
with specific authority to
coordinate all disaster
management activities and
agencies involved during
emergencies, and to adopt
revised operational
guidelines;
1.4 Training of High-level  1.4 ODP quarterly
Govemment Officials in    monitoring and reporting.
disaster and emergency
management.
2. Country-wide emergency  2.1 At least 72-hour advance  NMS and ODP quarterly  NMS has enough qualified
communications and early  warning from NMS to ODP of monitoring and reporting.  staff.
warning systems operational. impending tropical events.
-34 -



2.2 Number of District                              ODP has enough staff to
Disaster Coordinators (DDCs)                        properly act upon the receipt
reached, and reduced response                       of information.
time of those coordinators to
an emergency.                                       Communities are willing and
able to mobilize and organize
before an emergency.
3. Functional shelters.   3.1 Efficient shelter     Semi-annual implementation  Communities, in particular
management procedures in  progress reports from the  poorer households, are able to
place.                    Ministry of Education.    access shelters during an
ODP quarterly monitoring  emergency; and MTWH is
and reporting.            able to keep access roads
opened at all times.
3.2 Number of shelters                              Construction and/or
retrofitted.                                       retrofitting of shelters is
completed at technically
adequate standards.
3.3 Number of shelter
managers actually from
communities.
3.4 At least one shelter
manager per shelter trained
and in place.
4. MTWH able to respond   4.1 Capacity in MTrWH to  Semi-annual implementation  MTWH is properly budgeted
quickly to repair         erect on-site metallic bridges  progress reports from MTWH  and staffed to discharge its
infrastructure following a  of a 10 to 15 meter span in  and/or MHE.          quick post-disaster response
disaster; MTWH and the    less than 4 days.                                   responsibilities.
Environmental Management
Unit of MHE able to carry out
environmental impact
assessments and monitor
mitigation measures.
4.2 Design standards and                            Environmental mitigation
monitoring guidelines                               legislation is
elaborated; MHE                                     adopted/approved by
Environmental Management                            Parliament/Govemment, and
Unit trained in preparing                           enforced/implemented.
EIAs; and MTWH staff
trained in monitoring the
implementation of mitigation
measures.
5. Improved and maintained  5.1 Sea wall reconstructed at  Selective technical audits to  Govemnment commits enough
hysical infrastructure.  Layou.                    assess compliance with    financial and human resources
disaster-resistant design and  to the maintenance of key
construction standards.   infrastructure.
- 35 -



Civil works are designed with
5.2 Flood protection/gabion                         adequate standards to
works at selected river-crossing                    withstand hurricanes, and
sites (Georgetown, Buccament,                       carried out with proper
Colonarie) completed.                               construction standards and
regulations with regard to
hurricanes.
5.3 Rehabilitation of priority
health centers and clinics
completed.
6. Feasibility and detailed  6.1. Recommendations of  Consultants' reports.   Government has prepared
engineering studies for      ee major studies financed by                      reventive mitigation
reventive mitigation     the project reviewed by                             investment programs and/or
investments carried out.  Government before December                           secure resources to finance
2004, and approved                                  them.
recommendations implemented
before December 2005.
- 36-



Key Performance       Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives |       Indicators      I|I                           Critical Assumptions
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                         Outputs)
Institutionalizing and    US$ 0.857 million        ODP monthly reporting to  Adoption of new emergency
strengthening ODP.                                 Government.               and disaster management
Consultants' reports.     procedures, and revised status
for ODP.
ODP staff well trained in
disaster management.
Rehabilitation of the
newly-designated
headquarters of ODP to also
serve as Emergency
Operations Center (EOC).
Emergency communications  US$ 0.509 million        Monthly implementation    Emergency communications
and early warning.                                 progress reports from each  equipment and early warning
implementing agency to the  equipment are adequately
PCU.                      maintained and used.
Shelters program.         US$ 1.511 million        Monthly supervision       Local construction industry
engineers reports to the PCU. has capacity to carry out
Consultants' reports.    shelter retrofitting works to
hurricane-resistant standards.
Strengthening Emergency   US$ 0.464 million        Consultants' reports.     MTWH has demonstrated
Response and Environmental                         Revamped MTWH             emergency response
Management Capacity                                organization.             procedures.
MTWH and viE have
trained staff to enforce
environmental guidelines and
regulations, and monitor
mitigation measures.
River Flooding Protection.  US$ 1.141 million      Monthly supervision       MTWH has the capacity to
engineers reports to the PCU. properly supervise
Consultants' report for the  contractors.
main study.
Coastal Erosion Protection.  US$ 0.783 million     Monthly supervision       MTWH has the capacity to
engineers reports to the PCU. properly supervise
Consultants' report for the  contractors, and monitor the
main study.               consultants.
Kingstown Drainage        US$ 0.211 million        Consultants' reports.     MTWH has the capacity to
Improvement, Flood Control                                                   properly monitor the
and Watershed Management.                                                    consultants.
Retrofitting Health Centers  US$ 0.633 million     Monthly supervision       Local construction industry
and Clinics.                                       engineers reports to the PCU. has capacity to carry out
rehabilitation and retrofitting
works to hurricane resistant
standards (idem shelters
- 37 -



above).
Project Management.        US$ 0.703 million         PMRs and semi-annual      PCU has recruited staff
reports.                  well-qualified and able to
Quarterly implementation  transfer know-how.
progress reports from each
implementing agency to the
PCU.
-38 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES: Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management
Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$3.34 million
A. Strengthening Disaster Management Capacity
This component has four sub-components: 1) institutionalizing and strengthening the Office of Disaster
Preparedness (ODP), including inter alia: (a) elaborating/revising disaster management and emergency
procedures; (b) rehabilitating the newly-dedicated Emergency Operations Center (EOC) which will also
serve as ODP headquarters; (c) procuring emergency equipment, rescue tools and supplies; and (d)
developing and implementing a comprehensive disaster management training program open to other
agencies and communities, and a public awareness program; 2) developing emergency communications and
improving meteorological systems on a country-wide basis to facilitate early warning through technical
assistance and training, and the procurement of specialized equipment; 3) implementing a shelter program,
including technical assistance, training, and the retrofitting of selected public buildings (schools and
community centers); and 4) building capacity within the Ministry of Transport, Works and Housing
(MTWH) to manage emergency situations, including the procurement of stocks of prefabricated metallic
bridges and gabions, and within MTWH and the Environmental Management Unit of the Ministry of
Health and the Environment (MHE) to carry out their responsibilities with regard to environmental
assessment and mitigation through technical assistance and training.
1. Institutionalizing and Strengthening the Office of Disaster Preparedness (ODP)
The following sub-components addresses four key areas for strengthening ODP: (a) elaborating/revising
disaster management and emergency procedures, including protection/evacuation plans and emergency
procedures for hotels, new regulations to legitimize ODP and focus its mission, and an update of the
National Disaster Plan; (b) rehabilitating the newly-dedicated ODP headquarters to standards making it a
suitable EOC; (c) providing equipment for ODP's daily operations, as well as procuring emergency
equipment, rescue tools and supplies required during an emergency; and (d) developing and implementing a
comprehensive disaster management training program open to ODP staff, government officials, disaster
management volunteers, other related agencies, and communities, and a public awareness program.
In addition, the Government of St. Vincent and the Grenadines (GoSVG) will finance under its civil service
reform program the strengthening of the ODP human resource capacity through the appropriate
professional staffing of ODP as follows: (i) upgrading of the permanent National Disaster Preparedness
Coordinator (NDPC) position to a higher level in the civil service scale; and (ii) hiring a Deputy National
Disaster Preparedness Coordinator and a Technical and Data Specialist. The NDPC, the Technical and
Data Specialist, and the Secretary will constitute the ODP's "basic/core team".
(a) Elaborating/revising disaster management and emergency procedures
The project will finance consultants to initiate several activities in direct collaboration with ODP. The
scope of work for the consultants are: (i) updating the National Disaster Plan, including emergency
communication procedures, and streamlining the procedures and conditions for calling both local and
national states of emergency; (ii) preparing operational guidelines for ODP; (iii) preparing a plan for
coordinating the roles of government agencies, private sector and volunteers in the early
- 39 -



warning/emergency communications system; (iv) recommending and draft legislation to formalize ODP as
an agency with specific authority to coordinate all disaster management activities and agencies involved
during emergencies, and prepare revised operational guidelines; (v) reconstituting the existing National
Emergency Advisory Council (NEAC) as a full-fledged National Hazard Mitigation Council (NHMC)
through a charter establishing new procedures and the appointment of new members; and (vi) making
recommendations for adequate staffing and financial resources for the ODP after the completion of the
ongoing civil service reform exercise.
(b) Rehabilitating the Office of Disaster Preparedness (ODP) and Emergency Operations Center (EOC)
The rehabilitation of part of the building currently housing the Land and Housing
Development Corporation (LHDC) will be financed in order to accommodate the EOC and offices for the
ODP. The EOC will house multiple functions, in particular it will serve as: (i) a base for ODP's daily
activities; (ii) a training center; (iii) a national command center during an emergency; (iv) an emergency
communications center; and (v) a storage base for emergency equipment to be distributed to district
shelters. The second floor of the existing building will be converted and rehabilitated for these functions,
with central air-conditioning, an emergency generator and transformer, upgraded wiring, and telephone
outlets. The site, including adjacent storage facilities, will be secured with lockable gates and building
security systems.
(c) EOC Equipment and Supplies
The project will finance a stock of emergency equipment and supplies, rescue tools, and loss reduction
materials to ensure that: (i) ODP can function effectively in its daily operations; (ii) the EOC can function
effectively as a command center in case of an emergency; and (iii) local disaster coordinators and
emergency shelters will be able to function effectively in an emergency with items distributed from the
EOC. ODP will prepare proper procedures for secure storage and maintenance, and use and distribution of
materials and supplies during an emergency. The list of agreed items includes small emergency generators,
portable water purification equipment, pumps, reinforced plastic sheeting, water storage and distribution
containers, chain saws, portable emergency lighting, emergency health supplies (stretchers, first aid kits,
and possibly others as needed), and hand tools. Much of the fumiture and equipment required for the
command center will do double duty in serving ODP's training activities (chairs, tables, projector etc.
Some of the communications equipment to be used in ODP's daily operations (fax, phones, intemet access)
will also service EOC's radio room during an emergency. All essential and sensitive electronic equipment
will be protected by UPS back-up systems, and a stand-by generator will power the equipment in the event
of a power failure. GoSVG will ensure that at least ten phone lines are provided to the EOC, including a
"hardened" direct line for the use of the Prime Minister under which ODP falls, and dedicated intemet
access.
(d) Training and Public Awareness
The project will finance a comprehensive Training Program to be administered by ODP. Staff from ODP,
district disaster coordinators, shelter managers, key GoSVG officials responsible for NEAC
sub-committees, selected volunteer amateur radio and CB operators who will provide emergency
communications capability around the country would be eligible. Training in operational meteorology will
also be provided to staff from the National Meteorological Service (NMS) to maximize the information
from new technology and to minimize error of misinterpretation of observational data. Training in project
management, procurement and financial management would be offered to selected PCU as needed. A draft
program has already been prepared on the basis of a training-needs analysis. The training sub-component
will fund: (i) off-the-shelf and customized training by local and regional providers; (ii) short-term courses
abroad in specialized fields; (iii) conferences, seminars and study-tours; (iv) course materials for training
courses at EOC; (v) one full-scale emergency simulation exercise designed to test new equipment and
-40 -



system response; and (v) a Public Awareness Campaign in the form of a series of pamphlets to be produced
by ODP in close liaison with GoSVG's Public Information Office, local disaster coordinators and public
centers like post offices, community centers, churches and major employers. Advantage will also be taken
of regional training programs as well as free training offered by NGOs and other agencies. Each year, the
PCU will submit to the Bank for "No Objection" a comprehensive training program, including the type of
training and the modalities by which the training could be offered.
2. Emerzency Communications and Meteorology Systems
The project will finance emergency communications and meteorology equipment, and training in their use,
to strengthen the country's early warning capacity, enable ODP and the National Meteorological Service
(NMS ) to alert appropriate govermment authorities, the media, and the public of adverse weather
conditions in good time. The Project will also finance technical assistance to strengthen ODP and NMS
capacity to gather and disseminate timely, reliable and useful information to the population at large in case
of emergencies.
(a) Emergency Communications
The project will finance equipment provided that a national emergency communication plan linking
Government and private communications systems into a comprehensive
network be developed as part of the National Disaster Plan. The consultants under 1 (a) above will assist
Government in developing this plan in relation with the technical specialists in the concerned agencies and
organizations.
(b) Meteorology System
Financial support will be provided to NMS to ensure that there are effective ways to collect weather data
and the means to disseminate essential weather information to appropriate authorities and the population.
The project will finance the procurement of specialized equipment including automated weather observation
stations, weather observing and data collecting equipment with appropriate software, and office equipment.
The supplier will provide NMS with assistance to install the equipment, and training in equipment
operations and maintenance. The Caribbean Meteorological Organization (CMO) and/or the Caribbean
Institute for Meteorology and Hydrology (CIMH) will assist NMS in siting equipment and designing a
climate database. The procurement of specialized equipment will be conditioned on the following: (i) NMS
offices are moved to a higher floor of the airport to prevent flooding, which is currently occurring on a
regular basis; (ii) a dedicated phone line for Internet access be secured under Government regular budget;
and (iii) the receipt of a report with recommendations for siting the equipment.
3. Shelters Program
The project will finance: (a) the retrofitting to hurricane-resistant standards of schools and community
centers to serve as shelters, including electrical upgrade and the procurement--as part of the civil works
contracts--of new water storage tanks (with increased capacity) and possibly back-up generators (when
justified); and (b) technical assistance to develop/adapt a Shelter Operations Manual and revise the shelter
policy. The project will not fnance air conditioning, due to the need to retrofit many shelters and the limited
financial resources available. In addition, specific retrofit guidelines for shelters should be used (possibly
OAS), and it would be desirable to conduct community meetings to discuss proposed plans for the retrofit
and subsequent management of the future facilities. EIAs are not necessary for these works, and the
Environmental Management Unit of the MHE will monitor the proper disposal of construction materials (to
be incorporated in the civil works contracts), and use of sound construction practices with regard to the
environment.
- 41 -



4. Strengthening Emergency Response and Environmental Management Capacity
The project will finance MTWH capacity-building in disaster management response. Continuity of access
will be ensured through the procurement of a stock of built-on site prefabricated metallic components (60
meters of double-single type, enough to erect three 10/15 meter-span bridges and covering the longest 20
meters span bridge) with launching equipment, as well as training of one maintenance crew and the
purchase of assembly manuals. In addition, a stock of gabion baskets to protect piers and abutments will be
financed under the project. The Project will also finance the procurement for MTWH of a vehicle
dedicated to the supervision of the Preventive Physical Mitigation works financed under the Project,
laboratory testing equipment, and lap-top computers with appropriate software to facilitate fieldwork.
The project will also assist the MHE Environmental Management Unit and MTWH in strengthening their
environmental management capacity through technical assistance to: (i) prepare environmental standards
and guidelines for the infrastructure (urban and transport) sector; (ii) review the organizational and
administrative relationships of the Environmental Management Unit of MHE with MTWH and other
relevant Government agencies with regard to disaster mitigation and preparedness; and (iii) review
environmental legislation, and develop environmental regulations and EIA guidelines with regard to disaster
mitigation and preparedness. In addition training will be provided to staff from MTWH and the
Environmental Management Unit of MHE.
Project Component 2 - US$2.77 million
B. Preventive Physical Mitigation
The preventive physical mitigation component includes: 1) river flooding protection through (i) civil
works and gabionage to protect selected river crossings against floods and storm surges, and
associated design review and supervision services, in selected priority areas, and (ii) a feasibility and
design study for priority river training and flood protection investments; (b) coastal erosion
protection through (i) an Integrated Coastal Zone Management (ICZM) study to define a prioritized
sea defense and road realignment investment program and elaborate the appropriate designs
accordingly, and (ii) minor priority sea defense works at Layou, and associated detailed design
review and supervision services; (c) the preparation of a comprehensive drainage improvement, flood
control and watershed management program for the Kingstown area through a comprehensive study
to design an optimal storm drainage system; and (d) a program of retrofitting works for priority
health centers and clinics.
-42 -



1. River Flooding Protection
The project will finance the (re)construction of gabion walls to protect against floods three bridges
and river banks at Georgetown (bridge over the Caratal river), Buccament and Colonaire. Minor
environmental mitigation measures have been recommended in the Project ETA study. The
supervision of the works, including the review of the design, will be contracted out.
The Project will also finance a study to: (i) assess flooding risks, draw a hazard map of flood-prone
areas, and identify critical river crossings (bridges and culverts) requiring protection; (ii) define
priority investments, such as bridges repairs and river training & flooding protection; and (iii)
prepare detailed design for priority works to be carried out during the subsequent phase of the
program or financed by other donors.
2. Coastal Erosion Protection
The project will finance minor sea defense works at Layou to protect the village population against
sea swells and ensuring access. Minor environmental mitigation measures, mostly for the
construction period, have been recommended in the Project EIA study and will be included in the
tender documents. The supervision of the works, including a review of the detailed design, will be
contracted out.
The project will also finance an Integrated Coastal Zone Management (ICZM) study in order to gain
better knowledge on natural sea and sand conditions around the islands of St. Vincent and the
Grenadines. The ICZM study will also determine a prioritized investment program of coastal erosion
protection works --and road realignment where needed-- for all the islands of the archipelago,
including appropriate detailed design and environmental assessment for key areas to be identified as
priority investments to be carried out during the subsequent phase of the program or financed by
other donors.
3. Kingstown Drainage Improvement. Flood Control and Watershed Management
The project will finance the preparation of a comprehensive Kingstown drainage improvement
program, through a study to conduct an overall assessment of the whole Kingstown watershed and
design an optimal storm drainage system. The study will inter alia include: (i) a detailed run-off and
drainage analysis, with special environmental and social components, covering the major drainage
sub-basins of Kingstown, South River and Kingstown North River; and (ii) detailed engineering
design to define an optimal solution providing assurance of a reliable protection against flood
through sound investments to be carried out during the subsequent phase of the program or financed
by other donors.
4. Retrofitting Health Centers and Clinics
The project will finance the retrofitting of health centers and clinics, including the procurement as
part of the civil works contracts of back-up generators, new water tanks (or with increased capacity),
and incinerators to mitigate any potential environmental hazards.
-43-



Project Component 3 - US$ 0.70 million
C. Project Management
This component is aimed at assisting Government in meeting its project management obligations
through the financing of the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) staff not seconded by Government and
to be recruited externally, i.e. the full-time Financial Manager/Accountant for the duration of the
Project, and a Disaster Management Specialist until such time as ODP is adequately staffed.
This component will provide financing for the PCU operations related to project management: (i)
office equipment and software; (ii) one project vehicle; and (iii) operating expenditures, including
communication services and secretarial support.
In addition, the project will finance: (i) independent financial audits every fiscal year; and (ii)
selective technical audits to ensure that the various retrofitting and rehabilitation works (shelters,
health centers and clinics, and the EOC) have been designed and carried out according to acceptable
international disaster-resistant standards.
-44 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES: Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management
Project
Project Costs by Cor     onent:    Sthousand)
% Foreign    % Total
Local   Foreign Total Cost Exchange Project cost
A. Strengthening Institutional Disaster Management Capacity
1. ODP Strengthening
Disaster Management Procedures                                25       75       100        75           1
EOC Retrofitting and Equipment                                83      248       330        75           5
Equipment and Supplies for ODP                                17      149       165        90           2
Training for ODP                                              48      143       190        75           3
Subtotal ODP Strengthening                                      172      613       785        78          12
2. Emergency Communications and Early Warning
Emergency Communications System                               38      342       380        90           6
Early Warning System                                          13      113       125        90           2
Subtotal Emergency Communications and Early Warning              50      455       505        90          7
3. Shelters Program
Retrofitting Shelters                                        325      975       1300       75          19
Shelter Policy and Operations                                 8        23       30         75          0.4
Subtotal Shelters                                               333      998      1330        75          20
4. Strengthening MCW
Metallic Bridges and Gabions                                  39      347       385        90           6
Technical Assistance for MCW                                  18       53        70        75           1
Subtotal Strengthening MCW                                       56      399      455         88          7
Subtotal Strengthening Institutional Disaster Management Capacity  621     2454     3075        80          45
B. Preventive Physical M Itigation Measures
1. River Training and Protection
Gabion Walls and Bridges Repairs                             215      645       860        75          13
River Training Study                                          38      113       150        75           2
Subtotal River Training and Protection                          253      758      1010        75          15
2. Coastal protection
Layou Sea Defense and Road Rehabilitation                     124     371       495        75           7
Integrated Coastal Zone Management Study                      50      150       200        75           3
Subtotal Coastal protection                                     174      521       695        75          10
3. Feasibility Study for Kingstown drainage                      50      150       200        75          3
4. Health Centers Rehabilitation                                138      413       550        75          8
Subtotal Preventive Physical Mitigation Measures                  614      1841     2455        75          36
C. Project Management
Project Coordination Unit                                       76       229       305        75          4
PCU Training                                                     8       23        30         75         0.4
Office Equipement and Laboratory Testing Equipment               6       50        55         90          1
Vehicles                                                         6       54        60         90          1
Technical Audits                                                 18      53        70         75          1
Financial Audits                                                 26      79        105        75          2
Operating Expenditures for Project Management
Secretarial support                                            7       21        28         75         0.4
Office supplies and communications                             3       23        25         90         0.4
Subtotal Project Management                                       149      530       678        78          10
Total Base Costs                                                  1383     4825     6208         78         91
Contingencies                                                      144     458       602        76           9
Total Project Costs                                               1527     5283     6810         78         100
-45-



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES: Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management
Project
The economic rationale for disaster management and mitigation is based on the premise that improved
recuperative capacity of the economy will lower any adverse longer term impacts on the country's economic
growth trajectory. The costs of disasters can be broken down into two parts, firstly the opportunity cost of
not being able to safeguard the population and their property, and secondly the opportunity cost of lost
economic activity, especially if damages to physical infrastructure leads to prolonged disruptions in
economic activity.
The analysis below examines the sensitivity of the expected net economic benefits for the APL 2 phase of
the project in St. Vincent and the Grenadines. Expected benefits are adjusted using a combination of the
probability of a hurricane striking the island, and the damage averted (expressed as a percent of the Growth
Domestic Product-GDP) due to the mitigating investments and the strengthening of disaster management
capacity measures implemented. Vulnerability can thus be defined as both the frequency at which a
particular disaster (hurricane) occurs and the impact it has on the country (i.e. its severity). The effects of
severity can be partially offset by mitigation measures aimed at limiting damages and improving response
times once a disaster strikes.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The project's investment costs and expected benefits are calculated over a twenty year period. These costs
and expected benefits are summarized in Table A4. 1 below. The benefits are adjusted by the probability of
a hurricane striking St. Vincent, which in the base case is assumed to be 10%; that is, the lower bound as
calculated by the U.S. National Ocean and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), which estimates the
mean probability of a hurricane striking St. Vincent in any given year to be in the range of 10%-25%.
As for damages averted, this variable is largely unknown, since no extensive and consistent historic data set
is available on damages averted due to mitigation measures. Data on damages caused by hurricanes in St.
Vincent specifically is also absent, as is data on the damages caused by the annual storm surges that affect
the country. In the base case, the assumption is that on average the investments from the project can avert
(save) a value equal to 10% of GDP, that would otherwise have been destroyed by a major hurricane (or
that could result from damages caused by storm surges). The sensitivity analysis below, though, assumes
various values for damages averted as a percent of GDP, and both the Net Present Value (NPV) and the
Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) are also subjected to sensitivity tests in order to see how their
values change due to variations in the probability of a hurricane and the damages averted due to mitigation
investments.
The probability of a hurricane striking the island is harder to quantify and sensitivity tests are performed in
order to see what the lower bound may be for a probability of a hurricane hitting the island in order for the
NPV to be greater than zero, i.e. for the project to be economically viable. While Table A4.1 above shows
both gross and expected benefits (as adjusted by the probability a hurricane striking St. Vincent), the latter
is the correct variable to use in calculating the NPV and when comparing investment costs with "true"
benefits.
-46-



TABLE A4.1
COSTS AND BENEFITS (US$ '000)
Investment (yrs 1-4)            Operations & Maintenance, Depreciation (yrs 4-20)
2002    2003     2004    2005     2006    2007     2012    2017       2021
Costs
Institutional Strengthening         357     1855    1077      50      418     426     470      519        562
Communications                        0      503       5       0       52      53      58       65         70
ODP Strengthening                    132     234     447      44       87      89      98      109        118
Shelters                            210     701      600       0      231     236     260      287        311
Ministry of Works                     15    417       25       6       47      48      53       59         64
Physical MitIgation                  313     850    1277     328      391     399     306      338        365
Gabion Walls and Bridges Repairs     110     350     508     173      175     178     197      217        235
Coastal Protection                   70      200     358     155      120     122      -       -          -
Study for Kingstown Drainage          0       0      211       0      -       -        -       -          -
Health Centers Rehabilitation        133     300     200       0       97      99     109      120        130
Project Management                  177      214     195      117     -       -        -       -          -
Total Costs                         847     2919    2549     494      809     825     776      857        927
Benefits (averted costs)
Institutional Strengthening         357     1855    1077      50      418      426     470     519         562
Physical Mitigation                   0     400     3501   37135    39393    41788   56133   75402       95481
ProjectManagement                    177    214      195      117       0        0       0       0           0
Total Benefits (Unadjusted)         534    2469     4773   37302    39810    42214   56603   75921       96043
Expected Benefits (Basdine)          53     247      477    3730     3981     4221    5660    7592        9604
Expected Net Benefits               -794   -2672    -2072   3236     3172     3396    4884     6735       8677
Main Assumptions:
The main thrust of the economic analysis is to compare the cost of physical mitigation-for both the
strengthening of disaster management capacity and infrastructure rehabilitation-with the present and
future costs averted (imputed benefits) from pursuing such investments. The project's costs are defined as
the direct investment costs associated with the project and the future operations and maintenance costs plus
depreciation of the physical assets. The imputed benefits will be defined as the future costs foregone (or
saved), which is also tantamount to the opportunity cost of not undertaking the mitigating investments. A
discount rate of 10% will be applied to the costs and the benefits in order to calculate the NPV and EIRR
for the project as a whole. For the project's purposes, the NPV calculations are more important, since a
zero NPV will yield a positive ERR, and the economic analysis is generally more concerned with a
positive NPV for the project.
As for damages averted, this variable is largely unknown, since we have no historic data on damages
averted due to mitigation measures. Data on damages caused by hurricanes are also limited, as is data on
the damages caused by the annual storm surges that affect St. Vincent. More recently, in November 1999,
the island suffered some damages from Hurricane Lenny, although the full extent of these damages have
not yet been assessed. In the analysis below, we will assume various values for damages averted as a
percent of GDP. In the base case, however, the assumption is that on average the investments from the
- 47 -



project can avert (save) at least 10% of GDP that would otherwise have been destroyed by a major
hurricane or that could result from damages caused by storm surges.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
The analysis below examines the sensitivity of the expected net economic benefits for the project. Expected
benefits are adjusted using a combination of the probability of a hurricane striking the island, and the
damage averted (expressed as a percent of GDP) due to the mitigating investments and the strengthening of
disaster management capacity measures. Table A4.2 below shows the results from the univariate
sensitivity analysis, which allows the probability of a hurricane to vary, while assuming that the value of
damages averted remain constant at 10% of GDP.
TABLE A4.2
Prob. of     Expected
Hurricane        NPV
1%           -6975
2%           -3275
3%             426
4%            4126
5%            7826
10%           26328
15%           44829
20%           63330
25%           81832
30%          100333
At a probability of 3% for a hurricane, the project becomes economically viable (NPV > 0). The
probability distribution of hurricanes striking the island is then juxtaposed against the value of expected
damages averted (costs saved). Table A4.3 summarizes the results of the bivariate sensitivity analysis
(covarying both the probability of a hurricane and the damages averted).
From this analysis it can be seen that a probability of 3% for a hurricane with damages of at least 10%
averted, forms what is tantamount to the "minimal hurdle rates" of this project. In other words, if either of
these values fall below their respective "minimum hurdle rates" it would not be economically justifiable to
pursue the mitigating investments. Thus, the results of the sensitivity analysis helps to establish a baseline
under which it would be economically viable to pursue the project. In reality, the probability of a hurricane
is unknown and changes in global weather patterns suggests perhaps an increasing occurrence (hence
higher probability) of tropical storms.
The sensitivity analysis in Table A4.3 below shows that the "objective" minimum hurdle rates for the joint
events as a probability for a hurricane at 4% per year and damages averted at 10% of GDP. However,
given the observed lower bound of a probability of a hurricane of roughly 10%, the "minimum" damages
that need to be averted for this project to become economically viable becomes 3% of GDP. Data gathered
in other Caribbean island, most notably the observation from neighboring Grenada where a tropical storm
destroyed 20% of GDP in 1975, suggests that an assumption for the base case of damages averted of 10%
of GDP would be a reasonable assumption.
- 48 -



TABLE A4.3
Prob. of                                       Percent Damage Averted
Hurmcane         1%       2%        3%       4%        5%       10%       15%      20%       25%       30%
1%        -10,245    -9,881   -9,518    -9,155   -8,791     -6,975   -5,158   -3,342    -1,525      292
2%         -9,814    -9,088   -8,361    -7,634    -6,908   -3,275      359      3,992    7,625    11,258
3%         -9,384    -8,294   -7,204    -6,114    -5,024      426     5,876    11,325   16,775    22,225
4%         -8,954    -7,500   -6,047    -4,594    -3,140    4,126    11,392    18,659   25,925    33,192
5%         -8,523    -6,707   -4,890    -3,073    -1,257    7,826    16,909    25,992   35,075    44,158
10%         -6,371    -2,738     895     4,528     8,162    26,328   44,494    62,660    80,826   98,992
15%         -4,219    1,230     6,680    12,130   17,580    44,829   72,078    99,327   126,576   153,825
20%         -2,067    5,199    12,465    19,732   26,998    63,330   99,663   135,995   172,327   208,659
25%            84     9,167    18,251   27,334    36,417    81,832   127,247  172,662   218,077   263,493
30%          2,236    13,136   24,036   34,935    45,835   100,333   154,831  209,330   263,828   318,326
The next step is to calculate the NPV and EIRR using the baseline scenario, and the minimum hurdle rates.
The results calculated using the minimum hurdle rates (probability = 4%, damages averted = 10%) are
summarized in Table A4.4 below, along with the base case, which uses the lower 10% bound of the NOAA
probability of a hurricane striking St. Vincent and damages averted equal to 10% of GDP. In both cases,
damages averted is assumed to be 10% of GDP.
TABLE A4.4
NET ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND RETURN
Economic Analysis
Operations & Maintenance, Depreciation
Investment (yrs 1-4)                                    (yrs 4-20)
2002      2003      2004     2005     2006    2007    2011    2016     2020
Minimum Hurdle Rate
Total Costs                          847      2919      2549       661     661     674     624     689      746
Expected Total Benefits                21       83       191      1502    1502    1593    2014    2701     3416
Expected Net Benefits (ENB)          -826    -2836     -2358       841     841     918    1390    2012     2670
PV (ENB)                             -826    -2579     -1949       574     574     570     589     530      480
Cumulative PV(ENB)                   -826    -3404     -5353     -4779   -4779   -4209   -1843     927     2922
NPV (of Expected Benefits)         $3,129
Economic IRR                       15.3%
Base Line
Total Costs                          847      2919      2549       494     809     825     761      840     909
Expected Total Benefits                53      247       477      3730    3981    4221    5338    7159     9056
Expected Net Benefits (ENB)          -794    -2672     -2072      3236    3172    3396    4577    6319     8147
PV (ENB)                             -794    -2429     -1712      2431    2167    2109    1941     1664    1465
Cumulative PV(ENB)                   -794    -3223     -4935     -2504     -338   1771    9895   18756    24909
NPV (Expected Benefits)          $26,328
Economic IRR                       46.7%
-49-



While the probability of a hurricane is going to vary by year, and the damages caused will depend on the
strength of the hurricanes, the actual values will most likely exceed the minimum hurdle rates we have
calculated, which at best are very conservative assumptions.
- 50-



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES: Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management
Project
Project Components by Year (including contingencies), (US$ thousand)
2002       2003        2004       2005       Total
A. Strengthening Institutional Disaster Management Capacity
1. ODP Strengthening
Disaster Management Procedures                                      -       30.5       73.7           -      104.2
EOC Retrofitting and Equipment                                  132.0      122.2      126.4           -      380.6
Equipment and Supplies for ODP                                      -                 173.0           .      173.0
Training for ODP                                                    -       81.4       73.7        43.6      198.7
Subtotal ODP Strengthening                                        132.0      234.1      446.8        43.6      856.5
2. Emergency Communications and Early Warning
Emergency Communications System                                     -      382.4          -           -      382.4
Early Warning System                                                -      121.0        5.3           -      126.3
Subtotal Emergency Communications and Early Warning                   -      503.4        5.3           -      508.7
3. Shelters Program
Retrofitting Shelters                                           210.0      670.1      600.0           -     1480.1
Shelter Policy and Operations                                       -       30.5          -           -       30.5
Subtotal Shelters                                                 210.0      700.6      600.0           -     1,510.6
4. Strengthening MCW                                                                                                l
Metallic Bridges and Gabions                                        -      391.2          -           -      391.2
Technical Assistance for MCW                                     15.3       26.0       25.0         6.0       72.3
Subtotal Strengthening MCW                                         15.3      417.2       25.0         6.0      463.5
Subtotal Strengthening Institutional Disaster Management Capacity   357.3     1,855.3    1,077.1       49.6     3,339.3
B. Preventive Physical Mitigation Measures
1. River Training and Protection
Gabion Walls and Bridges Repairs                                110.0      350.0      350.0       173.0      983.0
River Training Study                                                -          -       158.0          -      158.0
Subtotal River Training and Protection                            110.0      350.0      508.0       173.0     1,141.0
2. Coastal protection
Layou Sea Defense and Road Rehabilitation                        70.0      200.0      200.0       100.0      570.0
Integrated Coastal Zone Management Study                            -                  158.0       54.5      212.5
Subtotal Coastal protection                                        70.0      200.0      358.0       154.5      782.5
3. Feasibility Study for Kingstown drainage                           -                  210.6          -       210.6
4. Health Centers Rehabilitation                                  133.3       300.0      200.0          -       633.3
Subtotal Preventive Physical Mitigation Measures                    313.3       850.0     1,276.6     327.5     2,767.4
C. Project Management
Project Coordination Unit                                          75.0       100.0      100.0       36.6       311.6
PCU Training                                                          -        30.5          -          -        30.5
Office Equipement and Laboratory Testing Equipment                    -       40.6                   16.2        56.8
Vehicles                                                           61.0          -                               61.0
Technical Audits                                                                          52.7       21.8        74.5
Financial Audits                                                   27.8       27.8        27.8       27.8       111.0
Operating Expenditures for Project Management                      12.9        15.0       15.0       15.0        57.9
Subtotal Project Management                                         176.7       213.9      195.5       117.4      703.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                 847.3     2,919.2     2,549.2     494.5      6,810.0
OoP: Office of Oisaster Preparedness
MCW: Ministry of Communications ana Works



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES: Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management
Project
Procurement
Procurement
Advanced Procurement will take place for the recruitment of the PCU staff and the auditors, as well as the
purchase of office equipment for the PCU, and possibly tendering the EOC rehabilitation works (e.g.
initiating and processing the process up to the point where an award has been decided upon and a contract
possibly signed but short of mobilizing the contractor).
A) Procurement Arrangements
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank"
Guidelines:Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995 (revised
January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999); and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published in January 1997 (revised in September 1997 and
January 1999), and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement. The methods to be used for the
procurement described below, and the estimated amounts for each method, are summarized in Table A. The
threshold contract values for the use of each method are stipulated in Table B.
Civil Works: The civil works under the project consist of minor sea defenses for a critical coastline area
(Layou), river flooding protection works (gabion walls and bridge repair) at priority sites, the rehabilitation
of priority health centers and clinics, the retrofitting of selected shelters, and the rehabilitation of the
newly-dedicated Emergency Operations Center (EOC) and Headquarters of the Office of Disaster
Preparedness (ODP) totaling US$ 4.047 million equivalent. The larger Layou contract which involves more
sophisticated construction techniques will be procured following International Competitive Bidding
procedures (ICB), using Bank-issued Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs). Given the relatively limited
size of these works, there is however, no need for a pre-qualification of contractors, and international
advertisement of the works will be done through a Special Procurement Notice (SPN). Contracts estimated
to cost less than US$ 0.5 million equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 3.477 million,
may be procured using National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures, using standard bidding
documents agreed in advance with the Bank. The NCB tenders include river flooding protection works to
be packaged in two contracts, shelters retrofitting to be packaged in several contracts on the basis of
proximity, the rehabilitation of health centers and clinics to be packaged in two contracts, and the EOC
rehabilitation under one tender.
Goods and Equipment: Goods procured under this project, totaling US$ 1.191 million equivalent, would
include specialized equipment, emergency equipment and supplies, various materials for emergency
response, and vehicles and equipment for MTWH and the PCU. They are all, except possibly for
computers and other office equipment, expected to be procured from foreign suppliers as there is no local
manufacturer for any of those goods.
To the extent possible, contracts for these goods will be grouped into bid packages of more than US$
100,000 equivalent and procured following International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, using
Bank-issued Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs). This concerns three packages accounting for about
90% of the value of the goods to be procured: 1) technological equipment in two lots (communications
- 52 -



equipment, and meteorological equipment, both including computer equipment and software) for various
implementing agencies; 2) emergency equipment and supplies, and rescue tools for ODP; and 3) metallic
bridges components (and its launching system) and gabions for the Ministry of Transport, Works and
Housing (MTWH).
Procurement of a supervision vehicle for MTWH and a vehicle for the PCU estimated to cost less than US$
30,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$ 61,000 will be procured through UNDP's Inter-Agency
Procurement Services Office (IAPSO).
Contracts for goods which cannot be grouped into the larger bidding packages will be packaged in small
lots valued at less than US$ 35,000 each. This concerns on one hand computers and miscellaneous office
equipment and furniture for the PCU, and on the other hand laboratory testing equipment, and lap-top
computers with appropriate software for MTWH. Such goods may be procured using international or local
shopping procedures based on model Requests for Quotations satisfactory to the Bank. International
shopping procedures will be used for packages estimated to cost less than US$ 35,000 individually up to an
aggregate amount of US$ 35,000. Local shopping procedures will be used for packages estimated to cost
less than US$ 25,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$ 27,000.
Consultants' Services: Consulting services will be contracted under this project in the following areas of
expertise: coastal protection and shore management; flood control and river training engineering; drainage
and watershed management; institutional development and disaster management; training; works
supervision; and project management, including technical and financial audits. These services are estimated
to cost US$ 1.544 million equivalent and would be procured using the Bank's standard Guidelines.
Firms
All contracts for firms would be procured using Quality Cost Based Selection (QCBS), Least Cost
Selection (LCS) and Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications (CQ) procedures, and will require
prior review of the Bank. Tenders for the studies and large technical assistance consultant contracts will be
issued using the QCBS procedure. Short-lists will be prepared based on expressions of interests following
the publication of the General Procurement Notice (GPN), and advertisement published in the Development
Business and national newspapers for studies estimated to cost over US$ 110,000. Tenders for all design
studies and supervision services, as well as for financial audits and for technical audits, will be issued using
the LCS procedure under contracts estimated to cost less than US$ 110,000 up to a ceiling amount of US$
186,000. Short-lists will be prepared based on expressions of interests following the publication of the
General Procurement Notice (GPN), and advertisement published in national newspapers. The CQ
procedure will be used up to a ceiling amount of US$ 230,000 for training contracts and for the Shelter
Policy and Operations assignment, estimated to cost less than US$ 30,000.
Individuals
Specialized advisory services would be provided by individual consultants selected by comparison of
qualifications of three candidates and hired in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3
of the Consultant Guidelines, for contracts estimated to cost less than US$ 50,000 up to an aggregate
amount of US$ 343,000. Terms of reference will in all cases be reviewed by the Bank. In addition, contract
and CV will be reviewed by the Bank for contracts of more than US$ 20,000.
Operating expenditures: The Project will finance some operating expenditures in an approximate amount of
US$ 20,000 during each year of implementation under procedures acceptable to the Bank. This will
consist of: (i) secretarial support (PCU clerical administrative assistant's all-inclusive salary for the
- 53 -



duration of the project) estimated to cost approximately US$ 10,000 during each year of implementation;
(ii) stationary/office supplies and sundry items estimated to cost approximately US$ 7,000 during each
year of implementation; and (iii) various communications services (phone and fax lines, internet access,
etc..) estimated to cost approximately US$ 3,000 during each year of implementation. The services of the
PCU clerical administrative assistant will be procured using the Selection of Individual Consultants
procedure. Supplies and communications expenditures will be procured under the direct contracting
procedure in packages estimated to cost less than US$ 5,000 individually up to an aggregate amount of
US$ 30,000.
2) Prior review thresholds: The proposed thresholds for prior review are based on the procurement
capacity assessment of the project implementing unit and are summarized in Table B. In addition to this
prior review of individual procurement actions, the plan and budget for the PCU operating expenditures
will be reviewed and approved by the Bank annually.
Two copies of each signed contract should be sent to the Bank prior to making disbursements against these
contracts. All civil works will require prior review, as well as all the contracts for goods procured under
ICB. The first two contracts using international shopping procedures, the first two contracts using local
shopping procedures, and the first contract using the LAPSO procedure from UN agencies will require prior
review. Thereafter, only the first contract using international shopping procedures and the first using local
shopping procedures each year will require prior review. All consultants' services using firms will require
prior review by the Bank, except for training providers (only the first two contracts each year will require
prior review after prior approval of overall training program). All consultants' services using individuals
with an estimated cost greater than US$ 20,000 will require prior review of the TORs, the consultant's
qualifications and the terms of contract. All other consultants' services under US$ 20,000 will be procured
after prior review of TORs. Only the first contract under the direct contracting of Operating Expenditures
category will require prior review.
B) Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement
Procurement activities, including the contracting of contractors, suppliers, and consulting firms will be
undertaken by the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in close coordination with the respective implementing
agencies using World Bank guidelines. A Project Implementation Manual-PIM (Operational Manual) has
been prepared, and its procurement section includes a description of the procurement procedures and
methods to be applied, the Standard Bidding Documents to be used under each procurement method, model
contracts for goods to be procured under the shopping or LAPSO procedures, and a procurement
plan/timetable (see below Section C).
An assessment of the capacity of the Government to implement procurement actions for the project has
been carried out during the pre-appraisal mission of the project (report dated February 7, 2000, included in
the project files) and was approved by the Regional Procurement Adviser on February 18, 2000, with an
overall level of risk assessed as average. The specific risks identified in the assessment include: (i)
Government staff inexperienced in procurement and contract management; (ii) slow procurement process
currently found in the sub-region; and (iii) the need to establish procurement filing and contract
management procedures for the project. The PCU will recruit the above-captioned procurementlcontract
management specialist before negotiations, and thereafter establish a monitoring system to maintain control
of the procurement actions.
- 54 -



C) Procurement Plan
A Procurement Plan, along with an overall Implementation Plan for all Project activities, has been prepared
by the PCU. It was presented to the Bank before negotiations and found acceptable, and subsequently
included in the Project Implementation Manual and project files. At the beginning of each calendar year,
the Borrower will update the Procurement Plan and overall Project Implementation Plan for the coming
year.
D) Frequency of Procurement Supervision
In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from the Bank Headquarters, a full supervision
mission will visit field sites to carry out a post review of contract and procurement actions every 12
months. Based on the overall risk assessment (average) and the limited number of civil works involved, the
post-review field analysis should cover all major investments (preventive physical mitigation measures),
and a sample of not less than 1 in 3 shelters and health centers and clinics contracts. A Bank project
supervision plan has been included in the project files.
- 55 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ thousand equivalent)
Category                             Procurement Method
ICB            NCB          Others       NBF          Total
Civil Works                570         3477                                    404
(485)        (2955)                                 (3440)
Goods                  1073                         118                      1191
(1019)                      (112)                    (1131)
Consulting                                          1544                      154
Services
(1313)                    (1313)
Operational                                            28                        2
Costs
(22)                      (22)
Total                                                                       6810
(5906)
* Figures in brackets represent the amount of Bank Financing
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ thousand equivalent)
Consultant                    Selection Method                   Total Cost
Services                                                        (including
Expenditure                                                     contingencies)
Category     OCBS     QBS    SFB   LCS    C    Other* N.B.F.
A. Firms            758                  186   229                         117
(644                (158) (195)                        (996
B. Individuals                                        372                   37
(316)                 (316
Total                                                           1544
_______________                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~(1 313i
*Individual Consultants and PCU Training
** Figures in brackets represent the amount of Bank financing
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
- 56-



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure Category        Contract Value       Procurement Method     Contracts Subject to Prior
(Threshold)                                        Review
US $ thousands                                    US $ thousand
1. Works                          Above5OO                  ICB                     All (570)
Below 500                 NCB                    All (3477)
2. Goods                          Above 100                 ICB                    All (1073)
Below 35          Intemational Shopping      First 2 contracts (10)
Then First per year (10)
Below 25            National Shopping       First two contracts (10)
Then first per year (5)
Below 5 (Office supplies)  Direct Contracting        First Contract (5)
Vehicles                IAPSO                First contract (30)
3. Consultants
Firms                             Above 110                 QCBS                    All (758)
Below 110                 LCS                     All (186)
Below 30                  CQ                      All (30)
Training                  CQ               After approval of overall
training program, prior review
of the first two contracts each
vear (100)
Individuals                        20 to 50        See Section V of Guidelines Review of TORs, contracts, and
CVs (300)
Below 20        See Section V of Guidelines  Review of TORs only (42)
- 57-



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
A US$2.97 million loan and a US$2.94 million credit will be extended to Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
in support of the US$ 6.81 million (including contingencies and front-end-fee) program of activities
described in Annex 2. This project forms part of the second phase (APL2) of an APL that covers five
OECS countries for a total of US$ 54.89 million to be disbursed in three phases (APL1, APL2 and APL4).
The arrangements and descriptions described here apply to this particular part of APL2 which is for Saint
Vincent and the Grenadines. The closing date for this project will be December 31, 2005. The allocation of
loan proceeds for this project is presented in Table C below.
Table C
Allocation of Loan and Credit Proceeds (US$ thousands)
Total     %      Loan Credit
1. Clvil Works           3,010     85     1,500  1,510
2. Goods                 1,115     95      550    565
3. Consultants           1,235     85      700    535
4. Operating Expenses       40     80       20     20
5. Loan Fee                 30              30      -
6. Unallocated             480             200    280
Total                    5,910            3,000  2,910
It was agreed that retroactive financing would cover eligible expenditures with regard to goods and services
for the PCU acquired from December 31, 2001 up to the date of signing of the Loan Agreement and the
Development Credit Agreement. They will cover for a maximum of US$ 150,000: (i) fees of consultants;
(ii) office equipment and furniture; and (iii) operating expenditures (sundry items and stationary/office
supplies under direct purchase procedures, and various communications services such as phone and fax
lines, internet access, etc under direct contracting procedures. These services and goods will be procured in
accordance with the procurement provisions set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Funds Flow
Procedures for flow of funds from the loan and the required counterpart contribution will be implemented
with due regard to safeguarding project's resources and ensuring timely execution of payments.
Loan funds will be disbursed to one Special Account ([JS dollar account for Bank funds), and this account
will be utilized for the purposes of the implementation arrangements agreed. As is the current practice in
St. Vincent, the Special Account will be opened by the Ministry of Finance and Planning (MOFP) and
maintained in a commercial bank. The management of this account will be the responsibility of the PCU.
The PCU will transfer funds from the Special Account to the project account, from which checks or
transfers (in local currency) will be issued to the providers of goods and services. The project will
reconcile (monthly) both the project account as well as the Special Account, and submit the documentation
regarding both accounts, to the Bank under each withdrawal application and Statement of Expenditure
(SOE).
-58-



The establishment of the new Special Account and the deposit of government's first year contribution of
US$ 450,000 equivalent in the local operational account will be required prior to effectiveness. A
subsequent deposit of US$ 450,000 equivalent will be made in the local operational account one year after
the effectiveness,date.
Accounting Policies and Procedures
Administrative procedures will be in place to ensure that financial transactions are made with consideration
to safeguarding project assets and ensuring proper entry in the accounting/monitoring systems. The
project already has a working draft of the operations manual, which is in the process of being finalized.
The project accounting system has the capacity to record assets, liabilities and financial transactions of the
project, and produce financial statements useful to project management and meeting IBRD's fiduciary
requirements. The accounting system is designed to be able to capture all financial information and
allocate among both categories (the Bank's legal/disbursement categories and GOSVG Budget categories)
and project activity.
The project will also submit detailed monthly statements of expenditures to the Office of the Accountant
General and to the MOFP in order that the project's expenditures are recorded on the Ministry's accounts
as well as supervised by the unit responsible for management of external financing.
Segregation of duties. The PCU has a clear organizational structure and procedures established according
to the norms under the Financial Administration and Audit Act (FAA). Said procedures support an
adequate segregation of procurement, budgeting, payment and recording activities, and this was observed
within the MFP during the appraisal mission. All payment orders/requests are reviewed and signed by the
PCU director and by the office of the Director of the Planning (in the MFP) before being processed by the
Accountant General's office. All detailed procedures are contained in the operational manual for the
project.
Budgeting. The loan agreement and project cost tables will be the main inputs for the project budgets and
counterpart (GOSVG) funding estimates under the Capital Budget. The PCU will follow prescribed
governmental budgetary heads, and in adherence to the FAA Act, will prepare at least:
*      The annual work plan classified by work lines, with goals/objectives, physical and financial
programs;
*      the budget proposal specifying the sources of funds, the summarized and detailed expenditures by
major areas, accounts, and specific objects;
*      after approval by Parliament: the budget execution program broken down monthly, and the
quarterly document of budgetary commitment authorization;
*      the monthly report on budgetary execution to be issued within 10 days after the end of each month;
and
*      the quarterly report on evaluation of budgetary execution to be issued within 10 days after the end
of the quarter.
Bank account reconciliations will be prepared on a monthly basis by the Accountant and will be available
within 8 days after the end of the month.
- 59-



Accounting. Accounting and budgetary records will be maintained in accordance with the GOSVG's
procedures, under the FAA Act and which are satisfactory to the Bank. However, for Bank monitoring
purposes the PCU will report on detailed information at the project level, specifically the deposits to the
special account and the expenditures classified by activity/ subcomponent and disbursement category.
The project has implemented a basic system that will be able to account for all financial transactions by
source of financing and by either general category or project activity detail.
Safeguard over assets. For the proposed project, the PCU will keep detailed subsidiary records of plant
and equipment acquired. The amounts in this register will be reconciled monthly against the respective
accounting balances. At least one annual physical inspection will be undertaken by MOFP/PCU staff,
preferably with the participation of staff from the external auditors.
Audit arrangements.
Annual project financial statements will be audited in accordance with International Standards on Auditing,
by an independent firm and in accordance with terms of reference (TORs) both acceptable to the Bank. In
addition to the audit opinions on project financial statements, Special Accounts, and SOEs, special purpose
reports will be required to deal specifically with observance of the procurement and consultants services
provisions of the Loan Agreement. The memorandum on internal controls ("management letter") will be
issued annually.
The Terms of Reference for the independent annual audit has already been cleared and approved by the
Bank and the process to contract the auditors is nearly complete.
The PCU will prepare, if needed, an action plan to address any issues and recommendations contained in
the audit reports. The action plan and follow-up activities would be communicated to the Bank.
Reporting and Monitoring
Financial statements and reports will be prepared in formats satisfying the Government and IBRD's
monitoring and fiduciary purposes.
On a monthly basis, the PCU will prepare the project's basic Statement of Expenditure, a matrix
classifying receipts by financing source and expenditures by financing source and disbursement category.
This report is submitted to the Office of the Accountant General and to the MOFP.
In addition to Statement of Expenditure, the monthly financial reports will include the Special Account
Reconciliation Statements. Any difference in the amount of expenditures reported under the two financial
statements must be clearly explained. The project financial statements, along with the physical progress and
procurement sections of the FMRs, will be submitted to the Bank on a quarterly basis, and will be
submitted no later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each quarter. The contents of the FMRs have
been discussed, and the formats of the reports will be finalized by loan negotiations.
- 60 -



Assessment of Agency's Financial Management Capacity
An assessment of Agency's financial management capacity was conducted on site from January 17-21,
2000, by a Financial Management Officer, in accordance with guideline OP/BP 10.02 and the Project
Financial Management Handbook dated February 1999. The objectives of the assessment were to determine
if the Project Management Unit has the capacity to properly manage and account for all project proceeds
and to produce timely, accurate and reliable project management reports for use by management and
submission to the World Bank. Below is a summary risk analysis.
Risk               Risk Rating       Risk Mitigation Measures
Inherent risk
Country specific                 Medium     Appointment of experienced of
financial staff of the PCU within
MOFP;
Entity/project specific          Medium     Same as above. Use of Statement of
Expenditures for disbursements.
Control risk
Implementing Entity              Medium     Same as above.
Funds Flow: loan funds           Medium     Use of Statement of Expenditure
Funds Flow: counterpart funds    Medium     Deposit of counterpart funds into
separate operational account.
Low      Establishment of the PCU;
Staffing                                    appointment of experienced FM
personnel.
Accounting policies and           Low
procedures
External Audit                   Medium     Appointment of auditors before
effectiveness; interim audits
Reporting and Monitoring         Medium     Bank support to generation of flexible
draft FMRs prior to effectiveness
-61 -



The PCU has been involved with the preparation of the Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management
project (under the Regional APL) and has established some key aspects of the financial management.
However, since this is a new project unit to implement a Bank project, there are specific aspects to the
overall financial management system that have been identified as needing modification. Below is the agreed
financial management action plan:
Financial Management Action Plan
Responsible
Action                         Entity         Completion Date
1. Set up the PCU's new Chart of
Accounts.                      PCU            Before effectiveness
2.Set up the system to classify
accounting information by project
disbursement categories and
subcomponents.                 PCU            Before effectiveness
3. Establish Special Account   PCU/MOFP       Before effectiveness
45 days after the end of the
quarter in which effectiveness
4. Submit first FMRs           PCU            takes place
5. Finalization of Operations
Manual                         PCU            Before effectiveness
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Special account:
- 62 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES: Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management
Project
Project Schedule                                 Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)                                        01/20/1999
Appraisal mission departure                    07/24/2000                  05/21/2001
Negotiations                                   11/20/2000                  04/11/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  09/15/2002
Prepared by:
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Bernard Becq *                    Team Leader, Senior Operations Officer
Rumana Huque                      Urban Specialist
Arnaud Marie Guinard              Lead Urban Specialist, Task Manager
Michel Audige*                    Lead Port Operations Specialist
Rajeev Swami                      Financial Management Officer
Mariana Montiel                   Legal Counsel
Peter Ellis                       Economist
John Pickard                      Consultant
Ana Daza                          Language Team Assistant
* Procurement Accredited Staff
- 63 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES: Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management
Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
St. Vincent and the Grenadines Project Implementation Manual. *
St. Vincent and the Grenadines Project Implementation Plan (Microsoft format) *
B. Bank Staff Assessments
BTOs and Aide Memoires *
Financial Management Assessment *
Procurement Assessment *
Capacity and institutional strengthening measures *
C. Other
Environmental Impact Assessment study *
Project Supervision Plan *
Costab and Project Cost tables *
*Including electronic files
-64 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES: Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project
02-May-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                disbursements'
Project ID     FY    Purpose                                        IBRD         IDA         SF       GEF      Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig   Frm  Rev'd
P076822        2002 St Vtncent Emergency Recowvey Project                0.96       2.24       0.00       0.00      0.00       3.33        0.00      0.00
Total:        0.96        2.24       0.00     0.00        0.00        3.33       0.00       0.00
- 65 -



ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
STATEMENT OF EFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
Total Portfolio:         0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity    Quasi     Partic
Total Pending Commnitment:       0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
- 66 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES: Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management
Project
St VIncent :::..Latin:   :Lower--:.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                     and the .Ameice: :mIddle-
Orenadinsa    &Crb.       Icm          Development diamond'
Ppato,mid-year (millons)                            012        518:     2,040                    ie xecac
ONl Der capita (Aties method. US$)                       2.720      3.880:     1.140.
GNI (Atlas method. US$ billions)                         0 31      1.j895     2.327
Average annua, growNth..1994-00:
Population M  .   .....                           1.6,      ~~~~~~~~~~~~1.0
Labor force                                                           2.3        1 3      GNGrs
Most recent eatimate (lateist year avaIlable. 1994-00).prprmr
capita               7         enrollment
Poverty (96 of population below notional poverty line)
Urbenpooulation. (96 of total population)                   s                     42
Life axoectancy,al birth (veers)~.                          73,        70        69
Infant mortalitv (per 1, 000 live births)                   20:      :30         32
Child malnyktrtio n (%: of childreni under 5):               ..                  ii1            Access to improved water source
Access to an: Improved water, source -(96 o population)     93         85:        s0
Illilteracy (%6of population age 15+)                                  12.       , 15       _   _
Grosa vrmr     nolet(6o       colaepplto).                             1         114          -   St. Vlncent end the Grenadines
Male                                                                                     ........11..Lower-middle-Income group
Female                                                    ..114                     .
KEY ECONOMIC RAT1OS and LONQ-TERM: TRENDS:.....
1980      190        1999      2000
Economic rstios'
GDP (US$billiona)                               0.06      0.20       0.3         .3
Gross domestic InvestnientlGDP                  38.2     .29.7,      32.6 +:.28.0,-+Trd
Exports of opods and services/GDP                54.9      5.        52.0       585                        Trad
Gross domestic sevlnoslG DP                     -12.0    _18.7.      13.9       1.
Gross national savlnaslGDP                       13.2     222 +:::..12.5:       14.8
C,urrent account.balancelGDP  -: 15.3                    -101.7   '`20,2    ~   131       Dmsi
Interest oavments!GDP.                           0.5       0.9        19         I                                      Ivetmn
Total debtGOQ?   .                               17.6     -0 8.3+               57~8      saig
Total debt servicelexports:                      .1.0      3.3        8.2        6.8
Present value of debtlGDP                           ,        ..      45.1
Present vatue of debtlexpot                        .         ..      84.8;
Indebtedness
19.J80-90  1990-00      1999           20004200-0
(average annual grG wth)                62       33        40         23         3                  t  inetedteGeaie
GDP                                                        40S.VnetadteGoaie
GDP per:capita                          52       26         .          .         5.          -     Lower-middle-income group
Exporte of goods and services           8.5      2.3.      7.7~      .5,2        4.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980      1990       1999       2000      Growth of Investment and GDP I(%)
(96 of GDP)                                                                               2
Agriculture                                     14.3      21.2       10.4        9.08     2
Industry                                        26.5      22.9       25.8       25.5     1~
Manufacturing                                  10.5       8.5        6.5       6.3       0
Services                                        59.2      55.9       83.8       64.7     -1                   7     Os    s  1
Private consumption                             89.0      63.8       67.7       64.5     .20
General government consumption                  23.0      17.5       18.4       19.3                   _    0       --D
Imports of goods and services                  105.1      76.8       70.8       70.3"""'0i                           "GP
(average annual growth)                      1980.90   1990-00       1999      2000       Growth of experts and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                      7.4      -3.2       -5.7       -9.6     30
Industry                                         5.9       3.8       -0.4       12.2     20
Manufacturing                                   4.8      0.3        -1.6       -5.2    10
Services                                         5.6       4.7        7.6        2.9      0~
Private consuMption                              3.0       3.2       -0.1       -2.5    -10            9      1     5     U     0
General government consumption                   3.0       2.6        1.7        7.3    .20
Gross domestic Investment                        5.5       4.5        6.5      -12.1               -~Exporta      '"Olmports
Imports of goods and services                    4.1       2.6        3.3        1.6
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key Indicators in the country (in bold) compared with Its Income-group average, If data are missing, the diamond will
be Incomplete.
- 67-



St. Vincent and the Grenadines
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980    1990      1999     2000     Inflation (%)
(% change)
Consumer pices                             17.2     7.6      -1.8      2.0    4
Implicit GDP deflator                       8.4     6.4      -0.1     -0.9    2 
Government finance                                                                    l  '      w
(96 of GDP, indudes current grants)                                          -2 -
Current revenue                              ..    27.8      28.2     28.6    4-
Current budget balance                       ..     5.0       3.9      2.8             -GDP deflator  O-.CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                      ..    -3.3      -2.8     -4.2
TRADE
(US$ millions)                            1980     1990     1999     2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                          ..      78       50       55     250
Bananas                                    ..      42        20       19
Eddoes and dasheens                         ..      2         3        3    20
Manufactures                               ..      21        25       30    150
Total imports (cif)                          ..     120      201      193      00
Food                                               26        41       45
Fuel and energY                                     7        11       20     50
Capitalgoods                               ..      26        76       60      0                 .
94  95    96   97   98   99   00
Export price index (1995=100)                .     101       109
Import price index (1995=100)               ..      94        99        ..                Exports     M Imports
Terms of trads (1995=100)                    ..     107      110
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                            1980    1990      1999     2000     Current account balance to GOP (%)
Exports of goods and services               39     128       171      195      0
Imports of goods and services               63     156       233      234                                       o
Resource balance                           -25     -28        -62     -39
Net income                                  -1     -11        -20     -21    -'0
Net current transfers                       16      18         ..                               K    .
Current account balance                    -10     -21       -66       -44
Financing items (net)                        9      25        63       40     20
Changes in net reserves                      1       -4        4        3     -25 -
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)      ..      31        49
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUSSJ           2.7      2.7       2.7      2.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       10.6    61.0     191.7    192.3
IBRD                                     0.0      0.0      0.2      0.1                       B:7
IDA                                      0.0      6.2      7.4      7.0              G: 31
Total debt service                         0.4      4.3      14.4     13.5               f-
IBRD                                     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0.
IDA                                      0.0      0.0      0.2      0.2                   -D:6
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                          4.9      3.4      13.4      \.
Official creditors                       2.8      4.8      0.6     -0.6          F: 58
Private creditors                        0.1      0.0     57.5     -0.4
Foreign direct investment                1.1      8.0     25.0
Portfolio equity                         0.0      0.0      0.0       ..                           E: 35
World Bank program
Commitments                              0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     A - IBRD                  E - Bilateral
Disbursements                            0.0      0.9      0.1      0.0     8- IDA   0- Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                     0.0      0.0      0.1      0.1     C - IMF                   G - Short-term
Net flows                                0.0      0.9      0.0     -0.1
Interest payments                        0.0     0.0       0.1      0.1
Net transfers                            0.0      0.9     -0.1     -0.2
Development Economics                                                                                        9/13/01
- 68 -



