Report No. 23866
Report No: I069923 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 03/13/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES Project ID: P069923
Project: St. Vincent and the Grenadines Emergency Recovery and Disaster
Management       Task Team Leader: Arnaud Marie Guinard
Authorized to Appraise Date: March 9, 2001        IBRD Amount ($m): 2.97
Bank Approval: June 20, 2002     IDA Amount ($m): 2.94
Managing Unit: LCSFU     Sector: BY - Other Public Sector Management; MY -
Non-Sector Specific
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)          Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The primary development objective of the project is to strengthen St.
Vincent and the Grenadines' resilience, preparedness, and ability to
respond to natural disasters.
This objective will be achieved by:
building the capacity of the Office of Disaster Preparedness (ODP) and
other concerned public agencies to perform their respective
responsibilities more effectively prior to and during a crisis;
strengthening the country's institutional disaster preparedness and
management procedures, rehabilitating a designated Emergency Operations
Center (EOC) which would also serve as ODP headquarters, and procuring
specialized and emergency equipment;
implementing selected priority mitigation and prevention measures to
protect key infrastructure and lifeline facilities before disasters
strike, on a pilot basis;
retrofitting shelters and health centers to improve the safety of the
populations, particularly in poor areas;
improving environmental protection through better standards with regard to
disaster management, and environmentally-sound prevention measures; and
promoting community involvement through organizing, training and equipping
community disaster committees, and enhancing their role in disaster
preparedness measures, and mitigation and recovery operations.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The St. Vincent and the Grenadines project will consist of two major
components: (A) strengthening disaster management capacity, aimed at
improving the country's capacity to prepare for and respond to disaster
emergencies through technical assistance, training, the rehabilitation of
a Government-owned building into an Emergency Operations Center (EOC) and
headquarters for ODP, and the procurement of specialized equipment,
emergency supplies and rescue tools; and (B) preventive physical
mitigation, aimed at minimizing disaster-caused damages through selected
priority and pilot preventive infrastructure investments and associated
supervision services, as well as the necessary preliminary studies to



assess disaster-related risks, elaborate comprehensive long-term
mitigation investment programs, and prepare detailed designs for critical
priorities to be subsequently financed. It will also include a project
management component to assist Government in discharging its overall
coordination, financial management, auditing, procurement, works
supervising, environmental monitoring, and reporting responsibilities.
Initially, as outlined in the original PAD prepared for APL 1, the program
sought to differentiate and support the funding of both institutional
strengthening and capacity building. Institutional strengthening was
defined as measures aimed at improving the regulatory framework as it
applies to disaster planning and mitigation (such as improving the
regulatory framework, developing a national building code, disaster
insurance, hazard analysis and vulnerability mapping), and strengthening
disaster management capacity sought to strengthen the capacity of national
institutions responsible for disaster preparedness, mitigation and
management (such as staffing, training, and equipment for disaster-related
agencies).
APL 2 has been slightly restructured to focus primarily on strengthening
disaster management capacity rather than on institutional strengthening as
defined above due a number of factors. First of all, there was a general
lack of details in the documentation of the proposals discussed for
funding under the Bank project, and most tender documents remained
incomplete. Second other donors and organizations that already have
substantial experience and a long involvement in disaster management in
the region, and have adapted funding mechanisms for regional activities,
have expressed a willingness to continue financing such activities under
the framework provided by the APL program. Third, the country's inability
to implement and enforce regulatory reforms does not allow for activities
aimed at institutional reform --such as hazard mapping and zoning
regulations-- to be pursued before the Government's enforcement capacity
has been enhanced. Finally, the Bank project has been streamlined to
reflect the current weak capacity of ODP, the national institution
responsible for disaster management.
Component A of the Project, Strengthening Disaster Management Capacity,
will include four sub-components: 1) Institutionalizing and strengthening
the Office of Disaster Preparedness (ODP), including inter alia
elaborating/revising emergency procedures, rehabilitating the
newly-dedicated Emergency Operations Center (EOC) and ODP office,
procuring specialized equipment, emergency supplies and rescue tools, and
developing and implementing a comprehensive disaster management training
and public awareness program; 2) Developing emergency communications and
improving meteorological assessment capacity on a country-wide basis,
including technical assistance and training, and the procurement of
specialized equipment; 3) Implementing a shelter program, including
technical assistance, training, and the retrofitting of selected public
buildings; and 4) Capacity-building in the Ministry of Communications and
Works (MTWH) to effectively respond to disaster emergencies through
training and the procurement of strategic stocks of prefabricated metallic
bridges and gabions, and strengthening the environmental capacity of MTWH
and the Environmental Unit of the Ministry of Health and the Environment
(MEH) through training and technical assistance to establish standards and
guidelines, and monitor mitigation measures.
- 2 -



Component B, Preventive Physical Mitigation, will include four
sub-components: 1) river flooding protection through civil works and
gabionage to protect selected river crossings against floods and storm
surges and the associated design review and supervision services, and a
feasibility and design study to define priority river training and river
flood protection investments; (b) coastal erosion protection through minor
priority sea defense works at Layou and the associated design review and
supervision services, and an Integrated Coastal Zone Management (ICZM)
study to define a prioritized sea defense and road realignment investment
program and to elaborate the corresponding design; (c) flood control
through a comprehensive drainage improvement, flood control and watershed
management study to design an optimal storm drainage system for the
Kingstown area; and (d) health centers and clinics through a program to
retrofit priorities.
Component C, project management, includes the funding of: 1) the
specialists to be recruited in the PCU (financial manager/accountant, and
part-time disaster management specialist) and training of Government staff
appointed to the PCU; 2) office equipment and project vehicles; 3)
independent yearly financial audits, and selective technical audits; and
4) operating expenditures, including communications services and
secretarial support.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
Western Coast of St. Vincent
B. Check Environmental Classification: ERROR: Invalid UNID; UNID must be
a 32-digit hex string.
Comments:
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)
Pest Management (OP 4.09)
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
-3 -



significant and/or irreversible impacts.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
Key stakeholders are the local population. Public consultations on the EIA
have been held including arrangements for further consultations with all
affected people.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
1 S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      2/28/2002       3/13/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop   3/12/2002       3/13/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:   Expected         Actual
-4 -



Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Arnaud Marie Guinard     03/13/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Juan D. Quintero         03/13/2002
Sector Manager/Director:         Danny M. Leipziger       03/13/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 5 -



