Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7116-SV
Loan Agreement 
(Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project)
between
ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 13, 2002
LOAN NUMBER 7116-SV
Page  2
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 13, 2002 between ST. VINCENT & THE GRENADINES 
(the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank and the International Development Association (the 
Association) have received a letter dated April 7th, 2000, from the Borrower to the Bank and to 
the Association describing the Borrower’s emergency recovery and disaster management 
program which consists of a series of activities to strengthen the Borrower’s capacity to respond 
to, and manage, disasters; 
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to assist 
in the financing of the Project;
(C)
the Borrower has also requested the Association to provide additional financial 
assistance towards the financing of the Project and, by the Development Credit Agreement of the 
same date herewith entered into between the Borrower and the Association (the Development 
Credit Agreement), the Association is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate 
principal amount equivalent to two million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
2,400,000) (the Credit); and
(D)
the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent practicable, that the proceeds of 
the Credit be disbursed on account of expenditures for the Project before disbursements of the 
proceeds of the loan provided for in this Agreement (the Loan) are made; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Fixed Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999, (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
Page  3
(a)
 “Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3), and (4), set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services referred 
to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(c)
“FMR” means each report prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(d)
“MEYS” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports;
(e)
“MHE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health and the Environment;
(f)
“MFP” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, Planning and Development 
or any successor thereto;
(g)
“MOU” means the memorandum of understanding referred to in Section 3.01 (b) 
of this Agreement;
(h)
“MTWH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Transport, Works and Housing or 
any successor thereto;
(i)
“NEAC” means the Borrower’s National Emergency Advisory Council to be 
transformed into NHMC (as hereinafter defined);
(j)
“NHMC” means the Borrower’s future National Hazard Mitigation Council or 
any successor thereto, which council shall replace NEAC; 
(k)
“NMS” means the Borrower’s National Meteorological Service; 
(l)
“ODP” means the Borrower’s Office of Disaster Preparedness or any successor 
thereto;
(m)
“PCU” means the coordination unit referred to in Section 3.05 of this 
Agreement;
(n)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement; 
(o)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual for the operation of the 
Project referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement; and
Page  4
(p)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) and 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to three million Dollars ($3,000,000), as 
such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) the amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works, operating 
expenses and consultant’s services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in dollars a 
special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 31, 2006 or such later date as the Bank 
shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one percent 
(1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said 
fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the principal 
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) eighty five 
one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge 
commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General 
Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) seventy five 
one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at the Variable 
Rate provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such amount in accordance 
with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Page  5
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears on 
January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount 
of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) of the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
unless otherwise agreed by the Bank and the Borrower, the interest rate basis applicable to 
consecutive withdrawals from the Loan Account which in the aggregate equal $3,000,000 shall 
be converted from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity of such amount 
in accordance with the provisions of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project 
through ODP, with the assistance of NMS (for Part A.2), and MTWH (in collaboration with 
MEYS for Part A.3  and in collaboration with MHE for Part A.4); Part B of the Project through 
MTWH, with the assistance of MHE (for Part B.4(b)); and Part C through the PCU, pursuant to 
the MOU, all with due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower, through the PCU, shall: (i) enter into a memorandum of 
understanding, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank with ODP and MTWH (the 
MOU), setting forth their respective responsibilities in the implementation of the Project; and (ii) 
exercise its rights under the MOU in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and 
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the MOU or any provision 
Page  6
thereof.
(c)
Without limitation to the provision of paragraph (a) above, the Borrower shall  
make available an amount in Eastern Caribbean Dollars equivalent to $900,000 as counterpart 
funds for the Project. To that effect, the Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain, until 
the completion of the Project, an account (the Project Account) in the Eastern Caribbean Central 
Bank, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, with an initial deposit of $450,000 
equivalent prior to the Effective Date and a second deposit of $450,000 equivalent to be made 
one year after the Effective Date.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with an operational manual 
satisfactory to the Bank (the Project Implementation Manual), said manual to include, inter alia: 
(i) organizational arrangements and responsibilities of the various departments and agencies of 
the Borrower with respect to the implementation of the Project; (ii) operational aspects and 
timetable of the execution of the Project; (iii) guidelines for the preparation of the shelter 
operations manual referred to under Part A.3 (b) of the Project; (iv) provisions for disbursement, 
guidelines for procurement and model forms for bidding documents; (vi) financial management 
and control arrangements, including guidelines for preparation of FMRs; (vii) terms of reference 
for: (A) internal and external audits, (B) key staff of PCU, ODP, NEAC and NHMC, and (C) 
consultants' services to be contracted under the Project; and (viii) monitoring and evaluation 
indicators for the assessment of Project implementation performance.
(b)
In case of conflict between the terms of the Project Implementation Manual and 
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, prior to the execution of each activity under Part B.2 
of the Project: (a) carry out an environmental assessment –acceptable to the Bank- of each said 
activities; and (b) if the finding of the relevant assessment requires action to be taken to mitigate 
any undesirable environmental impact, take or cause to be taken in a manner acceptable to the 
Bank, all such mitigation measures required by said assessment.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: 
(a)
establish within MFP and thereafter maintain during the implementation of the 
Project, a unit (the PCU), with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, which shall 
include, 
inter alia
:
(i) coordination of the implementation of the Project; (ii) monitoring and 
evaluation of the Project; (iii) preparation of the plan and reports referred to in Sections 3.07 (a) 
and 3.08 (b) of this Agreement, respectively; (iv) processing of documentation required for the 
disbursement of the Loan proceeds and for the procurement of goods, works and services under 
the Project; and (v) maintenance of the records and accounts referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of 
Page  7
this Agreement;
(b)   
ensure that the PCU is at all times staffed with a full-time project coordinator, a 
full-time procurement  and contract management specialist, and a full-time financial 
manager/accountant, all of them with qualifications, functions, and responsibilities satisfactory to 
the Bank and assisted by:  (i) a disaster management specialist during the first two years of 
Project implementation; and (ii)  clerical staff in adequate numbers, throughout Project 
implementation; and
(c)   
ensure that the PCU is at all times provided with adequate facilities, satisfactory 
to the Bank, to carry out its responsibilities.
Section 3.06. Not later than December 31, 2003, the Borrower shall have transformed 
NEAC into NHMC, and shall maintain NHMC with structure, functions and responsibilities 
acceptable to the Bank, with the purpose of serving as a steering committee to coordinate 
national hazard mitigation policy issues and approve the selection of priority investments related 
to those issues.
Section 3.07.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of  the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; 
and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower 
on said plan. 
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall:
(a)   
maintain procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing 
basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the Project Implementation Manual, the 
carrying out of the Project;
(b)    in the last FMR of each calendar year, recommend the measures deemed 
necessary to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, inform about the availability of counterpart funds, and provide an implementation plan 
satisfactory to the Bank, updating (if necessary) the targets to be achieved for the implementation 
of the Project during the succeeding calendar year; and
(c)  
review with the Bank, on an annual basis upon request by the Bank until the 
completion of the Project, the relevant FMRs, and thereafter take all measures, satisfactory to the 
Bank, required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
Page  8
objectives thereof.
Section 3.09. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall furnish the Bank with copies of all reports and studies the 
preparation of which is financed under the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system within the 
PCU, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account and the Project Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
three months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of Statement of Expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
Page  9
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
FMRs submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting obligations 
set out in Section 3.08 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish  to the Bank a 
financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which:
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the Loan, and explains variances between the actual and 
planned uses of  such funds;
(ii)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the actual
and planned Project implementation; and
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end 
of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the 
incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar 
quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after each 
subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the Project Account has been opened and funded as provided for in Section 3.01 
(c) of this Agreement; 
Page  10
(b)
the Project Implementation Manual has been approved by the Bank; 
(c)
the financial management system referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement, has 
been established; 
(d)
the procurement specialist referred to in Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement has 
been appointed; and
(e)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Development Credit 
Agreement, other than those relating to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, have been 
fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The date September 11, 2002 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Borrower’s Minister of Finance, Planning and Development is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower: 
Ministry of Finance, Planning and Development
Administrative Center
Bay Street
Kingstown, St. Vincent
Facsimile: (784) 456-2430
For the Bank: 
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
Page  11
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
By /s/ Ralph Gonsalves
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan and the Credit
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan and the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan and the Credit to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of
Amount of
the Loan Allocated
the Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollars
)
SDRs)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works
1,500,000
1,200,000
85%
(2)
Goods
550,000
450,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of 
Page  12
local expenditures (ex 
factory cost), and 95 % of 
other local expenditures
(3)
Consultants’
700,000
450,000
100% foreign
services
expenditures,
(including audits)
70 % local
expenditures
(4)
Operating
20,000
100,000
80%
Expenditures
(5)
Fee
30,000
Amount due
under Section
2.04 of this
Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
200,000
200,000
TOTALS
3,000,000
2,400,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; provided, 
however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of 
which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services 
shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; and
(c)
the term “operating expenditures” means the reasonable cost of expenditures 
required for the operations of the PCU and other agencies of the Borrower involved in Project 
implementation such as small office equipment and supplies.
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $150,000, may be made in 
respect of Categories (1) (2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after December 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  13
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the Borrower’s resilience, preparedness, and 
response to natural disasters.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time, to achieve such objective:
Part A
: Strengthening Disaster Management Capacity
1.
Strengthening of ODP’s effectiveness in carrying out disaster management activities, 
through: (a) the review and updating of the Borrower’s emergency and disaster management 
procedures; (b) the establishment of ODP’s emergency operation center; (c) the provision of 
equipment and supplies to ODP for both daily and emergency operations; and (d) the preparation 
and implementation of: (i) a comprehensive disaster preparedness and management training 
program for ODP’s staff and other related agencies; and (ii) a public awareness program on 
disaster management.
2.
Development of an emergency communications system by: (a) strengthening ODP’s 
capacity to receive and transmit data and information, linking governmental and private 
communications systems, and to communicate effectively with all stakeholders during and after 
an emergency; and (b) strengthening the early warning capacity of NMS through the provision of 
technical assistance, equipment and staff training.
3.
Strengthening the Borrower’s capacity to provide shelter on emergency situations 
through: (a) the retrofitting to hurricane-resistance standards of schools and community centers 
to be used as shelters; and (b) the development a comprehensive national shelter program. 
4.
(a)
Strengthening MTWH’s disaster management response and monitoring capacity 
through the acquisition of: (i) prefabricated metallic bridge components to enhance the 
Borrower’s ability to carry out emergency repairs to re-establish access after disasters and 
training with respect thereto; and (ii) a vehicle and other necessary goods, such as laboratory 
testing equipment and computers.
(b)
Strengthening MHE’s environmental assessment capacity through the provision 
of technical assistance and training.
Part B
: Preventive Physical Mitigation
1.
Carrying out of activities for protection against flooding, including: (a) the 
reconstruction of gabion walls in bridges and river banks in Georgetown, Buccament and 
Colonarie; and (b) the assessment of flooding risks, drawing of a hazard map of flood-prone 
areas, identification of bridges and culverts requiring protection, definition of priority 
investments and preparation of a design for priority works to be carried out in subsequent 
Page  14
projects.
2.
Carrying out of: (a) minor sea defense works at Layou; and (b) an integrated coastal zone 
management study to: (i) gain better knowledge on natural sea and sand conditions around the 
territory of the Borrower; and (ii) formulate a prioritized coastal protection, sea defense and road 
realignment investment program to be carried out in the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Preparation of a comprehensive drainage improvement program at Kingstown through a 
study to conduct an overall assessment of its watershed and storm drainage system and the design 
of an engineering solution to overcome future problems.
4.
Retrofitting of health center and clinic buildings in order for them to comply with 
hurricane resistance standards.
Part C
: Project Management
1.
Strengthening of the PCU through the provision of the necessary technical assistance, 
training and equipment for the operation of said unit.
2.
Carrying out the technical and financial audits required under the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date 
(Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) the total principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the 
Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as 
necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a 
Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each January 15 and July 15
Beginning July 15, 2007 through July 18, 2018
4.17%
Page  15
On January 15, 2019
4.09%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal 
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as of the 
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and outstanding as 
of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts determined by 
the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of 
which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original Installment Share) and the denominator 
of which shall be the sum of all remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment 
Dates falling on or after such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to 
deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal Payment 
Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable on any Principal 
Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date 
commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of  withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, if at any 
time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or after 
the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such subparagraph shall no longer apply 
to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall be repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank 
by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to said 
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in said 
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the 
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time shall be 
denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply 
separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate 
Page  16
amortization schedule for each such amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section including, but not limited to, the 
contracts required under Parts A.1 (c), A.2, A.4 (a) (i) and B.2 (a) of the Project, goods and 
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II 
of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, the provision of goods and works, including, but not limited to, 
the contracts for emergency supplies, technological equipment, metallic bridges and gabions, as 
well as the Layou sea defense and road rehabilitation works, shall be grouped into bid packages 
of more than $100,000 each.
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or less per contract, 
including but not limited to the contracts for shelters, EOC and health clinic retrofitting, as well 
as for gabion walls and bridges repairs, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,477,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Procurement of works under this Part C.1. shall be carried out using standard 
Page  17
bidding documents acceptable to the Bank.
2.
International or National Shopping
(a)
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $35,000 or less per contract which 
cannot be grouped into bid packages as established under Part B.2 (a) above, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $60,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of international or national shopping procedures, as established in next paragraph, and in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Laboratory testing equipment, may be procured on the basis of international 
shopping procedures. Office furniture may be procured on the basis of local shopping procedures 
and in packages estimated to cost less than $25,000.  
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies
The vehicle referred to in Part A.4 (a) (ii) of the Project shall be procured from United 
Nation’s Development Programme’s Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO) 
through contracts estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent up to an aggregate amount of 
$61,000 equivalent, and in compliance with IAPSO procedures.
4.
Direct Contracting
Office supplies and communication services estimated to cost less than $5,000 
equivalent up to an aggregate amount of $30,000 equivalent shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for works and goods procured under Parts B and 
C.1 of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Page  18
(b)
With respect to: (i) the first two contracts and, thereafter, the first contract every 
year to be awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures; (ii) the first contract to be 
awarded on the basis of IAPSO procedures; (iii) the first two contracts, and thereafter, the first 
contract every year to be awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures; and (iv) the first 
contract to be awarded on the basis of direct contracting procedures, the following procedures 
shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or the execution of any contract 
under shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a 
report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures or direct contracting procedures, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Page  19
1.
Selection based on Consultant’s Qualifications
Services for training and shelter policy and operations assignments estimated to cost less 
than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $230,000 equivalent shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.1 and 3.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Least Cost Selection
Design studies and supervision services, as well as financial and technical audits, 
estimated to  cost the equivalent of $110,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount of 
$186,000 equivalent, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Specialized advisory services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 
5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent shall be selected 
by comparison of qualifications of at least three individual candidates and procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount of $343,000 equivalent.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $110,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms (except for 
training) estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $110,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to 
Page  20
the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to all contracts for the employment of consulting firms for training 
during the fist year, and thereafter the first two contracts every year, shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its prior review and approval. The contracts shall be awarded only after said approval 
shall have been given.
(d)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
(e)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $20,000, terms of reference of employment of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall 
be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $250,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 
3
(a) of this Schedule; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $100,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall 
Page  21
equal or exceed the equivalent of $1,800,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
duly opened in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which 
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
para-graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, 
at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement;
Page  22
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts 
for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the 
Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, 
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding 
amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
Page  23
