Document of           |                    i""
FILE COPY                    ~~The World Bank                        U
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY          REP       2i71
Report No. P-1800-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR A
RUBBER REPLANTING PROJECT
April 8, 1976
This document has a restricted drisbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Baht
US$1.00         =       $ 20.00
$ 1.00         =       US$0.05
$ 1.00 million =       US$50,000
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR A RUBBER REPLANTING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Kingdom of rhailand for the equivalent of US$50 million to help
finance a Rubber Replanting Project. The loan would have a term of 22 years,
including seven years of grace, with interest at 8-1/2 percent per annum.
The Commonwealth Development Corporation of the United Kingdom is contributing
$6.8 million equivalent to the project on the same terms as the proposed Bank
loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMfY
2.        A report entitled "Thailand Current Economic Prospects and Selected
Development Issues" (924-TH) was distributed under cover of Secretary's Memo-
randum (M75-799) dated November 20, 1975, to the Executive Directors and to
members 'of the Consultative Group for Thailand. Basic data are given in
Annex I.
Recent Political Events
3.        The Government of Dr. Sanya Dhammasakdi, which came to power
after the overthrow of the military government of Field Marshalls Thanom and
Prapass, successfully adlopted a new democratic constitution in October 1974
and held elections in January 1975. After the elections, in which 22 parties
won seats, M. R. Kukrit Pramoj, leader of the Social Action Party, put to-
gether a minority coalition government of four centrist parties in the
elected assembly. This coalition agreed on a policy statement emphasizing
the need to correct inequalities between rural and urban areas and between
different income classes. Its major domestic policy actions towards achieving
this objective were:' (a) decentralization of some government expenditures to
rural areas through direct transfers of funds to tambons (village councils);
(b) adoption of price guarantees for rice and sugar; and (c) substantially
increased budget expenditures in FY76 for social and economic development
programs. In late December 1975 the Kukrit Government increased the con-
trolled retail prices of rice and sugar to bring them into line with the
minimum guaranteed prices previously announced for the current paddy and
sugarcane crops. When this action was challenged by the parliamentary
opposition, the Prime Minister requested H.M. The King to dissolve Parliament.
Elections were held on April 4; the Democratic Party, led by Seni Pramoj
(Kukrit's elder brother) won 114 of the 279 seats and is expected to be able
to form a Government. The economic policies of the new Government are not
likely to depart significantly from the previous administration's policies.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
4.         The international environment altered dramatically soon after
establishment of the Kukrit Government with changes in the political control
of Cambodia, Laos and South Viet Nam. In adjusting to these changes the
Government has secured the agreement of the United States to withdraw its
remaining forces in Thailand this year, established diplomatic and trade
relations with China and Cambodia, received diplomatic delegations from
South Viet Nam and North Viet Nam, and exercised restraint in responding
to diplomatic incidents with Laos while pursuing a normalization of
relations.
Current Economic Situation
5.         Thailand's real GDP expanded at an average rate of 8 percent
during the 1960's with agriculture growing by 5-1/2 percent per year; prices
were virtually stable; open unemployment was minimal; and the balance of
payments was in surplus. Recent years have been more difficult, however.
In the period 1970-75 performance has been mixed, and for the period as a
whole growth has slowed to about 6 percent as a result of stagnation of
private and public investment in the early 1970s, and adverse weather and
slow progress in intensification of agricultural production which reduced
agriculture's growth to 4 percent a year. In 1973-74 dramatic improvements
in international markets and prices of agricultural commodities raised
Thailand's export earnings by 150 percent. This export boom stimulated a
rapid expansion of demand, production, and private investment and generated
balance of payments surpluses that enabled Thailand to adjust to higher
prices of imported petroleum with less difficulty than most other develop-
ing countries. At the same time, domestic prices increased rapidly, largely
as a result of massive increases in both import and export prices. Since
the summer of 1974, however, the strong stimulus from the external trade
sector has faded as export commodity prices declined while import prices
continued to rise. Consequently, the growth of demand decelerated, the
expansion of manufacturing output slowed, and significant open unemployment
appeared. Part of the new capacity created in the 1973-74 private invest-
ment boom remained underutilized; and excess capacity, together with the
international recession and political uncertainty, caused private invest-
ment to decline in 1975. Still, real growth in 1975 was about 6 percent as
a result of the Government's expansionary fiscal policy (which raised public
expenditure by about 25 percent) and good weather. Slower demand growth and
smaller import price increases also held the rate of inflation to about 4
percent. Assuming normal weather, real GDP should grow by another 6 percent
in 1976, although private investment is likely to continue to be depressed
for at least the first half of the year.
Structural Problems
6.         Thailand's favorable performance during the last decade was not
without weaknesses. Income disparities between regions and between rural
and urban areas are substantial as Bangkok and the Central Region have
developed more rapidly than the rest of the country. The population
has continued to grow by about 3 percent per year. As a result of past
and present population growth, the annual increment to the labor force
has risen by more than 50 percent in the last decade, the dependency ratio



- 3 -
is high, and the burden on the Government to provide education, health,
and other necessary services is heavy.    In the past, agricultural output
increased largely because new land was put under cult[vat[on rather than
because productivity increased. However, evidence has now accumulated
that the supply of new land is being exhausted; population pressure on
land has already developed in some areas; and tenancy problems are becoming
more serious than in the past.    Expansion of area under cultivation also
provided jobs for aboLt half the new entrants to the labor force, as indus-
trial employment has grown slowly and still accounts for only 7 percent
of the work force.   In the future, as free land suitable for cultivation
is exhausted, creating new jobs will be more difficult as they will have
to be generated by the intensification of agricultural production and the
rapid expansion of labor intensive industries.
Progress Toward Development Objectives & Recent Institutional Changes
7.        Thailand's Third Five-Year Plan (1972-76) attempted to deal with
the above structural problems. It included the following objectives:
reducing regional and rural-urban income disparities, increasing employ-
ment, intensification of agricultural production, and greater public ex-
penditure on education and other social services. Progress towards these
objectives was minimal under the Thanom-Prapass regime. The Sanya and
Kukrit Governments, however, have taken a number of steps directed towards
achieving these objectives. Public expenditures for education, health and
social services have almost doubled and expenditures on agriculture almost
tripled in the period FY73-FY76.    The Government's price policy in agri-
culture has allowed domestic agricultural prices to rise with international
prices, and the real per capita income of the 75 percent of the population
that is dependent on agriculture rose by about one-third over the last four
years. Through the tambon program $125 million was transferred to village
councils in FY75 to finance rural public works and create off-farm employ-
ment and income. In the last two years, laws have also been passed to re-
form agricultural land ownership, tenancy, and rents and to establish a
Marketing Organization for Farmers and a Farmers' Aid Fund. However, for-
mulation of detailed programs to implement many of these measures is still
necessary, and only the implementation will determine whether or not these
promising first steps lead to lasting results.
Development Prospects and the Fourth Plan (1977-1981)
8.         Recent events have complicated long-term planning, and work on
the Fourth Five Year Plan (1977-81) is not yet far advanced. The Govern-
ment presented a general policy statement and a preliminary project ist
to a meeting of the Consultative Group for Thailand in December 1975. The
preliminary outline of the Fourth Plan reflects the emphasis which recent
governments have put on reducing social and economic disparities between
regions, income groups, and urban and rural areas. In order to achieve its
distributional objectives, Thailand must also adopt policies and programs
to accelerate growth to at least the 7 percent target announced at the
meeting. Generating a growth rate of 7 percent or higher is necessary for
two reasons. First, the progressive exhaustion of free land will limit
agriculture's capacity to absorb workers in the countryside; and, if growing



- 4 -
rural unemployment is not to worsen the pattern of income distribution,
employment opportunities in other sectors will have to expand rapidly.
Second, if, for instance, GDP were to continue to grow at 5 percent (the
average over 1974 and 1975) average real per capita income would rise only
very slowly, given annual population increases of 2.5-3 percent and
declining terms of trade.
9.        A greater effort than in the past will, however, be required
in order to achieve the above target. Political and economic uncertainty
will restrain private investment, particularly foreign investment, at
least in the early years of the Plan. Agricultural production increases,
improvements in rural incomes, and growth in agricultural exports will
have to be generated by raising yields rather than by extending the area
under cultivation. An ambitious public expenditure program will be neces-
sary to satisfy priority economic and social needs and support rapid employ-
ment growth. Substantial effort will be necessary to mobilize the domestic
resources required to finance the needed level of public expenditures.
Finally, the availability of foreign exchange could also become a serious
constraint to growth later in the decade, when Thailand's balance of pay-
ments position will be less favorable than it has been in the recent past.
Balance of Payments and External Borrowing Program
10.       Although Thailand's import bill doubled between 1972 and 1974,
higher export earnings and private capital inflows were sufficient to meet
foreign exchange requirements in this period and increase reserves to six
months imports. In 1975, however, the overall balance of payments was in
deficit by about $100 million as the terms of trade (which began declining
in mid-1974) deteriorated further, overseas demand weakened due to the inter-
national recession, and a smaller volume of agricultural commodities was ex-
ported due to poor weather in the previous year. The turnaround in the
balance of payments reflects the transition from a period of rapid growth in
export earnings, led by unusually high commodity prices, to a period of
smaller increases. This situation is likely to continue for the remainder of
the decade, and rising import levels required to maintain a large investment
program in the Fourth Plan will lead to a large external resource gap.
11.       A marked increase in the use of external capital for financing
public investment, which was relatively low in the past, will be necessary
to provide needed foreign exchange. At the last Consultative Group meeting
the Government indicated that it was seeking about $3,500 million in loan
commitments to finance its investment program in the Fourth Plan. It also
plans to borrow an additional $600 million from private sources and has just
raised the first $100 million of this amount. Thailand's total debt service
ratio has dropped from 18 percent in 1971 to below 12 percent in 1975 (of
which just over two percentage points are public debt service) and would
remain under 15 percent throughout the Fourth Plan. W4ith the projected level
of borrowing, public debt service payments would not place an unreasonable
burden on the balance of payments provided the debt is incurred on reasonable
terms. However, because of the limited availabilitv of official development
assistance and long term private capital, the Government may encounter some
difficulty in achieving this level of borrowing.



- 5 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
12.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank in 1950 and has received
31 loans amounting to $708.1 million, net of cancellations. Most of these
have been for transportation ($186.1 million), irrigation ($164.1 million)
and power ($166.0 million) with, in addition, one for a dual-purpose power
and irrigation project ($65.8 million). The remaining loans have been for
water supply ($55.0 million), telecommunications ($37.0 million), education
($21.4 million), and industry ($13.0 million). Thailand has also received
two loans on Third Window terms (not yet effective) for rural development
($21.0 million) and livestock ($5.0 million). In addition, Thailand has
received IDA credits of $19.5 million for education and $12.5 million for
irrigation improvement. In general, Bank-financed projects have been carried
out in accordance with expectations; however, the Third Education Project
(Credit 369-TH) is behind schedule because of administrative problems and
lengthy bidding procedures. Under the Fourth Railway Project (Loan 898-TH),
the borrower is only slowly overcoming its financial difficulties. Under the
Fifth Highway Project (Loan 870-TH) some contracts had been terminated due to
escalation provisions, wlhich proved inadequate in the face of unprecedented
inflation, and new bidding is now in progress. The Bangkok Water Supply
Project (Loan 1021-TH) is experiencing delays in bidding and award of tunnel
contracts. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits
and IFC investments as oi- February 29, 1976, as well as notes on the execution
of on-going projects.
13.       The Bank is diversifying its lending program in Thailand.    In the
next few years a smaller proportion of lending is planned for transportation
and power projects, while projects to support a broad range of agriculture
development, rural works and infrastructure, family planning, education and
small and medium-scale industries would account for about two-thirds of the
proposed program. Increasingly, projects are being selected to spread dev-
elopment benefits outside the Central Plains area, and one of the main
functions of the Bank's Fegional Mission in Bangkok is to assist the Govern-
ment in developing projects which will achieve this. Our readiness to finance
some local costs in appropriate cases will enable the Bank to participate more
fully in projects in agriculture and the social sectors which would have
significant social benefits.
14.       In FY76, about 90 percent, by dollar amounts, of projects pro-
posed for Bank lending are expected to benefit the rural areas, where most
low income people live. An irrigation project in the northern region was
approved in July 1975, and rural development and livestock projects were
approved in January 1976. In addition to the proposed Rubber Replanting
Project, which is the subject of this report, negotiations for a proposed
loan for a telecommunications project, which would extend telephone services
to some rural areas not previously connected, have been substantiaLly
completed.
15.       On February 29, 1976, Bank loans and IDA credits disbursed and
outstanding amounted to $310.3 million, representing about 22 percent of
the country's estimated total external debt and about 47 percent of public
external debt. This exposure is not excessive in view of Thailand's modest



- 6 -
overalL public external debt (about 4.2 percent of CDP in 1975).     In addi-
tion, although the level of Bank commitments is expected to increase over
the next five years, the Bank Group's exposure is expected to decline rapidly
to about 16 percent of total external debt and 26 percent of total public
external debt. Servicing of the Bank debt in 1980 is projected to account
for about 8.2 percent of the total debt service and about 34 percent of the
country's public debt service; this compares with 8.4 percent and 43 percent
respectively in 1975.
16.       IFC has made two equity investments in the Industrial Finance Cor-
poration of Thailand totalling $380,000, two loans to and an investment in
the Siam Cement group totalling $32.08 million, and a loan of $300,000 to
Concrete Products Ltd. Prospects for other IFC operations are reasonably
good; potential projects include a pulp and paper project based on bamboo and
bagasse, a zinc mining and refinery project, and the development of privately
sponsored industrial estates. The Capital Markets Department is considering
an investment in a mutual fund management company and has been invited to
assist in housing finance.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR AND THE RUBBER SUBSECTOR
A.   The Agriculture Sector
General
17.       Thailand's economy is predominantly agricultural, and some 20 percent
of its total land area is under cultivation. Altlhough agriculture's contri-
bution to GDP declined from 40 to 30 percent between 1960 and 1970, it still
contributes about 75 percent of total employment and 70 percent of export
earnings (mainly rice, rubber, maize, cassava, kenaf and sugar). In 1974,
rubber accounted for 9.2 percent of total exports (380,000 tons or 95 percent
of production) and was, after rice, the most important source of foreign
exchange earnings. The annual growth rate of agricultural output averaged
5.5 percent in the 1960's but lhas slowed to 4 percent in the 1970's. The
increases in crop production, have been attributable primarily to expansion
in the area cultivated; new areas suitable for cultivation are rapidly dimin-
ishing, and future growth will depend upon concerted efforts to intensify
production in existing agricultural areas.
Size of Holdings
18.       Thai agriculture is largely based on owner-operated smallholdings.
The past availability of cultivable lands has permitted the absorption of
rural population increases in additional. smallholdings, so that farm sizes
lhave remained stable and the number of landless agricultural workers is
relatively low. Farmers with holdings under 5 ha tend to get more output
per ha than farmers with larger holdings and usually earn additional income
from off-farm work; whereas the smallest 48 percent of farms (i.e., those
under 2.4 ha) occupy 16 percent of the land, their owners stiLl receive 41
percent of total cash income.



-7-
Yields
19.       Average crop yields are low in ThaiLand.     Fertilizer consumption
is among the lowest in Asia, and improved cultivation technologies nave
been adopted only to a limited extent. The potential for intensifying
production is great, but steps must be taken to realize this potential
through improvement in input supplies and, agricultural practices, further
development of irrigation, and appropriate price and tax policieS.
Issues
20.       The main issues affecting the country's future agricultural
development appear to be:
(a)  finding 320,000 jobs p.a. in the agricultural sector to
absorb increases in the labor force which cannot be taken
up by other sectors;
(b) increasing the very low yields of rainfed crops;
(c) regulating the settlement and exploitation of the
rapidly dwindling virgin lands; and
(d) making fuller use of existing irrigation facilities
as well as building new ones where economically feasible.
21. One effective means of tackling the first three of the above! issues is
through an expanded program of rubber replanting using improved materials
and agricultural techniques, thereby alLowing substantial increases in
rubber yields, as well as in the productivity of the land and population.
B.   The Rubber Subsector
South Thailand
22.       About 95 percent of all rubber production in Thailand originates
in the Southern Region (the balance coming from the area southeast of Bangkok
near the Cambodian bord2r). Thailand's rubber exports in 1974 were 380,000
mt. (95 percent of Thailand's production) making Thailand the third largest
world exporter (11 percent of total exports estimated at 3.4 million mt.),
folLowing Malaysia (50 percent) and Indonesia (27 percent). The Southern
Region has an area of 710,000 km2 and a population of 4 million, nearly all of
whom earn their livelihood in agriculture and related activities. Per capita
income in the region averages $250, or roughly in line with the national
average. Climate and soil are generally suitable for rubber production, which
was introduced around 1900 from Malaysia. The area under rubber increased
steadily as settlers moved inland from the coastal areas and now covers about
1.6 million ha or about 50 percent of the cultivated area; rubber provides
about 50 percent of gross regional product and of rural employment.



- 8-
Characteristics of Rubber Subsector
23.       Rubber production is a smallholder industry with about 150,000 of
the total 500,000 holdings represented by individual plots of up to 2-1/2
ha each and about 300,000 holdings with individual plots between 2-1/2 and
10 ha each. Most rubber farmers enjoy uncontested possession of their
lands, and problems of tenancy and landlessness are minimal.
24.       Average rubber yields are low (300 kg/ha, or about one-sixth of
yields that can be expected under improved standards), because most trees
are either over age or of a low yielding variety; also, cultural and tapping
practices are primitive. The area presently carrying stands of over-aged
(30 years and above) rubber trees amounts to about 430,000 ha (25 percent
of the total rubber area) and is increasing at a rate of 30,000 ha a year.
25.       Most rubber is processed into unsmoked sheet by farmers and sold,
in turn, to thousands of small village traders, to about 1,000 wholesalers
and ultimately to about 18 smokers/packers/exporters. More than 90 percent
of the rubber is shipped from ports in the region and the rest from Bangkok.
Beginning in the early 1980's port facilities in the South will need to be
expanded to handle additional output. The Asian Development Bank is con-
ducting a study of the development of ports in the South and is considering
financing technical assistance for detailed designs. The Government has
agreed to keep the Bank informed of its plans in this regard (Section 4.02(b)
of draft Loan Agreement).
26.        Farmers obtain high on-farm prices representing about 75-80 per-
cent of f.o.b. prices, net of taxes. To improve even further on-farm prices
to smallholders, the Government has recently started organizing groups of up
to 30-40 neighboring growers into Group Marketing Organizations (GMOs) res-
ponsible for weighing, grading and marketing of produce. The existing 80 CMOs
have been successful, with participating producers obtaining 10 percent
higher prices for their produce.
27.       Taxes include two levies (amounting together to about 15 percent
of the f.o.b. price): a rubber cess, which is passed back to the rubber
sector in the form of assistance to rubber farmers participating in the
rubber replanting program, and an export duty, the proceeds of which are
paid into the general revenues of the Government. These levies do not seem
to have affected adversely farmers' incentives to replant their rubber stands
and have provided net revenues to the Government.
C.   The On-Going Rubber Replanting Program
Administration
28.        Recognizing the importance of rubber exports to the economy, in
1960 the Government established the Rubber Replanting Aid Fund (the Fund)
to carry out a program designed to limit, and eventually to reverse, the
decline in rubber yields and ensure that rubber smallholdings remain viable



- 9 -
economic units. The Fund is a statutory body with headquarters in Bangkok
and enjoys operational autonomy. The Act establishing the Fund provides for
a Board of Directors   consisting of a Chairman, the Minister of Agriculture
and Cooperatives, and not more than eleven other members. Members are ap-
pointed by the Cabinet for two years and may be reappointed.     The Board sets
policy, approves structural and procedural changes as well as annual budgets
and programs and supervises the Fund's activities.     The Director of the Fund
is the Chief Executive Officer and an ex-officio member of the Board. A
Deputy Director assisi:s in day-to-day operations. The present Director is
an experienced adminiStrator and agriculturalist; his contract has been re-
newed until the end of 1977 when he will retire.     Assurances have been ob-
tained that, upon his retirement, the Bank will be consulted about the ap-
pointment of a suitably qualified successor (Section 3.03 of draft Loan
Agreement). The Fund operates through 12 provincial offices (ten in the south
and two in the east) whose extens-ion officers recruit participants to the
program, administer payments, supervise replantings and provide extension
services to participating farmers up to the second year of tapping.
29.       As of December 1975, the Fund employed a staff of 1,170 about 80
percent of them in the field offices. Staff remuneration compares favorably
with civil service standards when benefits and hardship allowances are added
to basic salaries, ancl the Fund has experienced little difficulty in attract-
ing and keeping high quality staff; about 60 percent of the field staff are
graduates of universities and agricultural colleges.
30.        Several public agencies lend their support to the Fund.    The Rubber
Division in the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (MOAC) has general
responsibility for implementing government policies, including the regula-
tion of dealers' activities, maintenance of quality standards and collection
of rubber statistics; the Division also produces and distributes some of the
planting material for the Fund's replanting program. The Rubber Research
Center (RRC), located at Hattyai in the South, was established in 1965 as a
dependency of the Rubber Division and is responsible for research on pro-
duction and processing, for developing research findings and for disseminating
information among producers and processors.    The Department of iAgricultural
Extension (DAE) in the MOAC is responsible for general agriculture extension
and for rubber extension from the third year of tapping, and has recently
been given responsibility for operation of the GMOs. Lastly, the Government
Rubber Estates Organization (GREO) operates several nurseries which produce
planting material for the major portion of the Fund's replanting program.
Procedures
31.       Farmers apply to the replant-ing program, generally with the help
of a Fund extension officer. To qualify, a farmer needs to (a) have over-aged
rubber trees at a minimum density of 160 trees/ha growing on an area of not
less than 0.32 ha; (b) have clear rights to the produce of the rubber trees
to be replanted; and (c) have a holding with suitable soil and topography
for rubber growing.   If accepted, the farmer becomes eligible for a "grant",
which consists of materials provided in kind (planting material, fertilizers,



- 10 -
and chemicals) and cash payments, the amount of which is determined period-
ically by the Board of the Fund. The cash component is intended to cover
labor costs and to alleviate the loss of smallholders income for the seven-
year period between the felling of existing trees and the beginning of
production from new trees, thus acting as an incentive to induce replanting
by smallholders. At present, the "grant" amounts to about $940 per ha, of
which about two-thirds represents the value of materials. It is released to
replanters in installments over a period of about 6-1/2 years, conditional on
satisfactory completion of specified tasks as certified by field inspectors.
All records of payments and inspections are kept in the replanter's indivi-
dual booklet, in the provincial offices and at headquarters. The system is
well organized and has adequate safeguards against abuse.
32.       Activities under the replanting program include (i) increasing
latex yields on old trees prior to their felling through ethrel stimulation,
high level tapping and slaughter tapping; (ii) felling and burning of old
rubber stands and planting of leguminous cover to prevent soil erosion and
siltation; (iii) planting of improved budded stumps; and (iv) continued
field maintenance consisting of fertilizer application, weeding and disease
control.
Financing
33.       To finance the Fund's operations, in 1960 the Government established
a rubber cess, a tax on the export of rubber; 95 percent of the proceeds of
the cess are allocated to the Fund and 5 percent to the RRC to support its
research activities.
Level of Operations
34.       The Fund has steadily increased annual replantings, which in
1975 reached 20,000 ha. In total about 160,000 ha on about 80,000 farms,
most of them smallholdings, have so far been replanted under the program.
However, the present scale of replanting is insufficient to eliminate the
existing backlog of about 430,000 ha of low yielding rubber trees planted
over 30 years ago and at the same time keep up with the required replace-
ment of a further 700,000 ha which were planted with unselected seedlings
15-30 years ago. To attain these objectives, the Government intends to
accelerate the replanting program so as to reach an annual replanting level
of 50,000 ha in 1978/79, and to maintain replanting at that level thereafter.
This would permit a sustained renewal of rubber stands over a 30-year cycle
representing the presently estimated useful life of a rubber tree. To
implement this program the Fund will need additional financing as well as
changes in its organizational structure and procedures and increased staff.
The project is designed to assist the Fund in meeting these and other needs.



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
35.       The project was prepared by the staff of the Fund and PRC, with the
assistance of the Bank's Regional Mission, Thailand, in response to the
Government's plan to accelerate the Fund's ongoing rubber replanting program.
The project would be the first Bank-assisted agricultural project in the
Southern and Eastern Reg:ions of Thailand.
36.       The project was appraised in February 1975.   Negotiations for the
proposed loan were invited in October 1975, but were delayed pending a
Juridical Council ruling that the Fund could utilize funds received from the
Government for its replanting program. The proposed loan was negotiated in
llashington from February 24 to 27, 1976.  The Government delegation was led
by H.E. Ambassador Upadit PacharLyangkun.    A report entitled "Thailand -
Appraisal of a Rubber Replanting Project (No. 867-TH, of March 30, 1976)" is
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. A loan and project
summary is provided in Annex III.
Project Description
37.       The purpose of the project is to increase to an optimum level
the number of rubber replantings undertaken annually and thereby improve
and maintain the income levels of a large number of rubber growers - mostly
smallholders located in South Thailand - through increased rubber yields.
It would directly benefit some 80,000 new rubber replanters and some 70,000
existing replanters. The dwindling supply of new lands and increasing
population pressures are likely to lead to uneconomic land fragmentation and a
considerable deterioration of farmer income in the long run in the absence of
an improvement in yields.
38.       The project comprises the Fund's 1976-1980 replanting program
under which the capacity of the Fund will be gradually increased to support
a program of 50,000 ha of replantings annually. The project includes:
(a) replanting, using improved materials and techniques, of a total of about
160,000 ha (of which 80,000 ha will be incremental); (b) the production of
high quality planting material to meet the needs of the expanded replanting
program; (c) maintenance of all immature replantings; (d) yield stimulation
(prior to replanting) of approximately 100,000 ha annually; (e) training
programs for Fund staff and for rubber smallholders in techniques of planting,
field maintenance, tapping, processing and marketing; (f) establishment of
about 400 additional Group Marketing Organizations (GMOs); (g) technical
assistance by UNDP/FAO for project planning and implementation; (h) estab-
lishment of a monitoring system to evaluate the socio-economic impact of, and
rubber growers' incentives and participation in, the replanting program;
and (i) review and reorganization of the Fund's structure and procedures
with the assistance of a team of management consultants.



- 12 -
Mianagement and Organization
39..       Responsibility for project implementation would be vested primarily
in the Fund. The Fund's organizational structure (paragraphs 28-29) is funda-
mentally sound. However, to carry out a program of the scope and size
envisaged, the following changes will be introduced (see Sections 3.02 and
3.03 of the draft Project Agreement):
(a)  A new position of Deputy Director for Administration and
Finance would be established, and thie Computing Section
(now in the Replanting Division) would be placed under
his authority and its activities expanded to include
financial transactions and inventory controls.
(b) A new Development Division would be established and staff
appointed at headquarters with responsibility for field
advisory and support activities. Such activities would
include extension work in relation to rubber establishment
and production (with the exception of those duties assigned
to the DAE), inter-cropping, yield stimulation, processing
and marketing; staff and smallholder training; establish-
ment and operation of demonstration plots; and production
of planting material.
(c) A Planning Unit would be established directly under the
Fund's Director for the monitoring of project implementation,
including the evaluation of the socio-economic impact of the
replanting program, smallholder incentives and participation,
and consequent policy formulation.
(d) An Internal Audit Unit would be established responsible to
the Board of the Fund.
40.        In addition to the above, management consultants would be appointed
to carry out a review of the Fund's overall structure, operating and account-
ing procedures, as well as its staffing requirements to provide a sounder
basis for the planned expansion of the Fund's activities. The consultants
would also help in implementing recommendations agreed between the Bank and
the Fund (see Sections 3.05 (a) and (c) of the draft Project Agreement).
41.        The Fund obtains most of its planting material from nurseries owned
by GREO, the Rubber Division and private sources operating under contract to
the Fund. During the project period the total area of nurseries will increase
from about 250 ha to 400 ha.   It has been agreed that GREO will provide the
Fund with an adequate and timely supply of planting material of satisfactory
quality (see Section 3.02 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
42.        The existing RRC programs, e.g., applied research, promotion of
GtCOs and training of rubber replanters and Fund staff, which are assisted
by UNDP/FAO, would be expanded and modified to support the Fund's expanded



- 13 -
replanting program. UNDP/FAO would provide staff to assist RRC and the Fund
for the period of the project, including senior technical and development
officers, and a senior economist, who would be assigned to work directly
with the Fund's Director, with the head of the Development Division and
with the Planning Unit, respectively. (See Section 3.04 of the draft Pro-
ject Agreement.) In addition, the MOAC's facilities at the agricultural
station at Kanthuli will be made available to the Fund for training purposes
(see Section 3.02 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement) and a Technical Assistance
Coordinating Committee would be established within MOAC to plan and coordinate
technical assistance provided to the Fund under the project (see Section 3.04
of the draft Loan Agreement).
Fund's Financial SituatLon and Prospects
43.       The Fund was conceived as a self-sustaining agency whose expendi-
tures, in the long run, would be financed from cess revenues. At the modest
level of annual replantings undertaken initially, cess revenues were more
than sufficient to cover costs, and, by the end of 1974, accumulated reserves
amounted to $30.0 million. In 1974, as the annual replantings grew to about
20,000 ha, the Fund first ran a deficit of about $500,000, which was covered
by a draw down of reserves. A further deficit was recorded in 1975. During
the project period 1976--1980, total resources available to the Fund from
cess revenues (at current levels) and its reserves are estimated at $80.0
million. At the present level of grant payments this would be sufficient to
finance replanting at art average annual rate of only 16,000 ha. To finance
the expanded replanting program during 1976-1980, the Fund will need addi-
tional resources totalling about $68.0 million and to maintain the annual
level of replanting at 50,000 ha thereafter the Fund's additional financing
requirements are estimated to total $120.0 million in the period L980-1983,
and $123.0 million between 1984 and 1987. As the replanting program consol-
idates at 50,000 ha per year and the Fund's expenditures stabilize, the impact
of higher yields and production from improved varieties will be reflected
in a rapid increase in the Fund's revenues from the cess. By 1988 the Fund's
deficit is projected to decline substantially and by 1991 the Fund's yearly
cash flow is expected to be positive.
Cost Estimates and Financing
44.       The estimated total cost of the Fund's program during the period
1976-1980 is $148.0 million of which the foreign exchange component would be
$61.9 million or 42 percent of total cost. Details are provided in Annex III.
Base costs ($124.6 million) have been estimated at early 1976 prices on the
basis of the present level and composition of grant payments. Price contin-
gencies of $23.4 million have been included in total program costs. The
provision for expected price increases for fertilizers is based on the Bank's
projected price index for world commodity trade; for all other inputs, the
projected wholesale price index for Thailand has been used. No provision for
physical contingencies has been made since the project encompasses the Fund's
entire 1976-80 investment program.



- 14 -
45.       The project would be financed out of the Fund's reserves and cess
revenue ($80.0 million or 54 percent of total costs); the proposed Bank loan
($50.0 million or 34 percent); a proposed loan from the Commonwealth Devel-
opment Corporation (CDC) of the United Kingdom (about $6.8 million equivalent
or 5 percent); Government contributions ($10.2 million or 7 percent); and a
UNDP grant ($1.0 million or less than 1 percent). The size of the Bank loan
was determined on the basis of the Fund's financial gap, taking into consider-
ation the size of the CDC loan and allowing for a modest, but nonetheless de-
sirable, Government contribution.   The CDC loan was negotiated in Washington,
D.C., together with the proposed Bank loan and would carry the same terms
as the Bank loan; the loan would be untied. The proposed Bank and CDC loan
proceeds, as well as the Government's contribution, would be passed on to
the Fund as grants. The proposed repayment terms of the Bank and CDC loans
are based on the net incremental cash flows to Government from the rubber
sector which would be available for debt repayment to the Bank and CDC.
46.       The ability of the Fund to meet its share of the financing plan
will depend on the amount of revenue it obtains from the cess; also the Gov-
ernment's commitment to finance the Fund's deficits during and after the
project period is crucial to raising the annual level of replanting to
50,000 ha a year and maintaining that level thereafter. The willingness of
rubber growers to participate in the program will also be crucial to the
success of the project and this, in part, will depend on the amounts and
composition of replanting grants. Accordingly, it has been agreed that,
at the request of the Bank, the Borrower shall review with the Bank and the
Fund (a) the rates of the rubber cess and other taxes raised on the produc-
tion marketing and export of rubber, (b) the incentives for rubber growers
to participate in the program and (c) the financing requirements of the Fund;
it has also been agreed that the Government would inform the Bank of any
proposed action affecting rubber taxes and duties.    (See Section 4.03 of
the draft Loan Agreement.) It has also been agreed that the Borrower will
make available to the Fund funds and other resources necessary to carry out
an annual replanting program of 50,000 ha after project completion. (See
Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement.)
Procurement
47.       Fertilizers and chemicals ($63.3 million) would be procured in
bulk through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guide-
lines.  Since vehicle purchases would be in small quantities and spread
throughout the project period, they would not be suitable for international
competitive bidding.   Accordingly, it was agreed that contracts for vehic-
les would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally
and in accordance with the Fund's procurement procedures, which are satis-
factory to the Bank.   Importers of assembled vehicles would be eligible
to bid.  A 15 percent preference margin, or the prevailing customs duty, if
lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids.
Planting materials would be provided by GREO, the Rubber Division and pri-
vately-owned nurseries at competitive prices.   Cover crop seed would be
purchased from private sources, mainly smallholders.   The remaining costs



- 15 -
are direct Fund expenditures for grant cash payments and administration.
The Finance Division of the Fund is responsible for all matters relating
to procurement.
Loan Disbursements
48.       Disbursements from the Loan account would be made to meet 60 per-
cent of the c.i.f. costs of directly imported fertilizers and agro-chemicals;
60 percent of the ex-factory price if manufactured locally; or 60 percent
of expenditures, if imported but procured locally. Disbursements would be
made at the rate of 100 percent of the c.L.f. cost of directly Lmported
vehicles, 100 percent of the ex-factory price if manufactured locally; or 65
percent of expenditures, ex-store, if imported but procured locally.     The
proposed loan would also be disbursed to meet 40 percent of the costs of
planting materials provided to replanters and 21 percent of the first two cash
payments made to replanters; these disbursements would be made against the
Fund's statement of expenditure based on the Fund's Field Inspectors' reports
and certified by the Deputy Director for Administration and Finance. Dis-
bursements would also be made to cover 21 percent of the salaries of Fund
field staff against expenditure statements certified by the Deputy Director of
AdministratLon and Finance, and 100 percent of foreign expenditures or 85
percent of total expenditures for management consultants. Disbursement of the
proposed loan is expected to be completed by the end of 1980.
Justification and Benefits
49.       Accelerating the rubber replanting program would result in a faster
rate of growth of incomes and production in South Thailand, fuller employment
in the Region, and increased foreign exchange earnings for the national eco-
nomy. The accelerated program would help establish the rubber industry on a
sound agricultural and financial basis, improve the Fund's organization and
capability, and set the basis for a continuous replanting effort at optimum
levels.  The establishment of GMOs would improve rubber quality standards
and farmers' incomes.
50.       The average rubber yield in Thailand is about 300 kg/ha.     Mature
yields under high technology rubber production are estimated to be 1,800
kg/ha. Net farm income of a typical smallholder cultivating 15 rai (2.4
ha) with family labor would rise from the present level of about $350 per
year to about $1,750 per year from the 20th year after the start cf replant-
ing until about the 35th year on the assumption that the forecast long-term
equilibrium price of natural rubber remains, in constant dollar terms, at the
1974 price of 33H/lb.   However, because of the felling of old rubber trees
and the long perLod of maturation, no significant increases of income would
occur until 10 years after the start of replanting.     The farm budget shows the
importance of the cash component of the grant in maintaining the smallholder's
income stream, assuming that holdings are replanted in three stages and
intercropped over seven years to minimize short-run losses of income.



- 16 -
51.       The economic analysis of the project was based on the direct and
indirect costs, and on the direct benefits of replanting one rai (0.16 ha)
of land, and assuming that, in the absence of the replanting program, the
over-aged rubber holdings would eventually be replanted with unselected
rubber seedlings under present low technology practices. The economic rate
of return of the project thus calculated is 20 percent.
52.       The labor requirements of maintaining high technology rubber pro-
duction are only marginally higher than the labor requirements of traditional
rubber production.   However, clearing and land preparation of an incre-
mental 30,000 ha/year would create about 30,000 additional jobs per year
beginning in 1978/79.
Cost Recovery
53.       The replanting "grant" would be more than fully recovered with
interest at 10 percent (in current prices) if all rubber tax receipts (export
duty and rubber cess) are considered as a form of cost recovery.     However,
the Government earmarks only income from the rubber cess for replanting; if
only the cess is considered in calculating the level of direct cost recovery,
it is estimated that 75 percent of the replanting grant would be recovered
with interest at 10 percent from beneficiaries through the rubber cess in-
cluding the accrued rubber cess payments collected from beneficiaries since
1961, when the rubber cess was first levied.
Risks
54.       Demand for Replanting Grants.    Although the number of applications
for replanting grants has increased steadily since the beginning of the
Fund's operation, fluctuations in the price of rubber introduced a random
element into this demand. At periods of high prices, the number of applica-
tions may decline because of the increased profitability of tapping existing
old rubber.   The Fund's most recent estimate for applications in 1975 is
34,000 ha. Conservatively assuming (based on recent past experience) that
about 75 percent of these applications will be approved, 1976 replanting
would exceed the Fund's forecast of 25,000 ha.    Without financial constraints
the Fund would not have to discourage applications as in the past, and could
expand its promotional efforts. Furthermore, the amount of the grant was
increased in 1975 by 50 percent up to the present level of $940 per ha, to
compensate for inflation, and at the present level provides an adequate in-
centive to farmers to participate in the program.     Thus it should be possible
to reach the target level of replanting 50,000 ha/year by 1978 and maintain it
thereafter.
55.       To help ensure that incentives would remain sufficient for imple-
mentation of the program, it has been agreed that the Fund would carry out
an annual socio-economic survey of farmer participation in the replanting
program and, in consultation with the Bank, review the level and composition
of the grant provided to rubber growers participating in the program. (See
Section 3.06 of the draft Project Agreement.)
56.       Project Beneficiaries.    The Act establishing the Fund specifies
that 70 percent of total grant payments each year should go to farmers with



- 1 7 -
holdings of 50 rai (8 ha) or less; 20 percent to those with as much as 250
rai (40 ha); and no more than 10 percent to plantations with holdings about
250 rai. While the intent of the Act is to ensure the priority of family-
size holdings under the program, the present data kept by the Fund do not
allow for verification of compliance with this stipulation. While detailed
information exists with respect to the distribution of replanting grants by
size of lots replanted, there are no data regarding the size distribution
of the total holdings of beneficiaries, or the number of lots replanted by
the same owner. To help correct this, it has been agreed that the Fund
will maintain records of farmer participation in the program by holding size
and ownership (see Section 2.04 (c) of the draft Project Agreement). To
help ensure that problems of land title do not constrain expansion of the
program, the Government has agreed to submit to the Bank proposals (i) for
coordinating the Fund's surveys with establishment of rubber growers' occu-
pancy rights, and (ii) for accelerating the issuance of title deeds to par-
ticipating growers (see Section 4.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
57.       Marketing.   Production increases from the project will not occur
until the early eighties. Beyond 1980, the world demand for natural rubber
appears favorable. The demand for all rubber is estimated to grow at 6 per-
cent per annum between L980-85, whereas the natural rubber supply over the
same period is projected to increase at only 3.7 percent per annum. There is,
therefore, a strong probability of a shortfall in natural rubber production in
the 1980s. The incremental production from the project, estimated at 194,000
tons, should thus be accommodated in the world market (projected at 6 million
tons in the mid 1990's) without difficulty.
59.       Ecological Aspects.    Replanting will be confined to flat or un-
dulating lands with soils suitable for tree crop development. Ground cover
crops sown after land clearing will help soil erosion and siltation. Rubber
processing will continue to be carried out on individual farms and pollution
would be negligible.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Fund, the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles
of Agreement and the text of a draft resolution approving the proposed loan
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Features of
the draft Loan and Project Agreements of special interest are referred to
in paragraphs 25, 28, 39, 40, 41, 42, 46, 55 and 56 of this Report.



- 18 -
60.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
61.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. HIcNamara
President



S                                                                                                                                                      S
S                                                                      NJNr-r-4
o  - so       -    to *  cc-co      Cd'  C   00-.  CC       *     colA.      C.CCtA      .      CCC    CCC    0       CC  C  00      0   0           coca p
a  ago        a    C     Or- ,to.-  -NC      Oar-   cc            00-        tot-C.Cii          CCC     C air -       cc  ro Ca      -   too         .-..rac S
-  r-S.-      C    C     -                  NC                   C-         --  N              Cae     cr-a          Ca  - Na                       rca-S
-    St       -    Ci                                            -i                             CAt    -                                             itt a  *
c C
0
to     -                                                                                                                                                          S
C                                                                 tot                                                                                   S
ltD    0    5                                                              -.-I
&         
a    cc    cc.c.t     =00      .-C   Ca     . .    CrC        ---.        cc      ccc    CCC           CC   C  C*      0  C  C   c     coca
C  toSo       -    00    CC   ltN   Na   -   'LaO   C.-           CCit       cr-CC      CO.     ccc    Otto           a-  N  it      N   C  C  C     CNat,S
t.    Li .450       C    ..0   01   a          a    tot                 Ct         La  -      fit     -CIV    Ca-           Ca   -  -          C  it -     N  C   S
o         C SN            tO                                            C                              0.00                                                 -  too *
-        C  C'                                                            C                              fli'.                                                      5
Cl     Li  CS                                                                                                                                                      S
S                                                                                                                                                      S
WIt..  1050      0    to*   CO CCCI    CC   C-a     C  OJl   00      ccc        . . . .     .       . *   ccc   c           a  c       . 0   C  C     COONS
bJSIo a S ......... .                                                . . .      . . . .     *                                            . . . .         . . ..S
750   -SC        C    #     itNCaC     .flb At  CC   to.-  CC      C-                              C    .0ottC 0      Ott C   C          a  C  C     itattS
em    a SN       CO   N     toCC            CO  tott         0       Ct                               it   CN           -to  -  -          C N         a  Ct 5
ascIi           -                                      N      CI                                C                                                    N   S
CS    *-S                                                            N                                                                                         S
5-5   -.0  5                                                                                                                                                   S
cm    rs
S   aS
055     5                                                                                                                                                      5
CS                                                                                                                                                             S
CS                                                                                                                                                             S
S-S                                                                                                                                                            S
<I
OS      S                                                                                                                                                      S
CZS   -   SC      lA-   CC    00CC.'     - I- C                *      CCC                    .      CQC     CC            C    C                C   C     Coca S
05 7045.......                                                                    .**                         ;; *                               . .
S t.t- SC      C   00    toCONtO   OO.C it                      car-                          age                   tt  lOt              CI C      ar-a-S
04.15  Lia 50           00    a-aC           -                        00                                   --ti0         C    -                C  -      0  C  S
.505  toil SN                                                         0                             iJtoC  -                                                -  S
m.-.S  005                                                            0
CS.) 5  5                                                                                                                                                      5
5-05  cOIS                                                                                                                                                      S
015  otto  *                                                                                         -t                                                        S
S CS                                                                                               Zj      <                 tij                           S
55  7   5                                                                                                                                                     5
SC    SC        C   C     C COON     -   C    CCC   ON    CC      CC*                     *     CCC     CCC           CC   C  C             .   .
57   CS                                                                                                                                     .
SC   05C        C   -      'CcOCC Cl r         it. NC  C-cc        cc                            CCC     ONO           C1  A. to                      0CC-S
5..t 05         CI  1     OCC             -    toO         C-      CO                            00..t   Ct.-          C-   -  -                      0  N   S
S -  - S N                                                 it.     0                             0CC     -                                               -   5
SC     S                                                           C                             OX                                                          p
Sr    S
SC    5                                                                                                                                                      5
S S to! clot S
*                                                      0.1                                         -s--i                                                     S
S     S                                                                                                                                                      S
OS    Cit         C   C'    CC *C *    c    C    CCC   0-     .      cc.         . . .             CCC     CC           CC   C  C          .  .   .    cOCOS
75 CS...........***                                                                                                                       *
CS    050         a   C     CC   a     CtNaCIC                       004                           CCC     C             ON  '1, 0                      aCCcS
S    SC        N    C     0    C          -    Ott                 CC                            CCC     tIC'          0-   - -                          N   S
-.      5                                                           0                             CCO                                                         S
CS      5                                                                                          Ct.-                                                        S
rm
- p                                                                                                                                                            SC
2700                                                            -.                0                                                50
05            00CC                             -          .-     5            0       2     C   C                                         a-     so
..,-        CUT                             -'-              C         a Sir..,    C     .- .4                                          Ca.-
-52      2    CZO            to                72      C  Li    072'?    '-507        irt-.  2  =  a          C                           CCC    52
'-SC,    C    CflA.7   t-.   c                 Ci..    000        Ct-CC   1 Sc'       n.j   ci C   S         tot.-        --               00   SC.
OSo.      a   ,r.-.-u., to.   C           C,     0     aCC      C-.-.-.- ttSCC        cC    T      -     C    C..i        to      C       C
cC - - - -= Cot. to IS tiC 0CC - -ci on i-I Co aSIC
O Si      o      u-a                      c    toot    -c       CaCtoC   to. Sr..    C  .4  Oat    IC    c    CC          at      -       iroto 57
aS       .4  00.-CC    ..t  . c         0    C       C...JC   .....i-.t...t...t C S C  .'iOC  S-ca  ito  C  C iti?0L1                   -rLtLi5Cj
057      C    t.tt.tO   I     C  2        0    i-0     ICC      0C0StL.-             LOCC   -.    It     0    0.4.-  -    C.-  Ct.J        Oft  Sc
CS       0    000.-C             0       C     .-tot  .-LOC      COlIC   - SC             ItCOtC.i C         tO C        Ct.-iPtr-'      0    0 S-.
o              5 *    0        cC.  0     10 Li   0.-C      a-               toCCC      S .      Ore    t.t..,t.ia              t.                  CCOtoiS
tot     -,   .4S 00-a      .400              C   ci CLi    .52      7.4     '0000    r-StbC  250CC      OCt          C  .40C7-        .C  u.n-.tt-    Coca sir
C  C-   CS   OSC   -       ocOOC    7        0    C  02     CC      ott   75C         C SCi.  C 57CC    C      0      0  C,ZCW..jca     LC.tLi        -a   s
O   .   CS     5 S - ..  OOC-Li&)         2   0OCCj CO    SIc      Litoto. '1St) CLub  05.i     5CC7    .4totttt      T.4fli.LI..AOC   0700.4   C         70 SI..
CC   OS   - SC  CIT   LiCO42C    a     C  '.CC      C  CCI      0  C   - SZCCCC    .45  -  -5       CCCa    I      .4CI.40Ca        Cto.'-ctoCo.   0   0050
OS-c    - S CS     2to-aa        C  2     -    00/C  Cr   2Li      Cr     .- 5-         Sea   - 50CC    0  a          tLiflItCCc       r   0300       COaX SC
0500      5    SC  0     cr7   IC  C     -   t.ioiotLit.i-.-i.    Cc-C   0*  130kb   I.. SCI  C Sooo   OtoC 7  0     CrC/iC,  27Li    0..4CCCZLi      wOc-tfl S
IS      05   05    C..ci  ct-COLiC  it    a   7000   ira  2  C            CScit cCC:S- C        SCC&    COL4          Cii ICciCto       00.4   --      Ca  OSO
5.-S    CS   7S      00    OoCoa           -a C      Lola 70       Ct..   -So.  cr-o'   S     OS                      20LiC    LiC     OThCJ0         -Lilt-c-SW
c-S     -S   OS?   Zato   Clc ICto.  7     C  -toac  CC   Coot     CLiC   0S0         25CC    2S222     ott  7        ci toira.joC     .OCO  -.J...  ci C   SO
S     C S    Sr  coo   arc   too  C     a   Li-CO  7     iCc-    C.       CSCC              SCItC  otoiro          Ca     aCIc     a  aCatoiLi  2SLi0-cS
CS      a S CS                        C 0         otLi 0   .-saC1 005-CC.-.-- S          CSttCltt..'-.t -                      0000 CSOt.tLir SC
5.15  0  LiS  C Sc  rIta  Otoittot?  C  o..t7 ft torrit.  0  to 075.acfl-SOltjL,CO    - SC    75CC      Cfttoit. 0  7 Sto.i07CCtCit...4  Clot COO-i  c-SOIC--St.t
C S.4.4   5 -5 a   a       ClOotoiC  000     '-.-.-Ct..'Cto.tO  it..S.i   C S0.TIIoC  C 5o0   C S too aaCc-C       C. s.-0C  COO       7.-CCC   to 5   'CC  So.
0500    05   - S-.t .4CC  iCCOtoC   .4S-C  0  IC     CC  ...tLuti.t 0 S.4CO  S COO 0  7 S7t     S Li..J CS    rcSOLiIt-CL, SC.to.O.C .4           0. SCooC Sr
55-C  05   aSO   Ztiiiti actor- 7  O'0  a    OCr     7  '-'Lit  CSoCI   i.iSto.--CC   500   C 50CC     00     .-..SC CtOCto.aC..4  2S Co-totba C  o S-t/tLiCSZ
o * r 7  0 5 .4 5 C  0 0 6  - ti Li - .4 CC 0C  S ttj-tLl C  C C C  C 5 0 Ott  ,Srrr.t..4  ft S C C  - S C 0 C 0 Li 0  c  a S - 0 C ac-Sflc-,c-SCVLiCLi.-aC---SC  Cot to S
75.-a     S  tSC  IC                Cl    0   0      COLi a     ..4SC.O7    5         - S       SC.fl  Li      0   LiSt   tot 1' IC OSOLi   Li C   0500.40504
C 5     0 5 0 5 II 0     C          0     -   C      to ilk    IC S   .5 -  Li Sltt   C S CO 05 0 5 0 IC 0 0   t-SaC         C  Sfl IC to 1lt      to 5 0 0 C., 7 5 tot
.15     ZS   CS                                                 VS        7S          -S      ciS                 CS                CS             CS        501
totS      05          CI      IS                  045               75             LiS



ANNEX 1
HOlES                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~page 2 of S pages
Usless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any Year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Moot Recent Ectisate between
1971 and 1973.
am Although Japan's GINP per capita is such higher than that of Thailand, Japan has been selected ean an objective country hecauce Thailand's decciopoent
prucess can reasonably be ceasured againot that of Japan, an Asian country which to highly trade oriented, has anved free en agricolturally hated tn
en industrially haced economy, and in doing So has retained its cultural distinction.
THAILA-ND         1960    /a   Motto of population under 15 and 60 and over to labor force age 15-59;       /b  1965;    /.   1962.
1970     Li Including midwives;     /b  1964-66;    L   Public schools, which include technical education at the poot-sccondary level.
MOST NECENT ESTIIMATE:    /a   Including eidwrves;    /b  As percent of population in Bangkok cetropolitan area;      Ic  Other 67 Practinces.
PHILIPPINES       1970    /a  Public education only;     /b  1967;    j,I-port. only.
KONES REP. OF     1970    /.  Registered;    /b   Registered, not all Practicing In the coutry;      /.  Water piped inside.
JAPAN             1970    /a   Households.
R7. March 73, 197Th
DEFINTTTONS OP SOCIAL INDICATOES
ladAe  hou kne2)                                                                 Populaionper srine        ero   - Populotion divided by center of practi-
sr.earea comprising land area and inland waters.                      cigmlfndfniegautenrs,                     trid"y"ctfe"sne,
-b Moo t recent estimate of land ores used temporarily or Permanently                and auxiliory personnel with training or experience.
--- F_cultivation, pastures, narkoet and kitohen gardens or to lie fallow.              Populat1ion per hospital bed - Population divided by cntmer of hospital
bed avalbei public and Privote genero1 end sPecialined hospital
ONP   era cnita (Si$) -,GNP per capita estimates at narhet price, calcu-                  and rehabilitation cecters: excludes cursing hones anod entabliohments
rliaWe  sah9Scoinvercion method as World Mock Atlas (1975-75 basis),                    for custadial and precesti-e osre.
Per capit-a snooty of0calories ( or requirenent,) - Compu.ted from
,P:pultio,n~n  vialstatistics                                                       energy equivoleci. onet foo     supplies aVAilable i-n couintry per
'.t          i_rrmlin        - AS of July first; if not available, average               capita per day; available Supplies comprise domestic production,
Ift,en-e         ar e   so ten                                                           imports less exports, and changen usnstock; net supplies exclude
animal feed, seeds, quantities used is food processing end looses
Population density -prsquare knn - Mid-year population per square kilo-                   in distribution; requirements were estimated by PAO basoed on physi-
meter (100 hectares   of total area.                                                    ological seeds for normal activity and health considering environ-
Popultionadensity.- per seune Ins of arable land - Computed an above for                  mental temperature, hotr weights, age end nun, distributions of popu-
amle lnd only                                                                         lation, and allowsng 10% for waste at househsid level.
Per capita suppl   of poti     (groan per day) - Proteis   s-teot of per
Vital Statistics                                                                          capita net oup,ply of 'food per day; net supply o'f food is defined as
Crude birth rat-e per thousand - Annual live births per thousand of mid-                  above; requirements for afl countries established by USIA Economic
year population; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and                    Reseoroh Services provide for a minimum allowance of 60 grass of total
1975 for developing countries,                                                          protein per day, and 20 grav   of animal and pulse protein, of which 10
Crude death rats P., thous..nd - Annual danths per thousand of mid-yssr                   grams should be ..sIti   pr-tot;, thos  uadarda are li-e     tias thao
population; usually five-year averages ending In 1960, 1970 and 1975                    of 75 grav   of total protein and 23 gras   of anieal protein asns aver-
for developing countries,                                                               age for the world, proposed by FAQ in the Third World Food Survey.
Infant .'.U       rate ~/thou) - Annual deaths of infantn under one year                Per cptpreisulyfOm anima                and pulse - Proiein supply of food
of age per thousand yle     iLrts.                                                      derivedfrom animalsadple          ngasprdy
L'ife enpetacy    t birth (ycrs) - Average cntmer of years of life remain-              Death rate (/thou) aces 1-S - Annual deaths per thousa.nd in age group I-4
tog at birh   usually five-year averages -eding Is 1960, 3970 and 1975                yTearn, to children to this ags group; suggested on as indicator of sal-
for develping coutries                                                                  nutrition.
Gross r;erloduction rate - Average number of live daughters a woman will
hear is her norma reproductive period if she experiences present age-                 Education
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending to 1960,                  Adlusted  nomn        ai       rmr     coo       noleto         l  gss
1970 and 1975 for developing countries,                                                 percentage of Primar   school-ag      p ulation; inctudes children aged
Population growth rate (5)         I oo  -Co.mpound annal growth rates of mid-            6-l1 years hut. ad-usted for diffreret lengths of primay education,
year pouatoOfr15           6, I960-7C, ond 1960 to msot recent year.                    for countries wthi universal educatics, enrollment may exceed 1(0%
Population growth rate ()- urban- Competed lihe growth rate of total                      since some pupils are belouw or atone the official school age.
population; different definition    of urban areas may affect compara-                Adi,osted enrollment rato -scnry         chool - Computed as obove; oSecond-
bility odata amng countries.                                                           ary   ducation requiresa     es    oryer       fapoe       puayisrc
Urbanpplto         9o    totl)   tNis of urban to total population;                       ions  provides general, vocational or teacher training isetr...tion for
different definitions or urn      ra     a   fetcmaaiiyo              aaPupils of 12 to 17 years of ago; crrespondasce couse                       are ganarally
among enuaries.                                                                         excluded.
AE.2Ita.Ssercent) - Children (0-lb yearn), working age- (15-6b years),            Tears of schooling provided (first snd second levels) - Total yearn of
'and rentired (6I years and over) as percentages    f mid-year Population,               Schooling; at secondary level, vocational instructon may he partially
Ag  deoendnc, ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to                    or completely excluded.
these 'f ages 15 through 65.                    -Vocational eurolMent )%, ofotseconders) - Vocational institutions include
Economic dependency ratIo - Ratio of population under 15 -dA 65 and over                  technical , inutrial ooter programs which operate indepoendently
to the labor force in age group of 15-6h yearn.                                         or eas departments of secondary institutions.
Family plannAing- cceptero     (cosoie.thou) - Cunnintive caster of                     Ad49t,eittacy rat%(5) - Literate adulto (able in read and write) an
acceptors ofbit     conro    devce   une     uspices of national family                 16Fiiiitti7adult population aged 15 yearn andovr
Planning program since inception.
Famil4yplanning    users (9 of -red       women) - Percentages of married               Rousing
i..ofK36hild-heaxring age (15-4    y-ea-rs7who use birth-con;tre1 devices            Persons per room (average) - iverage cntmer of persons per rose is occupied
to all married wonen in samie age group.                                                conventional dwellings is urban areas; dwellings exclude non-pe r-nenot
structures and unoccupied parts.
f7P1    ent                                                                             Occupied dwellings without piped water (%) - O0cupied conventional deofl-
Rt71bor force (thousand) - Economically active persons, including                     togs in urban and roral areas without inside or outside piped water
as-nd forces end unemiployed but excluding housewives, stuients, etc.;                  facili ties as Percentage of all occupied dwellingo.
definitions in cartoon couintries are not compara.ble.                                Access to electricity (5 of all dwellings) - Conventional dwellings with
labor force in gr'iculture (%) - Agricultural labor force (in farming,                    electricity in living quarters as percant of total dwellings in urban
forestry; besting and fishing) an percentage of total labor force.                      and rura   areas.
UnempoYed (9 of labor force) - Unemployed are usually defined an persons                Rural dwellingo connected to electricity (8) - ComPuted as above for rural
who are able and whiling to tabs a job, out of a jot on a given day,                    dwellingsa only.
remained out of a Job, and Seeking work for a Specified mnimiume
period sot exceeding one week; may sot be comparable between countries                C5050%  ties
due to different definitions of ueneployed and source of data, e.g.,                  Radio r-eceivers (per thou pop) - All types of receivers for radio broad-
employment office statistics, Sample Survoys, compulsory unemploysent                   casts to general publiC per thiousand of population; excludes en-
insurance.                                                                              licensed receivers in countries end in years when registration of
radio sets was is effect; data for recent years may not be comparable
Income distribution - Percentage of private income (both in cash and                      SInce mas   countries abolished liceusing.
kind) received by richest 5%, richest 20%, poorest 20%, and poorest                   PasSsege7r car  (per thou pop) - Passenger oars comprise motor cars seat-
SOS of population,                                                                      ing less then eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and
military vehicles.
Dlistritution of land ownerhip - Percentages of land owaed by wealth-                  Electricity (kwh/cr per cap) - Annual consumption of induatrial, co-ner
test 10% and poorest 10%of lad owners.                                                  cial, public and private electricity in kilowatt hous per capita;
generally based on pro&ctation data, without allowance for losseo in~
Health and Nutrition                                                                      grids bet allowing for imports and exports of electricity.
Population per pOryician - Population divided by nunter of practicing                   Newanrint (kg/yr per cap) - Per capita annual consumption in kilograms
physicians qualifiedfrom a medical school at university level,                          estimated from domestic productioe plus net imports of newsprint.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of il pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1974                                                                                         ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
USS Million  7,                                             (7,, ~~~~~~~~~~~~constant prices)
US$ Million          %                                                 1_6n-5_            1965-70             1970-74
GNP at Market Prices                    13,550          100.0                                                 7.2                 8.5                 6.2
Gross Domestic Investment                3,400           25.1                                               14.4                 15.4                 3.0
Gross National Saving                    3,388           25.0                                               14.6                 11.5                 9.2
Current Account Balance                    -12             .1
Exports of Goods, NFS                    3,140           23.2                                               10.8                  7.1                10.7
Imports of Goads, NFS                    3,425           25.3                                                11.1                12.3                 4.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1974
Value Added                              Labor Force -                             V.A. per Worker-
US$ Million   %liollion                                       %                      U':8               %
Agriculture                             4,311            3i.8                   13.8                76.6                   312              41.4
Industry                                4,059            30.0                    1.3                 7.2                 3,122            414.6
Services                                5,180            38.2                    2.9                16.1                 1,786             237.2
Unallocated
Total/Average           13,550           100.0                   18.0              100.0                   753              100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE -
General Governrment                                                  Central Government
us$ Miliiox:        7. of GDP  -USSHilILon                                         _     7 of GDP
1974        1974        1972-74                                      1974       1974          1972-74
Current Receipts                        2,190        17.4         16.5                                      1,935        15.4           14.2
Current Expenditure                     1.457        11.8         12,7                                      1,385        11.0           12.0
Current Surplus                           733         5.8          3.8                                        550        4.4             2.1
Capital Expenditures                      655         5.2          6.1                                        345         2.7            3.7
External Assistance (net)                  76          .6           .5                                          6          .1             .1
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1969    1970    1971    1972    1973     1974
(Billion s of Baht outstanding end period)
Money  nd Quasi Money                   40.9    44.2    53.7    66.6    81.9     98.5
Bank Credit to Central Government (net) 8.5     13.0    19.6    27.0    29.6    25.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector           22.9    2?.9    30.8    34.6    49.4    66.7
(Per centages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP       31.7    34.1    36,9    41.0    38.2    37.3
GDP Deflator (1962 = 100)              114.2   11:'.6  111.5   12f.5   144.8   174.9
Annual percentage changes in:
GDP Deflator                                  -1.6     1,0     8.7    20.2    20.8
Bank Credit to Central Government (net)       5.'.9   50.7    37.7     9.6   -13.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector                 21.5    10.7    12.2    42.9    35.1
Note:  Up to 1973 conversion rate to dollars is i 20.8; for 1973, 8 20.4; for 1974, B 20.0.    1974 data based on prel-minary figores
which vill be updated by the forthcoming economic mission.
1/ Value added at current market prices.
2/ Tentative estimates based on 1970 census.
3/ Thai Fiscal Years ending September 30 of calendar years shown.
4/ Estimates for GDP during fiscal year t were de3rived by adding 1/4 of GDP at calendar year t-l to the 3/4 of GDP for year t.
Not applicable.
Not available.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE. PAYMENTS. AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1972-74)
1972    1973     1974    L975                                         US$ Million          %
us$ Million
Exports of Goods, NFS               1,532   2,085    3,141   3,247     Rice                                   293              16.8
Imports of Goods, NFS               1.627   2 239    3,423  3,825      Rubber                                 188              10.8
Resource Gap (deficit = -)            -95     154    -TSz     -578     Corn (maize)                           182              10.6
tapioca products                        130              7.5
Interest payments (net)                 5       7       32     -27     Tin (metal)                            111               6.4
Other Factor Payments (net)           -21     -28      -37   )         Sugar                                   102              5.9
Workers' Remittnces                         .                          Kenaf and jute                           49              2.8
Net Transfers -                        59     146      275     129     All other commodities                   673             38.9
Current Balance                       -52      29      -12    -476                          Total           1,728             100.0
Direct Foreign Investment (Net)2-      56      67       83      70     EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31, 1974
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                       309     265      5Q6    I384                                              US$ Million
Amortization                        221     262      265     211     Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                 5i8
Subtotal                             88       3      241     173     Non-Guaranteed Ptivate Debt                   632
Capital Grants                          .      .         .             Total outstanding & disbursed               1,150
Other Capital (net) 3/                 33      42        13      9
Other Items n.e.i. 4/                  67      30       157     26     DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1974 4-
Increase in Reserves (+)              192     113      482    -198
Gross Reserves (end year)           1,052   1,295    1,858             Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                 2.0
Net Reserves (end year)               969   1,082     1,564  1,366     Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                   8.7
Total outstanding & disbursed                10.7
Fuels and Related Materials
Imports                             150     229      629     712
of which:petroleum                  149     228      627     710     IBRD/IDA LENDING, FEBRUARY 29, 1976 (US$ Million)
Exports                              12      18        14     30
of which:petroleum                   12      18       14      30                                               IBRD         IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                       Outstanding & Disbursed                   305.8        4.5
Undisbursed                               300.4      27.5
Through July 1973                                                      Outstanding incl. Undisbursed             606.2       32.0
US$ 1.00 = 9 20.8
i 1.00 = US$ 0.048
Since July 1973
US$ 1.00 = % 20.0
9 1.00 = US$ 0.05
Note: Balance of payments prolections are not yet available as the balance of payments outlook is currently being reviewed with
the Government.
1/ Includes official and private transfers.
2/ Equity capital only.
3/ Includes short-term public and private capital and portfolio investment.
4/ Includes SDR allocations, profits from exchange realignments, and errors and omissions.
5/ Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services.
.   Not Applicable.
e/ Estimate



ANNEX II
Page  1
STATEMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of February 29, 1976)
$ Million Amount
Loan or                                                      (Less Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year     Borrower              Purpose        Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Twenty-One Loans fully disbursed                         335.4             -
702-TH      1970     Port Authority of     Ports          12.5    --      2.4
Thailand
790-TH      1971     Electricity Genera-   Power          27.0    --      3.5
rating Authority of
Thailand
822-TH       1972    Kingdom of Thailand   Education      15.4    -      13.4
864-TH      1972    Telephone Organiza-    Telecommuni-   37.0    --     23.8
tion of Thailand       cations
870-TH       1972    Kingdom of Thailand   National       28.6    --     12.6
Highways
369-TH      1973     Kingdom of Thailand   Education       -     19.5    19.0
379-TH       1973    Kingdom of Thailand   Irrigation      -      '5.5    2.4
898-TH       1973    State Railway         Railways       15.0    -       5.1
461-TH       1974    Kingdom of Thailand   Irrigation      -      7.0     6.1
977-TH       1974    Electricity Genera-   Power          75.0    -      63.1
rating Authority of
Thailand
992-TH       1974    Industrial Finance    Industry       12.0    -       3.5
Corporation of
Thailand
1021-TH     1974    Metropolitan Water-    Water Supply   55.0    -      52.0
works Authority
1149-TH     1975    Kingdom of Thailand    Irrigation    95.0     -      95.0
1198T-TH /a 1976    Kingdom of Thailand    Rural Devel-
opment        21.0     --     21.0
1199T-TH /a 1976    Kingdom of Thailand    Livestock       5.0    -       5.0
Total                                          773.9   32.0   327.9
of which has been repaid                    127.7     -_
Total now outstanding                          606.2   32.0
Amount sold /b                   65.2
of which has been repaid       25.4          39.8
Total now held by Bank and IDA                 566.4   32.0
Total undisbursed                              300.4   27.5
/a   Not yet declared eEfective.
/b   Of which US$41 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of February 29, 1976)
$ million Amount
Year          Company            Type of Business      Loan   Equity   Total
1959   Concrete Products and    Concrete Products       0.30    -       0.30
Aggregate Ltd.
1964   Industrial Finance       Industrial Finance      -      0.19     0.19
Corporation of
Thailand (IFCT)
1969   Siam Cement Group        Cement and Construc-
tion Mlaterials       18.33   3.75     22.08
1971   Industrial Finance                                      0.19     0.19
Corporation of
Thailand (IFCT)
1975   Siam Cement Group        Cement and
Construction          10.00      -     10.00
Mlaterials
Total gross commitments                        28.63    4.13    32.76
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                        16.22   2.09     18.31
Net held by the Corporation                    12.41    2.04    14.45



ANNEIX II
Page 3
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Loan 702-TH    Third Bangkok Port Project; $12.5 Million Loan of August 6,
1970; Effective Date: November 6, 1970; Closing Date:
original, July 31, 1974; current, July 31, 1976
Construction, presently about 90% completed, is expected to
be finished by May 1976. Construction work on the project which consists
of four deep-water and two lighterage berths, together with trarnsit sheds
and ancillary facilities is proceeding satisfactorily, but somewhat behind
the original schedule.' Two berths were commissioned in November 1975, and
two more are expected to be commissioned in May 1976. The civil, engineer-
ing work was placed on a fixed-price contract and the only significant cost
overruns will be those caused by changes in foreign exchange rates and the
Government's decision to compensate contractors on fixed-price contracts
for overall increases of construction costs after June 1974. The Closing
Date has been extended from July 31, 1974, to July 31, 1976. The financial
situation of the Port Authority is very sound.
Loan 790-TH     South Bangkok Thermal Unit No. 4 Project; $27 Million Loan
of November 11, 1971; Effective Date: January 27, 1972;
Closing Date: November 30, 1976
Project execution is on schedule. Costs have increased by
about 13 percent due to changes in currency exchange rates.
Loan 822-TH     Second Education Project (Kasetsart University); $15.4 Mlillion
Loan of Mlay 24, 1972; Effective Date: August 22, 1972; Closing
Date: June 30, 1978
Project implementation has been delayed by about 18 months
due to late appointment of campus master planner, late Cabinet approval
of Executive Architect's fees and, more recently, delays by the Executive
Architects in preparinlg adequate plans and specifications on schedule.
Site development works for the Kamphaengsaen Campus have been contracted;
construction began in 11arch 1976 and is expected to be completed by mid-
1978. Contracts for equipment, valued at US$1.6 million, were awarded in
August 1975. Implementation of the technical assistance program is well
underway. Project cosl:s are expected to exceed the appraisal estimate by
about US$8 million due to cost overruns for civil works. Overruns will
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being takeh to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4
be met by the Government. Disbursements, currently US$2.0 million, are
expected to reach US$2.5 million by the end of FY76 and US$7.5 million by
the end of FY77.
Loan 864-TH     Telecommunications Project; $37 Million Loan of December 5,
1972; Effective Date: March 1, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The project is now moving forward satisfactorily and it should
be practicable for the Telephone Organization of Thailand (TOT) to overcome
some of the delays which occurred at the outset. Procurement action is well
advanced and equipment deliveries are in progress. Increased prices have
required TOT to rephase its project financing and to redistribute some for-
eign costs between Loan 864-TH and the Japanese credit. Reallocation of Loan
864-TH has been approved. New tariffs, which came into effect in September 1975,
are expected to generate about 20 percent more revenues annually which will help
TOT finance its program.
Loan 870-TH    Fifth Highway Project; $28.6 Million Loan of December 26,
1972; Effective Date: March 26, 1973; Closing Date: Dec-
ember 31, 1977
Works under the project have been divided in nine contracts
of which four have been completed and two are expected to be completed
shortly, only slightly behind schedule. The remaining three contracts have
been terminated because the rapid increase in cost led to financial problems
for the contractors since, despite the Bank's recommendation, the contracts
provided only for costs escalation on petroleum products while costs of
materials, labor, equipment and spare parts also escalated rapidly. New
bids have been obtained, of which one contract has been awarded while the
other two are waiting Cabinet approval. Because of higher prices in the bids
for completing unfinished work, total cost of the project is expected to be
around $75 million, or about 28 percent above the appraisal estimate, with
Government financing the overruns. In spite of these difficulties the project
is likely to be completed no more than one year beyond the original schedule.
Credit 369-TH   Third Education Project; $19.5 Million Credit of April 11,
1973; Effective Date: August 8, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978
Project implementation remains about 12 months behind sche-
dule. Delays have been caused by inexperienced project management, inade-
quate staffing of Ministry of Education design offices, late recruitment
of technical assistance and increased construction costs for civil works,
which necessitated lengthy procedures for budget approvals. Recently, ade-
quate provisions were made to meet the expected cost overruns and noticeable
progress was achieved in civil works, procurement and technical assistance.
About 60 percent of the total civil works contracts and 20 percent of the
total furniture and equipment contracts have been signed. Seven technical
assistance experts are in place and 50 Thais have been sent abroad for



ANNEIX II
Page 5
training under the project. Project costs are now estimated at: US$54.5
million, 40 percent above the appraisal estimate.     Actual disbursements
reflect delayed implementation; they amount to only US$0.5 million, but are
expected to reach US$4.0 million by the end of FY76. A one-year extension
of the Closing Date will probably be required.
Credit 379-TH   Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project; $5.5 Million
Credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: August 23, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Until recent, project construction and Credit disbursements
were in line with appraisal estimates. However, problems have arisen in the
award of civil works contracts and progress in 1976 will be less than previously
forecast. Nevertheless, the project is expected to be completed by June 1977,
as scheduled. A project extension service has been set up and is operating
satisfactorily. A second-stage project, covering 56,000 ha, is under appraisal.
Loan 898-TH     Fourth Railways Project; $15 Million Loan of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: September 28, 1973; Closing Dat:e:
June 30, 1977
The project is behind schedule by about 18 months due to slow
procurement. However, except for rails required for track renewals yet to be
ordered, a large part of the material and equipment has been ordered and re-
ceived. The revised estimates of the project costs show an inc:rease of about
U$16 million equivalent, mainly in local costs.     Passenger traffic continues
to grow (6% per annum) but the growth of freight traffic during 1974/75 has
been marginal (2.5%) and lower than anticipated. The SRT failed to earn
any return (against the prescribed 2% rate of return in 1974/75) because of
cost increases not compensated by tariff increases.     Substantial increases
in tariffs for freight and passenger traffic were introduced in October/
November 1975 which will lead to significant improvements in the financial
situation. Even so, with increasing cost of wages, fuel and material the
SRT is not likely to reach the prescribed return of 2%.
Credit 461-TH   Northeast Irrigation Improvement Project; $7 Million Credit
of February 19, 1974; Effective Date: October 7, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Project implementation began about six months later than
scheduled because of delays in final approval of the consultant's contract.
There have been further delays in equipment procurement due to establish-
ment of new legal procedures for government approval of contract documents.
Despite these delays, good progress was made in the 1975/76 working season
on rehabilitation and improvement of the main canal systems, and in the
setting up of agricultural extension services.



ANNEX II
Page  6
Loan 977-TII    Ban Chao Nen Hydro-Electric Projects; $75 Million Loan of
April 15, 1974; Effective Date: June 14, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
Construction of the project is slightly ahead of schedule. Based
on the recent sector review, it appears that the Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand's (EGAT) financial position may become difficult,
unless tariffs are raised. This and other sector issues are being reviewed
in a sector report, which will be discussed with the Government in June
1976.
Loan 992-TH     Second Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT)
Project; $12.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1974; Effective
Date: September 4, 1974; Closing Date: September 30, 1978
The full amount of the $12 million loan has been committed.
The commitment was more rapid than originally estimated. Disbursements have
also been very satisfactory; as of February 29, 1976, total disbursements
amounted to $8.5 million. Since June 1974 when the loan was made, IFCT's
operations and financial condition has continued to be satisfactory.
Loan 1021-TB    Bangkok Water Supply Project; $55 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
After considerable delays, 20 contracts have now been awarded
and work on four of the civil works contracts has begun. Nine contracts have
still to be tendered, six of them for the second time. Project completion
may be delayed by about 12 months beyond the original schedule, or until mid-
1979; no change in the Closing Date seems necessary at this time. Financial
performance of MIWA continues to be less than satisfactory.    Only about half
the water produced is billed to the consumers. The management has, however,
set acceptable targets for improving the billing and collection and is exami-
ning proposals for increasing tariffs.
Loan 1149-TH    Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 tlillion Loan of
July 25, 1975; IEffective Date: October 31, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
Due to delays in engaging consultants, now resolved, the start
of construction of the major works lhas been delayed by about a year. However,
the on-farm works are proceeding on schedule and an effective extension ser-
vice has been established. Solutions onl the continuing administrative problems
of procurement, deployment of equipment and staffing are being sought through
review of the Royal Irrigation Department s management structure being under-
taken by the Bank.



ANNEX III
Page 1
THAILAND - RUBBER REPLANTING PROJECT
LOAN AND-PROJECT SUMNARY
Borrower:               The Kingdom of Thailand
Beneficiary:            The Rubber Replanting Aid Fund (the Fund)
Amount:                 $50.0 million
Terms:                  22 years including seven years of grace with
interest at 8-1/2% percent per annum.
Co-Lender:              Commonwealth Development Corporation of the
United Kingdom proposed loan of about $6.8 mil-
lion equivalent in pounds sterling on the same
terms as the proposed Bank loan.
Project
Description:          The project comprises the Fund's entire
replanting program during the period 1976-80
and has the following principal components:
(a) replanting, using improved material and
techniques, of about 25,000 ha of rubber in
1976-77; 35,000 ha in 1977-78; and about
50,000 ha in 1978-79 and 1979-80 respectLvely,
for a total of about 160,000 ha (of which
80,000 ha would he incremental); (b) increasing
the capacity of the Fund to cope with the
production of high quality planting material
for an annual replanting program of 50,000 ha;
(c) maintenance of all immature replantings;
(d) establishment of about 400   Group Marketing
Organizations (GMOs); (e) increasing the use
of modern yield stimulation techniques during
the final three years prior to replanting on
about 100,000 ha p.a.; (f) expanding training
programs for  Fund staff and for rubber small-
holders, in techniques of planting, field
maintenance, tapping, processing and marketing;
(g) technical assistance for project planning
and implementation by UNDP/FAO; (h) establishing
a monitoring system to evaluate the soci.o-economic
impact of, and rubber growers incentives and



ANNEX III
Page  2
participation in, the replanting program; and
(i) review and reorganization of the Fund's
structure and procedures with the assistance of
a team oE management consultants.
Estimated Costs:                                                     %
$ Million           Foreign
A.  Field Establishment                Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange
Labor                               45.0              45.0
Planting Material                    5.6      -        5.6       -
Fertilizer                           2.2    41.3      43.5      95
Cover Crop Seeds                      .8      -         .8       -
Chemicals                            1.2    10.0      11.2      89
Sub-Total                      54.8    51.3     106.1
B.  Project Administration
Fund Field Staff                     7.1               7.1
Overhead and Operations              8.1      1.3      9.4
Management Consultants                -      0.4       0.4
Nursery Establishment                  .8      .1       .9
Vehicles and Equipment                 .4     .3        .7
Sub-Total                      16.4     2.1     18.5
GRAND TOTAL BASE COSTS              71.2     53.4    124.6
Price Contingencies                 14.9     8.5      23.4
TOTAL PROGRAM COSTS                 86.1    61.9     148.0      42
Financing Plan:                           ---------$ Million--------
Rubber Replanting Aid Fund                       80.0
Bank                                              50.0
Government                                        10.2
CDC                                                6.8
UNDP                                               1.0
148.0
Estimated Disbursements from Bank Loan:   ---------$ Million--------
Fiscal Year   Annual    Cumulative
1977         9.1        9.1
1978        11.7       20.8
1979        14.0      34.8
1980        15.2       50.0



ANNEX III
Page  3
Procurement             Contracts for fertilizers and agrochemicals would
Arrangements:         be awarded after international competitive bidding
according to Bank guidelines. Contracts for
vehicles would be awarded after competit:ive bid-
ding advertised locally. In the evaluation of
bids eligible domestic manufacturers would be
accorded a preference margin of 15 percent of the
c.i.f. cost of competing imports or the rate of
applicable customs duties, whichever is lower.
Planting materials would be obtained locally from
the Fund's nurseries supplemented as necessarily
by the nurseries operated by the Government
Rubber Estates Organization, the Rubber Division
of the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives and
from private nurseries under contract to the Fund.
Consultants and         A management consulting firm (55 man-months of con-
Technical             sulting services) would be engaged under terms and
Assistance:           conditions satisfactory to the Bank to review the
Fund's organization structure, operating procedures,
accounting systems, data processing and staffing.
Under the UNDP technical assistance project a
senior technical advisor, a senior deveLopment
officer, a senior economist and development
officer (totalling 192 man-months) will assist
senior staff of the Fund in all planning and
field activities of the Fund. UNDP will also
finance additional expert services (70 man-months)
to expand and reorient UNDP's on-going program
with the Rubber Research Center to meet the
requirements of the Fund's accelerated replanting
program. FAO is the Executing Agency for the
UNDP project.
Rate of Return:         The economic rate of return of the project
is 20 percent.
Appraisal Report:       Report No. 867-THi dated March 30, 1976.






IBRD 11520
980  990   1000            1010             1020  ~~~~~~~~~~~~MARCH 1975
THAILAND
RUBBER REPLANTING PROJECT
-,11                   te      #   /2(       THE PHYSIOGRAPHIC SUB-REGIONS              110
^S   (;'^'* p(After F.J. Dent 1968)
HILLY UPLANDS AND LOW MOUNTAINS
... X humphon                    CENTRAL LOWLANDS
100  1'? lzl/EAST/////                  EASTERN COASTAL LOWLANDS
Rano                                       WESTERN COASTAL LOWLANDS  10o
rrE? t >  t i}                       HIGHWAYS
--- y::yX  <3RAILWAYS
I7z-S    t A CRIVERS
%          g . . . n5 . n  g gSurat  <     - -   - CHANGWAT (PROVINCIAL) BOUNDARIES
v han . .  :.     -         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
0      50     100    150
Ph~~ri~~n~~a:::  Na~khon Si             IiI
Th mmarat               KILOMETERS
e-)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
-8 R                                ----
980~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
Gulf       -7f The landM.Songhla                           A
MTHILAND                                )
8angkok                                                   a.,; X
Area of Map   S  i                                      D          ? -  n    i~
4~~~~~~Gl oo f Thiailand  ;l - ;1 ;,a-          _
991                                     ';0    1 02'



