CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 239 M AS
Project Agreement
(Mauritius Tea Development Authority Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
MAURITIUS TEA DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
DATED APRIL 9, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 239 MAS
Project Agreement
(Mauritius Tea Development Authority Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
MAURITIUS TEA DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
DATED APRIL 9, 1971


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       April 9,     1971 between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
MAURITIUS TEA DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (hereinafter called MTDA).
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement of even date herewith between
Mauritius (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association (hereinafter referred
to as the Development Credit Agreement), the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to five million
two hundred thousand dollars ($5,200,000), on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that MTDA agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and MTDA, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to MTDA on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS MTDA, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so, defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. MTDA shall carry out the Project described in Schedule 2
to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in


﻿4
conformity with sound administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural
practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist MTDA in preparing the design of the tea
factories under Part C of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement, MTDA shall employ engineering consultants acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. (a) MTDA shall appoint with the concurrence of the Association
managing agents who shall (i) supervise the construction of the factories referred
to in Part C of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement, and (ii) manage such factories at least for the duration of the Project.
(b)   During the period of the Project MTDA shall cause the managing agents
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section to appoint factory managers only after
prior consultation with the Association.
Section 2.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods
and services (other than consultants' services) to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be procured on the basis of international competition under
procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in August 1969, and in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule I to this Agreement.
(b)   MTDA    undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision for the
insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
relent to it by the Borrower against marine, transit and other hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by MTDA to replace or repair such goods.
(c)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower shall be
used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) MTDA shall furnish to the Association, promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, construction schedules and work
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications or amplifications thereof,
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   MTDA: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of
the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services


﻿5
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditures of the proceeds of the Credit so relent to it and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.06. MTDA shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, MTDA
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of MTDA
Section 3.01. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, MTDA
shall at all times take all steps necessary on its part to acquire, maintain and renew
all rights, powers and privileges which are necessary or useful in its operations.
(b)   MTDA shall at all times conduct its operations under competent and
experienced management, in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
engineering and agricultural practices and with the assistance of adequate qualified
and experienced staff.
(c)   MTDA    shall at all times operate, maintain, renew   and repair its
facilities, plant, equipment and machinery in accordance with sound engineering
and management practices.
(d)   Except in the normal course of business, MTDA shall not, without
the prior approval of the Association, sell, transfer, distribute or otherwise dispose
of any of its property or assets which shall be required for its efficient operation
and the sale, transfer, distribution or disposal of which would adversely affect
MTDA's ability to carry out its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 3.02. MTDA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice.


﻿6
Section 3.03. MTDA shall, during the period of the Project, consult with
the Association prior to making appointments to the MTDA positions of General
Manager, Technical Manager and Nursery Manager.
Section 3.04. MTDA shall establish criteria agreeable to the Association for
the selection of tenants for and the eviction of tenants from MTDA smallholder
tea plantings. Any change in such criteria shall be with the agreement of the
Association.
Section 3.05. MTDA shall not alter the forms of lease and sublease referred
to in Section 8.01 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement without the prior
approval of the Association.
Section 3.06. MTDA shall not take or concur in any action to alter the
arrangements made under Section 8.01 (d) of the Development Credit Agreement
without the prior approval of the Association.
Section 3.07. MTDA shall not take or concur in any action to amend or
terminate the agreement referred to in Section 8.01 (e) of the Development Credit
Agreement without the prior approval of the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) MTDA shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations
and financial condition.
(b)   MTDA shall employ accountants acceptable to the Association (i) to
set up the accounting system of MTDA, (ii) to train an MTDA accountant and
(iii) to check the accounting procedures of MTDA at least twice a year during
the period of the Project.
(c)   MTDA shall maintain separate accounts for the Project.
Section 4.02. MTDA shall (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such


﻿7
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of MTDA and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. MTDA shall ensure that the minimum margin between the
ex-factory price for manufactured tea and the price for green leaf paid to all MTDA
smallholders is such as to cover:
(i)         operating costs, including straight-line depreciation based on lives
of thirty years on buildings, fifteen years on factory machinery,
six years on cars, lorries, tractors and four-wheel drive vehicles,
ten years on trailers, twenty years on implements and four years
on motorcycles;
(ii)        an allocation to a reserve fund of one cent per pound of green
leaf purchased, to cover restitution for cyclone damage and other
contingencies; and
(iii)       an annual surplus equivalent to not less than two cents per pound
of green leaf purchased, for the period from the date on which
this  Agreement   comes   into  force  and   effect  through
June 30, 1975, and not less than five cents per pound of green
leaf purchased, thcreafter.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and MTDA shall cooperate fully to ensure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and MTDA shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of MTDA and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and MTDA shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the performance by either of them
of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower and
MTDA of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿8
Section 5.03. MTDA shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect
all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of MTDA and any relevant records
and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of MTDA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date thirty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify MTDA of this event and, upon the giving of
such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder shall
forthwith terminate.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿9
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For MTDA:
Mauritius Tea Development Authority
Wooton
Curepipe Road
Mauritius
Cable address:
Tedea
Mauritius
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of MTDA may be taken or executed by the Chairman of MTDA and such other
person as MTDA shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. MTDA shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of MTDA, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by MTDA pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿10
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Simon Aldewereld
Vice President
MAURITIUS TEA DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
By /s/ Pierre Guy Girald Falency
Authorized Representative


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
1.    With respect to any contract estimated to cost $20,000 equivalent or more,
other than those referred to in paragraph 3 of this Schedule:
(a)   If bidders are required to prequalify, MTDA shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and
shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall
reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of
their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by MTDA to the Association for its comments
before the applicants are notified and MTDA shall make such additions or deletions
from the said list as the Association shall reasonably request;
(b) before bids are invited, MTDA shall furnish to the Association, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedure to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification or addition to the bidding documents shall require the Association's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders;
(c)   after bids have been received and evaluated, MTDA shall, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the
bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall promptly inform MTDA whether it has any objection
to the intended award and shall state the reasons for any such objection it may
have;
(d)   if the contract shall be awarded over the Association's objection or
if its terms and conditions shall, without the Association's concurrence, materially
differ from those on which bids were asked, no expenditures thereunder shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit;
(e)   copy of the contract shall be furnished to the Association promptly
after its execution.
2.    With respect to any other contract, other than those referred to in paragraph
3 of this Schedule, MTDA shall, promptly after the contract is awarded, furnish


﻿12
to the Association copy of the contract as well as copy of the record of public
opening of the bids and the bid evaluation report. The Association shall promptly
inform MTDA if it finds that the award of the contract is not consistent with
the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits and,
in such event, no expenditures under such contract shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
3.   Contracts for the construction of office buildings, stores and leaf collecting
stations, and for office and minor factory equipment, to be financed under Category
IV of Schedule 1 of the Development Credit Agreement, shall be procured on
the basis of local competitive bidding according to procedures acceptable to the
Association.


