CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 239 MAS
Development Credit
Agreement
(Mauritius Tea Development Authority Project)
BETWEEN
MAURITIUS
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 9, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 239 MAS
Development Credit
Agreement
(Mauritius Tea Development Authority Project)
BETWEEN
MAURITIUS
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 9, 1971


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       April 9,   1971, between MAURITIUS (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by the Mauritius Tea Development
Authority with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to the Mauritius Tea Development Authority the
proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith b,tweei the Association and the Mauritius Tea Development Authority;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Section 5.01 thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and the Mauritius Tea Development Authority of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Project Agreement;


﻿4
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Mauritius Tea Development Authority pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   "MTDA" means the Tea Development Authority of Mauritius
established and operating under the Tea Development Authority Act 1970, dated
December 23, 1970 as the same may be amended from time to time;
(d)   "MCCB" means the Mauritius Cooperative Central Bank registered and
operating under the Cooperative Societies Ordinance 1945 dated October 20, 1945
as the same may be amended from time to time, and includes any successor or
successors thereto;
(e)   "Project area" means the area of Crown Land on the Central Plateau
of Mauritius agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association for the
purposes of the Project;
(f)   "tenant smallholder" means any person who has leased from    a
cooperative society a tea planting of 1.5 arpenLs on land held on ninety-nine year
lease by MTDA in the Project area;
(g)   "producer" means any person who produces green leaf tea;
(h)   "manufacturer" means any person who manufactures made tea from
green leaf tea.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to five million two hundred thousand
dollars ($5,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association


﻿5
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1977 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February 15
and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual instalments payable on each
February 15   and  August 15   commencing   August 15, 1981   and  ending
February 15, 2021, each instalment to and including the instalment payable on
February 15, 1991, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal
amount, and each instalment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%)
of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause MTDA to carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative,
financial, engineering and agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to MTDA under
a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and MTDA
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.
(c)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the


﻿6
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d)   The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agencies to take all
action which shall be necessary on their part to enable MTDA to perform all of
its obligations under the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which might interfere with
such performance.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall make available to MTDA all funds necessary
for MTDA to execute the Project which the Borrower has undertaken to provide
under Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement in the form of advance quarterly lump-sum
payments on the basis of estimates prepared by MTDA.
Section 3.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to
in Section 2.04 (a) of the Project Agreement.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause MTDA to maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of MTDA.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause MTDA to: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of MTDA and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿7
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause MTDA to take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or to make other provision satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
sound practice.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that the minimum price fixed
by the Tea Control Board for the purchase of tea from producers by manufacturers
will be at such a level as to enable MTDA to maintain annually the minimum
margin referred to in Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement.
(b)   The Borrower shall inform the Association in advance of the minimum
prices which the Tea Control Board proposes to fix for the purchase of tea from
producers by manufacturers and shall give the Association an opportunity of
commenting on the said prices before the said prices are fixed.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take all steps to ensure that a sufficient
number of tenant smallholders are available for the purposes of the Project.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall ensure that MCCB makes available seasonal
credit to tenant smallholders.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall ensure that the approval of the Borrower
of the appointments of officers under the Tea Development Authority Act 1970
shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
Section 4.07. Except as otherwise agreed between the Borrower, the
Association and MTDA, MTDA shall not be subject to the direction of the Borrower
in respect of the employment of workers on tea plantings in the Project area.
Section 4.08. The Borrow!r shall ensure that the officers of MTDA have
authority to reject sub-standard tea leaf collected by all producers or to request
its resorting at leaf collecting stations.
Section 4.09. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that MTDA is not required to
meet any deficit or any part of any deficit incurred in the operation of the Dubreuil
tea factory.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the capacity of the Dubreuil tea factory to
be increased to three million pounds of made tea by June 30, 1972.


﻿8
Section 4. 10. The Borrower shall not take or concur in any action to alter
the arrangements made under Section 8.01 (d) of this Agreement without the prior
approval of the Association.
Section 4.11. The Borrower shall not amend or terminate the agreement
referred to in Section 8.01 (e) of this Agreement without the prior approval of
the Association.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by MTDA of its obligations under the Project
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of MTDA and,
in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include informatic- with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations and financial condition of MTDA and, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof, the performance
by the Borrower of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement


﻿9
or the performance by MTDA of its obligations under the Project Agreement and
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to inspect all plants, sites, works,
property and equipment of MTDA and to visit any part of the territories of the
Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:


﻿10
0
(a)   MTDA   shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement or
obligation of MTDA under the Project Agreement.
(b)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that MTDA will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(c)  The Tea Development Authority Act 1970, dated December 23, 1970
shall have been amended, suspended or abrogated in such a way as to materially
and adversely affect the ability of MTDA to carry out the covenants, agreements
and obligations set forth in the Project Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of MTDA or for the
suspension of its operations.
(e)   MTDA shall have been deprived of the interest as ninety-nine year
lessee which it has at the date of this Agreement in Crown Land necessary for
development of smallholder teaholdings under the Project.
(f)   The Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have been amended or abrogated
without the concurrence of the Association.
Section 7.03. For the purpose of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The event specified in Section 7.02 (a) of this Agreement shall occur
and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower.
(b)   Any event specified in Section 7.02 (c), (d) or (e) of this Agreement
shall occur.
(c)   The event specified in Section 7.02 (f) of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:


﻿11
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
MTDA have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action;
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and MTDA, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(c)   the forms of lease and sublease of lands of which MTDA      has
ninety-nine year leases for the purpose of developing tenant smallholder tea
plantings under the Project, setting out fully the rights and obligations of MTDA,
cooperative societies, and tenant smallholders, have been approved by the
Association;
(d)   the necessary arrangements have been made so as to vest in MTDA
the rights, including the right to receive land rents, of the Government of the
Borrower in respect of the existing leases between the Government of the Borrower
and cooperative societies; and
(e)   the Government of the Borrower, MTDA and Tea Manufacture (Sugar
Millers) Ltd. have entered into a new agreement regulating the financial and
operating arrangements for the Dubreuil factory which will have been approved
by the Association and such agreement has become fully effective and binding
on the parties thereto in accordance with its terms subject only to the effectiveness
of this Agreement.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, MTDA, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of MTDA in accordance with its terms;
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower and MTDA,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
MTDA in accordance with its terms;
(c)   that the necessary action referred to in Section 8.01 (d) of this
Agreement has been taken; and


﻿12
(d)   that the agreement referred to in Section 8.01 (e) of this Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, the parties thereto and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the parties
thereto in accordance with its terms.
Section 8.03. The date July 2,  1971 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01 through
4.03, 4.05, 4.06 and 4.08 through 4.11 of this Agreement and the provisions of
Section 7.02 (c), (d) and (e) and Section 7.03 (b) of this Agreement shall cease
and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on a date thirty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Government House
Port Louis
Mauritius
Cable address:
Minfin
Port Louis
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿13
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
MAURITIUS
By /s/ Pierre Guy Girald Balency
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
0                              By /s/ Simon Aldewereld
Vice President


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated               % of
(Expressed in             Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Lquivalent)        to be Financed
I.    Factory machinery,            1,320,000           100% of foreign
land .learing equip-                              expenditures
ment and vehicles,
other vehicles and
research equipment
II.   Salaries of expa-               150,000           100% of total
triate staff                                      expenditures
III.  Farm development,             3,290,000           83% of total ex-
including nursery,                                penditures
land clearing and
preparation,
planting, field
maintenance and
roads
IV.   Construction of                240,000           43% of total ex-
buildings, and                                    penditures
office and minor
factory equipment
procured locally
V.    Unallocated                    200,000
TOTAL              5,200,000


﻿15
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any member of the Bank (other than the Borrower) or of Switzerland;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Categories I, II, 1II and IV on account
of expenditures incurred after January 1, 1971, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding $130,000 equivalent;
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes, such percentage shall be
reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will be withdrawn on account
of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under Category I, II, III or IV
shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no
longer required therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing
correspondingly the unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under Category I, II, III or IV
shall increase, the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such
increase, and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the
request of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the


﻿16
Credit, subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by
the Association, in respect of any other expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph i above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category II, Ill
or IV shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation
to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, modify the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.
S


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, which is expected to have a six year development period, is
the second phase of the Borrower's smallholder tea development program in the
Project area and would add about 5,600 arpents of smallholder tea to the 3,800
arpents planted during the first phase and consists of:
(A)   Staffing and equipping MTDA, including construction of offices, stores
and leaf collection stations; provision of vehicles and equipment for land preparation
and tea planting; and provision of vehicles for management and staff.
(B)   Carrying out the following program:
(1)   planting tea on 1,100 arpents of Crown Land held on ninety-nine year
lease by MTDA and cleared and prepared prior to commencement of
the Project;
(2)   clearing, preparing and planting with tea a further 4,500 arpents of
Crown Land held on ninety-nine year lease by MTDA;
(3)   maintaining the 5,600 arpents for about 42 months after planting; and
(4)  leasing the 5,600 arpents through some 15 cooperative societies
established for the purpose to about 3,730 tenant smallholders in 1.5
arpent lots to each tenant smallholder at the end of the maintenance
period.
(C)   Constructing two tea factories in the Project area, each with an initial
annual capacity of 1-1/2 million lbs of made tea and subsequent expansion of
each to an annual capacity of 3 million lbs of made tea.
(D)   Installing laboratory equipment for tea leaf analysis at the Sugar
Industry Research Institute at Reduit.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1977.


