FILE COPY                                  Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CIRCULATING COPY
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK                        Report No.P-1721-HA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF TH:E
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
FOR A
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
February 10, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit    =    Gourde (G)
US$1    =    G5.oo
Gl    =    US$0.20
Cl iLillion   =    US$200,000
Fiscal Year
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF HAITI
FOR A FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
10        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed develop-
ment credit to the Republic of Haiti for the equivalent of US$5.5 million on
standard IDA terms to help finance a first education project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report on Haiti, Report No. 410-HA entitled
"Current Economic Position and Prospects of Haiti" was issued on April 18, 1974.
Updated social and economic data are presented in Annex I. A Bank Economic
Mission to Haiti is scheduled for March/April, 1976.
3.        Haiti is one of the poorest nations in the world, and the only countrv
in the Western Hemisphere included in the U.N. list of 25 least developed nations.
GNP per capita in 1974 stood at about US$140. An infant mortality rate of about
200 per thousand live births, an average life expectancy of 45 years, low nutri-
tion and sanitation standards (malnutrition and gastro-enteric diseases account
for over half the deaths in the country) and an adult literacy rate of about
20 percent characterize the depressed living standards of the oopulation.
The country's natural resources are limited. Of the country's total
area, only about 15 percent is well suited to agriculture although twice as much
is actually under cultivation. The remaining 70 percent is too arid and steep
for cultivation, The average density of population is nearly 500 per square
kilometer of arable land, one of the highest in the world. In addition, much of
the country suffers from frequent hurricanes, floods and droughts0 Known mineral
resources are modest, consisting of bauxite, copper and lignite. There is, never-
theless, scope for expansion of agricultural output through improvement of
presently low levels of productivity. The country's proximity to the U.S. market,
the availability of abundant labor as well as Haiti's striking scenery and its
distinctive culture offer a potential for industrial and tourism development.
5.        Economic growth and social progress have been hampered by periods of
political instability which did not permit the development of an adequate techni-
cal and physical infrastructure. Inadequate maintenance reduced the efficiency
o- the limited irrigation network. The lack of an adequate transport infra-
s-.ructure and its poor maintenance hampered the development of commercial agri-
:ulture_ Power generation capacity is also well below the Latin American average.
G.       In marked contrast to the previous decade when the economy stagnated,
Haiti enjoyed some growth in 1968-73. Expansion of small-scale manufacturing
and assembly operations, tourism and construction led to real average annual in-
^reases of GDP of about 4 percent while population grew at an estimated annual
rate of 1.7 percent. These activities contributed noticeably to improving
economic conditions in Port-au-Prince. Employment in assembly operations, for
example, increased from 10,000 in 1971 to 25,000 in 1973. Agriculture, however,
This docunient has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipientis only in the performance
of their olficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
which employs 80 percent of Haiti's population and accounts for about half of
GDP and about 60 percent of merchandise exports has as yet shown little dynamism.
Progress in agriculture will require the adoption of improved production tech-
niques and provision of greater incentives to farmers, as well as the improve-
ment of transport facilities.
7.       In 1974, GDP growth fell to 1.9 percent. Agricultural output stagnated
in that year and to remedy this the Government adopted two important measures to
stimulate agricultural production; a program to modernize coffee production and
a substantial increase in the price paid to farmers for sugar cane. Moreover
aaverse economic conditions in the United States brought about declines in
investment and a slowdown in the growth of tourism and export-oriented manufacturing.
8.        The Government is carrying out an important program which has given
highest priority to providing the country with those infrastructure facilities
that are essential to the development of the directly productive sectors.
Projects are under way or are planned to rehabilitate the road network, improve
port facilities and increase electricity supply. The Five Year Development Plan
(1977-81) that the authorities are currently preparing is expected to stress
regional and rural development as well as strengthen and extend health, sanita-
tion and education services. Development expenditures would increase from about
US$15 million per year in 1970-72 (3 percent of GDP) to about US$5O million per
year in 1977-81 (about 5 percent of GDP).
9.        The successful execution of such a program will require a substantial
increase in the flow of external assistance. In the period 1970-72 gross dis-
bursements on external official loans financed 25 percent of development expen-
diture. Technical assistance grants and private donations financed the equi-
valent of 35 percent. The remaining 40 percent was financed out of public savings.
On the basis of disbursements of already committed loans and of likely future
annual commitment levels of US$30-US$35 million, it is expected that official lend-
ing agencies will finance about 55 percent of development expenditures in the
period 1977-81. Capital investment grants from bilateral agencies are expected
to finance about 10 percent of development expenditures. Technical assistance
grants and private donations are expected to continue financing an important,
albeit declining, share of development expenditures (about 15 percent). Public
savings would finance the remaining 20 percent which,although a smaller share
of total development expenditures than in 1970-72,would represent some in-
crease in real terms.
10.       The Government's program will require an additional fiscal effort to
meet sharply rising operating expenditures generated by new development projects
in agriculture, education, road maintenance and other sectors. As part of this
effort, the Government adopted two tax measures which, although they may have the
immediate effect of lowering some collections, should stimulate commodity exports
and in the medium term generate higher revenues. In August 1973, the specific
tax on coffee, which contributed to reducing producer incentives when inter-
national prices were low, by absorbing a large share of export proceeds, was
replaced by a progressive ad valorem levy. In early 1975, the export tax on
sugar was lowered from its previous rate which was as high as 80 percent at the
margin. In addition, the Government plans to improve income tax administration.
Customs administration and the collection of import duties are also being
tightened, with technical assistance from the OAS and the IMFO



11.         An agreement reached in 197', between the Government and the concession-
aire for the exploitation and export of local bauxite resources increased tax reve-
nues. Based on 1974 exports, taxes on bauxite are expected to yield at least
US$7 million per annum in the next few years. In 1975 the Government allocated
US$4.4 million of the taxes to development expenditures and the remainder to the
operating budget.
12.         These and other prospective fiscal measures will enable the Government
to step up development expenditures. Because of the extreme poverty of the country,
its fragile balance-of-payments and the severe limits to raising additional fiscal
resources - taxes already make up 12 percent of GDP, no mean achievement for a
country as poor as Haiti - the successful execution of the development plan will
require external financing for a substantial share of the cost of development
projects. Moreover, the growth of public savings will, in future, also be con-
strained by the need to increase 7ibstantially current expenditures in the social
sectors, e.g. education and health. Thus, for the Government to have access to
the resources needed to carry out a modest development program,especially one em-
phasizing projects with a relatively low foreign exchange component - namely in
education, agriculture and rural development - some foreign financing of the local
cost elements of such projects will be required.
13.      Haiti's balance of payments deteriorated in 1974 and 1975. The deteriora-
tion in 1974 was largely explained by higher import prices and by declines in the
volume of coffee and sugar exports. In 1975, available information indicates that
imports rose sharply, partly as a result of public sector outlays for which suitable
external financing was not obtained. AEs of September 30, 1975 net international
reserves of the National Bank as well as those of tne consolidated banking system
were negative in the order of US$L.3 million and US$24 million, respectively.  In
August 1975 tne IMF approved new stand-by and oil facility arrangements for Haiti.
14.      At the Haitian Government's request a high level Joint Consultative
Committee was established in January 1976, which will include representatives of
the Haitian Government as well as of multilateral and bilateral agencies actively
providing assistance to Haiti. The Committee will be in charge of coordinating
foreign assistance, both financial and technical. As one of its major functions,
the Committee, which will convene every six months, will quantify the required
counterpart funds for investment projects financed by external official agencies
for a period of 18 months following each meeting. It will also assess the amount
of counterpart funds likely to be available. The Committee will thus be in the
position of making recommendations to the Haitian Government on measures to be taken
in order .o ei.sire that public savings are adequate to provide the local financing
required for externally assisted projects.
15.     .Haitits resource gap is expected to continue to widen in the medium
term, reflecting the import requirements associated with the Government7s invest-
ment program. As there has been relatively little net foreign borrowing in the
last decade, the debt service ratio is relatively low (5.8 percent in 1974).
Nevertheless, the balance of payments is likely to constitute a constraint to
economic development in view of the limited growth prospects of Haiti's major
exports (coffee and bauxite) and because export diversification through the de-
velooment cf other agricultural products, manufacturing and tourism, is still at
an early stage. In view of the country's poverty and vulnerable balance of pay-
ments, Hai ti will require external assistance on highly concessionary terms for
a long t'me if it. is zc achieve a significant improvement in the standard of



- 4 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HAITI
16.      The Bank Group has had four operations in Haiti - all in the trans-
port sector. A US$2.6 million Bank loan (141-HA) was made in 1956 for highway
rehabilitation and a US$350,000 IDA credit (32-HA) was made in 1962 for highway
maintenance. Two recent IDA credits - US$10 million (478-HA, Third Highway
Project) in 197T and US$20 million (556-HA, Fourth Highway Project) in 1975 -
were made to Haiti for reconstruction of the Northern Road, the main arterial
highway linking Port-au-Prince to Cap Haitien, Haitits second major town.
Execution of the Third Highway Project is making good progress, with disburse-
ments at near appraisal estimates. Contracts for 90 percent of the works under
the Fourth Highway Project have been let. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as of December 31, 1975, and notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       The Government organizes twice yearly meetings to coordinate assistance
given to the transport sector by the various aid agencies. USAID is assisting
purchase of road maintenance equipment and is supplying technical assistance for
a maintenance training program. The Government is increasing its maintenance
budget and field crews are being trained to operate new equipment. IDB has made
loans for construction of the Southern Road and for expansion of the port of
Port-au-Prince. France is financing construction of the road linking the south
coast city of Jacmel to the Southern Road.  uNDP is financing the technical
assistance component of the Third Highway Project (with the Bank as executing
agency) including training of local contractors in administration, engineering
and management as well as a study of Haiti's transport sector which is expected
to recommend future investment priorities.
180       Aid agencies are also supporting other sectors of the Government's
development program. IDB has made loans for agricultural and industrial credit,
agricultural education and improvement in Port-au-Prince's water supply. It is
also providing assistance to the Government for the preparation of integrated
rural development projects and of a rural primary education project. USAID has
given assistance for Haitits malaria eradication program, for community develop-
ment, for modernization of the production and marketing of coffee and improve-
ment of feeder roads. France is providing technical assistance for a new National
Pedagogical Institute (IPN), teaclhers Lox secondary and vocational schools as weal
as assistance to improve facilities at provincial airports. Canada is supporting
a technical education project in Port-au-Prince, a rural development project in
the southern peninsula and has undertaken a survey of Haiti's water resources
for both irrigation and power potential. The Federal Republic of Germany is pro-
viding financial and technical assistance for regional development in the Gonaives
Plain. UNDP is financing a number of programs including a survey of Haiti's
mineral resources, technical assistance through UN agencies in education and
rural development, and food relief. Of special significance to Haiti's develop-
ment in education, health and agriculture services, are the many and varied
programs of the voluntary agencies.



Table 1: LOAN CO W0m liTO HAITI, 1966-75
IDA      IDB      AID
Agriculture                 -       0.7      6.o
Industrial Credit           -       1.1       -
Transport                 30.0     64.7      3.7
Education                   -       103       -
Water and
Sewerage                -       70h       -
TOTAL                30.0     75.2      9.7
-9-        Prospective IDA lending operations in Haiti take into account our
Dreser.t knowledge of Haiti's development needs and the ongoing and prospective roles
of other official lending agencies. As regards transportation, a high priority
sector in which IDA is already playing a major role, selection of future transporta-
-Jon projects for financing by IDA would take into account the recommendations of
the transport study mentioned in para. 17.
LU.      A UNESCO/IDB mission carried out in June 1974 an education sector survey
a   identified several high priority projects. The report indicated a most urgent
neec for revision of primary school curricula, expansion of educational opportu-
nities in rural areas and support for adult literacy programs. IDB, France, and
IDA are cooperating closely with the Government in projects aimed at meeting the
most urgent needs in a sector that will require sustained assistance over a number
of years to make education a more effective tool of national development. The
project presented in this report is designed to begin to meet some of the highest
priority needs in the education sector.
_1.      The Government financed construction, in the late 1960's, of the Peligre
hydroelectric plant to supply power to Port-au-Prince. Since the plant, assuring
a steady supply of electricity, became operational in 1971, Haiti has attracted
a number of labor-intensive assembly plants0 The growth in demand for power has
been such that serious power shortages are expected by 1977 unless additional
~esel electric plants are installed by then. The Government-owned power company,
::lectricite d'Haiti (EdH), has engaged oonsultants who are preparing a project
which would increase the generating capacity and distribution system for Port-au-
Prince, The project was appraised by IDA in November 1975 and is scheduled for
presentation to the Executive Directors in the last quarter of FY1976. In order
to investigate long range solutions to the supply of Haiti's national power needs



by maximizing Haiti's own sources of energy, UNDP is financing a National Power
Pre-investment Study for which the Bank is executing agency. Consultants began
field work in January 1976. Their assignment includes a study of the potential
use of Haiti's deposits of lignite as fuel for thermal electric plants. The
consultants, in their overall national study, will also evaluate the recommendations
for potential hydropower plants made by the ongoing survey of Haiti's water
resources sponsored by the Canadian International Development Agency (CDA).
22.      An IDB/FAO/IBRD agriculture survey mission identified in mid-1973
several key regions for agricultural development. As a result of that study,
the Government asked IDA to consider a first rural development project in the
Northern Plain, a densely populated region with considerable agricultural poten-
tial. An FAO Cooperative Program mission visited the region in January/February
1975 identifying potential project items, namely agricultural credit, production
of improved seeds, extension services, education and health services, access roads,
drainage and rehabilitation of irrigation works, Appraisal of the project is
scheduled for the second quarter of 1976.
23.      WHO/PAHO, with UNDP financing, is undertaking the preparation of a water
supply project in provincial towns for which the Government has requested IDA
financing. The project, besides improving and extending existing water systems,
would strengthen the technical and administrative capabilities of the Services
Hydrauliques, which in the future is expected to be a key agency in expanding
water services in rural areas.
24.      The Bank Group's share in Haiti's publicly-guaranteed external debt out-
standing and disbureed amounted to about two percent at the end of 1974. The
Bank Group's share of external public debt service during 1974 was about 0.1 percent.
Its share of outstanding publicly-guaranteed external debt would rise to about
30 percent by the end of the 1970's; its share of external public debt service
would be of the order of 10 percent.
25.      There have been no IFC operations in Haiti to date though several explo-
ratory missions have recently visited the country.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
26.      The education sector of Haiti suffers from serious deficiencies, namely in-
equities in educational opportunities, an inefficient administrative system, imprac-
tical curricula', poorly qualified teachers, inadequate budgetary appropriations and
lack of long range planning. Only 20 percent of Haiti's population is functionally
literate (10 percent in rural areas, 60 percent in urban areas). Opportunities
for schooling have been available mainly to the urban population. Of the 6-12 age
group,89 percent in the urban areas are in school but only 26 percent of rural
children attend school, with a national average of about 39 percent.
Administration
27.      At least six departments are responsible for a variety of general and
specialized schools though most schools are under the Department of Agriculture
and the Department of National Education. Merging of these responsibilities
under one administration would be desirable but it would not be realistic to



- 7 -
carry out this reform before other more basic educational problems have been
dealt with. The Government proposes first to tackle the more pressing matters
related to improving the quality of instruction and extending the educational
opportunities.
Primary Education and Teacher Training
28.      The urban primary schools under the Department of National Education offer
a 6-year curriculum leading to a primary school certificate. Children in the rural
primary schools under the Department of Agriculture follow a 7-year program: one
pre-primary year, plus six years. The two departments have different primary
curricula, yet the rural school children must pass the Department of National
Education's sixth grade examinations to get the primary school certificate
required to enter secondary schools. The systems of both departments have a high
failure rate, especially alarming in rural areas. Only fifty percent of the
urban school entrants finish primary school; less than five percent of rural school
entrants get a primary school certificate. Fifty percent of all rural primary
enrollments are in the pre-primary year of which only about one-third continue to
the second year. Many of the rural primary pupils are overaged; the average age
of beginners is 10 years. Because they are needed for long periods of work in the
fields, children often require several years to complete one grade.
29.      The content of individual courses is often irrelevant to Haitian realities
or inappropriate to the learning level of the pupils. Furthermore, even a good
overall curriculum could not be fully applied because classrooms (often rented
houses in the towns, simple shelters in the villages) are crowded (the national
teacher/student ratio is 1:45; 1:61 in rural schools, 1:34 in urban schools) and
ill-equipped and most children cannot afford to buy their own school materials.
30.      Because of low salaries and irregular pay, there is a high turnover
among teachers. Only 35 percent of urban primary school teachers and 25 percent
of rural primary teachers are qualified. Qualified primary teachers have the
equivalent of secondary school training (junior secondary plus about three years
of specialized training). Unqualified teachers vary in preparation from near
qualification downward, with many having only a primary school certificate. The
difference between the average salary of teachers with specialized training
($60/month) and those with no teacher training ($50/month) is not enough to
encourage unqualified teachers to take the three-year teacher training course.
Secondary and Technical/Vocational Education
31.      For those pupils who pass the primary school examinations there are
secondary schools in the towns operated by the Department of National Education.
The curricula are oriented to preparation for university with heavy emphasis on
language, literature and mathematics. The sciences are taught by lecture. The
few secondary schools with laboratories have only enough equipment to permit
demonstration experiments. Classrooms of public secondary schools are over-
crowded, with up to eighty students in a classroom built for forty. A few private
secondary schools in Port-au-Prince have developed a tradition for quality educa-
tion but they are expensive and within the means of only an affluent minority.
32.      The Department of National Education is responsible for general secon-
dary education and operates teacher training colleges and technical and vocational
training schools on several levels, again with limited facilities for practical



- 8 -
work. Other departments run their own specialized schools for the training
of nurses, hotel personnel and social workers. The Department of Agriculture
operates several primary teacher training colleges and schools to train
extension agents.
University
33.       The University of Haiti is a loose federation of faculties funded and
administered by several government departments. The Department of National Educa-
tion supports the faculties of ethnology, law, economics, science, international
studies and pedagogy. The Department of Public Health operates the faculty of
medicine; the Department of Agriculture operates the faculty of agronomy and
veterinary medicine and the Department of Public Works supports the faculty
of engineering.
Non-formal Education
34.       In 1962 the Government created the National Office for Literacy and
Community Action (ONAAC) to initiate non-formal training programs in rural areas.
The Office has succeeded in raising the level of literacy in communities where
it followed up with reading materials. However, the limited funding available
:rom the national budget has stunted the effectiveness of the Office.
The Office's assignment to also undertake community action programs has had
only minor success because it lacked the means for sustained action.
Expenditures for Education
35.       In recent years about 19 percent of the Central Government's operating
budget has been allocated to education. Of this amount, 71 percent is administered
by the Department of National Education, 23 percent by the Department of Agriculture
and the remainder by other departments with specialized schools. About
90 percent of all disbursements from the operating education budget are for
teachers' salaries, leaving little for teaching materials, even less for school
maintenance. Haiti receives assistance from numerous missionary societies and
other voluntary agencies whose schools are the only educational opportunities avail-
able in many communities. The monetary value of the expenditures of these voluntary
agencies together with the payments of parents to private and public schools is
estimated to be over one and one-half times the total operating education budget
of the Central Government, Public expenditures for education are estimated at
about US$6.3 million in 1974 or about 0.9 percent of GDP, one of the lowest of any
developing country.
External Aid
36.       Foreign aid agencies have, especially since 1971, spearheaded special
projects intended to revitalize specific subsectors of the education system.
CIDA has supported with equipment and technical assistance, the transformation
of a technical school in Port-au-Prince into a comprehensive secondary school,
incorporating a technical/vocational section. France is supporting secondary
and vocational schools by supplying teachers and is giving assistance to reform
of primary curricula and teacher upgrading programs at the National Pedagogical
Institute (IPN). UNDP is financing UNESCO experts in radio programming and
education planning, and through ILO is helping finance construction of a



- 9 -
National Vocational Training Institute (INFP) as well as providing technical
assistance for developing curricula and teaching methods for vocational schools,
organizing upgrading courses and developing a system of on-the-job training
within industry. IDB, which in the late 1960's supported a project to train
agricultural agents, is now preparing a rural primary education project which
would complement the proposed IDA project by expanding teacher training facilities
under the Department of Agriculture and by construction of community learning
centers in rural areas not served by the project under consideration.
Planning
37        The Department of National Education has recently established a planning
office but it has a meager statistical base to begin operations. The Government's
national planning office, CONADEP, has created an office to plan the development
of human resources. Technical assistance for this purpose is being provided by
UNDP and would be supplemented by the technical assistance component of the pro-
posed project. The authorities have indicated their intention to increase enroll-
ments and budgetary appropriations for education, but have not yet formulated
specific long-range plans and targets. These will be defined with the help
of studied to be undertaken under the proposed project (see para. 48) and in periodic
meetings between the Government and IDA to review progress in achieving overall
national objectives in educational reform and increased educational opportunities.
On the basis of the above-mentioned studies and in consultation with IDA the
Government would prepare a comprehensive education development plan by June 30,1977
(Section L002(a) and (b) and supplemental letter to the draft Credit Agreement).
IDA Strategy
38.       The UNESCO/IDB education sector study carried out in June 1974 identified
a wide range of projects which needed the urgent support of the Government and
external aid agencies, with special emphasis on the need for support for rural
primary and adult literacy programs. In the country's present socio-economic
situation and within the constraints of the limited capacity of Haiti's educational
management, a first IDA project would concentrate mainly on the improvement of
basic education in two selected rural areas, the Northern Plain and the Artibonite
Valley containing about one-third of the country's rural population. The project
would complement the rural development projects which are in preparation by IDA,
IDB and the Federal Republic of Germany for these two areas. The longer range
aim of the project would be to assist the Government in the adoption of practical
curriculum reform throughout the primary education system, to upgrade the level
of primary teacher qualifications and to provide resources for adult education
programs.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       The project was identified by an IDA mission which was in Haiti in
March 19750 A preparation/appraisal mission was in the country from May 25 to
June 19, 1975. A post-appraisal mission in August 1975 discussed the main pro-
ject-related issues, and outlined implementation procedures with the interested
departments. Negotiations for the proposed credit were held in Washington from
January 5 to 9, 1976. The Haitian delegation was headed by Mr. Georges Salomon,
Ambassador to the United States and the OA.S. A report entitled "Appraisal of



- 10 -
a First Education Project - The Republic of Haiti" (No. 939-HA) dated
February 9, 1976 is being distributed separately. The main features of
the credit and project are sunmmarized in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
40.       The above assessment of Haiti's educational problems points out
the need for long term commitments on the part of the Government to implement
reforms and on the part of aid agencies to offer sustained support. The
Government recognizes the need for reforms and is willing to begin to over-
haul its educational system, and to increase budgetary allocations to educa-
tion. To support this commitment the first IDA project is designed to:
(i) increase educational opportunities mainly in two rural areas
for primary school children and through non-formal classes
for adolescents and adults;
(ii) upgrade the qualifications of the present primary school
teachers and expand the training facilities for new teachers
for both formal and non-formal education;
(iii) modernize and make more practical the primary school and
teacher training curricula; and
(iv) help authorities improve educational planning, administration
and supervision at the national, regional and local levels.
41.       The project comprises:
(a) Site development, construction, furniture and equipment for:
(i) 65 new rural community learning centers as well as
housing for teachers in the Northern Plain and the
Artibonite Valley;
(ii) 10 new urban community learning centers in Cap Haitien,
Gonaives and Port-au-Prince;
(iii) Two new primary teacher training colleges with boarding
facilities and housing for staff in Cap Haitien and
Gonaives and extension of one primary teacher training
college with boarding facilities in Port-au-Prince;
(b) Equipment for special literacy and community development programs;
(c) Seven man-years of technical assistance and one man-year of
fellowships; and
(d) Support for the Project Unit.
42.       Community Learning Centers:  The community learning centers would
consist of four-classroom primary schools in rural areas and six-classroom pri-
mary schools in urban areas. In addition to these classrooms, which would also
be used for functional literacy classes, each center would have a simply equipped
workshop and home-management area which would be used by the out-of-school



- 11 -
population in community development activities organized by ONAAC and by the
Departments of Health and Social Affairs. The project would also provide living
accommodations for the teachers in rural areas, an inducement for teachers to
accept village assignments. About one-third of the rural centers and seven of
the 10 urban centers are expected to have a large enough pupil catchment area
for double shift operations. Besides enrolling adolescents and adults in special
programs, the 65 rural centers with 13,000 student places would enroll   about
17,400 school-age children and the 10 urban centers with 3600 student places
would enroll about 5h00 school-age children. The rural centers which would
serve as satellite schools to central six-grade schools would offer a restructured
4-year basic curriculum.
43.       A school mapping exercise already completed by the Department of
Agriculture provides the basis for locating the rural centers. These would be in
educationally neglected communities - where distances from schools are major
factors in non-enrollment, drop-out, absenteeism and poor performance. Thirty
sites have already been selected of which twenty have been acquired. The
new school sites will also be suitable for practical demonstration work in
agriculture. Six urban centers will be in Gonaives and Cap Haitien, four will be
in Port-au-Prince; some will serve as practice schools for the project teacher
colleges. The Government, through the Departments of National Education and of
Agriculture,would introduce into the project primary schools reformed curricula
with common core courses, limit per class enrollments to fifty pupils, provide
new learning-teaching aids for the project centers and ensure that the project
centers would function both as primary schools and community learning centers for
adolescents and adults. The Government would also institute new in-service and pre-
service teacher training programs so that by the fourth year of operation at least
50 percent of the teachers appointed to the centers would be fully qualified
(Section 3.05 of the draft Credit Agreement). About 35 new qualified teachers
would be assigned annually to the project schools over a five-year period beginning
in 1978. These teachers would be recruited from an annual output of about 6h0
qualified teachers by 1960 (see para. 44). Unqualified teachers in the centers
would have three years post primary education and would have followed an inten-
sive pre-service pedagogical training course pending further training for full
qualification.
44.       Primary Teacher Training Colleges:  The project will assist construction
of teacher training facilities under the Department of National Education. An
existing teacher training college in Port-au-Prince would be remodelled and facili-
ties expanded to assimilate students from two other colleges nearby now functioning
in rented houses, and two new colleges would be built at Gonaives and Cap Haitien.
Hostel accommodations for 80 girls would be provided at each of the project
colleges and staff housing would be built at Gonaives and Cap Haitien. In each of
the three project colleges enrollments would be expanded to 2h0 students (in one to
three year courses depending on prior training and experience), attaining an output
of about 300 qualified teachers per annum by 1980 in the three project colleges
and 400 in all colleges under the Department of National Education as compared to
about 100 at the present time. Teacher training colleges under the Department of
Agriculture, now graduating about 60 teachers annually, are expected to increase
their output of trained teachers under a proposed IDB-supported project now in
preparation, to about 2h0 graduates annually; for a combined national output by
1960 of 6h0 qualified teachers (about 70 percent of projected annual vacancies,
compared to a present 30 percent national average of qualified primary teachers).



- 12 -
In the unlikely event that IDB assistance is not forthcoming by June 30, 1977,
the Government would undertake measures to expand rural teacher training programs
(Section 4.02(c) of the draft Credit Agreement). Intensive in-service teacher up-
grading programs will further increase the national ratio of qualified--teachers.
The National Pedagogical Institute through "summer school" and regional seminar
programs, will train teachers on-the-job, beginning in 1976. Should anticipated
training programs, nevertheless, prove to be inadequate, an eventual Second IDA-
financed education project in Haiti would include additional teacher training
facilities under the Departmeat of Agriculture.
40        A revised curriculum would be introduced in the project colleges to
ensure training of the teachers in the dual role of teacher/community development
agent. Sufficient time would be devoted to workshop/home management activities,
handicrafts, agriculture and rural development. Adequate teaching practice and
participation in community development programs would be integrated into the
curriculum. The Government would ensure that relevant curricula would be developed
by the IPN for the various pre-service and in-service courses by the time construct-
ion of the new teachers colleges is completed and that these curricula would have
basic courses common to the teacher training programs of both the Departments of
National Education and of Agriculture. Teachers upon graduation would be qualified
and allowed to serve in the schools of both departments (Section 3.06 of the draft
Credit Agreement). Selected community learning centers would be used as applica-
tion schools for teaching practice. Each college would be provided with a bus to
facilitate transportation of trainees to outlying schools.
L4c,      A study of the conditions of teacher service and of appointment
procedures of the teacher corps will be undertaken by the Government,with technical
assistance to be provided partly by UNDP and partly by the proposed project, to
determine appropriate measures needed to encourage teachers and teacher candidates
to attain full qualification,to remain in the teaching profession and to take
village assignments (Section 3.07 of the draft Credit Agreement).
47.       Literacy and Community Development Programs:   Equipment would be pro-
vided to central and regional (Artibonite Valley and Northern Plain) offices of
ONAAC to support supervision and counseling services to the instructors at the
community centers and to improve teaching of courses for adolescents and adults.
The equipment would include eight mobile units equipped with audio-visual and
other teaching aids, 12 motorcycles for use of the supervisors, duplicating machines,
radio sets, audiovisual aids and printing materials.  Specialists in literacy and
rural education, and in the preparation of related materials at the IPN would be
involved in improving functional literacy programs, including implementation of
supervisor and instructor training programs.
480       Technical Assistance: Specialists expected to be financed by UNDP - an
education planner, an administrator and a statistician - would be assigned to work
with CONADEP. In addition the project would provide seven man/years of technical
assistance to help IPN in development of new curricula and teaching materials, to
undertake special studies - including conditions of teacher employment and future
investment needs - for the departments of National Education and Agriculture and
CONADEP and to assist the Project Unit in execution of the project. One man/year
equivalent of fellowships would be provided for overseas training of local staff.
All specialists and the terms of their service would be acceptable to the Association,
and fellowships would be awarded to candidates with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.04 of the draft Credit Agreement).



- 13
4?.       Support for Project Unit:  The salaries of key members of the Project
Unit staff, the furniture, equipment and vehicles required by the Unit, as well
as the fees of part-time local consultants have been included in the project cost.
Project Cost and Financing
50.       The total cost of the proposed project, net of duties and taxes, is
estimated at US$6.5 million. Of this amount, the Government would provide
US$1.0 million. The proposed credit of US$5.5 million (85 percent of total
project cost) would finance the foreign exchange component of US$3.3 million
(51 percent of total cost) and US$2.2 million of local currency costs. Local
cost financing is recommended for the reasons indicated in para. 12 supra.
51.       Construction cost estimates were derived mainly from current prices
of ongoing civil works contracts which are generally lower than in neighboring
Caribbean countries. These were adjusted to reflect economical norms and
standards in the design and construction of the project institutions and the
appropriate use of local materials to reduce maintenance expenditures. Contri-
bution of school sites by villages, the use of local materials and local supply
of unskilled labor, as is anticipated for many rural community centers, could
reduce rural construction costs by 15 percent. Any savings which may result
from such community participation would be used for other project related
purposes, subject to IDA approval.
-520      Recu.rent Costs: Incremental recuirent expenditures for operation of
project institutions, about US$465,000/year when all institutions are in full
operation, would amount to about 3.4 percent of total projected Government re-
current education expenditures by 1980/81. Total Government outlays on education
are expected to rise to US$13.6 million by 1980/81 at constant 1974 prices from
US$6.3 million in 1973/74. The Government would ensure that sufficient funds
would be available for the operation of the project institutions (Section h.03
of the draft Credit Agreement).
Project Execution
53.       Administration: A Project Unit responsible for the execution of the
Project and for ensuring the necessary coordination between the Departments of
National Education and Agriculture would be established within CONADEP. The key
steff of the Project Unit to be employed on a full-time basis would consist of
a Director, an Educator, a Procurement Specialist and an Accountant, all with
qualifications acceptable to IDA. The Director of the Project, a well qualified
Haitian, has already been appointed. The Departments of National Education and
Agriculture would each designate a high level officer to coordinate with the
Project Unit on the educational aspects of implementation of the project. A
separate project account, which has already been established, would be audited
annually by auditors acceptable to IDA (Section 4.01(b) of the draft Credit
Agreement). The Government would make advance quarterly deposits to the project
account sufficient for the anticipated needs of the project. Establishment of
the Project Unit, appointment of the Project Educator and of the two coordina-
ting officials and the initial advance quarterly deposit to the project account
would be conditions of effectiveness. To help ensure the timely execution of
the proposed project the Government would prepare and follow a comprehensive
implementation schedule (Schedule 4 of the draft Credit Agreement).



- 14 -
54.       Professional Services: Consultants acceptable to IDA would be
appointed for the design, construction and supervision of civil works. Field
supervision of rural school construction may require substantial inputs, taking
into account the dispersion of sites and the need to coordinate community
participation. Consultant firms established in Port-au-Prince are capable of
rendering the professional services required. Architectural designs and con-
struction specifications would meet the functional and physical standards
acceptable to IDA. Simplicity of design and construction would be a basic
objective.
55.       The Government would establish special technical committees with repre-
sentatives of the Departments of National Education and of Agriculture and of
the Project Unit to analyze and review architectural designs and equipment and
furniture lists, and to certify that they meet functional standards and costs as
well as the educational objectives of project institutions (Section 3.03 of the
draft Credit Agreement).
56.       Procurement: Twenty sites for project schools, enough to ensure imple-
mentation of the project's school construction component during the first year,
have already been acquired, after selection according to criteria acceptable to
IDA. Other sites would be selected and acquired as and when needed for con-
struction (Section 3.10 of the draft Credit Agreement).
570       Since the project civil works would be let in small lots and would be
geographically dispersed, foreign contractors are not expected to participate,
though they would not be precluded from bidding. Civil works contracts would
therefore be awarded in accordance with local procedures acceptable to IDA.
Contracts for procurement of furniture and equipment and bulk purchase of
materials, with the exception of small-lot purchases, would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guide-
lines. Domestic manufacturers of furniture, equipment and materials would be
allowed a preferential margin of 15 percent of c.i.f. costs of competitive
imports or the current applicable import duty, whichever is lower. Furniture,
equipment and materials that cannot be grouped in packages of at least UI4$15,000
or more would be procured according to local procedures acceptable to IDA.
Procurement under these small-lot procedures would not in the aggregate exceed
US$75,000 (corresponding to less than 10 percent of the total cost of furniture,
equipment and materials).
58.       Disbursements: The proposed credit of US$5.5 million would be dis-
bursed over a period of about four years. A schedule of estimated disburse-
ments is given in Annex III. Retroactive financing not exceeding US$150,000
is recommended for expenditures made from September 1, 1975, against payment
for professional services, technical assistance and project administration.
Benefits and Risks
59.       The proposed project would increase educational opportunities for
children and adults mainly in two rural areas, upgrade the qualifications
and expand training facilities for primary teachers, modernize the primary and
teacher training curricula and help improve educational planning, administration
and supervision.



- 15 -
60.        There are some risks that the longer-range objectives of generalized
curriculum reform and nation-wide upgrading of teacher qualifications may not
be realized unless the Government adopts specific plans and makes adequate alloca-
tions of scarce financial and human resources. To pursue these objectives the
Government, with the assistance of qualified experts, will prepare an education
development plan by June 30, 1977 on the basis of a statement of long-term
objectives agreed with the Association. Together with the Association,the
Government will annually review implementation programs and future resource needs.
The risk of possible inadequate cooperation between the Departments of National
Education and of Agriculture and the IPN has been minimized by the establishment
of the Project Unit within CONADEP, by the appointment of its Director from the
Department of National Education and its Educator from the Department of Agriculture,
by appointment of a coordinator from each of the two departments and by the appoint-
ment of a well qualified Haitian as director of the IPN, who is also the Director
of Primary and Teacher Education at the Department of National Education.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.        The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Haiti
and the Association, the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d), of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft
resolution approving the proposed credit are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
62.        Aside from features of special interest mentioned elsewhere in this
Report, the draft Credit Agreement conforms to the normal pattern for credits
for education projects.  Establishment of the Project Unit, appointment of the
Project Educator and two coordinating officials from the Departments of National
Education and of Agriculture, and an initial advance quarterly deposit to the
project account would be additional conditions of credit effectiveness
(Section 5.01(a)(b) and (c) of the draft Credit Agreement).
63.        I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 10, 1976






Page- 1 f 3 pages
OUNTIOT DATA - iHAITI
AREA                                                  POPULATION                                     DENSITY
2750  InnS                                         ZF    TflIia   (esd-1972)
193 Ia Per k.20f arable land
SOCIAL INDICATORS
HaiLi                ~~~~Reference Countries
Aa'.u                                   C~~~~Hnur.1-   oasto'
i36U    _     197_0     ~        f  ..SD&7     J s1970 e.1970.
GR? PER CAPITA US$ (ATLAS RABIS) /I                                120 /            130 Qo           200     ~     320 /n         310 O
DEMOIp'APHIOC
rrd   Mtnate (per thouseand)                                                Lb /d             b3 /d          gb
Crude death rate (per thonusand)                                  .207d                             23 /d         17d           23
Infant e-rility rats (per th-onad line birtAn)               180-200 Li                            ..                          11
Life expectancy at birth (yearn)                                 ..5i /d                            41 Li         52            11 Ld
Jr...eep-nnoetla    rate  2.                                                      2.0 /d           2.7 /d        3.3 /d        3.14
Pop.iatir., growth rate Y1.5                                                      1.i7                            3.2    ~     3.ah
PnPolatino growth rate -.uran                                                       4hi6519
Ageerutr        (pie.)
i-0                                                            62               1   a            L1L'71 
1-6                                                            55              SI                53 If         51            55
iS  and  -cc                                                     3             l  i    a           32                          3    f
Age depenoency ratin /b                                          0.8              C   __              010                        .
Econnoic dependency oBtin /L                                     0.9                      1.0                    1.8           1.0
Uehan poPlclatton as percent of total                             12 /h1.          19 L~i           20 /A         32 /c 1        256L
Family planning: Ro of anceptore csoslatioe (thoun.)                                               ..           1.6
RNo. of use rs (% of marriled woven)....
Total labor force (thousands)                                  2,300 a.         2,800 /          2,200           800         2,600 Li
Perosotage employed in agriculture                              63Ir             60              ..65                          78
P-contage unemploysd                                           .                                  .89
INOME DIISTRIDUTICN
Per-eot ofna=tinal inon.e r.netoed by Sighedt 5%                  ...                               .29 Qs                       31 It
Percent of national. incom4e rece ived by highest 20%604,                                                                        57/
Perce nt ofn atlnal boone received by lowest 20%                                                                   3              7 T
Peroas   ofnational Inoons received by in.ect 40%                ...                               .                 /r.         I  /
DIISTOIBOTION OP LAND OWRHIP
ondy topllcfwnre.
% owned by   ea, laest 10% of cne
=AIT:: AN:; N=UTI200
Pop'nla tis   per phyici an                              -    10,600 Iu       13,210 I          25,960,        3,210i/      12 ,11i'
Pcpola.tins per nu-ilog person                                 9,220ol          7,160 Lzy        2,'.0         9,120         2,167 /c
Popolatisn Per hoepita1 bed                                    1,797            1,370              LEOIa         S70O           680 Tz
Per -apita calorie supply as % of roqui-enets I                   LI /n76                           96            96           1CE,
Per capita proteis supply, totLal (grams per day) /6              bo 7.            39               59            52             17
DOf alich, animal and pulee.                                                      it               23 /ot        75             22 lot/
Deth rate i-I, years /3                                          27               33..
EUSCATION
AdJusted /S primary school enrollment ratio                       37                0, lao         108Io          91 /y          77
Adjsted 7;    eonodacy school snrolleent ratio                     1                1lao-            9            10             11
Tsar,.of s;ciouliog provIded, fleet and seco nd level             17        3           13   71/ac-il /af          12            13
Voca tional o nrolIeent as % of sen. sohonl sorullest              21              19 lIa           22            1 1 
Adolt literacy rate 5                                             10 Ih.ag      l0-20 7hTag        .              52      A6.hg  20 /0.0
Av-rgsD. N   of p-nson  par eons (orbon)....-
P...unt of-onpnd units uitinot piped caie t...r 
A..o ss to o1-looetity (as % of tstai popolutton)                 . 
Per-ont of 0ura   peplation cocete      i    atrinjty            .....
Radio rciespee 1000 popuilation                                                    17 /n3               c          11/ oL
P.asseger once par l00   peopulation                                2               3 /c                              I           7/
Eleotrin pearceconsoeption (koh p-c)                               17              26 77            "JonC        ii.                I
Newsprint c.nnscoeption p.c. Ag per year                         3.0  0icl            72                          l__.E          .
Nnetec  Fi'"rvce raef- el'-.e  Te cIv  ots   periods or to             ansount of environsenital tsurature, Andy ceighte, and
the Icistyar.Lateat periods refer in princIple to                   /   distr:butinr. by age snd 3un of natinnal pepltse
the years 1956-61 ar 1966-70; the lateet years in pcin-            /6   Protein etand-de (reqjolrsneeta) far all countrIes as estab-
niple. to 1960 sod 1970.                                                liehed hy USIA E..ossit  Aeearnh Serelice pr-olde for a etninue
/1  The Per Cepltc GaP entisato ir at sek,t polo-s fn                   alwac     of 60 gren   of total protein per day, andl 20 vans of
year  otbor than 1960,osloulsted Ay the nois co-versiso             animal an  pulse protein, of shich 10 grane should he animal
technI que as the 1972 World hash Ail-o.                           proteir..  These eteodere are eeewhat inwer than those of '5
Li Acrge suner of daughters per sman of reproductive                    gram  of total, protein and 27 grama of anIma    protein aesa
age.                                                                ...erage for the world, propose.d by PAO on thec Third World Pond
,a   Phpulatios growth rates arm for the decdes ending in               Su_.ep
1960 and 1970.                                                 /7  Dse etudise have euggented that crude death rates of ohildren
IL   htils sf populaetiss under, 15 eLnd 65 and s-er to popuila-        ages 1 through 6 nay be need as a first approximation index of
tions of ages lS-61  for aeV dependency mtis and ts labnr           malsoatrition.
fsrce of agee 15-66 far econceic dq.asdency retio.              /A  Peroenege enrolled of corresponding Ppoplation of schssl age
Li PAO referene atdadrde represent payslo.lsgiea1 r                     an defined for each cons ty.
qoireete for asreal activity and health, tskig
/s 19650 escliudlg forests and! pastures; /A Computed by cpplyisg t, ttcc 1970 figore the groth rtec of the GANP/cap. in
real terms frm. 1960 to 1970;      Li  1972;    /d  1965-70, IA estimate;     Is   1962;   Lf   Estisate;   /I   19i0-72;
De Ifinition not acaliable;      /i  1950-71;    /5   1959-70;    /b  Urhan  eanter  00r500pplto;                    LoalIties of
1,000 or mer   inhabitants. having essentially urban, characterIstics;      Is   1965-70;    In  leer L1,000 population;
/c    1950;   /P   1971;   /5   Official esit.et;     /5   1967-68;    /s  Per capita;    /t   I..... re cipient;    I5  1961;    /u   1969;
T;    Dumber cc the reitr       not ail wrhiog is the country;       Ic  Iscin,ding sidi-is;     I5  InclodAng aSSisLtatcnes
ouoc  idoi-e ano aSsistaLntudaes;       In   Go-eroni only - ;   /a.   1968;    leab  li9 -66;   /an  1966;    /ad   iStL-ste
acidh i-lodc -oscage studesis;       lee   gEnst Cam,erosn;  /af  heat Canecoon;     7;j. 15 years and 0-cr.
* o..100  cost. -S ice- -scircn    as an ci c-t-e     u-ify for Haiti since but,. ci-nxtie     Sane s mirilo- cultural
'.cgnuad ice Ivory    cetnon nic-ded in nch;vicg a ugh veto of ecocooc             groota.
13 Ney i, 1915



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3 pages
ECONCMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1974                                     ANNUAL RATE OF GRTH (& constant prices)
US$ Mln.      Z                      1960-65         1965-70          1970-74
GNP at Market Prices            711        100.0                    1.2              1.9              4.8
Gross Domestic Investment        61         8.6                    -5.9             -7.7             12;0
Gross National Saving             5         0.7                    -1.2              1.3             -4.0
Current Account Balance         -41         -5.8
Exports of Goods, NFS            96        13.5                    -1.4              2.5             10.7
Imports of Goods, NFS           146         20.5                   -102              1.6             12,0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1974
Value Added             Labor Force                   V.A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.    X              l,      SU$T
Agriculture                        326      45.4
Industry                           116     16.1
Services                           276     38.5
Unallocated                         .        I
GDP Total/Average                 718     100.0                  100.0                               100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                           Central Government
(G.Mln)            of GDP                                      _ f GDP
1972       1972      1970-72                1974          1524     1970-72
Current Receipts                      326       12.0       12.1                   335          9.8        10.0
Current Expenditure                             I0.        1C0                                            a
Current Surplus                                             1i7                    ).I1 I0.,              -0.4
Capital'Expenditures                   8i/       3.   -     3.o.Y                 167.9 Y      4.9     _   3.0 i
External Assistancey                   43       1.6         1.2                    35-5  /     1.0Y        1.2
MONEY. CREDIT and PPICES                 1969        1970        1971       1972        1973         1974 -
(Million G. outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                     178.6      193.4       246.4      311.3       391.5       467.7    478.5
Bank credit to Public Sector              193.1      189.2       202.5      215.3       244.7       331.6    415.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector              59.4       65.3        78.5       92.1       170.6       310.6    451.3
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP           8.2         8.4        9.1       10.5        12.7        13.7     14.0
General Price Index (1963=100)            119.0      123.2       128.9      135.6       166.4       191.2    226.0
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                         4.9         3.5        4.6        5.2        22.7        14.9     18.2 Y
Bank Credit to Public Sector               13.6        -2.1        7.0        5.4        13.7        35.5     25.3
Bank credit to Private Sector               5.7        9.9        20.2       19.6        85.2         82.0    45.3
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
/ Data refer to fiscal years ending September 30.
/ May include small amount of fixed investment.
/ Includes current expenditures associated with development projects.
i Net loans and technical assistance grants.
i General government.
i 1st semester 1974-1975
not available
not applicable
E/ staff estimate
F/ Preliminary



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3 pages
TRAIL PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BAIANCE OF PAYMENTS                                               ME1WHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1972-74)
1972     1973     4 v                                     US$ Mln 
(millions of U
Exports of Goods, NFS              61.4     71.5      95.8      Coffee                          20.0      38.,
Imports of Goods, NFS              84.4    102.4     145.5      Handicrafts                      4.4       8.5
Resource Gap (deficit   -)        -23.0    -30.9     -49.7      Bauxite                          6.6      12,7
Sugar                           2.1       40
Interest Payments (net)            -0.3     -o.6      -0.6      Essential Oils                   h.5       8.7
Other Factor Payments (net)        -4.1     -4.8       -6.3     Sisal                            1.6       3.1
Net Transfers                      i4x      16.2      15.4      Beef                             1.2       2.3
Balance on Current Account        -13.4    -20.1     -41.2      All other commodities           11.5      22.2
Total                   51.9      100.0
Direct Foreign Investment           4.2      7.9       7.1
Net MLT Borrowing                                             EXTERNAL DEBT, SEPTEMBER 30. 1974 
Disbursements                    7.        .7       8.1                                              US$ 141n
Amortization                     4.3      4.5       4.8
Subtotal                         3.0      0.2       3.3      Public Debt, incl. gu;--anteed           5b.5
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other items n.e.i.                 1 o       8        10.8      Total outstanding & Disbursed
Increase in Reserves (+)          +10.7     -3.1     -20.0   DEtT SERVICE RATIO for 197h
Net Reserves, National Bank        17.8     20.1      10.9&"
Gross Reserves, Banking System     20.6     20.1       3008                                               X
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed            5.8
FLel and Related Materials                                      Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Imports                          3.7      5.4      15.5      Profit remittances                       6.6
Exports                           -         -         -
IBRD/IDA LENDING. (Feb. 2B. 1974)Million US$):
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                 IBRD     IDA
US$ 1.00 = G 5.00                                            Outstanding & Disbursed              -      3.0
G 1.00 = US$0.20                                           Undisbursed                          -       .
Outstanding inml. Undisbursed        -     10.
1V  Data refer to Fiscal Years Ending September 30
2/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
)J/ Including exchange adjustment.
i/  December 31, 1978
V   Includes $10 million repayable in local curecy
Pliminary
j/ Estimate
Country Programs I
Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office
May 13, 1975



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HAITI
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of December 31, 1975)
Loan or                                                US$ million
Credit                                        Amount     (less cancellations)
Number      Year     Borrower     Purpose       Bank      IDA     Undisbursed
One loan (1956) and one credit (1962),
both fully disbursed                             2.6      0.35         -
47b-HA      1974   Rep.of Haiti   Highway                10.0          3.4
556-HA      1975   Rep.of Haiti   Highway        _       20.0        16.3
Total                                  2.6     30-35
of which has been repaid             2.6       .01
Total now outstanding                  Nil     30.34
Amount sold                            0.4
of which has been repaid            0.4
Total now held by Bank and IDA          -      30.3L  /
Total undisbursed                                           19.7
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of December 31, 1975)
No IFC investments have been made in Haiti.
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION j
CREDIT 478          THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT; US$10 MILLION CREDIT OF JUNE 6, 1974;
EFFECTIVE DATE: SEPTEMBER 9, 1974; CLOSING DATE: DECEMBER 31,1977
Construction of the Third Highway Project, as amended by the Executive
Directors on October 29, 1974, is about two-thirds completed. The Estere bridge
/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
j These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the progress
of projects/investments in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project
execution.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3 pages
TRADh PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
ALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                               MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1972-74)
1972     1973 b      T                                    US$Mln %n
(millions of US$)
Exports of Goods, NFS              61.4     71.5      95.8      Coffee                          20.0      38,5
Imports of Goods, NFS              84,4    12.4      1455.      Handicrafts                      4.4       8.5
Resource Gap (deficit = -)        -23.0    -30.9     -9-.7      Bauxite                          6.6      12,7
Sugar                           2.1       4.0
Interest Payments (net)            -0.3     -o.6      -o.6      Essential Oils                   4.5       8.7
Other Factor Payments (net)        -4.1     -4.8      -6.3      Sisal                            1.6       3.1
Net Transfers                      14.0     16.2      15.4      Beef                             1.2       2.3
Balance on Current Account        -13.7    -20.1     -41.2      All other commodities           11.5      22.2
Total                   51.9     100.0
Direct Foreign Inyestment           4.2      7.9       7.1
Net MLT Borrowing                                             EXTERNAL DEBT, SEPTEMBER 30. 1974 Y
Disbursements                    7.       4.7       8.1                                              US$ Kln
Amortization                     4.3,     4.5       4.
Subtotal                         3.0      0.2       3.3      Public Debt, incl. gu; .anteed           54.5
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other items n.e.i.                 l._j      8        10.8      Total outstanding & Disbursed            54.5
Increase in Reserves (+)           17       -3.1     -20.0   DET SERVICE RATIO for 1974?/
Net Reserves, National Bank        17.8     20.1      10.9&
Gross Reserves, Banking System     20.6     20.1       3.01/
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed            5A8
Fuel and Related Materi als                                     Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Imports                          3.7      5.h      15.5      Profit remittances                       6.6
Exports                           _    -             -
IBRD/IDA LENDING, (Feb. 28. 1974)y Million US$):
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                 IBRD     IDA
US$ 1.00 = G 5.00                                            Outstanding & Disbursed              -      3.0
G 1.00 = US$0.20                                           Undisbursed                          -      7.4
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed        -     104
1/  Data refer to Fiscal Years Ending September 30
2/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
J/  Including exchange adjustment.
ai  December 31, 1974
i   Includes $10 million repayable in local currency
l Preliminary
/ Estimate
Country Programs I
Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office
May 13, 1975



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HAITI
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of December 31, 1975)
Loan or                                                US$ million
Credit                                         Amount     (less cancellations)
Number      Year     Borrower      Purpose      Bank      IDA      Undisbursed
One loan (1956) and one credit (1962),
both fully disbursed                             2.6      0.35          -
476-HA      1974   Rep.of Haiti    Highway               10.0          3.4
556-HA      1975   Rep.of Haiti    Highway               20.0         16.3
Total                                  2.6     30.35
of which has been repaid             2.6       .01
Total now outstanding                  Nil     30.34
Amount sold                            0.4
of which has been repaid             0.4
Total now held by Bank and IDA          -      30.3L 1/
Total undisbursecl                                          19.7
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of ADecember 31, 1975)
No IFC investments have been made in Haiti.
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION j
CREDIT 478          THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT; US$10 MILLION CREDIT OF JUNE 6, 1974;
EFFECTIVE DATE: SEPTEMBER 9, 1974; CLOSING DATE: DECEMBER 31,1977
Construction of the Third Highway Project, as amended by the Executive
Directors on October 29, 1974, is about two-thirds completed. The Estere bridge
j Prior to exchange adjustments.
j These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the progress
of projects/investments in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project
execution.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
reconstruction, begun prior to credit signing, was completed in December 1974.
Earth works envisaged under the project are substantially completed and paving
has begun. Disbursements are close to estimates at the time of appraisal.
Government has improved performance on highway maintenance and has complied
substantially with terms of the detailed maintenance program agreed to during
negotiations for the Credit. Consultants have begun training of local civil
works contractors.
CREDIT 556          FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT: US$20 MILLION CREDIT OF JUNE 11, 1975;
EFFECTIVE DATE: OCTOBER 8, 1975; CLOSING DATE: DECEMBER 31, 1976
Contracts for 90 percent of the works under the Fourth Highway project have
been let and construction has begun.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
HAITI: FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT CREDIT
AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             The Republic of Haiti
Amount:                US$565 million equivalent
Terms:                 Standard IDA terms
Project
Description:         Construction, furnishing and equipping of 65 rural
and 10 urban primary schools/community learning centers
and extension of one and construction of two new primary
teacher training colleges, equipment for riural literacy
and community development programs, seven man/years
equivalent of technical assistance and one man/year
equivalent of fellowships and assistance to project
administration.
Estimated Cost:        The estimated total cost of the project is US$6.5 million
equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of about
US$3.3 million.
US$ (millions)         % of
Local    Foreign    Total    Total
65 new Rural Primary Schools/
Community Learning Centers           1.43      1.17     2.60     40
10 new Urban Primary Schools/
Community Learning Centers           0.32      o.26     0.58      9
2 new, and extension of 1, Primary
Teacher Training Colleges             0.36      0.37    0.73     12
Equiprent for ONAAC Literacy
and Community Programs               0.02      0.38     0.40      6
Technical Assistance                     o.o0     0.28     0.32      5
Project Administration                   0.12     0.03     0.15      2
Base Cost Estimates                      2.29     2.49     4.78     74
Contingencies
(i) Physical (10 percent)         0.23      0.25     0.48      7
(ii) Price     (23 percent)        0.63      0.59     1.22     19
Total                          3.15      3-33    6.48    100



Annex III
Page 2 of 2
Financing Plan:         IDA         - US$5.5 million equivalent
Government - US$1.0 million equivalent
Estimated                          Fiscal Year (us$ Thousands)
Disbursements:        1975-76   1976-77   1977-78   1978-79   1979-80
Annual                500      2,050     1,550     1,200       200
Cumulative            500      2,550     L,100     5,300    5,500
Procurement:            Since the project civil works would be let in small
lots and would be geographically dispersed, foreign
contractors are not expected to participate, though
they would not be precluded from bidding. Civi-l works
contracts would therefore be awarded in accordance
with local procedures acceptable to IDA. Contracts
for procurement of furniture and equipment and bulk
purchase of materials, with the exception of small-lot
purchases, would be awarded on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Group guidelines. Domestic manufacturers of furniture,
equipment and materials would be allowed a preferential
margin of 15 percent of c.i.f. costs of competitive
imports or the current applicable import duty, which-
ever is lower. Furniture, equipment and materials that
cannot be grouped in packages of at least US$15,000 or
more would be procured according to local procedures
acceptable to IDA. Procurement under these small-lot
procedures would not in the aggregate exceed US$75,000
(corresponding to less than 10 percent of the total
cost of furniture, equipment and materials)0
Retroactive             Retroactive financing not exceeding US$150,000 is
Financing:            recommended for expenditures made from September 1, 1975,
against payment for professional services, technical assis-
tance and project administration.
Technical               The project would provide seven man-years equivalent of
Assistance:           technical assistance for development of new curricula
and teaching materials, to undertake special studies
and to assist the project unit in execution of the
project.
Appraisal Report:       Report No. 939-HA dated February 9, 1976






@                                                                                      3  T;  73    g  T@ Te  .  ;  4 ;'U'fpNOVEM8ER 1975~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VEME~97
4.  \ -                -              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  T I A N  C                           5 0   S4T 
.  > , .>  A r / A N Y' I C  O C fEA N                                          C X 
t~~~~AC FIRS  ADC. I T 0 IlOE M. -0                  AOL St ICOLA0
'  |Ssa| AE hD RoME OFPURi DSI E uCgnO   ~                      ~                       ik7w./ 6S .   .       >to     <;tir           a      j eJ
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ h ro; Vh90Y ARLIE ANrl   5E1TRf                               d             l*           ,                [ --\                           , 
"'M~~~aiBzsc6osADwzt~vl1 1 1d _n>)<q* 
-~~~~~~~H         Ib-DP                                                                 RlET OD ;E * >r5I w; sj ro)*e
E)  a ru,;S 'X oro im   I
CLAS,,o Ifg ;LBA PAiWA SC.OL ANDtg,' W
C W .,, } i_ ,;''' 't. '   L   R- '- M   ',C'E,'. I   ._1',I'E 1|',',;' 
j~~~~~E    I   T   =   -S ; , ,'I`I~  Cl   ' EA . B f U R E;  f1S  
Ar   oSq : e ,J   DP O A LX -; J- 



