Report No. 939a-HA
Appraisal of a                                                             FILE COPY
First Education Project
The Republic of Haiti
February 9, 1976
Education Projects Division
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CUIRRRCY EQUIVALiTS
US$ 1          = Gourdes 5
Gourde L      = US$ 0.20
Gourdes 1,000 = US$ 200.00
MIASU RES
1 m2       =  10.76 ft .2
1 km       =   0.33 mi .2
1 hectare =   2.47 acres
Fiscal Year:  October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HAITI
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
GLOSSARY AND ACRONYMS
BASIC DATA
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ..............         ..     ..............       i - iv
I.    INTRODUCTION  .......          ..............................1
II.    SOCIO-ECONOMIC FACTORS AND EDUCATION  .............1
Natural Resources and Population ....               .............       1
The Need for Human Resource Development  ..........                     2
III.    THE EDUCATION SYSTEM .............................                       3
General Assessment ..................                   .               3
Administration and Planning ......................                      4
Structure, Curricula and Teacher Education  .......                     4
Financing and Cost of Education  .               .................      5
IV.    EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY  ....               ...............      6
Current Developments  .............................                     6
Prospects  ........................................                     7
Priorities and Phasing   ..........................                     9
V.    THE PROJECT  ......................................                    10
ProjecL Strategy  .................................                    10
Project Composition ..............................                     10
Elements of the Project  ..........................                    11
Primary Teacher Training Colleges  ....              ............      12
ONAAC Literacy and Community Programs  ....              .........     13
Technical Assistance  .............................                    13
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited IHaiti
in June 1975. The mission members were Messrs. 0. Markgren (General Educator,
Consultant)  L. Vu Cong (economist, UNESCO) and M. Goldwav  (technical educator,
Consultant).   Mr. C. L. Germanacos  (Educator Planner, Consultant)  participated
for one week.
This documert has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
Cost  of  the  Project   ..............................  14
Recurrent  Costs   ..................................   16
Risks Involved in the Project .....     ...............  16
VI.   IMPLEMENTATION ...................................      16
Project Administration ...........................      16
Project Implementation Fund .....      .................  17
Project Implementation Schedule ....     ..............  17
Professional and Technical Services ....    ..........  17
Locations and Sites ..............................      18
Procurement   ......................................    18
Disbursements   ....................................    18
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .... .......     18
APPENDIX
The Indicative Planning Exercise
ANNEXES
1.  Comparative Education Indicators
2.  The Education Effort, 1960/61 - 1973/74
3.  Actual and Projected Enrollments and Teachers Needed
4.   Teacher Requirements (Public and Private)
5.  Public Education Expenditures by Department and by Level, 1973/74
6.  Distribution of Public Education Recurrent Expenditures by Level
and Type, 1973/74
7.  Physical Places, Requirements and Estimated Costs, Public Sector
8.   Cost Summary
9.   Contingency Allowances
10.   Implementation Schedule
11.   Disbursement Schedule



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
CHARTS
I.   Organization of the Department of National Education
II.   Organization of the Department of Agriculture
III.   The Structure of the Formal Education System
IV.   The Education Pyramid
MAP






GLOSSARY AND ACRONYMS
CONADEP       -  Conseil National de Developpement et de Planification
- Council for National Development and Planning
CPFF          - Centre Pilote de Formation Professionelle
Pilot Vocational Training Center
DAG           -  Serairerie de L'Agriculture, des Ressources Naturelles
et du Developpement Rural
Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources and
Rural Development
DOE           -  Secretairerie de L'Education Nationale
Department of National Education
INFP          -  Institut National de Formation Professionelle
National Institute for Vocational Training
IPN           -  Institut Pedagogique National
National Pedagogical Institute
LYCEE         - General Secondary School (Grades 7-13)
ODVA          - L'Organisme pour le Developpement de la Vall6e d'Artibonite
Agency for the Development of the Artibonite Valley
ONAAC         - Office National dtAlphabetization et d'Action Communautaire
National Literacy and Community Development Office






HAITI
BASIC DATA
Area                                             27,750 km
Population (1973)                                     4.5 million
urban                                              0.9 million (200)
rural                                              3.6 million (80%o)
Average annual population
growth, 1950-1971                                    1.6%
GNP per capita (1973)                                  US$130
Real annual growth of GNP
per capita (1968/69-1973/74)                          14%
Public Recurrent Education Expenditures as % of:
central Government's operating budget                18  8o
total recurrent expenditures                         10.0D/o
Public total education expendi-
tures as proportion of GDP
(1973/74)                                            0.95
Total public and private National
Education expenditures as proportion
of GDP (1973/74)                                     2.
Literacy rate (1971)                                   20.0%
Primary Education (1973/74)
Enrollment Mlic and Private)                       334,000
- urban                                            161,4o00
- rural                                            172,600
Percentage of age-group 6 through 12 in                      1/
primary schools                                      39.0 O  /
- urban                                             89%   1
- rural                                             26% 2!
Secondary Education (1973/74)
Enrollment                                          34,780
1/  Including under-age and overage who account for more than 44b  of total
enrollments.
2/ 105% if calculated in terms of 7 through 12 year age-group.



- 2 -
Higher Education (197Y74)
Enrollment                                        2,168
Teachers (197Y74) (Percentage)
Qualified       Qualified
Total    Public Urban      Public rural
Primary        7,500          35%             25O
Secondary      1,500           5%               -



HAITI
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises IDA's first education project in Haiti, for
which a credit of US$5.5 million is proposed. The project would assist in
(a) increasing educational opportunities in a reformed basic education system
and in nonformal adult functional literacy and other community development
programs; (b) improving the management, planning, development and supervision
capability of the education authorities; and (c) initiating coordinated
action by the various education and development authorities to achieve an
integrated, rational and economic approach to common education problems and
purposes.
ii.       Haiti is the poorest nation in the Western Hemisphere.  Measured by
Pnv inriIrt(-n-r,       nm irlt" n4 Itq educatton svstem and of the socio-economic
development of its communities is striking. Adult illiteracy exceeds 80% and
the slow growth of primary education hardly has had any impact on it. Life
expectancy is only 45 years and infant mortality is high. Malnutrition and
endemic diseases are prevalent. All these have clearly retarded the growth
of the Haitian economy because they imply low levels of productivity.
iii.      The education system has been elitist.  Makeshift schooling serves
the urban poor and a small portion of rural children. Some prestigious
private schools cater to the more well-to-do urban population. The lack of
commitment to public education in the past is witnessed by the paucity of
resources applied to education. Public expenditures on education amounted in
1973/74 to only 0.9% of GDP, while the private sector expenditures are esti-
mated to be of the order of 1.6% GDP. Per capita expenditure on public educa-
tion is only US$1.40. Other serious problems facing the education sector are:
(a) a division of the administration of education between the
Departments of Education and of Agriculture that leads to
considerable uneconomic use of scarce resources and lack
of coordinated action;
(b) a structure that retains seven years for rural primary
education, ver3us six for urban, and which in effect locks
out of the system two-thirds of the enrollment in the first
grade of rural schools;
(c) lack of systematic education policy formulation and planning;
(d) sharp inequities and imbalances in the distribution of
enrollment between urban and rural areas and between boys
and girls; and



- ii -
te) outdated syllabi, lack of teaching aids and school facili-
ties, and inadequately prepared and compensated teachers.
iv.       Most of Haiti's education problems are major and chronic.  They are
unlikely to be overcome in the near future. While some effort is being made
toward development planning, any major effort will be constrained by the
paucity of resources (except for unskilled manpower), the deficient infrastruc-
ture, and weaknesses in the admirListrative management and operational services.
However, the economic priorities are clear. Investments in infrastructure,
mainly transport and power, agriculture and human resource development, are
being accorded the highest ranking. The government now appears to be con-
scious of the need to motivate and educate the rural population to understand,
accept and apply innovative techniques. It has decided to decentralize
activity in favor of regional development. This would require training of
the rural population in new agricultural technologies. Existing programs
would need to be expanded and adaLpted to give the population at large more
active participation in development and to meet health, nutrition and basic
education needs of the family unit, with a view to increasing its productivity.
V.        The proposed project is designed to support priority needs for the
development of the Haitian education system. While it provides for correc-
tion of the inequities of access to basic education and increases the oppor-
tunities for nonformal adult education, especially in the rural areas, it
also aims at improving the quality and internal efficiency of these levels
and types of education/training, inter alia, through a variety of improved
teacher education programs and by initiating and coordinating action on
modernizing the teaching-learning process in all its aspects. The project
also provides assistance to national education authorities to enhance their
management, planning, development and supervision capability, and it estab-
lishes the basis for a much needed coordinated action by different government
administrative units to achieve an integrated, national and economic approach
to common problems and purposes in this field of education development.
vi.       Because of existing resource and administration constraints and
in order to assure a more meaningful impact by some degree of concentration
and facilitate a more efficient implementation, the project target areas have
been confined mainly to the Plaine du Nord and the Artibonite, and to a much
smaller degree to Port-au-Prince. These are areas where substantial develop-
ment efforts are being undertaken. An IDB project with similar objectives
is expected to concentrate on other geographic areas and on rural teacher
training.
vii.      The proposed project would consist of:
(a)  construction of 65 new rural basic schools/community learning
centers;
(b)  construction of 10 new rural urban primary schools/community learn-
ing centers;
(c) expansion of one, and construction of two new, primary teacher
training colleges;



- iii -
(d)  provision of equipment for expanding and strengthening non-
formal training programs;
(e)  provision of technical assistance, comprising seven man-years
of specialist services and one man-year of fellowships,
including specialist services for preinvestment studies; and
(f)  support for project administration.
viii.     The project rural community learning centers would provide basic
education for some 17,400 school age children in a restructured course of four
years, and provide literacy and training opportunities to 3,000-4,000 out-of-
school youths and adults. The urban centers, with a six grade primary school,
would accommodate about 5,400 school age children and offer literacy and
training opportunities to 1,500-2,500 out-of-school youths and adults. In
addition to classrooms, each center would have a simply-equipped and designed
workshop and home management area which would be used in the afternoon and
evening for functional literacy classes and other community development and
learning activities. Simple accommodations for the teachers would be provided
in each rural center. The Departments of Agriculture and of Education would
administer these centers and would introduce relevant curricula and appro-
priate learning-teacning aids.
ix.       The three primary teacher training colleges would be located in
Gonaives, Cap Haitien and Port-au-Prince. The first two would replace two
existing small colleges; the one in Port-au-Prince would rationalize present
teacher training provisions in the city by eliminating two small, obsolete
colleges and incorporating them into a third college which is presently small
and uneconomic. The project colleges would have a capacity of 240 each and a
possible annual output, over two and three year courses, of about 300 quali-
fied teachers, as compared with a total enrollment capacity of 300 and output
of 100 of the present colleges. Each of the training colleges would have
boarding for 80 girls and Gonaives and Cap Haitien would have simple accommo-
dation for six teacher trainers. A revised curriculum would be introduced at
opening of the project teacher training colleges to ensure training of the
teachers in Lhe dual role of teacher/community development agent.  Selected
schools in the first project items above would be used as application schools
for teaching practice and experimental and observation studies by teacher
trainers and trainees.
x.        The provision of equipment to the central and regional offices of
the National Literacy and Community Development Office (ONAAC) and to a num-
ber of literacy centers would ensure better supervision and counseling ser-
vices to the instructors at the agency's village centers and better learning
conditions in these centers. Specialists in literacy and in adult and rural
education already in the co1.ntry uinder a T'rencl bilateral assistance program
would be involved in improving present f'unctional literacy pro(-rams. including
the supervisor and instructor training programs.



- iv -
xi.       To assist in the realization of project objectives and in the
training of local staff, the project provides seven man-years of technical
assistance specialists and one man-year of short term fellowships in relation
to reform proposals, teacher education, enhanced management and planning
capability, project administration and preparation of preinvestment and
evaluation studies.
xii.      The total project cost is estimated at US$6.5 million, with a foreign
exchange component of US$3.3 million, or 51% of the total cost. The proposed
credit of US$5.5 million would be equivalent to 85% of the total cost and would
cover the foreign exchange component and 69% (US$2.2 million) of the local
currency costs. Prices as of December 1975 were used to estimate the base
costs, net of taxes; a contingency allowance of 33% has been included.
xiii.     A project implementation unit, responsible to the Council for
National Development and Plannirng (CONADEP), has been established to imple-
ment the project. The project director, a Haitian engineer, has already been
appointed. The unit would also include an educator, an equipment procurement
specialist and an accountant. I'he Departments of Education and of Agriculture
would each appoint a high level officer to advise on the educational aspects
of implementation and for liaison with the project unit.
xiv.      Contracts for the civil works would be awarded on the basis of com-
petitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures
satisfactory to IDA. Given the small size of each contract and scattered
locations of the project institutions, foreign contractors are not expected
to participate but would not be excluded from bidding.
xv.       Contracts for equipment, furniture and materials would be awarded
under international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA procure-
ment guidelines. Equipment and furniture would be grouped to form sizable
packages for bulk purchasing. Contracts for procurement of equipment and
furniture that cannot be grouped in bid packages of at least US$15,000 would
be procured in accordance with local procedures satisfactory to IDA; cumulative
outlay of this nature would not exceed US$75,000, equivalent to less than 10%
of the total cost of furniture and equipment.
xvi.      The loan would be disbursed over a four-year period and construc-
tion should be completed in just over three years. Retroactive financing,
not to exceed US$150,000, is recommended for expenditures made from September
1, 1975, in respect of professional services, project administration and
technical assistance.
xvii.     Subject to the conditions set out in paragraph 7.03, the proposed
project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$5.5 million
equivalent to the Republic of Haiti.



1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Following an IDA Education Reconnaissance Mission in March 1975,
the Government of Haiti requested IDA assistance for an education project.
IDA assistance was provided to help design and prepare possible project items.
In both cases, the analytical material contained in an earlier Unesco-IDB
Sector Survey (1974) provided a basis for the IDA mission's work.
1.02      The project supports four interlinked areas of action:  (i) the
reform and expansion of basic education including functional literacy and
community development activities; (ii) related reform and expansion of primary
teacher training; (iii) technical assistance related to the project objectives;
and (iv) co-ordination of action among the various authorities concerned with
education, training and community development activities.
1.03      The project was appraised in June 1975 by a mission consisting of
Messrs. 0. Markgren (general educator, consultant), E. M. Vergara (architect),
L. Vu Cong (economist, Unesco) and M. Goldway (technical educator, consultant).
Mr. C. L. Germanacos (education planner, consultant) participated for one
week. The total cost of the project, for which a credit of US$5.5 million
is recommended, is estimated at US$6.5 million, with a foreign exchange
component of US$3.3 million (51%).
1.04      The appraisal mission modified the project during appraisal as
follows: (l) the vocational training component was eliminated since ongoing
action appears adequate to meet immediate future industrial manpower demands;
(ii) the requested centralized science facilities were eliminated, and (iii)
the number of basic and primary teacher training schools were reduced because
of the manifest need to limit the first IDA project in Haiti in view of finan-
cial resource constraints and while management, planning and implementation
capability was built up.
II. SOCIO-ECONOMIC FACTORS AND EDUCATION
Natural Resources and Population
2.01      About 30% of the to al area of Haiti is cultivable so thlt the high
density of population--156/km in 1971--is about 500 per arable km . The
terrain is rugged making communications difficult. There is heavy withdrawal
from school because of distances to walk, malnutrition and demands on child-
ren's labor by parents.



-2-
2.02      Haiti's population, of about 4.5 million in 1973, of whom 80% live
in the rural areas 1/, is and will be for the foreseeable future dependent
mainly on increased agricultural productivity. This improvement must compen-
sate for past errors of deforestation, overcropping and inadequate knowledge
of soil conservation techniques. Presently agriculture accounts for about 50%
of GDP and 60% of merchandise exports.
2.03      Population growth rate between 1950 and 1971 has been 1.6% p.a.,
4.7% in the urban areas and 1.1% in the rural areas. The poverty of farmers
and the appalling living conditions in the countryside has led the government
to institute a policy of supporting poles of development outside the metro-
politan area, such as Cap Haitien, Gonaives and Cayes, ameliorating conditions
in the rural areas, and promoting some decentralization of authority. The
constraint of inadequate numbers of qualified and experienced rural leaders
may hamper this development.
2.04      Two other factors impinge upon educational policy and resources
available to education: (i) the slow growth rate of primary education has
made no impact on the illiteracy rate, which remains at about 80% and (ii) the
larger proportion of school-age children is in the rural areas where education-
al opportunities are severely limited.
The Need for Human Resource Development
2.05      The low remuneration levels for most posts requiring technical or
professional expertise have contributed to a large emigration of Haitians who
complete professional and technical training in Port-au-Prince. As a result,
professional and technical skills of almost all kinds are scarce. Thus
imbalances have developed in the occupational structure and this situation in
turn has impeded further the expansion of employment, except for small scale
assembly industries which require limited skills. The prevailing emigration
patterns are very strong and are likely to continue affecting the supply of
trained manpower that would be required locally to meet the economy's needs.
Expansion of educational training opportunities, therefore, particularly at
technician and professional levels but also for vocational training, would
need to be planned carefully and be more aligned to the specific requirements
of the economy, if misplaced investments in education are to be avoided.
France, Canada, and UNDP/ILO are providing assistance to the government to
overcome problems in these areas. At the same time, the substantial demands
for education/training in the rura:L sector and the provision of some basic
functional literacy skills to the labor force need to be addressed in cost-
effective ways. The government's priority in the development of poles of
growth will require training of the rural population in the new agricultural
technologies. Existing programs would need to be expanded and adapted to give
the population at large more active participation in development and to meet
health, nutrition and basic education needs of the family unit with a view to
increasing productivity.
1/   Defined in 1971 census as any settlement with less than 400 people or
less than 105 houses.



- 3 -
2.Go      The major factors adversely affecting rapid development and dynamic
use of assistance of any form in Haiti are the paucitv of resources (except
for unskilled man-power), deficient infrastructure, and weaknesses in the
administrative, management, and operational services. It has been designated
by the UN as one of the 25 least developed countries. Since a major element
to Haiti's development lies in increased agricultural productivity, its rural
population must be motivated and educated to understand. accept anid appTy
innovative agricultural techniques. For this reason, education developnent
strategy must give highest priority to basic education and basic skills par-
ticularly in the rural areas where other development actions are planned or
taking place, an emphasis which has both an economic and social equity dimen-
sion. These thrusts would be consistent with the policy directives laid down
to shape the Second Five Year Economic and Social Development Plan, 1976-1981
- the development of the agriculture sector and of the regions to reduce the
disparities in income, to retard the rural exodus, and to improve social serv-
ices in the rural areas.
III. THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
rleneral Assessment
-3.(11    The education system has been elitist; makeshift schooling serves
,-he urban poor and a small portion of rural children: some prestigious private
schools cater to the more well-to-do urban poDulation. This lack of commit-
ment to public education in the past is witnessed by the paucitv of resources
applied to education. Public expenditures on education amounted in 1973/74
to only 0.9% of GDP, while the private expenditures may be estimated of the
order of 1.6% of GDP, though the private education sector accounted for only
28% of total enrollments. The total of 2.5% of GDP is the lowest among the
Bank's member countries as is also the per capita expenditure of US$1.40 on
public education.
3.02      The inadequate appropriations for education have been major factors
in the imbalances and inequities to be found in the system (Annexes 1-3). In
urban primary schools enrollments represent 89% of the age group 6 through 12,
but in the rural schools just 26%. The structure of the system in rural pri-
mary schools is a major cause of high wastage (see para. 3.06). A further im-
balance is seen in enrollments at secondary level where there is negligible
provision in the rural areas; the rural vocational, agricultural, and rural
primary teacher training schools are small, uneconomic and under-utilized.
In this very incomplete and imbalanced system, girls form on average a low
25% of total enrollments.



-4-
Administration and Planning
3.03      The historical divis:Lon of education between the Department of
Education (DOE) and the Department of Agriculture (DAG) has made integrated
and comprehensive planning welL-nigh impossible in the absence of a powerful
coordinating authority. The DOE has jurisdiction over urban primary and
primary teacher education, secondary education, the major part of vocational
training and most non-formal activities in both urban and rural areas. The
National Literacy and Community Development Office (ONAAC) and the university
have budgets and a considerable degree of autonomy of their own. The Depart-
ment of Agriculture is responsible for rural primary and rural primary teacher
education and for agricultural secondary schools (Charts I and II). In
consequence -there is considerable uneconomic use of scarce resources; there
are, for example, at central and regional levels three sets of inspectors in
charge of primary urban, primary rural and ONAAC activities. Operational funds
are inadequate for all to function effectively.
3.04      Education Planning has only lately been given some attention by the
DOE; the DAG has no such service but has people competent enough when initiated
to carry out basic preinvestment studies (e.g. school mapping and project pre-
paration). The education statistical data collection and processing is of
dubious quality; inconsistencies abound; statistical data used in this report
should be read in this light.
3.05      The Human Resources Division of the Council for National Develop-
ment and Planning (CONADEP) has to-date not been able to develop an educational
strategy or to evaluate education programs to determine their viability, con-
sistency and relevance. CONADEP has now been strengthened by UNDP/Unesco
technical assistance in the form of an education planner. It is expected
that a high level education administrator and a statistician will also be
made available by UNDP.
Structure, Curricula and Teacher Education
3.06      The structure of the system (Chart III) at the primary level is
not conducive to helping the rural children obtain at least a basic functional
education. Urban primary has reduced the course to six years but rural pri-
mary retains a seven-year course although this is manifestly unrealistic in
three respects: (a) only 3.4% of the 1966 cohort in rural primary completed
the course (cf. about 50% of urban primary); (b) more than 50% of enrollment
is in the "infant" or first year class and 70% of these do not go on to the
second year; (c) most of the rural children come to school at 10 years of age
or more. In these circumstances, the DAG now proposes to establish a network
of small neighborhood four-year (Grades 1-4) basic schools. These will serve
as "satellite schools" to six grade centralized schools for the more talented
children.
3.07      In general overall curricula are fairly well-balanced, but the
content of syllabi is often out-dated, irrelevant to the Haitian realities, or
inappropriate for the learning capacity of the younger students. Furthermore,



- 5 -
the curricula cannot be applied because: (a) of the non-functional, ill-
equipped, overcrowded houses used as schools; (b) most children cannot afford
to buy their own learning materials, and (c) with only 30% qualified teachers
in public primary schools and 5% in secondary education, the teachers have not
the competence or the will to function effectively with huge heterogeneous
classes in these appalling conditions. Syllabi need to be updated and cheap
learning-teaching aids and materials developed; teacher education programs
should give more attention to active and group teaching techniques and to
teaching trainees the elements of diagnostic testing and remedial work and how
to prepare their own aids and materials.
3.08      Primary teacher education, particularly in the rural teacher schools,
is provided in inappropriate and under-equipped buildings. Total enrollments
in 1973/74 were 400 in seven urban and 160 in three rural schools, with an
output of 107 and 56 respectively. These are uneconomic sizes and the output
quite inadequate to meet the need (Annex 4). The present teacher in-service
and upgrading programs should be expanded and new patterns of training
introduced.
Financing and Cost of Education
3.09      The insufficiency of public appropriations for educatiorn has led to
stagnation, a lack of interest in planning, in review of curricula, in modern
and economic education technology, in provision of functionally-designed
school buildings adequately equipped and appropriately staffed, in maintenance
of such facilities as do exist, and in scrutiny of administrative and organiz-
ational practices which cause inefficiency.
3.10      Public recurrent expenditures on education of US$6.3 million
(Annexes 5 and 6) in 1973/74 were 18.8% of the Central Government's operating
budget or 10.0% of its total recurrent expenditures. In real terms this
represents a decrease from the 1968-69 expenditures though GDP grew in real
terms at 4.6% p.a. The appropriations for materials comprise only 1.8% of
total recurrent expenditures and there is no budget for maintenance.
3.11      Although public education is free, parents are expected to purchase
the school books and materials required and to pay US$3.50 p.a. for the
"school cooperative," which in fact is used to pay the school's operational
budget, excluding teachers' salaries. These costs bear heavily on the poorer
segments of the population, particularly the rural folk, and are a major
cause of wastage or intermittent attendance.
3.12      The DOE (including ONAAC) share of actual recurrent expenditures
on education was 71%, the DAG share was 23%. The main reason for this is the
comparatively small number of teachers in rural schools, giving a teacher:
pupil ratio of 1:61 as compared with 1:34 in urban primary. Yet the DAG
education expenditures of US$1.45 million represent 53% of the Department's
total budget leaving only US$1.3 million for agricultural development
activities.



- 6 -
3.13      External aid from bilateral and multilateral agencies to education
in 1973/74 is estimated at US$2 million.
IV. EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
Current Developments
4.01      There is not as yet any national education strategy addressing
Haiti's fundamental education problems. But there have been recently the
beginnings of serious efforts a:Lming at improvements in access to educational
opportunities, in curricula and preparation of teachers, and in planning.
This action is often supported cnd spearheaded by external agencies. While
still short of resolving endemic structural problems, it nevertheless indi-
cates a willingness to face the issues and indirectly to prepare for the more
fundamental changes required in the future. This forward movement should be
supported.
4.02      However, the government statements of intent to broaden education
opportunities must be followed through with higher enrollment targets and
increased education budget for rural schools. The DAG proposals to establish
a network of small neighborhood four-year (grades 1-4) basic schools to serve
as "satellite schools" to six-grade centralized schools and immediately to
expand improved teacher training programs with increasing emphasis on re-
designed in-service courses are highly significant measures for accelerated
development of the rural educat:Lon system. Assistance for the start of phased
implementation of these proposals is being sought from IDA and IDB. The pro-
posed project contains a component to this effect.
4.03      The National Pedagogic:al Institute (IPN) has been established with
French assistance. Some 60 French specialists in cooperation with a few
Haitian counterparts are working on primary education curricula, preparation
of learning-teaching aids including textbooks for the schools and for literacy
programs (the latter in Creole at beginner level), development and testing
of an appropriate education teclnology for Haiti (including the use of radio)
and of improved methods of teaching French to Creole speakers. The IPN is
responsible, and has organized courses, for retraining and upgrading of
teachers, training of education administrators, supervisors and school
directors. Under a Haitian director the IPN proposes to intensify its
efforts in these education development areas. Since this Director is also
Director of Urban Primary and Urban Teacher Training and has the support of
DAG, it can be assumed that IPN will be supported by and its work acceptable
to the education agencies. It has the specialists to cover every major edu-
cational activity except educati.onal planning. The French Government, too,
has signed an agreement with Haiti undertaking to provide short-term special-
ists for specific assignments as the need arises and to award 60 fellowships
a year (30 for rural and 30 for urban education) to train teacher trainers,
school directors, supervisors and administrators in France.



4.04      The government intends to have DOE and DAG develop jointly and
with IPN special curricula and learning materials for the overage children
to complete the four-year basic course in a maximum of two years. Thus, the
overage children in the primary schools could be moved rapidly through the
system, freeing capacity for an accelerated intake of normal age children.
In this connection, the government also intends to explore how overage
children applying for entry into the primary school for the first time could
be directed to the ONAAC program. In regard to teacher training, the govern-
ment also proposes to reduce the present rural teacher pre-service three-year
course to two years. Such action would accelerate output and effect economies
without any detriment to the quality of the output, provided each year of
the training course is the equivalent of 10 months and the content of the
program is suitably adjusted.
4.05      Another area of improvement reflects the continued and increased
effort of UNDP to provide on a flexible basis technical assistance experts as
the need arises. As already noted earlier (para. 3.05), education planning,
administration and statistics are being strengthened in CONADEP. This core
of specialists should assist the government in the preparation of a compre-
hensive educational plan. Assurances were provided by the government during
negotiations that such a plan would be completed by June 30, 1977. It is
the intent of the government that the education administrator specialist
(para. 3.05) provided by UNDP would, inter alia, make a study of, and recom-
mendations on, the terms and conditions of service, bonding and appointment
procedures of the teacher corps.  He would be assisted by specialists in
teacher education and technical and vocational training planning to be pro-
vided in the proposed IDA project. The government has undertaken to complete
the study within two years of the signing of the credit agreement.
4.06      The UNDP technical assistance would help toward establishment of a
common planning and statistical service, but further coordinated action is
required. The assumption of responsibility of education by one department
only may not be politically feasible at this moment, but the government intends
to establish for both departments common but flexible curricula, common agree-
ment on teacher employment, common programs for the training of school direc-
tors, education administrators and supervisors, and to have carried out jointly
feasibility and preinvestment studies which affect the whole education system,
such as a comprehensive study by UNDP on the use of the radio as a possible
means of confronting the problems with which the system will otherwise have
to contend for perhaps 20 years or more.
Prospects
4.07      In the absence of a comprehensive national educational plan and to
provide a model to assist the government to work with reference to a feasible
plan, the appraisal mission carried out an indicative planning exercise (Ap-
pendix).  The quantitative aspects of this exercise with projections for
teacher requirements are shown in Annexes 3 and 4 and the public investment needs
needs in Annex 7. The conclusions and implications are summarized below.



- 8 -
4.08      Against an annual estimated need of 330 and 500 qualified teachers
for rural and urban primary education respectively, the estimated average
annual output is only 150 from rural and 400 from urban teacher colleges.
DAG considers that its proposedi expanded programs will have a major impact
so that output then could be over 240 per annum, and this would increase very
substantially in the 1980s as iurther expansion of facilities and programs
is undertaken as from 1977. I: should be noted also that the urban primary
teacher deficit can be reduced if and when the present comparatively generous
teacher:pupil ratio of 1:34 cani gradually be replaced by 1:40 or 1:45 ratio.
This, however, depends to a large extent on the availability of large enough
teaching spaces (as in the proposed project schools) to replace the small
rooms in family houses presently used as classrooms. Because of this constraint
of qualified rural basic education teachers (as also because of the financial
constraint), projected enrollment in 1985 in rural schools is placed at 58%
of the relevant school age only. This still compares unfavorably with projected
enrollments of 100% in urban schools, but is a marked improvement over the
present 26% and 89% respectively. Briefly, it needs to be repeated that the
government should focus on actions to increase outputs through a greater variety
of teacher training programs and on measures to retain trained teachers in the
education service through bonding and improved salaries and benefits, par-
ticularly for qualified teachers in the rural areas (paras. 4.02, 4.04, 4.05).
Should the proposed 1DB project in support of rural teacher training not
materialize, the government has undertaken to intensify its own programs
still further in 1977. IDA may wish to consider providing support to this
end should it prove necessary, but it should be observed that IDB is pre-
sently actively pursuing action and expects to have an agreement signed
before the end of 1976.
4.09      The teachers availability constraint also applies in the projected
modest expansion of secondary education to reach 10% of the relevant age-
group in 1985/86 from 5.1% in 1973/74.
4.10      Other quality-directe,i action could help accelerate the flow of
students and reduce wastage and repetition, hence reduce costs per graduate.
This action could include reform of curricula, provision of a more constructive
learning-teaching environment, Improved teacher capability, revised testing
procedures, and introduction of counseling and remedial teaching services.
4.11      Expenditures on educal:ion would have to be increased to support
increased enrollments and higher unit costs (current and capital - Annexes
6 and 7); such projected expend:Ltures are considered well within the capacity
of the country to sustain: assuming that projected total public enrollments
in 1980/81 will be 375,000 in primary, 39,000 in secondary and 4,000 in
higher education, the total public expenditures on education are projected
to be on the order of US$13.6 million in 1980/81 at constant 1974 prices as
compared to $6.3 million in 197-l/74.  This would represent an estimated 1.2%
of GDP, on the assumption that GDP will have increased at 3% p.a. between
1973 and 1976 and 5% p.a. between 1976 and 1980 and would entail a marginal



- 9 -
increase in the share of education in the central government's operating
budget from 18.8% to 19.0% or from 10.0% to 10.1% of its estimated total re-
current expenditures. Therefore, the demand on national public resources
from education is not unrealistic.
Priorities and Phasing
4.12      In terms of the socio-economic realities of the immediate future,
the constraints of limited resources and absorptive capacity of the education
management, and the implied priorities of the general directives issued for
the preparation of the Second Economic Development Plan, 1976-81, the priori-
ties in the education sector have been determined. They include programs to
increase education opportunity in basic education, functional literacy and
basic skills and understanding of health and nutrition in the community
development programs of ONAAC, particularly in the rural areas. These priori-
ties are to be interlinked with reform of expanded teacher education, education
administration programs, applied research and development programs in the fields
of curriculum development, and production of learning-teaching aids and mate-
rials for primary education and ONAAC programs. The key agent for these quali-
tative actions will be IPN.
4.13      The proposed project addresses itself to these very priorities, tak-
ing into account the very substantial assistance that is being and may be pro-
vided by the IPN, French technical assistance, UNDP/ILO, UNDP/UNESCO and IDB.
In a second phase apart from further required action in basic and primary
teacher education, priority might be centered on secondary and vocational
education, secondary teacher education and secondary school reform. These
areas are placed in the second phase for a number of reasons: (i) more time
is required before a serious and acceptable study of the curricula and struc-
ture of secondary level education can be undertaken; (ii) the teacher supply
source cannot be built up rapidly enough to deal with any immediate substan-
tial expansion and reform of this level; and (iii) the quantitative and quali-
tative needs in vocational education will have been more confidently estimated
in two or three years' time after the National Institute for Vocational Train-
ing (INFP) and the vocational planner sponsored by this project have been able
to study the issues. In the second phase, too, consideration should be given
to the establishment of farmer training centers in development regions.
4.14      To assist Haiti in the implementation of education reforms and
review of cost-effective measures under consideration, the government and
IDA reached agreement during negotiations for periodic joint review of pro-
gress of education plans and specific programs, implementation problems, new
approaches, and availability of resources for proposed programs and action,
in addition to the regular review of the physical execution of the project
and realization of its objectives.



- 10 -
V. THE PROJECT
Prolect Strategy
5.01      The proposed project is designed to support priority needs for the
development of the Haitian education system. While it provides for correc-
tions in the inequities of access to basic education and increases oppor-
tunities for non-formal adult education, especially in the rural areas, it
also aims at improving the quality and internal efficiency of these levels
and types of education/training, inter alia, through a variety of improved
teacher education programs and by initiating and coordinating action on
modernizing the teaching-learning process in all its aspects. The project
also provides assistance to national education authorities to enhance their
management, planning, development and supervision capability and it estab-
lishes the basis for a much needed coordinated action by different government
administrative units to achieve an integrated, rational and economic approach
to common problems and purposes.
5.02      Project action has been confined in accordance with resource const-
raints to two geographic areas and Port-au-Prince to assure a more meaningful
impact by some degree of concentration.  This would also facilitate economic
and efficient Implementation of a major effort by the execution agencies. The
areas are the Plaine du Nord, the Artibonite, and a small input into Port-au-
Prince. The choice was determirLed by the criterion that the first IDA educa-
tion project should support ongoing development efforts in departments with
strong development potential; in the Plaine du Nord, IDA is considering
financing a rural development project and the region and its capital, Cap
Haitien, have possibilities in the fields of agriculture and tourism. The
Artibonite is the region in which the Artibonite Valley Development Organi-
zation (ODVA) is engaged in a multi-action agricultural and infrastructure
program expected to be supported by IDB and the Federal Republic of Germany.
Its small capital town Gonaives, is a natural center for the region's activi-
ties. Port-au-Prince needs to consolidate its small and dispersed teacher
education colleges as well as to increase primary education opportunities in
disadvantaged urban areas.
Project Composition
5.03      The project would cons:Lst of:
(i) Construction, furnishing and equipping of educational
institutions as outlined below:



- 11 -
Capacity               Boarding   Staff
Grades or Places  Enrollment   Places   Housing
(a) 65 new Rural Basic
Schools/Community
Learning Centers      1-4      13,000   17,400 /1        -       65 /3
(b) 10 new Urban Primary
Schools/Community
Learning Centers      1-6       3,000    5,400 /1        -        -
(c) 2 new and expansion
of 1 Primary Teaching
College             10-12         720      720 /2      240       12
Total             -       16,720   23,520         240       77
/1   Allowing for additional enrollment made possible by double shift, but
excluding enrollments in fuctional literacy and other adult programs.
/2   Excluding enrollment in vacation and special intensive courses.
/3   Each unit for 4 teachers.
(ii)  Equipment to the value of US$0.4 million for the improvement
of the ONAAC Literacy and Community programs;
(iii)  Technical assistance of 7 man-years of specialist services
and 1 man-year of fellowships; and
(iv)  Support for project administration including salaries,
equipment and vehicles required for the project imple-
mentation unit.
Elements of the Project
Community Learning Centers
5.04      This project item consists of 65 new rural community learning
centers and 10 new urban community learning centers. The rural centers would
consist of a four-grade primary school which would provide basic education for
some 17,400 school age children in a restructured course of four years and
also provide literacy and training opportunities to 3000-4000 out-of-school
youths and adults. The urban centers, consisting of a six-grade primary
school for about-5,400 school-age children, would also offer literacy and
training opportunities to 1500-2500 out-of-school youths and adults. It is
estimated that about one-thlrd of the rural centers and two-thirds of the
urban ones would have a large enough catchment area for double shift operations.
In addition to classrooms, each center would have a simply equipped and designed



- 12 -
workshop and a home-management area which would be used in the afternoon and
evening by the out-of-school population for ONAAC functional literacy classes
and other community development and learning activities including those or-
ganized by the Departments of Health and of Social Affairs. In view of the
dual function of the teachers in the rural centers and the poor communication
system, the project would also provide simple living accommodation for the
teachers in each rural center. A total of 260 teachers would benefit from
such housing provisions; this should be an inducement for teachers to accept
posts in villages.
5.05      A school mapping exercise carried out by the DAG for the North
and the Artibonite facilitates pin-pointing the specific location of the
rural community learning centers. They would be located in educationally
neglected communities and where distances from schools are important factors
in non-enrollment, dropout, absenteeism and poor performance. The sites for
the rural centers would also be suitable for agricultural practical work for
both school children and adult classes. All ten urban centers would be
located in the disadvantaged areas. Of these, six will be located in
Gonaives and Cap Haitien, and i.-our in Port-au-Prince.
5.06      The government has given assurances that:  (i) the project centers
would develop both functions aEs primary schools and community learning centers
available to ONAAC and the Departments of Health and of Social Affairs, and
that they would be equipped, and buildings and equipment satisfactorily main-
tained, to this end; (ii) DOE and DAG would introduce upon commencement of
operation of the project centers reformed curricula and appropriate learning-
teaching aids, including a radio set; (iii) class groups in project centers
would not exceed 50; and (iv) the project centers would have about 50%
trained teachers by their fourth year of operation, and unqualified teachers
would have at least the equivalent of three years' post primary education and
an intensive pedagogical training course, acceptable to the Association,
pending acquisition of qualified status.
Primary Teacher Training Colleges
5.07      This project item consists of the expansion and remodelling of an
existing college in Port-au-Prince and the replacement of two other small and
totally unsuitable colleges at Gonaives and Cap Haitien. Upon the completion
of the expansion of the Port-au-Prince college, two other small existing
colleges which function in obsolete houses and with little equipment will
be eliminated. Enrollments would be expanded from 400 to 720 students, in-
cluding 60 in-service trainees (one to two year courses), 1/, giving a possible
annual output of about 300 qualified teachers per annum in the three project
colleges and 400 in DOE colleges as compared with the present output of all
urban colleges of about 100 teachers. Hostel accommodation would be provided
1/   Dependent on the academic qualifications and teaching experience of the
trainee.



- 13 -
for 80 girls at each of the three colleges and six staff housing units at the
Gonaives and Cap Raitien colleges as an inducement for attracting students
from the hinterland and staff from Port-au-Prince. The hostel facilities
would be used for in-service teacher training courses during vacation periods.
5.08      A revised curriculum would be introduced to ensure training of the
teachers in the dual role of teacher/community development agent. Suffi-
cient time would be devoted to laboratory and workshop activities, handi-
crafts, home management, agriculture and rural development. Adequate teaching
practice in schools and participation in a community development program would
be integrated into the curriculum. Assurances have been provided by the
government that relevant curricula and syllabi would be developed in conjunc-
tion with IPN and the DOE and DAG teacher trainers for the implementation of
the various pre-service and in-service courses in the project institution by
the time they commence operation. Furthermore, understandings were also
reached with the government during negotiations that: (i) teacher training
and teacher trainer courses with basically common objectives and curricula
would be organized by IPN and the DOE and DAG; and (ii) graduates from urban
teachers' colleges would not be restrained from taking up posts in rural
schools.
5.09      Selected schools in the first project item would be used as appli-
cation schools for teaching practice and experimental and observation studies
by teacher trainers and trainees. Each college will be provided with a bus
so that the movement of trainees to outlying schools would be facilitated.
ONAAC Literacy and Community Programs
5.10      This project item consists of the provision of equipment for central
and regional (Artibonite and Plaine du Nord) ONAAC offices to ensure better
supervision and counseling services to the instructors at the ONAAC village
centers, and better learning conditions in these centers. The equipment, to
the value of US$0.4 million, would comprise eight mobile units equipped with
audiovisual and other teaching aids, 12 motorcycles for use of the super-
visors (regional and district), and duplicating machines, radio sets, audio-
visual aids and printing materials for ONAAC regular and follow-up courses.
Specialists in literacy, adult and rural education, and in the preparation of
related materials at the IPN would be involved in improving present functional
literacy programs, including the supervisor and instructor training programs.
Technical Assistance
5.11      The project would provide seven man-years of technical assistance
and one man-year of fellowships to assist in the realization of project
objectives and in the training of local staff. The technical assistance at
a total cost of US$320,000 would be distributed as follows:



- 14 -
Specialists (7 man-years)
(a)  Teacher Training (2 man-years):  One man year in teacher
education and one mam year for primary school curriculum
development, to advise on syllabi development, to assist
in the design and organization of new types of teacher
education courses and of the administrative practices of
the teacher colleges, and in the study on the conditions of
service of teachers (para 4.05).
(b) ONAAC (1 man-year): In adult education and development of
literacy and follow-up materials and audiovisual aids.
This specialist will also function as adviser to ONAAC
and work closely with the IPN specialists.
(c) Vocational and Technilcal Education (1 man-year): In
planning, curriculum development and assistance in the
study on conditions of service of teachers (para. 4.05).
The specialist would be attached to the vocational train-
ing division of the Department of Education.
(d)  Sub-sector Studies (2 man-years):  Specialist services for
elaboration of a student tracer system; pre-investment
studies; study and organization of evaluation services; and
"engineering" work for a possible second IDA project.
(e)  Project Implementation Unit (1 man-year):  Short-term
specialist services (preparation of education briefs,
architect, procurement specialists).
Fellowships (1 man-year)
(a) ONAAC (6 months): For short visits of four administrators
and supervisors to study non-formal and literacy programs
abroad.
(b) Vocational and Technical Educators (6 months):
Short visits of four administrators of DAG and DOE and/or
directors of vocational schools to visit and study integrated
vocational centers.
All specialists and the terms oF their service would be acceptable to the
Association and candidates for the fellowship programs would be selected in
consultation with the Association.
Cost of the Project
5.12      The total cost of the project, net of taxes, is estimated at US$6.48
million. The breakdown by type of expenditure is shown in Annex 8 and
summarized below:



- 15 -
Gourdes (millions)        US$ (millions)         % of
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Total
65 new Rural Basic Schools/       7.1     5.9   13.0       1.43    1.17   2.60      40
Community Learning Centers
10 new Urban Primary Schools/   1.6       1.3    2.9       0.32    0.26   0.58       9
Community Learning Centers
2 new, and extension of 1,        1.8      1.8    3.6      0.36    0.37   0.73      12
Primary Teacher Training
College
Equipment for ONAAC Literacy    0.1        1.9    2.0      0.02    0.33   0.40        6
and Community Programs
Technical Assistance              0.2      1.4    1.6      0.04    0.28   0.32        5
Project Administration            0.6      0.2    0.8      0.12    0.03   0.15        2
Base Cost Estimates              11.4    12.5   23.9       2.29    2.49   4.78       74
Contingencies
(i)  Physical (10)          1.1      1.3    2.4      0.23    0.25   0.48        7
(ii)  Price    (23)          3.1      3.0    6.1      0.63    0.59   1.22       19
Total                 15.6    16.8   32.4       3.15    3.33   6.48    100
5.13      The base costs are estimated in prices projected to the end of December
1975. Added to these base cost estimates are contingency allowances for (a)
physical contingencies equal to 10% of the estimated base cost and (b) price
escalation of 15% in 1976, and_12% per year in 1977-79. Bulk purchasing of
most building materials in 1976-77 will make possible a total price contingency
-hich amounts to 23%. Details of contingency allowance calculations are given
in Annex 9.
5.14      The construction cost estimates were derived from some recent school
building contracts. These were adjusted to reflect the use of local materials
and economical norms and standards in the design and construction of the project
institutions. Further, the project construction cost was computed net of taxes,
which represent about 4% of the gross cost. Thus the estimated school construc-
tion cost ranges from about US$68 per square meter of the gross floor area in
urban areas to US$56 in the rural areas. Further cost reduction of about 15%
may be expected in the rural areas because of community participation in the
construction programs of the project. Any savings which may result from such
community participation will be used for other project related purposes,
subject to IDA approval.



- 16 -
Recurrent Costs
5.15      Incremental recurrent expenditures of the operation of all project
institutions would amount to about 1.1% of total projected recurrent expendi-
tures in Education in 1978-79, 2.9% in 1979-80, and 3.4Z in 1980-81. At that
time the incremental project recurrent costs would amount to about US$465,000
in 1974 prices. The Government gave assurances during negotiations that
sufficient funds would be available for the operation of the project insti-
tutions.
Risks involved in the Project
5.16      Recent actions by the government to respond to the requirements
of the IDA project suggest that there is now little risk to achievement
of the immediate objectives of the project; however, it is not possible
to discount the risks to realization of the longer-term thrust of the pro-
ject which aims at the planned generalization of the project action to the
education and training system as a whole. The proposed project is intended
to serve as a catalytic agent in the implementation of the elements of a
series of programs which would form part of a planned reform of the educa-
tion system. Successful development of a strategy and the implementation
of related quantitative and qua:Litative programs would be dependent on sus-
tained commitment of the government to the proposed reform. This implies
commitment not only to the political, economic and social principles of
the reform but also to allocation of the financial and human resources
necessary for execution and operation over a substantial period of time.
It is important that the govermnent has full information on the implica-
tions of the longer-term  objectiLves and targets if it is to be convinced
that the necessary commitment is worthwhile. In consequence, the education
planners (para. 4.05) would neecl to foc4a on the financial and skilled man-
power requirements for education development so that the government can
consider the demands in relation to the needs of other sectors in a per-
spective framework.
VI. IKLIMPTION
Project Administration
6.01      A project unit would be established under the Executive Secretary
of CONADEP and would be responsible for (i) overall administration of project
implementation and (ii) liaison with other Departments and parties involved
in the project with IDA. The Project Director, a Haitian engineer, has been
appointed. He would be assisted. by an experienced educator/administrator, a
procurement specialist and an accountant, all working full time.  All would
be selected in consultation with IDA. The project unit would be provided
with adequate facilities and supporting staff, to enable it to function effec-
tively. The DOE and DAG each would appoint a high level officer to advise on
the educational aspects of implementation and for liaison with the project
unit. Conditions of effectiveness for the project would be the establishment



- 17 -
of the project unit, the appointment of the project educator and nomination
of the liaison officers of DOE and DAG. The salaries of key project unit
staff, the equipment and vehicles required by the unit, fees for part-time
local consultants as necessary, all amounting to a total of US$150,000 have
been included in the project cost.
Project Implementation Fund
6.02      To ensure the timely availability of local counterpart funds for
the execution of the project, a project iuplementation fund has been estab-
lished. The government will make quarterly advance payments to this fund as
needed and withdrawals from the Cre4it account will be credited directly to
the account of the fund; assurances to this effect were obtained from the
government during negotiations. This fund would be audited on an annual basis
by auditors acceptable to IDA.
Project Implementation Schedule
6.03      To assist in the effective and timely execution of the proposed
project a comprehensive implementation scbedule has been prepared (Annex 10).
This schedule was discussed during negotlations and agreed upon as a project
implementation and monitoring tool.
Professional and Technical Services
6.04      Consultants acceptable to IDA would be appointed for the architec-
tural design, construction supervision, and to assist the project unit and
some civil works contractors in preparing and evaluating bids on civil works.
Construction supervision of particularly the rural schools would require subs-
tantial technical inputs, in view of the dispersion of sites and the need to
supervise expected community participation. There are sufficient consultant
firms established in Port-au-Prince capable of rendering the professional
services required.
6.05      The project unit would elaborate with the assistance of consultants
the agreed project implementation schedule, including among other things:
(i) educational standards and specifications for preparing designs, (ii)
basic construction standards and building materials to be used; and (iii) the
unit costs for the project institutions. The government would establish,
after consulation with IDA, technical review committees with qualified repre-
sentatives of the Departments of Education and Agriculture and the project
unit to analyze and review architectural designs and equipment and furniture
lists and specifications and certify that they meet economic and functional
standards and costs and the educational objectives of each project institu-
tion. The government has agreed to establish such committees within six
months of credit signing.



-- 18 -
Locations and Sites
6.06      Assurances were obtained from the government that the selection of
all locations and sites and their acquisition would be in accordance with
criteria and schedule acceptable to the Association. More than 20 satis-
factory sites are already acquired and a further 10 are in the process of
acquisition.
Procurement
6.07      Contracts for the procurement of furniture and equipment and bulk
purchase of materials would be awarded on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding in accordance with the Bank/IDA Guidelines, except that furniture
and equipment which cannot be grouped in packages of at least US$15,000 or
more would be procured on the basis of local procedures acceptable to IDA.
Procurement under these procedures would not in aggregate exceed US$75,000
(corresponding to less than 10% of the total cost of furniture and equipment).
Domestic furniture and equipment manufacturers, tendering under international
competitive procedures, would be allowed a preferential margin of 15% of c.i.f.
costs of competitive imports or the current applicable import duty, whichever
is lower. Since the project civil works are of small size and physically
dispersed, foreign contractors are not expected to participate, but they
would not be precluded from bidding. The civil works contracts would be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accord-
ance with local procedures acceptable to IDA. Haiti's 10 construction firms
with engineering services and about 40 small contractors, who usually are
hired as labor teams, are competitive.
Disbursements
6.08      The proposed credit of US$5.5 million would cover the foreign ex-
change component of US$3.3 million (51%) and US$2.2 million (or 69%) of the
local currency costs. It would be equivalent to 85% of the total project cost
of US$6.5 million. The credit would be disbursed over a period of four years
(Annex 11). Retroactive financing not exceeding US$150,000 is recommended
for expenditures made from September 1, 1975, against expenditures for pro-
fessional services, technical assistance and project administration. Any
surplus funds of the credit would be used for priority items closely related
to the original project, subject to IDA approval.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During credit negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:  (i) the study on terms and conditions of teacher service
(para. 4.05), and the initial field assignment of urban teacher training college
graduates; (ii) the eLaboration of a comprehensive education plan and periodic



- 19 -
joint review of programming action and implementation progress (paras. 4.05
and 4.14); (iii) the dual function of the project centers (para. 5.06);
(iv) application of common and reformed curricula and provision of learning
teaching aids (paras. 5.06 and 5.08); (v) the size of classes and qualifica-
tions of teachers in the project schools (para. 5.06); (vi) preparation and
conduct of pre-service and in-service teacher training programs (para. 5.08),
and additional action on rural primary teacher training in 1977 should this
prove necessary (paras. 4.04 and 4.08); (vii) the appointment of specialists
and consultants and award of fellowships (paras. 5.11, 6.04), and establish-
ment of technical review committees (para. 6.05); (viii) assuring adequate
operational funds for the project schools (para. 5.15); (ix) the establish-
ment and operation of a project implementation fund (para. 6.02); (x) the
preparation and use of a project implementation schedule (para. 6.03), and
(xi) criteria and schedules for site selection (para, 6.06).
7.02      Also during credit negotiations, the government confirmed that the
following objectives and measures, inter alia, would be taken into considera-
tion in the preparation of its comprehensive education plan: (i) relating
education content and the structure of the system to the Haitian realities
and social and economic development activities; (ii) improving the management
and operational capability of DOE and of DAG and achieving closer integration
of the education planning activities of these departments and of those of
CONADEP; (iii) giving priority to the imperatives of social justice related
to educational opportunities; (iv) improving and expanding teacher training,
and introducing other quality-directed measures in the education system;
(v) making special arrangements for the education of over-aged students;
(vi) increasing the cost-effectiveness of the education system; (vii) in-
creasing the proportion of the national budget for education in accordance
with planned requirements.
7.03      Conditions of effectiveness for the project would include: (i) the
satisfactory operational establishment of and support to the project unit
(para. 6.01); (ii) the appointment of the project unit educator and of the
liaison officers (para. 6.01); and (iii) the initial funding of the project
implementation account to the amount agreed with IDA (para. 6.02).
7.04      Subject to the fulfillment of the conditions described above, the
project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$5.5 million
equivalent to the Republic of Haiti.






Al'I'P NI)IX
The Indicative Planning Eercise
In order to assist the government to work on a feasible plan, the
appraisal mission carried out a tentative planning exercise as a model and
testing piece. The quantitive aspects of the planning exercise are contained
in Annexes 3 and 4. In summary the proposed targer are:
1973/74           1980/81              1985/86
------ in thousands -
Primary Rural        172.6 (262)        240.0 (38%)         315.0 (58%)
Primary Ihrbn        161.4 (892)        230.0 (892)         260.0 (100%)
Prinery Total        334.0 (39%)        470.0 (48%)         575.0 (75%)
Secondary             34.8 (51%)         60.0 (7.4%)         90.0 (102)
Higher                 2.2 (0.6%)         4.0 (0.82)          5.0 (0.8%)
(      ) - percentage of age group.
A major effort will be required to attain the rural primary 1980/81
target. In can be done provided the DAG rapidly implements the "satellite
school" concept.
On the qualitative side, the planning exercise assumes that in the
next 10 years it will not be possible to reduce the teacher-pupil ratio in
rural primary to any great extent, but the secondary school ratio can be
increased. Annex 4 shows the annual requirements of qualified teachers.
Outputs of the primary teacher colleges and the university education school
outputs must be increased substantially. Action to increase outputs through
a greater variety of teacher training programs should be supported, as also
measures to retain trained teachers in the education service through improved
salaries and benefits particularly for qualified teachers and teachers in the
rural areas.
Other qualitative-directed action--reform of curricula, provision
of a more constructive learning-teaching environment, improved teacher capa-
bility, revised testing procedures, and introduction of counseling and remedial
teaching services--should help accelerate the flow of students and reduce
wastage and repetition, hence reduce per-graduate costs. These pedagogical
and psychological measures should be combined with administrative, organiza-
tional and public englightenment measures to promote parental interest and
regular entry and school attendance by their children. A more flexible school
year calendar to fit vacations into the regional busy agricultural activity
periods and/or to arrange the school year accordingly may help regularize
student flows. In the bigger schools the school-age children could attend
school in a morning shift, overaged children and very late entry students in
an afternoon shift with special curricula and learning content in shorter
courses.



APPENDIX
Page 2
Financial Implications of the Indicative Plan
Augmented expenditures on education will be required to support
the higher annual unit costs (recurrent and capital) following upon the
reforms, higher teacher salaries, improved physical and learning conditions
and additional activities (Table).    However, the increased budgetary
requirements should be well within the capacity of the country to sustain.
They are not excessive because the tentative planning exercise has attempted
to be realistic in terms of expansion growti. rates and teacher:pupil ratios.
More specifically, in projecting public expenditures on education the assump-
tions made regarding teacher and capital investment needs are given in
Annexes 3 and 4. Assuming the projected total public enrollments will be
375,000 in primary, 39,000 in secondary and 4,000 in higher, the total public
expenditures on education would be of the order of US$13.6 mlliion in 1980/81
at constant 1974 prices; this will represent 1.2% of GDP on the assumption
that GDP will have increased at 3% p.a. between 1973 and 1976 and 5% p.a.
between 1976 and 1980. The demand on resources will increase from 0.9% in
1973 to 1.2% of GDP by 1980, which is not unrealistic.



Table
HAITI
Recurrent Costs Assumptions
A.  Teachers Salaries (US$,000)                                    Vocational
Primary         Secondary  Training    Secondary
Unqualified Qualified              Colleges    Schools
1973-19741            3,000       1,830       1,260       16
1980-1982 (           3,111        4,216      2,500       38
3. Unit Costs
1973/74            1980/81
Primary Rural                 U                  18
Primary Urban                20                  34
Primary Average              16                  26
Secondary General            41                  60
Secondary Vocational
Urban                     156                 232
Secondary Vocational
Rural                     168                 252
Urban Primary Teacher
Training                  281                 435
Rural Primary Teacher
Training                  378                 572
Higher                       625                975
C. Materials, Aids and Administration
By 1980-81 public expenditures in this category would be of 12% of
total recurrent expenditures as compared with 1.8%  in 1973/74.
D. M4aintenance
By 1980-81 expenditures on maintenance of buildings would be 1.5%
of cost of buildings as compared with nil in 1973/74.
1./ Plus 2.4% in 1974-75 and plus 3.4% per annum up to 1980-81.



COMPARATIE EDUCkTIGN  INDICATORS                                                                 ANNEX  t
t JAhlUARY 9. 1976
........................................ ...........................................................................................
I         I GNPI I % GNP    1% 10TAL111   OF PURLIt  I                        I                       OPRI. JAY.PRI.    I                    I         ISEC    I           I
I         JAPIT41 0EVC1TfO:PU6L1C  a EDUCATIO"                   eLITER-  IPRI. :CONPLE-  iSTU-  tSCH.TEACHePROGRESS-i SEC.  ISTU-v                                      I
I         :    AT    i TO EDU.t    EXP. I RECURnENT               lAcy        tENROLLITID14           sDENTSiSALARY  INtION RATE  :ENRULLIDENT31HIGHEOI
t         06RKETt (PU6L1C%OEVOTEO1EXP  ALLOW EDs    RATE  t4ATIO  tRATE  FORsPER    tPELATION  iFROM PRI.tRATIO  2PER    tEkRnLLI
IPOP. 1PRIcest Exp.               i    TO    I        to$         1(% OF   i SET   IPRI.SCH.ITEACH: TO GNP/  iTO SEC.    i NET   fTEACH-  RATIOI
YPt(OOO) i (USI)i ONLY)    t    EDU. oPPI. SEC. 01.tAodi-TS)v  (1)   sCYCLE(%)sER                                 I CAPITA   I    (1)           i (V)   tER        I  21    I
I  (1) is   (2) 1   (3)           r    r4)   i        (5)         1 (6)    1(7)   I    (8)    1 (9)1   (10)    I(11)                         1(t2)   1(13) t(14) i
..................................................................................................................................
v ANC ID
;;R-:            73     7.SC ?,410C           4.3        9"q       M70   259   200    99             98          93          26          ?.O          99          St         19        F1.00
410,              71   21.6   4,440            7.7      iq.4        So    so       iq       %a        99          90          24          2.0          qq          62         0         9.00
R4A1Y " E'.72   61.6   1,390                   4.2      14,12       ...   74*0 ?b           99        91          99          33         ...           99          91         ?2       17.00ty
PAY               71 106.9c  2,320C            4.3    20d           39      38     12       99        99D         99C         25C         2.0           99C        94D        20C      28.00D
T4ERLA-409        72   13.3   2,840            8.5      19.IG       32    45       19       99        95          95          29          3.0          97          73         20       11.170
4 ZEALAND         73     2.9c ?.Skoc           S.?      ....        39    24       ?9       99        99          99          26         ...           99          67         19       2a.60
qwAy              ?"     3.9   31340           7.0      151.2       Ss     23      13       .9        *9          99          20          1.9          99          76         la       11.1)0
EDEN              73     $.IC 4,450C           6.9      16.10       36      14     is       99                    99          11         ...           90          as         10       3n.00
<.                70   SS.&C ?160oc            5.9    t3.8          ...    ...        ...    97       96          ...         28        ...                        so         115      ...
9 . A .          72 20 S. 5 5,59o              6. 0     15.4        ...   73** ?7           9q        99          99          2SU         2.0                      93         J 9u    29. n
430E
E;              7 1    M. 9C  I , 460C       2. 2     1 1 . 1     54Y   29Y   14Y    Fj 2 A         9sy         . . .       32Y        . . .         ?OA         spy        43Y      I 1. 0 0
EL A140           7?    3.0   1,560            5.t    I 3.9D        43Y   4ty   t4y    96             97          994         3s         . . .         95A         ?S,        IQ        7 . 0 0 A
RTJGAL            72     R. 7       730        ...    ....                                            91xy                                                         bsity      . I .     ?.boy
AIN               71   34.3c  tliooc           2.48   15.11A    49Y   j;;   ;;Y    ;4A                91A                                                          29A        so        6.004
RI A
;,; 1-1 7 1-      73   tq.2c        430C       9. OA      -         43    32       1 6      25A       67          86          43          6.0           37         lax        26        3.so
41-4             71      2 QC       I I DC     5.1    32. n         47    23       1 0      1 1       32AS        7 0 vi      SO%       2S.D8           4'sa         VA       398       0.44tY
TSWANA            74     a . 7      300        5.o    20.0          3 B     20     1 5      ?s        7ox         7S          35          5.0          2 4         13X        1 Ft      0.30Y
RUN(l             72     3. 6        60                                                               27xev                   36MY                                   2YRY   1 1 A V     0"'y
4e R I -)N                                      , , ;   2;:;        ii;   i;;   ;!; 70  h.OC  2noc  I .  74                   5I 0y                                  8        2.3 c v   0   a y
4.17.             70     1.6c       ISOC       4. 014   20, 0       56      1 9    ...    . . .       bacy        25          bscy       ...            I 8          5cy      VBY       0.(Ty
A D               7 0    3.8C        50C       4. 3     14. -3      77    23         0       7        29XRY       . . .       669Y       ...                         2MBY   30          0.019Y
4Grl(R)          73      1.3C      looc        6.4      2b.4        4SBY 3SBY  ISMY   SO?            13RX         ...         63        ...            ...         ag         43Y       P.414CY
-1 I IR I A       7 3 25.9C          A 0       3. 1     20. o       42    29       1 5       7        1 7c        42          so          3.0          63            2        3 ti      O.P0
3:)N              73     O.Sc      geoc        S.O      eu.b        25       9     1 1      ...    184XF3y    25C             46C         S.D           18A        20C        2 1 c     3 . ji oc v
ANA               71    9.IC       300C        4.7      24.4DA   380   150   23b    ...               56xcy    62             30cy                     14          IIY        16cy    0.741Y
-IqV CliRT    72    5 .4           340         6.3      2Q.7        279Y 3say 1 31           q Al     S?          STA         46                       ;;.         ID         2s           2ORY
4 y A             7 3 t 2 . I c     I ioc      6. 4     2 7, o      63      t I    t 1      40       105X         . . .       40          8:0                      1 2        23       11 :030ty
93THII            7 ;    0.9c        9fic      4 .7    22. o        45C   lsc   ?4:    40             65          ...         45                                    a         22        0.05
3EPTI             74     1 . bc     313C       2.7      1 3. 9      25    13    Z2          ...       59          . . .       39          1 .8          ...        20         2(        t,toty
LA j I            7 4    4.7c       IODC       LI    U.9            ...         ...    ...    ?5      shx         60          so          7 . 0        a 0           4 x      2f)       O.pbcy
LT                la    S.IC         ioc       4.6N   32.3          360   52B   12'i    to            Is          22          40         14.0           37           4        17        0.164Y
JR t t & -4 7 A  7 a     1.2c      tooc        4.S      21. 0       ...        ...     ...    I 0     isx         . . .       22                                     3        24         . . .
JR I T T i S     7 2     0. 5      3 0 0       3. 7     1 1 . 7D    7 1    1 0      4       0 o       a 6         99          3 1         ...           ...        3 1        30        1.47cy
qocco             7 4 15.9C        270C        5.OC   I 6. 5        a a    a 7      9       26?       SAIX        2 1         3 7                      3 1         1 3K       21        2.n
SEPT A            71   69.5C        13nc       3.2N   ...           40k   24A   ?OA         ...       SOXCY       . . .       34CY        ...           ...          4        20CY    t.37ty
A NF)4            73     3.7C        boNc      3.2C   M OO          ...         ...    ...1 ?3        S2          . . .       St          ...          ...           2        1 3       0.23ty
'JEGAL           I I     a . 0 c   250C        4.ON   22.SDR   36A   42A            SA      j 0       3ax         ...         Alb                      ...         I I 9     25         1.71CY
EgqA  LEOKIF   73        2.7c      190C        3.4      23.4        31    36       30       15?       34X         45          32          a.OE         66          1 3%       21        0.534Y
4ALI A            73     2.9c        moc       ...        7, 0      57    1 6      1 3       5        1 3         91          35        1 5.0          4S            3        1 a       1. 0
)AN              72   16.5         120         4.5      13.2        43    29       2A       15        3A          75          as          4.D          25          it         20        l.p3Y
AZILA-41         72      0.4c      2bO         4.3A   19.7          37    26       is       ?a        66          ?2          38          7.0          ...         16DY       20        I.n
4Z 141 A         7u   13.2C        I I oc      S.14   t7.0          36      ...   1 2       b3        4ax         ...         49                         7           2        21C       0 . 3
'41 91 A          73    S. 3c      350C        6.3    2 3. 4        37    43       1 8      55        72          a I         a]          6.0          31          1 Al       21        3.0
ANIA              70   Jo.uC       lsoc        S.?N   tl.CR   aca   220   no               ?SA       aqxcv       ...         36          ...          IAA          axcv   21           0.58gy
PER  VDLTA    ?2         S.b         b4        4.0    23.q          bs      to      6        5        to          ...         45         16.0          20            a        23        0.01ty
IPE               7 3 23. 4        t27         S.2cm 21.JC          54C   1 7c   a9f        I 5       63          34          44A         6.0          03            8        24        0.969Y
491A              73    4.SC       380C        5.6      lb.s        44    22       I 0      43        9sx         ...         so          ...          20          tsx        20        0 . tiaky
4TRAL   A4EPICA  440   T4[ CARIRBEAN
---- 7 7 :; ... ;;;Z---  5.z               ?20         ST    25       12       19        06cy        65          29            3.0        so          ZZCY       2S       12.1ley
4141CAN  REP.T2    4.2             460         2.S      15.SDR   42    24          ?2       St        $0          17          34           3.OD        63          13         24        7.00
SALVAODP        75    3.7c    340C            3.6      ?3.A       61       5     e2       SmAy    71xcy          ...        39cy          ...         ...         lbxCY   ZICY         4.351ky
iTEMALA          73    5.6c        420C        t.9      I 6. o      55     23      t a      47        64          26          35           3.0         69            a        25        4 . (C)Y
ITT              72      4. 4      1 30        0.9       6. 60      61    I t       8       209       21p         29?         4s           S . el      so            3        21        t oo?
'IDJR4,q          72    2.7        320         3.9      26.SD       64     13      tR       52        aix         la          37           6.0         ?S          tax        la        3.00
4ATCA            72      1.9       1410        b.SY   19.7          13Y   22Y       7y    16         106xy        ...         sa           ...         ...         32xy       19        4.79Y
xico             70   54.IC        79*c        2. 6      9. 1       S4     24      1 2      76        71          3t          46           3.0         63          1 9        23        6. 32ty
74    2.1C       b3o         2.13    t Al. C)     61      I 3    1 3      57        65          21          37            2. 0       93           1 7       24        7.(
INIDAD  &   T. 71    1.0c    940C              5.1    18.9          53    27       12       90        qsx         87          35           4.0         15          49        25         2.56AY
J7H AmERICA
,;;L             74   q.zC        S30C        4.3      12.0c       4?    20        37      79        aom         ...         27CY          ...         ...         ISFI      ISCY    6.  01
ILE              72   10.0         $00         4.6Y   10.by         349Y  ISOY 400Y   ...            itixny       ...         378Y                                 4W Y   ...
LO481A           70   23.40C       NW          4.0      10.9        3s      is     ao       73        67          20          36            4.0         00          11        14        4.;O
JADDR            72      b.9       S"          3.7    27.7c         4say 420Y JODY   b9               72          ...         38                                   is         14        4.974Y
YANA             74      O.n       $M          %.MN   14.7g         47      SS     14       93A       92X         39          33            6.0         19         62Y        24         1.00
RAqUAY           74    ?. 4t       309         1.6      1 7 . rp    37      1 S    2 a      a I       B#          26          29            1 . 9       6 5        tsx        I el      4.0 0
4 u              7 1 1 4.3 C       stlet       4.5      14. 1 D     so     22      1 5      72        a 0         38          39DY         3.0          7 o        3 0        23DY   12. 0 0
IIEZUELA         73   11.1C. lir"r             4.6      19.0        3vg   ?mg   350         77A       81          ...         33           2.4          ...        33         ...      la.63cy



COMPARATIVE EDUJCATION INDICATORS   (CONTD)                                        ANNEX t  PAGE 2
(JANUARY 9, 1976!
I        I       I           1         I       I                            I a                I           I            I        I       I        a
a  GNP/ : S GNP   :3 TOTAL1%  OF PUBLIC 3                     a                    aPR!. IAV.PRI.   I               1        ISEC   I 
I        aCAPITAI DEVOTFDaPURLIC  I EDUCATION    ILITER- iPRT. ICOMPLE.  :STU.  ISCH.TEACHiPROGRESS-i SEC. ISTU. 
I       AT   a TO EOU.i  EXP. i RECURRENT    aACY             IENRDLLiTION         IDENTS,8ALAPY INSION RATE  :ENRDLLsDENTSsWIGHER,
a    mARKEta  (PUBLIC:DEVOTED,EXP ALLOCATED,   RATE IRATID  tRATE FORaPER   :RELATION  iFRMfA  PRI.tRATIO  :PER   SENROLLa
a POP, aPRICESa  EXP.    a  TO    I           TO:        s(z OF   i NET   sPRI.SCM.iTEACHi TO GNP/ sTO SEC.   i NET   aTEACH. RATIO,
YRI(lOO)I   ( USS!:  ONLY)  a  EDU. aPR!. SEC. HI.,ADULTS)i  (1!   aCYCLEMi!ER    i CAPITA   i  (5!                        I (51)  REPR       (5) 
I (1) RR  (2) i  (3D    a  (4)   a             (5)       a (A)    a (7)   a  (a)    1 (9) :  (10)    I (II)             1(121   1(13)  MR10
ASIA AND nCEANTA
BA4GLADE%H       73  72.5C        701      1.2    20.2...  ..             ... 23          56.1      ...       AS4.                   .        130      28
CHIOA(TAIHAND  73   1S.:C    0~~901  1.3    100     25    01    22       82       98        90        00        100s0                 5        26      1.0
INDIA,           T1 563.SC    1101         2.6VY  ...       . . . .... 29                 79X       ...       A3A         ...        ..       250      20AT    40D00Y
IN13OYESIA       73 123.01    1201         1.0    11.0      63    23    14       62       63        00        32         5.0        91        12       1b       2.00
IRAN             73  2R.5C    4501         3.3    12.6       SIB   INB   120    so        77        74A       32         5.08       BOA       20       32       A.32CY
floA             72   10.1       370       6.7    16.3DR ......                   26      61CY      . ..      22                               6C      2             2Y
YORLYAN          73    2.AC    2701       7.0      8.8      52    Is    1       59      910        76        38         5.00                 sox50    22      0.00
KOREA             73   3?.31    hO31C      2.9    19.3       64    26      0     95       97        90        53          3.00      it        51       39       6.00
LEBANON           72    a.9      700       3.5    18.0       59    00    10      AS       06        65        19          2.00      63       alOU      25      23.00
4AI.AYSTA        72   11.0       030       6.4    22.7D........    60                     900       ...       32          ...       ...       330      26       ...
OMAN             7 2    0.6      530       2.3      3.8      96          *       20       20X       99        33          7.00      ...        0.00    9         .
PA, IIST AN      75  66.71    1 301        1 .6     6.2      05    25    I S     2 1      47X       s0        39          2.00      ...       171      10a      6. 00
PHILIPPINES    74  39.0 2C 201             2 . 5    1 .9     73    1  I          97 2 a  1000       . ..      34          1s        ...       060      ...    21. 00
SINGAPORE        72    2.:    1 200)       3 .10   16.2      00    31    IS5    75A    1070         72        33          ...       99        487      20       9.?50
THAILAND         73   3 R.3      2201      3.00   186.7      65     9    1 5     02       070       931       32          3.OOU    911        210      24       2.00
TURKEY           72  37.0        310       ...    13.00R........    ...                   05010    ...        30D0        ...       ...       2200    27DY    5.318Y
YEKEY            73    6. 3      1030      0.5      0.0      4SP   21P   23P    1 0       150       I P       36          5.00      75         20      I 9      0.055Y
YEMEN P0O.4.  72    1 .5         100A      2.1A   12.6       79    1 2           1 0      700       31        29         1 0 .00    99        120      20       0.0BAY
SU4MARY FOR DEVELOPING COUNTRIESI
NJMRER IF COUNTRIESI                       b7      67       61    59    59      62       73        01        72           30       41        73       69        67
RAMGE:I                                (0.5-   13.86-   (25- (0-   (0.    (5-         (10-      117-       (19-       (1.8-    (7-        (.0.    (9-          . 01 -
9.00    32.3 )   98 ) 52)   00!    98)         1800!    99 !       66 0       25.0!)   99)         75.01   03)       2 3.0 1
IJARTILE5I,UPPER                        4 .7    21 .0     57    36    20      88       91        76         05          7        76        28       26       0.79
MEDIANZ                     0.0    1 8.2     50    27    15r    50         7 1       56        38           4        63        1 6      23       2 .0 0
LOwER i                     3.0    10.0      42    17    It       20       48        25        33           3        25         0       29      f0.%3
.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
SYMBOL0: ... DATd'm UNAVAILABILE                  31970  OR BEFORE              H:CURRENT PRICES                            SOURCES,
N AGNITtiDE  NIL 00 NEGLIGIRLE 0:1971                              NX3DP....
7  DUESTTIOJASLE                       CmI972                        PSINCLUOING FORETGN AID                       COLUMNOII ANn 2 '4ORLO BANK
* INCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS 031973                               Q.CENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                               ATLAS
** COMB1NED AITH PRIMARY             E*1R74                         R:MINISTRY OF EDIJCATIDN (MOE!  nNLY                    3 TO IA 18RD mISSIniNS
S3MOE AND STATE GOVT. ONLY                                        AND/OR  UNESCO)
T.EXCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                         RTATISTICAI-
JEPURLTC ONLY                                                     YEARRunK
VOINCLUDING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
XMINCLUOING nDVERAGED STUDENTS
YSUNESCO SOURCES
.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ctl4P0PATIVE FOLICATTON DATA ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION OF VARIOUS ED5UCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES OF EDUCATIONAL
DEVELIPMENT MFETWFEN vAYlOUS COIJNTRTES. HOWFVFR,ON THE 86528 OF THE PRESENT DATA,CROSS.NATIONAL COMPARISnN SHOULD BE APPROACHED WITH
SPRAT CA.ITTON. DATA PRESENTED IN THE ABOVE TABLE HAVE BEEN COLLECTED LARGELY BY TME BANK MISSIONS FROm GOVERNMENT SOURCESI THE
REMAINDER ARF STAFF ESTIMATES 09 DATA FROM UNESCOI. EFFORTS HAVE BEEN MADE TO STANDARDIZE DEFINITIONS AND WITHIN LIMITS, TO CHECK THE
ACCURACY OF THE DATA. NEVERTHELES3,SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE RANK IS WORKING Tn IMPROVE THEM
PRRGOESSIVFLY OIN THE JCCASTON OF ITS OPERATInNAL WORK. IN THE USE OF THESE DATA, THE FOLLOWING QUALIFICATIONS SHOULD BE BORNE IN
4100!
(I1'EIUCATION- AS DEFINED IN tHE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING, FORMAL AND NON.FORMALP
f2)"PRIMARY EDLICATION REFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND "SECONDARY' EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECONDARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS OF TYPE (E.G. GENERAL. TECHNICAL. AGRICJLTURAL) a
(3)"LITERACY RATES'(COL.6) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED FROM COUNTRY CENSUSES. IN MANYCOUNTRIES TH4EY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATION$ AND IT Is
DIJSTFUL THAT ANY UNIFORM DEFINITION OF 'LITERATE. HAS BEEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY,
(O)'POSLIC EXPENDITURE IN EDUCATTON'(COLS.3,0 AND 5) REFER T10 ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITUREPS DEVOTED TO EDUICATION BY
PUBLIC AND IUASr-PUBLIC AGENCIESf
(5)"ENROLLMENT RATIOS'(COLS 7, 12 AND 14! REFER TO SCHO)OL YEAR AND MFAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENRAOLLED FULL-TIME
IN THE APPROPRIATE SCHOOL, PU9LIC AND PRIVATE By LEVEL. THEY ARE nFTEN SUOJECT TO A WIDE MARGIN OF ERROR IN IwE DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES SWING TO VARIATION IN THE ACCURACy OF BASIC DATACI.E. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS!. ENROLLmENT FIGURES
FREQUJENTLY ARE HI1GHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN SCHOOL. OVERAGED STUDENTS WHOSE INCL11SION IS INDICATED BY
FIOTNITES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS.



HAITI
The Educ-tio Effort 1960/1961_-_1_973L1974
21~~~~~~~~~~937
In Public   Total        in A ..aI             I. Public      Total   I- Rtural                In Public        Total            Ic Rural         C.rtificated
Ed ..ation  F.-ale.    School.                 Education     Feual..  School.                  Eduction        F-Iuls,           Schoola                  utu                     Rate. or Etroth
Total  and Co   .  and a. 7.    s   7.  TotOl  ad as 7.   sod as 7. SCL%..                                                 as...ILL....  o.-&7- 0    7  961 196  197       196-68   1968.-73
I. PrLq&ry_Education
(a)   nrolloant                     245,084 L79,705(737.) . ...-  112.406(467.  30D6,4011 216,100(71)7.)  .. ..  14.6 00(48%) 334,000  239,400(727.)  76.600(237.3   172,600(52%4)  3.096  10,785  11.016                          2.9      1.6
a. 7. Age Groop                              ...        ..           ..           ..                      ..       :..          397.         697.n                            267.                                    rural,  3.4       3.3
(I.) Teachers                          5,944    3,864        ...       2.813          7,400   4,400(607.)  ...        2,370          7.500    4.700(637.)   5,700(76%)         2.800                                      urbao:  2.4       0.2
T .. her Pupil Ratio              1-41     1,47                   1:40           1 41       1-49                   1:62         1:45       1,51             o...           1:42
Qualified                         I.        .....                                 ...3.220(437.) 1.700(357.)                                                .  .        700 (257.1
(cI Mo.of Schoola                      1,926      753       00         1,120          2,052      80           .       1,212          2,096       8071           na            1225
Av-r.ge 01.0 School                 127       239       na          100            149       257          .c       121            159        275                             141
IT. S ..ondary Educa.tion                                                                                                                                                                                                1
All1 Trveea                                                                                                                                                                                                  1 ,o111!              4.4      4.0
()Eor.IlIot                        20,223  12.065(597.) ....          200(47.)    28,600  17,640(627.)   . ...    267(17.)        34,760   20,170(587.3        . ...       402(17.)                                    rural,   5.7      8.5
as 7. AS.  -rop                                                                  ...5                                                                                                                                urban,  4.4       4.0
(b5 Teach.r.                            ..      ...         ..                        1.383   622(457.3       ..                     1,525    690(457.             ...         .   
T ...her Pupil Ratio                                                             1-21       1,28                                1-23       1,29
Qualified                                                                                   ...175(57.1                                      ...
(cS No.._of SchooLa                    ..a..   ....8                                             19         00         7
Average Si.. School                                                              34)        926                  36
A . PeML-rimary
(a) jRoollmuc..                              ...         ...       ..             2,400  2,400(1007.1   . ...      - (07.5       1,670
as7 of Votal
Teacher Pupil Ratio
Qualified
(oSNo. of Schools                                                   ... .          ..0.0..                          0
Averge Si.e School
8.Genacel
(a) P.nroll,ner                   1,05 no. a2,6C,..4S   ....       - (IT)        2272                                         28,600.      16,700(567.)       (332.)          M 0)                                             4.5      4.8
as 7. of Total                 79%                                            60%
(bl Te. ache                       1,192      467        ...                        ..      ..            .....
Teacher Pupil Ratio            11i4       1,18
Qualif lad
(cl No. of Schools                 ........                                                              ...       ..              92           21            nM  (7)
Averge, lis  School.                                                                                                         313           795
C. Tachoic41
(a) Rocollm.at                     3,966   3.381(857).)    . .     .    .         2.640  2.000(947.)   .         131(67.)      3.740         3.740(1007.)                  240(67.)                                           -4.2      5.6
as 7. of total                 207                                             7%                                                                                                                                 rural  ,..       12.9
(b) Ttaahara                       ..        ...          ..        ..             ...       ........                                                                                                                  urban   5..      23
Teacher Pupil Ratio
Qualified
(oMtN. of _Schools                 73          16                  ...a            20        16          00        4              20           20             na4
A-erag, line School.          277        670                                  142      125                    33                          187                           60
D. Iqaher Traiiohg3
(a) Knroill.et                    203       203(1007.)   . ...    124(617.)       476      297                   179(387.)  562              562(1007.)       180(327.)   162                                163'             11.2      3.4
a. 7. of total                 17                                                                                                                                                                                 rural,  4.2       2.1
(b) iggohers                       u..       ...rban, 16.0                                                                                                                                                                              6.2
Tacoher Pupil Ratio
Qualified
(cl No., of Schoolo                                       .                        9         9                    3                10          10             n.e&            3
Avera-ge Bit. Schools                                                                                                         56           56                           54
III. H(gher Educa tiL
(A)Erollasot                      1,720       1,560(917.) . . ..                 1,676      1,536(927.5    ....     -            2,168      2,028(947.)         488(24%)                                                        -.33      5.3
ao 7. of Age Groop                ..          ....                                          ..(0.67.
(45 Teachers                            ..       ...         ..
Toachar Pupil Ratio
Qualifiead
A. 13csi-itStat)1                    1,720      i,560(91) . ...         -           1,676     1,536(927.)             -2,168                  2,026(947.)         504(237.)    --.33                                                        5.3
(a) Enrollament
(41 Teachers
(cl QuAlified
S. Noo-U.i--rit, St.tue                  
.. nt aailable
0.0.ot applicablea
1/ lodustcial, Cccceril.1 Agriculture, Nutslng, Etc.
1./ Sata for 196 .od 1968 t.csp1eto.
3/ grov-t or Middla School C.rtifioata.
41 Ba..c.laureate.
July 24, 1975



HAITI
Actual Ood P.oiectedEcl'0tan   trc..7   Needed
(in '0008)
Level and Type                                  1973-1974                                               196.971980-1981                                                                                             1985r1986
of Education
Grade and Noonal            Enrolleant aod aoTeaher-Pupil  Teachers on               enrllsnt and co  Te.cher-Pupil   Teacher    Enroll.snt and *0 Teacher-Pupil   Teachero                      Enrollsmet and ao  Teacher-Pupil -TeacherB
Ax. Group               7. of Age Group       Ratio (units)        Post         7. of Age Grnp        Rto(uis    Needed             % of Ate Grms....    Ratio (,nits)   Kaad.dof Age Group                         Ratio (units)   Needed
R      U      T        RU        T RO                  1      U      T                    uU ~                                                          U               T                 R U!        T RUTI
A. Prsr  (Age Group
617 through 12)
Grad.. 1-4 - Rr*l                                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~                        ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~260_  1:55  4.7
(607.)
Grades 1-7 - Rurl   172.6
(267.)                1:62             2.8              185                   1:60             3.1           240                    1:60              4.0
Grades 5-6 - Rural                                                              -2%                                                    37.                                                      54                   1:55            1.0
(557.)
Grades 1-6 - Orban              161.4               1:34            4.7               180                    1:34           5,3              230                  1:35             6.6                 2.60Z/            1:35             7.4
(89a)                                                1g7T1                                                   (897.                                                  (08.
Total Priaray                                                                                365 i/470                                                                                                      575
(397.)            1:45           7.5                 36                                                     4
(407.)-               1:44          8.3               (47)1:45                             10.6               (.75%)T             5Js.4            13.1
B. Secondary                      34.8        34.8                     1_5               f  (67.)                                                                    ii.41.  6  12   2.4                  101:25                                    3.2
(Age Group  03 through                   (57.)                                                                                             (7.47.)                                                    (10.57.)
19)
Grades (7-1l1/12/13)
Post Priaary             -     1.7   1.7
Ge.oraL Secodary         -    28.8  28.8
Vocational              0.24   3.5   3.74
- P-ryec Teahebr
Traini.g                0.16   0.4   0.56
C.  llisthr Edstim                           2.2        ...           ...                 3.0(0.67,)             1:15            0.2          4.0 (0.87.)            1:10            0.27                5.::             I.15                     0.33
Ag roup 20 throost oh                                                                                                                                                                          (0.87.)
24)
GRAND TOTAL                             371                                                 413                                                 534                                                           650
Au 7. of Total Popultion               (8.3%)                                               (S. 7%)                                              (10.47.)                                                    (11.7%.)
R -Rural,         U - Urhan
as percentage of 6 through 12 years age group
age group 7 through 12
~/age group 7 through 10
~/ Ruth together equivalent to 497. of 7 thro.gh 12 age gro.p.
~./Ago grcop 11 and 12.



HAITI                                        ANNEX 4
Teacher Requirements - Public and Private
1985   over   1973                                  1980   over   1973                    Estimated
Additional                             Average      Additional                           Average         anntual.
Level of Education      Teachers      Wastage _    Total        Annual      Teachers    Wastage       Total       Annual         ulufied
requiredl/              Additional      Need       required l/             Additional    Need         teachers oer
plan perio   -/
7/
Primary Rural              2,900       2,600 3/    5,500          450+      1,200        1.4001/      2,600         330
Primary Urban              2,700       3,600 4/    6,             500+      1,900        2,000-/       s,900        500          350 8
Total          5,600        6,200      11,800        1,000+      3,800        3,500        7,300         830          500
Secondary                  1,700       2,500       4.000          350+        900        1,300 1       2,200        300          --
1/ For expansion purposes and at full time equivalency.
2/ Gradual allowance made for retirements, transfers, promotions etc.
3/ At estimated rate of about 87. reducing to 6X  by 1980 and 5%  by 1985.
4/  At estimated rate of about 6% reducing to 5% by 1985.
5/  At estimated rate of about 10% p.a. to allow also for some replacement of unqualified teachers.
6/ Including upgrading of unqualified teachers in intensive courses by IPN and/or Department.
7/ Deficit in plan period about 180 per annum; the demand can be considerably reduced by aiming at a teacher:pupil ratio of
1:40 or 1:h5 as sch~ool buildings increasingly become available with spaces large enough for classes of 45-50. (This is
not possible in the rooms in the houses presently used as schools.)
8/  Deficit about 150 per annum.



HAITI
Public Education Recurrent Expenditures (by Department and by Level)
Actual Expenditures 1973/74
(X Ooos)
Department of                            Department of
Level                   National        ONAAC   Department of       Social      Department of
Education                   Health         Affairs      Agriculture    Total      %
Primary                         12,437                                                    6,655       19,092     60.9
Secondary                        3,410                                                      -         3,410      10.0
Primary Teacher Training           563                                                       26          989      3.2
Vocational Training              1,721                    6713k           376               191        2,966      9.5
University                       1,918                    7193/                                        2,637      8.4
ONAAC                              530        1,000                                                   1530       4.9
Miscellanous                       705                                                                   705      2.2
TOTAL               21,284         1,000    1,397              376             7,272      31,329   '100.0
as %                 67.9           3.2       .5               1.2              23.2       100l 0
Source:  Prepared by the mission from data provided by the different ministries.
1J Nurses Training School
2/ Vocational Training and rural artesanal/handicraft
Faculties of Medicine, Dentistry and Paramedical School
/  ONAAC - Office National d 'Alphabetisation et Communautaire



HAITI
Distribution of Public Recurrent Edwation Expenditurem by Level and TyV*
1 973/741/
other       _                   _  1
4Adinistratinn  5   Teachers                Staff    J          Material j   Ient                 o_ S                  tal             | _*_ u_$
PrimaLrv *          1(,89 91;      f.2 16-h)1 t279        7 .7 ?  33,)2)    ' .6  I       6      .  1 6-3,226    9.4         _        _r -       ,IIu0   c o        79         16
Urban               341,724      2.8   11,192,679      9 ). o    173, 149    1.4    201,685    1.6   257,582    4.2        _       _   12, 437,)19  100.0        106        21
Rutrl               N1J4,191    12.7    5,54hf,600     031.4    120?,783    1.9      6,876    ).1   125,644    1.9         _       _    6,655,091  100.0          53        11
Secondary              89,723      2.6    2,83),769      33.0    2148,766    7.2    138,456    4.1    5L4,360)   1.6  50,625        1.5   3,419,699  110.')        203        41
Teacher TrainLng      103,779    1(4.5      438,611      44.4    1 8 , )64   19.1      9,57P    1.0        _        -   2147,500   25.O      08S,532  100.0    1 ,582        316
Urban                1 .,5)2     1.9      278,411     49.5     88,744   15.8        9,578    1.7        _        -   175,51))   31.1                         1,407        20l
Rural                93,277    21.9       160,20J      37.6    100,320   23.6          _ -          -             -    72.10    16.9      lsI%,797  1 1).0    1,892        378
Voeatipnaltrng.        22,523      1,3      9214,167     53.7    250,007   15.1    101,01 1   5.9    10,380    0.6  433,282   23.4   1 ,71 ,169  100.0            780        156
(Urban)
Vooeta                1 42, )32    22.0      32,1400     17.0     38,460   2 ).1         _       -         -           I 78,36)  140.9      190,952 100.0         841        168
(Rural)--                                                        _ _         --                --                         -        ---
TOTAL        1,443,972     5.7   21,967,226       012.5  1, 35,426    4.1    451,43)5    1.    717,966    2.8  779,1467    3.1  25,140,1462  100.0
Source:  Prepared 0, the 'lission frorn information rOven b.l the differerit ministriea.
2/ Expenditures of the Ministry of National Education a-id M,inistry of Agriculture.
0'



iAITI
Physical Places Requirements in  Estim ted C-sts - 2>iblic Sector
1985   over   1973                                                                   1980   over   1973
Total    Additional Additional        Total     Average   Estimated   Average            Total      Additional Add  Ioral        Total    Average  -it  te
Public        new     replacement additional   annual           Unit       Annual        Public          new    replacemen  additional   annual           Uait   Annual
Enrollment   places    places1/          places  need for         cost        Cost      Enrollment         Places     plaplac      elaces       _ need for  FUst5t  cost
1985      required                  required new places                                  198C        required    rpaeulaeds    rup n
Primay  .                                            Units    e Millions        198requird                                         places e     Units   _ Millions
Rural        250,000-1   120,000       70,000      190,000      16,000        620-          9.6       190,000-2       60,000     40,000       100O,OO      14,000      690b/       8.4
Primary002
Urban        200,Ooo_/    85,000       65,000      150,000      12,500+       65D 61        8.2       185,000-/       70,000      35,000      105,000      15,000      650k6/      9.8
17.8                                                                                     .2$
Total 4450,000      205,000    135,000       340,000      28,000                   US$3.6        375,000       130,000      75,000      205,000       29,00= US$3.6
4/                               ~~~~~~~~13.0                            7500/0500    970 U$.6
Secondary       )2,00d/    32,000         8,000-      40,000       l,,OO-+    4,000        U2 0          39,000-/       18,000       4,000       22,000       3,100   4,000         US52.5
Note:   Costs assume that all places are constructed and at 1975 prices; these capital costs would be reduced accordingly to the extent rented premises are used, in which
case rental costs would need to be added to recurrent expenditures, or to the extent schoola are used on double shift. !
1/ Allowance made for replacement of only 5% annually of existing absolete places.
Z/ Assume about 80% of total enrollment (cf. 72% in 1973).
3/  Asaume about 65% of total enrollment (cf. 58% in 1973).
4/  Assume only about 4% of existing places replaced annually.
5/  Excludes site purchase costs  and teacher housing.
6/  Assumes 15% cost reduction as result of community participation,and 50% of places built to standard of IDA project schools.
7/  Assumes 50% of places built to IDA project teacher training standards.
8/  If we assume that 40% of new primary rural places can be used on double shift and 757 of new urban primary and urban secondary places, then average annual costs in 1980 would be
"f the order:
Rural Primary   0  5.0 million
Urban Primary   a  6   million
Total Primary   a 11   million  =  US$2.2 million
Secondary        e  8   million  =  US$2.6 milliog



HAITI - FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
COST SUMY - GS/000
-ta [0                       ~~~~~~~~~CIVIL WORKS                          FOunmz jiL             EQUIPMENT  PRtOFSS. TRCUISC. ABSSISTARCZ    RjG           MI-..
Sit.    Acadeic &  Roardi        Staff      TaCoL  Aadeic &Tocl                                            Speial-    Fo           U       C    /Roe     13*$/000
1. RUIAL EDUCATION CRuOS:
3M 001 to            65 p isry schools                       4   13,000     22,295.0   1.7    1,293.5      6.623.5      -       2.002.0    8,625.5    1,066.0       -       1,066.0      858.0    1,I99A        --                           13,b33-3 .    ,6O6.6
SM 060                  (6 classro, ty)
2. E38  MRUSSRY SCNF8:
sF-A 001 to ad 008   8 type :A" schelEs/ (6 clasrooa)   6   2,400            3,688.0   1.6      199.2     1,307.2       -           -      1,327.2       308.8      -         188.8       100.0      183.2      -          -         -        1,998.4       399.7
NP-i 001 and Q02      2 type "S" schonli/ (12 clasaroo_)  6    1,200         1,672.0   1.4       85.6        570.6      -           -        570.6        91.2      -          91.2        37.8       78.8      -          -         -          83.a        173.8
3. PIUSRY T1C .   T141TII:
so 001  Pot so yrmce                                         3      240   (peok)                 7           305.5       195.03-    -        503.1        59.8     22.8        82.6       175.4       69.4      -          -         -          906.0       181.2
n 002  Cap R.mt L5                                                  240      1,348.0   5o6-    119.4        460.0    199.6        136.5      796.1       89.4      38.9       128.3      209.9       Jo9.8      -          -         -        1,363.5      .m7T
m       G1005  ot.RiV                                        3      240      1,348.0  5.6       109.4       460.0   199.6         136.5      796.1        89.4     38.9       120.3      209.9       159.8      -         -          -        1,363.3       272.7
4.  Uw-PEWL IDUCATI11
Equip_n.t far ONAAC                                                                                                                                                                2,000.0                                                2,000.0      400.0
S.  PIJIECT ATMINISTRATION
Rtaff                                                                                                                                                                                                                         650.0       2,0o .0      130.0
Equtinoot                                                                                                                                                                            100.0                                                  100.0       00.0
6, TECHNICAL ASRISTUNI
SpeotalEst.                                                                                                                                                                                                1,100.0                    -   1,500.0      300.0
F*lloohips                                                                                                                                                                                                          100.0                   LM6.S       n.e
7. FPICT TOTAL EXCLUDING COOIISINCCIES (Jao. 1976 pric.S.  GOCUDES                            1,092.6      9,749.4   394.2      2,275.0    a,61o86 6   1,584.6   Tooo6    1,685.2           3,691.0    1,741.3  1,500.0   100.0    650.0     23,428.7
68  (o5T uS4 EQO*vALeNT                                                                     378.5                                      2,523.7                            337.0      738.2       318.3       700.0    20.0    130.0       4,685.7    4,775.7
Crtll7tll     S us$/000
-  Physiol    (10%)                                                                          37.9                                        252.4                             33.7       73.8       34.8         30.0     2.0     13.0                    477.6
-Cas: zsce1atioo  (23%)                                                                   105.3                                        6*.3                              83.1      125.6        77.0        91.6      3.7     07.6                  1,220.2
8ub-Sttl   (O t)                                                                         i43.2                                        948.7                           116.8       199.4      111.8        121.6     5.7      50.6                 1,697.8
SOJier TSOAL I3CL0DNC CDNTIIGIUCIiS  US$/000                                                521.7                                      3.472.4                            453.8      937.6      46o.1        42L6    25.7   i8o.6                    614T3.5
P8113   CON         s 82%)  US$/000                                                         180.8                                      1,583.5                            199.5      896.5        38.3       401.3    25.7      15.9                 3,341.5
O.r will bI .ord o o applicetio  scITel for teacher trolcl,.g - Pcrt an Prince
,/   Appli-ctioc schools for teacher tr-iaieg (Cop Haitien
(Oolsvee
/Acodeeec r000 coily



HAITI - FIRST EDLUATION PROJECT
CONTINGENCY ALWWANICES
US$ Thousands
Site Works          Buildings           Furniture          Equipment        Prof. Services        Specialists         Fellowships       Project Admin.
Local  Foreign     Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign        L cal  Fornd       Local  Foreign      Local  Foreign      Local  Foreig       Local  Foreign          TOTAL
physieal Increase 4            10       10         10      10         10       10         10       11         10       10         10      10           -      10          10      10           (10%)
Price Increase                 26       24         26      24         27       17         27       1j         21       11        23       28           -      17          28      11           (23%)
total Base Project Cost       246.0   132.5    1362.8  1160.9        182.0   155.0        29.5   703.7       316.9    31.4        15.0   285.0         -      20.0       117.0    13.0        4,775.7
Physical Increase              24.6    13.3       136.3   116.1       18.2    15.5         2.9    70.9        31.7      3.1        1.5    2A.5         -       2.0        11.7      1.3         477.6
Sub-Total                     270.6   145.8    1499.1  1277.0        200.2   170.5        32.4   779.6       348.6    34.5        16.5   313.5         -      22.0       128.7     6.6        5,253.3
Price Increase                 70.3    35.0       389.8   306.5       54.1    29.0         8.7   116.9        73.2      3.8        3.8    87.8         -        3.7       16.6     0.7        1,220.2
Total Contingencies            94.9    48.3       526.1   422.6       72.3    44.5        11.6   187.8       104.9      6.9        5.3   116.3         -        5.7       47.7      2.9       1,697.8
TOTAL PRNJDCT COST
INCLlIDIIG CONTIIGENCIES      340.9   180.8    1888.9  1583.5        254,3   199.5        41.1   896.5       421.8    38.3        20.3    401.3        -      25.7       164.7    15.9        6,473.5






ffi S a | 9'; i                                                              Q*| 2;23ga  -  +-73F3    
rF~~~~ ~ ~~~~~ g                                                   Z   Z  Z    Z    =     o    o8     z3zza  8                   8  8
S    t  e  e S g                             z ~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aa  F    o3  
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                         g
~~~~~ a    t  t~~~~~~~~~~~  8 88  8 85                                                                  
|~ ~~~~~aa 8                                                    -                     - 8- 8888,88T TT         8F8      1 
i   $   8   $   8  8  i  8   S  8   p            0  0   T     S           t  +  t  t                       @~~~~~~~~8   8   ~a 8 ~
a a8     F8  8                                 +1 -0  8    + + 8
S         Q 8 S 8            8 8  S                 0 0  0                   + + +88  8
S         a  Sa               8          S 8                   8  8     88                  
8                8 S a a a           8 8T                         8                9+ 9t + 9
8   S   S   .  S   S  T     a   i  2              ~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~             ~~~~~~~~8S 8 S 8.++  +   + 
T~~~~~~~~~a 898                                       aa a                              
8 ,8     8          8                    88   8                                     
0~~~~~~~a S                            F                                              -
S    I .                        _                                                     @~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






ANNEX 11
HAITI
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
Expenditures-US$/000                   Disbursements-US$/000
Amount                               Amount
FY           During   Accumulated   Unspent       During    Accumulated   Undisbursed
(Semester)     Semester Expenditures  Balance       Semester  Disbursements    Balance
1975
2nd                                   6470
1976
1st             100          100      6370          -           -               5500
2nd.            600          700      5770         500         500              5000
1977
1st            1315         2015      4455       1200         1700              3800
2nd            1000         3015      3455         850        2550              2950
1978
1st             930         3945      25-25-       800        3350              2150
2nd             900         4845      1625      750           4100              1400
1979
1st             770         5615       855-       650         4750               750
2nd             635         6250       220         550        5300               200
1980
1st             220         6470        -          200        5500
2nd              -            






HAITI
ORGANIZATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF NATIONAL EDUCATION
Secretary of State
Director-general                     Primary Education                    S nry Educatin                        Vo         Edauona Education             Youth and Sports
DF isonDivision                                                               Division                  I
Personnel Se  ~                       Regional                              Supervisory
Offices                              Services
_Auldio-Visual Aids Service
-|   Accounts Branch  l                                                                    National Library
National Archives
_I  Documentation Center I
Academy of Fine Arts
r   Furniture and                                                                          Music Conservatoire
7   Materials Services
-|Planning and Statistics
-|   Library Services      j
Eng ineering Servicet                                                                                                                                    World Bank-9897                       !






HiAITI
ORGANIZATION OF THE TRAINING DIVISION,
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
|SECRETARY OF STATE|
| AGRICULTURE DIVISION            NATURAL RESOURCES DIVIS            RURAL DEVELOPMENT DIV.
F~~~~~~~~~~
II        
<0
Liz                       0
I-j            -J       00
o      -I               zo
_J   P                0
AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS
(12)
World Bank-9968






HAITI
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
AGE   6      7      8      9      10    11      12    13             14     15    16              17    Is      19      20           21      22    23      24     25    26
SECONDARY TEACHER TRAINING
TEACHER TRAINING URR3AN                (ARTS)
EXTENDED PRIMARY                                (S~~~~~~~FCULTEON SIECE
NEW ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ECE TRTIUCTURURA
EXTENDED ~ ~    ~    1        3RMR                             SUONARVYINGHE  RANN
SCHOOL
t~~~~~~~~~~SECOND CYCLE)                                  ETHNOLOGY
URBAN PRIMARY                                                             2
IFIRST CYCLE)              H                      P 
ENF             RURAL PRIMARY
F                              2    ~~~~~~~~~~~~CENTER RIURAL          AGRICULTURAL                  VETRtAR SCIENCES&
d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ S
SCHOOL                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~FACULTIES MEDECINE ANO PHAHMAACY
(DOCTORS)                               IPHARMACY)
EXAMINATION                                                                                                IDENtlSTRY)
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION                                                                                            HE-
CP=LEAVING CERTIFICATE                     HOE MANAGEMEN
BACC-BACCALAUREAT
i   NEWU5EAU STRUCTURE                                      VOCAT ONAL CENTER VCIOA   EIA~S                                  S      E 
,TELTRADES                   OI
World B.-E9-888






HAITI
EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID, 1973/74
S. SECONDARY AND
HIGHER EDUCATION
URBAN                                                                RURAL
A. PRIMARY AND SECONDARY                 (thousnds)                                                           (unifts)
EDUCATION                               .06                                                        V
0,1                                                        v      Rua
0,2                                                        IfI  1I
0.2                                                       II      Un
ESTIMATED                                                     0,4                                                         1     "I
(thousands)                                                  0,2                     HIGHER
U    R     lan                                              14                   ECOND LEEL                            7
1,4   -     7                                               26                                                         6              20
2,6  0,02    8                                              3,2                                                        5              31
3,2  0,03    5               URBAN              RURAL       3                                                          4              36
3,1 0,03    4                                               6,3                                                         3
6,3  0,06    3                                                                                                          2
7,6  011S    2
SECOND 
3,3  o,s    1    LEVEL                                       10 a| '                                                     0 _
12,4  2,s    6                                                                                          (te Ithou)           (unets)
PRIMARY 
17,3  5,0    5
23,3  8,3    4                                                                                   Li
22.3 12,3    3                                                                                     L
343 17,3     2                                                                                       L,
44,11139,3    1L
13,0 91,0     I
40         20           0          20          40         Ii IC                  1 00
I - Infant Cln                                                                                                        World Bank-15104
M Public Ed.
W   Privats Ed.
CH
I--






IBRD 11897
730                                       ~                                     7?3Q                                      7
-                              r~~~~~~~10              A   r  I  A  N   T                                  C                             L 0 C      A   N
N A 171                                               t~~~~~~~~~~~ML$EIOLS  3             0                                       -
'60             ~~~CARIISEAN   SEA               4hde dnrt'./'C                                                                                                                                                  IB T
HAITI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                                                       N~                    doAbiCrc,Cn.
AREA AN NUBE OF RURAL BASCEDUCATION
AND COMMJIII  LARNN  ETR
*  PRIMARIY TEACHER TRtAIlNDN SCHOOLS-d
RTCLASSROOM lRAIPIAYSHO-  A
1 2 CLASSRIOOMJ          LRNNMTESai    Md.ed
EXITING FEATURES                                                                                                                        ret(-INCE                                                O
ASPHALT ROAMS
DRAVE L RIOAM
DIRT RIOAM                                                                                                                                                                            Ne/gS.erd 
DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIE S
-   -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
RIVERS
oo"'$VE  C7~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0~'i
KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                                       0m
loetee.. __~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ..1-1
_   ~~~~~~~~0~~
or I  - -  Pnfletroe                                                                                           ro-od*Berqtori  'se~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o'te-nP
dHoeeor                                                                     <~~~~l        S~r....e -- CPQT.UPdNC
0                                                    S~~~~~~ r T
,401N C                                                                                                                                                                     C 
100 lnOi~~~~~~~   -, p~~~~-o-o-                                                     ore. Cede.    Cooed-~   ~    ~ ~ ~~~~.                                                 -~_
'N ~  ~ ~ c~o                   r'  ChordI--                                                                                       C."
--  'P                                    o- IA'C                -              8    E  t                       IF    IA'-                                  I
P'r-0i.c. 0                                                      N                          r 



