CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 61 8-HA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Education Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 27, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 27, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF HAITI
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
0


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement rccept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements
of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "DAG" means the Borrower's Department of Agriculture,
Natural Resources and Rural Development;
(b) "DOE' means the Borrower's Department of National
Education;
(c) "IPN" means the Borrower's National Pedagogical Institute;
(d) "ONAAC" means the Borrower's National Literacy and Com-
munity Development Office,
(e) "CONADEP' means the Borrower's Council for National
Development and Planning;


﻿-3-
(f) "Project Unit" means the Unit referred to in Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement; and
(g) "Project Account" means the account referred to in Sec-
tion 3.01(c)(i) of this Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to five million five hundred thousand dollars ($5,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time
by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the goods, works and services (other than consultants' services)
for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-5-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each June 15
and December 15, commencing June 15, 1986, and ending December 15,
2025, each installment to and including the installment payable
on December 15, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
*       of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿- 6 -                                  0
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, educational, architectural and engineer-
ing practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) To assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the Proj-
ect, the Borrower shall, except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, establish and maintain a Project Unit with such powers,
responsibilities, personnel and resources as are set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c) Without limiting its obligations under paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall: (i) establish and maintain a
special Project Account in the name of the Project Unit, under
arrangements satisfactory to the Association; (ii) deposit in such
Project Account an initial amount covering the anticipated total
Project expenditures for the first quarter subsequent to the com-
mencement of the Project; (iii) replenish, from time to time, the
amount in the Project Account for the purpose of covering the
anticipated total Project expenditures for at least each quarter;
and (iv) deposit or cause to be deposited in the Project Account
such amounts as shall from time to time be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in respect of expenditures made out of the Project
Account.


﻿-7-
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the archi-
tectural design of the buildings and facilities for the educational
and training institutions included in Part A of the Project, and
in the supervision of construction thereof, the Borrower shall,
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, employ architectural
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. Within six (6) months from the date of this
Agreement or such other date as the parties to this Agreement may
subsequently agree, the Borrower shall establish and maintain,
after consultation with the Association, special technical commit-
tees whose members shall include, inter alios, qualified represen-
*       tatives of DOE, DAG and the Project Unit, with duties as set forth
in paragraph 5(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. In carrying out Part C of the Project, the
Borrower sha'l:
(a) employ specialists acceptable to the Association upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; and
(b)  select candidates as set forth in the Exhibit to Sched-
ule 2 to this Agreenent to be trained abroad through fellowships,
with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.05. With regard to the schools included in Parts
A.1 and A.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall take all necessary
measures to ensure:


﻿-8-
(a) that facilities are available, after school hours, for
community programs organized by ONAAC and the Borrower's Departments
of Public Health and Population and of Social Affairs;
(b) that DOE and DAC introduce, upon commencement of opera-
tion of such schools, reformed common curricula and appropriate
teaching aids for learning; and
(c) that (i) the average number of students in classrooms
does not exceed fifty (50), and (ii) beginning with the fourth
year of operation of such schools, fifty per cent (50%) of the
teachers are trained teachers and the balance of the teachers
have had at least the equivalent of three (3) years' post-primary
education and have followed an intensive pedagogical training
course acceptable to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.06. With regard to the Primary Teacher Training
Colleges included in Part A.3 of the Project, the Borrower in
coordination with IPN, DOE and DAG teacher trainers, shall take
all necessary measures to develop appropriate common basic curri-
cula and syllabi for pre-service and in-service teacher-training
courses, implement them upon commencement of operation of the
Project Colleges and ensure that teachers upon graduation from
these Colleges are qualified and allowed to serve in both DOE and
DAG schools.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause a study, including
recommendations, on terms and conditions of service, bonding and
appointment procedures of primary teachers to be carried out, inter
alios, with the assistance of specialists acceptable to the Borrower


﻿-9-
and the Association and completed within two years from the date
of this Agreement or such other date as the parties to this Agree-
ment may subsequently agree.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association
for review, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifica-
tions, reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall rea-
sonably request.
(b)  The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (includinq the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project:
(ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the


﻿- 10-
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Association all such information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expend-
iture of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services fi-
nanced out of such proceeds.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to: (a) select as and when
needed all sites, acceptable to the Association, for the institu-
tions included in Part A of the Project, and (b) acquire as and
when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities
included in the Project.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consist-
ently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)  The Borrower shall cause the Project Unit to: (i) have
the Project Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Asso-
ciation as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
(4) months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of such Project Account for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning
the Project Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall formulate and furnish
to the Association, not later than June 30, 1977 or such later
date as the Association shall agree, a comprehensive education
development plan that will, inter alia, specify the measures
necessary to achieve the Borrower's educational objectives. The
Borrower shall consult with the Association regarding the scope
and general principles of the proposed plan.


﻿- 12 -
(b) The Borrower shall, commencing about one year after the
date of this Agreement and over a period of six years thereafter,
annually review, jointly with the Association, its educational
reform plans and programs, overall policies, and the availability
of funds for carrying them out.
(c) Without limiting its obligations under paragraph (b) of
this Section, the Borrower shall review, jointly with the Associa-
tion, its needs for rural primary teacher training programs and,
as of June 30, 1977 or such other date as the Borrower and the
Association may subsequently agree, take all necessary measures
in accordance with the needs so determined to expand such programs.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall adequately maintain, or
cause to be maintained, the buildings, equipment and furniture of
the institutions included in the Project and make, or cause to be
made, all necessary repairs and renewals thereof in accordance
with sound administrative and technical standards.
(b) Without any limitations upon the foregoing the Borrower
shall, during the implementation of the Project and thereafter,
provide sufficient funds to meet other recurrent costs required
to operate the schools of the Project.
S.


﻿-13 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a) the Project Unit has been established pursuant to Sec-
tion 3.01(b) of this Agreement;
(b) the Project educator referred to in paragraph u3 of Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement has been appointed and the officials re-
ferred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been
designated by DOE and DAG; and
(c) the Borrower has deposited in the Project Account the
amount referred to in Section 3.01(c)(ii).
Section 5.02. The date May 27, 1976 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
4.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or or a
date twenty-five (25) years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 14-
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary of State for Finance and Economic
Affairs of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretairerie d'Etat des Finances
et des Affaires Economiques
Palais des Finances
Port-au-Prince
Haiti
Cable address:                     Telex:
Secretairerie d'Etat des           (349)0083
Finances et des
Affaires Economiques
Port-au-Prince
Haiti
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098(ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
By /s/ Georges Salomon
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is! Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿-  16  -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil Works and
Professional Fees:
(a) Part A.1 of           1,750,000         70%
the Project
(with the
exception of
(c) below)
(b) Part A.2 and            750,000         70%
Part A.3 of
the Project
(with the
exception of
(c) below)
(c) Imported                300,000         100% of foreign
building ma-                           expenditures
terials and
construction
equipment for
Part A of the
Proj ect
0


﻿-17 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(2) Furniture and              1,180,000         100% of foreign
Equipment                                    expenditures and
85% of expendi-
tures for locally
procured goods
(3) Technical Assis-             370,000         100%
tance: Specialists'
Services and Fellow-
ships
(4) Project Administra-          150,000         85%
tion
(5) Unallocated                1,000,000
TOTAL      5,500,000


﻿-  18  -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture., procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in re-
spect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the Bor-
rower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such item as required to be consistent with the afore-
mentioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement, except that withdrawals may be made in respect
of Categories (1), (3) or (4) on account of expenditures incurred
after September 1, 1975 in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $150,000.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallo-
cate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated


﻿- 19 -
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Association are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that fur-
ther withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expendi-
tures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds
of the Credit.


﻿- 20-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Construction, furnishing and equipping of:
1.   65 new Rural Schools/Community Learning Centers to
provide basic education (Grades 1 to 4) each with
classrooms, a simple workshop, a home-management
area and a staff-housing unit, with approximately
13,000 student places for school-age children and
which will also serve out-of-school youngsters and
adults in functional literacy and other community
training prograns.
2.   10 new Urban Priimiary Schools/Community Learning
Centers in Conaives, Cap Haitien and Port-au-Prince
areas to provide primary education (Grades 1 to 6)
each with classroors, a simple workshop and a
home-managenent area, with approximately 3,600
student places for school-age children and
which will also serve out-of-school youngsters and
adults in functional literacy and other community
training programs.
3.   Two new Primary Teacher Training Colleges at Conaives
and Cap Haitien, each with approximately 240 student
places, 80 boarding places and 6 staff houses, and


﻿-21 -
extension of one existing College at Port-au-Prince,
with approximately 240 student places and 80 boarding
places.
Part B:   Office National d'Alphabetisation et d'Action Communautaire
(ONAAC). Provision of equipment to existing ONAAC offices
in Port-au-Prince, Artibonite and Plaine du Nord areas,
including mobile units, motorcycles, duplicating machines,
audio-visual aids and printing materials, for improvement
of literacy and community programs.
Part C:   Technical Assistance. The provision of:
1.   approximaely 7 man-years of specialists, all as
more fully described in the Exhibit hereto; and
2.   approximately one man-year of fellowships, all as
more fully described in the Exhibit hereto.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1979.


﻿-22-
EXHIBIT TO SCHEDULE 2
Approximate
Man-Years
A.   Specialists services
1.   Teacher training                                  2
2.   Adviser to ONAAC                                  1
3.   Vocational training division of
DOE                                               1
4.   Sub-sector studies                                2
5.   Prcject Unit                                      1
Approximate
Man-Months
B.   Fellowships
1.   ONAAC administrators and supervisors              6
2.   Vocational and technical educators                6


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts A.2 and A.3 hereof, goods and
works shall be procured under contracts to be awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with theOse set forth in Part A of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guide-
lines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   Bidders for civil works contracts included in Part A of the
Project shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of
Part A of the Guidelines. The civil works contracts shall be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association. The invitation for pre-
qualification shall be advertised locally.
3.   Items of furniture, equipment and materials required for the
Project shall be grouped so as to permit bulk procurement as shall
be consistent with appropriate technical and procurement practices.
Contracts for furniture, equipment and materials contracts estimated
to cost less than $15,000 equivalent shall be awarded after soli-
citation of quotations from at least three manufacturers or sup-
pliers, provided that the total cost of furniture, equipment and
materials so procured shall not exceed the equivalent of $75,000
in the aggregate and provided that all terms and conditions thereof
are satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 24                                      0
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on importZ1d goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Haiti may be granted a margin of pref-
erence in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Haiti
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Association that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Haiti equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
*


﻿-25 -
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Haiti.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evaluated
bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be compared
with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from
group A or group B is the lowest, it whall be selected for the
award.
(d)  If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall
be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered in
each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison only,
an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other im-
port taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15%
of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and
taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further
comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if
not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison
under paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 26 -
C.   Procedures for Review of Procurement Decisions by the
Association
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before quali-
fication is invited, inform the Association in detail of the pro-
cedure to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in
said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any appli-
cant for prequalification and for such eligibility shall be fur-
nished by the Borrower to the Association for its comments before
the applicants are notified, and the.Borrower shall make such addi-
tions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as
the Association shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of lists of items of furniture, equipment and materials.
Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, for its approval, a list of all items of furniture, equipment
and materials, indicating their specifications, estimated unit
price and total price of each category of items. Amendments to
such lists which may be made from time to time shall also be sub-
mitted to the Association for approval. Procurement shall be lim-
ited to those items of furniture, equipment and materials which
are specified in such lists.
3.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts. With respect to all contracts for (i) civil works esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and (ii) furni-
ture, equipment and materials estimated to cost the equivalent
of $15,000 or more:


﻿- 27 -
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suf-
ficient time for its review, a detailed report. by the consultants
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the recommenda-
tions for award of the said consultants and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsist-
ent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not.
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract.


﻿-28-
4.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
The Association shall, if it determines that the award of the con-
tract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿-29-
SCHEDULE 4
The Project Unit
1.   The Project Unit, established within CONADEP, under the direc-
tion of the Project Director, will be responsible for the execution
of the Project, including: (i) overall management of the Project,
(ii) supervision of the carrying out of the Project, (iii) coordi-
nation with all departments and agencies of the Borrower partici-
pating in the carrying out of the Project, and (iv) liaison with
the Association. Specifically, the Project Unit will, inter alia:
(a) coordinate and integrate all Project activities with the
departments and agencies of the Borrower, and correspond with the
Association on technical matters related to the Project;
(b) select the architectural consultants and other specialists,
define and approve their terms of reference and administer their
contracts;
(c) organize the award of fellowships and monitor their per-
formance;
(d) prepare with the help of the DOE and DAG officials
referred to in paragraph 4 of This Schedule, a comprehensive
Project implementation schedule based on the Critical Path Method,
Gantt Chart or other satisfactory method for setting down the
planned timetable of coordinated activities and responsibilities
on which the carrying out of all aspects of the Project will be
based. Such work plans will be revised quarterly;


﻿- 30 -
(e) in collaboration with the DOE and DAG officials, monitor
the progress of construction, studies, preparation of new curri-
culae and other education and training work plans;
(f) ensure the review and approval by appropriate authorities
of the reports, specifications and other material submitted to the
Borrower by the architectural consultants and other specialists;
(g) regularly inspect all construction works;
(h) ensure the preparation of lists of furniture and equipment
and materials referred to in paragraph C.2 of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement;
(i) prepare invitations to bid and arrange for the award of
contracts relating to the Project;
(j) maintain records and accounts and prepare for presenta-
tion to the Association through proper channels applications for
withdrawals from the Credit Account; and
(k) prepare quarterly progress reports for presentation to
the Association.
2.   The Project Director, whose qualifications and experience
will be satisfactory to the Association, will be employed on a
full-time basis. At all times, he will have direct access to the
Minister of DOE, the Minister of DAG and the Director of ONAAC,
and will coordinate all activities with the DOE and DAG officials
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule. lie will be directly


﻿-31-
responsible for the execution of the routine aspects of the Proj-
ect, including staff management, coordination of technical assist-
ance specialists; services, and procurement matters, and will
report to the Executive Secretary of CONADEP. He will also ensure
that the construction. equipment and furniture of the Project
facilities meet educational and training requirements.
3.   The Project Director will be assisted, inter alios, by the
following full-time personnel whose qualifications and experience
will be satisfactory to the Association.
(a)  a Project educator,
(b)  a procurement specialist, and
c)  an accountant.
4.   In addition, DOE and DAC will each appoint a qualified and
experienced official responsible for:
(a) inplementing the educational aspects of the Project
related to DOE and DAG respectively, and
(b)  coordinating the operations between DOE. DAG and the
Project Unit.
5.   The Project Unit will also be provided with required support-
ing staff, adequate prenises, equipment, means of communication
and transport. In addition, it will be aided by the services of:
(a) architectural consultants, and (b) special technical committees
for (i) reviewing architectural designs and sneciifications,


﻿- 32 -
(ii) preparing and reviewing lists of items of furniture, equipment
and materials, and (iii) certifying that such designs, specifica-
tions and lists meet the economic and functional standards as well
as the costs and the educational objectives of the Project.


