                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR00003349



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (TF-22013)



                                    ON AN

                   OZONE PROJECTS TRUST FUND GRANT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$31.22 MILLION

                                   TO THE

                           ARGENTINE REPUBLIC

                                    FOR A

         REDUCTION OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES PROJECT



                                 June 30, 2015




Environment and Natural Resources Global Practice
Buenos Aires-Southern Cone Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

           (Exchange Rate Effective as of December 30, 2014)

                     Currency Unit = Argentine Peso
                            1.00 = US$ 0.12
                          US$ 1.00 = ARS 8.55

                             FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1 – December 31

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ARS     Argentine Peso
CE      Cost-effectiveness
CFC     Chloroflourocarbon
CP      Country Programme for Phase-out of Ozone Depleting Substances
ExCom   Executive Committee of the Multilateral Fund
FIASA   Frio Industrias Argentina S.A.
GA      Grant Agreement
GEO     Global Environment Objectives
GOA     Government of Argentina
GWP     Global Warming Potential
HCFC    Hydrochloroflurocarbon
HFA     Hydrofluoroalkane
HPMP    HCFC Phase-out Management Plan
INTA    Instituto Nacional de Tecnología Agropecuaria (National Institute
        of Agricultural Technology)
INTI    Instituto Nacional de Tecnología Industrial (National Institute of
        Industrial Technology)
IA      Implementing Agency of the Multilateral Fund
IP      Implementation Progress
ISR     Implementation Status Report
Kg      Kilogram
M       Million
MCF     Methyl chloroform (1,1,1-Trichloroethane, TCA)
MeBr    Methyl bromide
MLF     Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the Montreal Protocol
MOD     Memorandum and Recommendation of the Director
MOI     Ministry of Industry
MP      Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer
MT      Metric tons
NCPP    National CFC Phase-out Plan
NOU     National Ozone Unit
ODS     Ozone Depleting Substances
ODP     Ozone Depleting Potential
OORG     Ozone Operations Resource Group
OPROZ    Oficina Programa Ozono (National Ozone Unit)
OTF      Ozone Projects Trust Fund
PCR      Project Completion Report
PCU      Project Coordination Unit
PDO      Project Development Objective
PIM      Project Implementation Manual
PRESAO   Proyecto para la Reducción de Sustancias que Agotan la Capa de
         Ozono/Project for the Reduction of ODS
OTF      Ozone Projects Trust Fund
SAyDS    Secretaría de Ambiente y Desarrollo Sostenible (Secretariat of
         Environment and Sustainable Development)
SGA      Subgrant Agreement
SI       Secretariat of Industry
TA       Technical Assistance
TTL      Task Team Leader
UEPRO    Unidad Ejecutora de Proyecto (Project Coordination Unit)
UNDP     United Nations Development Programme
UNIDO    United Nations Industrial Development Organisation




                         Vice President:   Jorge Calderon
                 Senior Global Practice
                                           Paula Caballero
                               Director:
                      Country Director:    Jesko S. Hentschel
                      Practice Manager:    Emilia Battaglini
                  Project Team Leader:     Tuuli Bernardini
                     ICR Team Leader:      Tuuli Bernardini
                            ICR Author:    Mary-Ellen Foley
                                  ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
                        Reduction of Ozone Depleting Substances Project


                                                    CONTENTS

Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design ................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 14
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 17
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 18
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 19
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 20
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 32
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 34
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 36
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 37
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 38
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 44
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 45
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                         Reduction of Ozone
                                                                         Depleting Substances
Country:                 Argentina               Project Name:
                                                                         Project (Montreal
                                                                         Protocol)
Project ID:              P005920                 L/C/TF Number(s):       TF-22013
ICR Date:                05/11/2015              ICR Type:               Core ICR
Lending Instrument:      SIL                     Recipient:              REP OF ARGENTINA
Original Total
                         US$ 25.00M              Disbursed Amount:       US$ 29.65M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:          US$ 31.22M
Environmental Category: C                        Global Focal Area: O
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Industry
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: --

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process               Date            Process            Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       06/30/1993      Effectiveness:           03/03/1997        03/03/1997
                                                                                 10/07/1999
                                                                                 10/23/2001
                                                                                 03/04/2004
Appraisal:            01/09/1995      Restructuring(s):
                                                                                 31/07/2008
                                                                                 19/11/2010
                                                                                 04/01/2014
Approval:             01/09/1997      Mid-term Review:         09/03/1998             --
                                      Closing:                 03/03/1999        12/30/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                          Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome:                Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                  Moderately Unsatisfactory
Recipient Performance:                             Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
         Bank                   Ratings               Recipient            Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:        Moderately Satisfactory
                                                  Implementing     Moderately
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Unsatisfactory
                                                  Agency/Agencies: Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                           Overall Borrower
                           Moderately Unsatisfactory                    Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                           Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                                Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
Potential Problem Project                            Quality at Entry
                          Yes                                                  None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
Problem Project at any                               Quality of
                            No                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:    Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original                 Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                         4                     4
General industry and trade sector                                        96                   96


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Pollution management and environmental health                            100                  100

E. Bank Staff
           Positions                         At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:                  Jorge Calderon                         Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:                Jesko S. Hentschel                     Homi Kharas (Acting)
Practice Manager/Manager:        Emilia Battaglini                      Constance Bernard
Project Team Leader:             Tuuli Bernardini                       Laura Tlaiye
ICR Team Leader:                 Tuuli Bernardini
ICR Primary Author:              Mary-Ellen Foley
F. Results Framework Analysis
Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The objective of the project is to reduce or eliminate ozone depleting substances (ODS) use in the
Recipient’s territory.

According to the PAD equivalent, the Memorandum and Recommendation of the Director (MOD),
the operation is expected to contribute to a reduction in ODS consumption in Argentina by 20 to
40 percent with respect to 1992 levels. The specific objectives are to: (i) finance subprojects on a
grant basis for technology conversion in manufacturing or commercial entities leading to reduction
or elimination of ODS use; and, (ii) strengthen the institutional capacity at the Secretariat of
Industry for administering resources for approved subprojects and for preparation and supervision.

This ICR evaluation is primarily based on the GEO contained in the GA as this is the legally binding
objective. It also has been and continues to be the ultimate objective of MP projects in the Bank.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications

The GEO as per the GA was not revised through an approval process.i

(a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                             Values (from                         Achieved at
    Indicator         Baseline Value                          Revised Target
                                              approval                           Completion or
                                                                  Values
                                             documents)                          Target Years
Indicator 1:         To reduce or eliminate Ozone Depleting Substances in Argentina (metric ton)
Value
quantitative or                 --                  880 – 1,760                    --                   3,787
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                  3-Mar-1999                             30-Dec-2014
                    Achieved. The original target was 20 to 40 percent of Argentina’s 1992 ODS
                    consumption of 4,400 metric tons (MT) as captured in the Multilateral Fund
                    (MLF)-financed “country program” strategy. The baseline was considered to be
                    zero, in that no phase-out had occurred prior to the project. Achievement of the
Comments
                    upper target value of 1,760 MT by more than 100 percent is due to the addition
(incl. %            of a subproject to close down 3,020 MT of CFC production.
achievement)
                    In terms of impact on ozone layer protection measured by tons of ozone
                    depleting potential (ODP) eliminated, the actual value achieved is 3,944 ODP
                    tons, compared to 590 to 1,179 ODP tons to which the target values above



i The GEO was restated in project reporting and monitoring subsequent to 1998 as a variation of the MOD specific

objectives to be to (a) support Argentina's program to phase out ODS consumption through the provision of technical
and technological assistance; and (b) strengthen the institutional framework in Argentina to better identify, prepare,
evaluate, and administrate subprojects.
                    equate. ODP achievement of more than three times the upper value of ODP tons
                    is due to the CFC production sector subproject as well as a subproject
                    eliminating halon 1301, an ODS ten times as potent as CFCs.ii

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                          Actual Value
                                            Values (from Formally Revised           Achieved at
      Indicator        Baseline Value
                                              approval         Target Values       Completion or
                                             documents)                            Target Years
                    Finance subprojects on a grant basis for technology conversion in manufacturing
Indicator 1 :
                    or commercial entities leading to reduction or elimination of ODS use.
Value
quantitative or                --                      20                      --                      23
Qualitative)
Date achieved                              3-Mar-1999                              30-Dec-2014
                    Achieved. 15 percent more subprojects were implemented than first targeted in
                    the MOD, if comparing the originally targeted subprojects to the 23 actually
                    financed and completed by 30 December 2014.

             The specific objective of the MOD, to “finance subprojects on a grant basis for
             technology conversion in manufacturing or commercial entities leading to
Comments
             reduction or elimination of ODS use,” corresponded to 20 subprojects originally
(incl. %     included in the project and hence is used as an indicator for evaluation.iii Out of
achievement) the 20 subprojects, 8 were cancelled between 1999 and 2003. However, 11
             additional subprojects could be identified, prepared and executed with the
             periodic GA extensions and ceiling increases. Thus, there were a total of 23
             subprojects by the end of 2008, each endorsed by GOA prior to funding approval
             by the MLF.




ii
  The original end target phase-out values were not revised through restructuring despite 1) addition and removal of
subprojects associated with ODS phase-out values and 2) strategic alignment of Argentina’s official national
consumption reductions with Montreal Protocol (MP)-mandated phase-out targets from 1999 to 2010, which together
replaced the country program data as the basis for ODS action. In the Bank’s monitoring system, the target value varied
but settled on an upper target value of 1,612 MT in 2006.

iii
   This specific objective of two from the MOD was changed in the Bank’s monitoring system in 1999 without formal
approval to “support Argentina's program to phase out ODS consumption through the provision of technical and
technological assistance.” An indicator “finance projects to replace technologies that use or produce ODS by ODS-free
technologies in order to reduce consumption and production of ODS,” was introduced in the Bank system in 2006 to
track progress towards meeting this modified part of the GEO. The justification was that it included reduction of ODS
production in addition to consumption and was more expansive to include non-manufacturing, non-commercial entities
which had been added as subproject beneficiaries.
                                       Original Target                            Actual Value
                                         Values (from Formally Revised             Achieved at
   Indicator       Baseline Value
                                           approval        Target Values          Completion or
                                         documents)                               Target Years
                Strengthen the institutional capacity at Secretariat of Industry (SI) for
Indicator 2 : administering resources for approved subprojects and for preparation and
                supervision.
                                          Capacity to                           MOI (formerly SI)
Value
                                           administer                             has capacity to
quantitative or           --                                      --
                                        resources at SI                             administer
Qualitative)                             strengthened                               subprojects
Date achieved                             3-Mar-1999                               30-Dec-2014
                Capacity for administering MP activities was established in 1997 when the
                project coordination unit (PCU) UEPRO, in the now Ministry of Industry (MOI),
                was formally established. SI/MOI’s capacity for administering resources,
                preparation and supervision of subprojects was developed through its approval,
                hosting and subsidizing (20%) of the UEPRO that functioned throughout the
Comments
                project with support of project funds.
(incl. %
achievement) The MOD’s specific objective, to “strengthen the institutional capacity at SI for
                     administering resources for approved subprojects and for preparation and
                     supervision,” is used as the indicator for purposes of this project evaluation
                     given its direct bearing on meeting the GA GEO and inferred intent in the MOD.
                     iv




iv
   This specific objective of the MOD was revised by the Bank team in 1999 (without formal approval) to “strengthen
the institutional framework in Argentina to better identify, prepare, evaluate and administer subprojects.” An
intermediate indicator (Indicator 1) was introduced in the Bank portal in 2006 as “develop an institutional framework
for the implementation of the Montreal Protocol in Argentina” to track progress through the project’s end in meeting
this part of the MOD objective as restated. The modifications may be attributed to the GA GEO which elevates the
project objective to the country level, and the fact that SI/MOI, is part of the tripartite representation within Argentina’s
National Ozone Unit (NOU) in charge of MP implementation, OPROZ. OPROZ and its constituents (MOI, Foreign
Affairs and Secretariat of Environment and Sustainable Development, the latter hosting the NOU) embody the broader
institutional framework needed to effectively implement ODS phase-out subprojects. The Bank team reported that an
operating framework for Montreal Protocol activities in Argentina was in place.

The target of an institutional framework for MP activities in Argentina was achieved by 1997 in that the national ozone
unit, OPROZ and the UEPRO, were both officially established. Moreover, after 2000 Argentina further strengthened its
institutional and policy frameworks in the context of transitioning to an MP compliance-based project implementation
approach whereby results on the ground were directly linked to meeting time-bound national ODS phase-out targets.
By 2004, Argentina had a fully functioning licensing and quota system for controlling imports and exports of ODS and
raw materials and domestic ODS production. This system has not only sustained phase-out results achieved through
this project and others, but formed the basis for addressing the next set of ODS subject to phase-out (HCFCs).
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                        Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               GEO                           IP                 Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                    (US$ millions)
   1     12/15/1999          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                            10.17*
   2     06/14/2000          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                            11.03
   3     06/27/2000          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                            11.03
   4     10/30/2000          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                            11.58
   5     05/25/2001          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                            12.95
   6     12/26/2001          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                            13.77
   7     06/13/2002          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                            13.77
   8     11/28/2002          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                            13.77
   9     06/16/2003          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                            14.04
  10     12/10/2003          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                            14.88
  11     06/17/2004          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                            14.88
  12     12/10/2004          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                            16.13
  13     04/19/2005          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                            17.19
  14     06/01/2006          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                            17.20
  15     12/27/2006          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                            18.32
  16     06/20/2007          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                            21.97
  17     12/13/2007          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                            22.41
  18     05/13/2008          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                            24.80
  19     12/18/2008          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                            26.08
  20     05/29/2009          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                            26.12
  21     12/19/2009          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                            26.26
  22     01/20/2010          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                            27.97
  23     02/23/2011          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                            28.46
  24     12/28/2011          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                            29.92
  25     07/09/2012          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                            30.00
  26     02/23/2013          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                            30.16
  27     11/17/2013          Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                     29.61
  28     05/17/2014          Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                     29.61
  29     12/24/2014      Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                     29.65**
*US$10.17 million is the cumulative disbursement 33 months into project implementation. The project was
already underway when the Bank’s monitoring system through ISRs was introduced.
**A lower disbursement at project completion from the highest disbursement level in February 2013 is due
to a return in project funds from a subproject beneficiary, the CFC production facility
H. Restructuring (if any)

                           ISR Ratings at     Amount
                  Board
Restructuring              Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring &
                 Approved
   Date(s)                                 Restructuring       Key Changes Made
                GEO Change GEO      IP
                                          in US$ millions
                                                          Grant agreement (GA)
                                                          extended by two years to
                                                          November 30, 2001 to permit
                                                          subproject completion of 10
  10/07/1999       N/A       S       S          9.79
                                                          enterprises with
                                                          implementation delays due to
                                                          the financial crisis and to
                                                          pursue five new subprojects.
                                                          GA extended by three years
                                                          to November 30, 2004 to
  10/23/2001       N/A       S       S         13.77      complete ongoing subprojects
                                                          and to start three new
                                                          subprojects.
                                                          GA extended by six years to
                                                          November 30, 2010 to
                                                          accommodate the annual CFC
                                                          production reduction schedule
  3/04/2004        N/A       S       S         14.88
                                                          in the CFC Production Sector
                                                          Phase-out Plan subproject
                                                          that was MLF approved in
                                                          2002.
                                                          GA ceiling increased to
                                                          US$ 28.91 M from US$ 25 M
                                                          to permit receipt and transfer
                                                          of additional funds to
                                                          accelerate CFC production
                                                          phase-out under the CFC
                                                          production subproject ($2.3
  6/09/2008        N/A       S       S         24.80
                                                          M), for partial compensation
                                                          for a new subproject to
                                                          convert CFC-based metered-
                                                          dose inhalers (MDIs) at $1.5
                                                          M, and to top up UEPRO’s
                                                          fees by 3% of these two
                                                          amounts.
                                                          GA extended by four years to
                                                          December 30, 2014 and
                                                          ceiling increased to US
  11/19/2010       N/A       S       S         28.46      $31.22 M to include the
                                                          balance of the final MDI
                                                          subproject and to give it
                                                          sufficient time to complete.
                                           Safeguard category changed
                                           from a B to C.
                                           Reallocation of US$ 0.29 M
                                           from Category 1 (subgrants)
                                           to Category 2 (goods and
  4/01/2014       N/A     S   MS   29.61
                                           consultancies under Part B on
                                           administration and technical
                                           assistance, TA).




I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.     Country and Sector Background. In September 1990, Argentina ratified the Montreal
Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer (MP) 5 , a multilateral environmental
agreement that was adopted in 1987 based on international recognition of the need for concerted
action to mend and protect the ozone layer 6 , albeit through common but differentiated
responsibilities. With consumption7 of ozone depleting substances (ODS) under 0.3 kilogram (kg)
per capita at time of ratification, Argentina was categorized as an “Article 5” country and qualified
not only for a grace period for instituting ODS controls but also for grant assistance under the
MP’s financial mechanism, the Multilateral Fund (MLF).

2.      As a basis for MLF assistance to meet the incremental costs of ODS phase-out, the
Government of Argentina (GOA) developed a country program (CP) defining its 1992 level of
consumption by substance, outlining its commitment to gradually phase out the first major groups
of ODS, primarily chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), and proposing the required institutional and policy
framework to achieve this phase-out by 2006. This was in advance of the MP’s 2010 mandate for
Article 5 countries of the complete phase-out of CFCs and other substances listed in Annexes A
and B of the Protocol 8 . The requirement was significant for Argentina, because its 1992
consumption was high at 4,440 metric tons (MT), making it one of the largest ODS consumers in
Latin America. It was also a producer of ODS, one of four in the region to supply domestic and
regional markets.

3.      Argentina became a committed proponent of the MP early in its negotiation and approval,
even though the first MP obligations for Article 5 countries would not kick-in until 1999 with a
freeze on average 1995-1997 consumption levels. The fact that Argentina was the first to see the
highest ozone depletion of any inhabited area of the world as a country with land close to the
Antarctic (site of the “ozone hole”), no doubt contributed to this early engagement. It began
developing framework legislation soon after signing onto the MP in 1988, and in 1991 introduced
national controls on Annex A substances. It has been a recurring member of the MLF Executive
Committee (ExCom) and active participant in all MP meetings.

4.      For Argentina, the ODS to be targeted under the MP’s phased compliance period was
primarily CFCs used widely in refrigeration, air-conditioning, aerosol, metered dose inhalers
(MDIs), solvents and foam applications, as well as methyl chloroform (MCF) used as a solvent.
Halon, a fire extinguishing agent, was consumed in smaller quantities but due to its high ozone
depleting potential (ODP9) was important. Out of the various industrial sectors using ODS in

5 The Montreal Protocol entered into force on January 1, 1989. It was adjusted in 2007 to accelerate the phase-out of

hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs).
6 About 90 percent of all ozone is found in the stratosphere and is known as the “ozone layer.” The ozone layer protects plant

genetic material, ecosystems, and animal and human health from ultraviolet (UV) radiation.
7 Consumption is defined by the MP as imports + production – exports.
8 Substances first subject to complete elimination were Annex A substances grouped into the most common CFCs and halon, and

Annex B substances, including methyl chloroform.
9 CFC-11 and CFC-12 have an ODP of 1. Halon-1211 and Halon-1301 have an ODP of 3 and 10 respectively.




                                                              1
Argentina, durable goods manufacturing with CFC (as a refrigerant and foam blowing agent) was
considered the most economically and socially significant.

5.      Given that MP implementation was deeply intertwined with Argentina’s economic
development and trade, it began establishing an institutional and policy framework able to manage
the demands of eliminating a key input in industrial production in line with international
environmental treaty obligations while promoting new technologies that did not unduly harm
industrial competitiveness.

6.     Rationale for Bank Assistance. The argument at project inception for the Bank’s
involvement was that the proposed operation to channel resources to implement a national
response to a global environmental problem was consistent with the Bank’s strategy to support
Argentina in addressing environmental issues. The Bank became one of the Implementing
Agencies (IAs) of the MLF in 1991 and as such had already begun dialogue with several countries
on future cooperation in ODS phase-out, including with Argentina.

7.      In 1993, the Bank adopted operational policy, OP/BP 10.21 to adapt to the MLF’s financing
approach and project cycle characterized by frequent and small grant approvals on an enterprise
level. The policy introduced “umbrella projects,” flexible instruments to absorb these new
subprojects in line with time-bound country and MP priorities and made it possible for countries
to work with the Bank using MLF grants. The GOA asked for Bank assistance in developing and
then implementing the 1994 CP, specifically in sectors with the highest ODS consumption:
refrigeration, air-conditioning and foam manufacturing.

1.2 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

8.     According to the Grant Agreement (GA), the objective of the project is to reduce or
eliminate ODS use in the Recipient’s territory.

9.       According to the Memorandum and Recommendation of the Director (MOD), the PAD-
equivalent at the time of project approval, the operation is to contribute to a reduction in ODS
consumption in Argentina by 20 to 40 percent with respect to 1992 levels. The specific objectives
are to: (i) finance subprojects on a grant basis for technology conversion in manufacturing or
commercial entities leading to reduction or elimination of ODS use; and (ii) strengthen the
institutional capacity at the Secretariat of Industry (SI) for administering resources for approved
subprojects and for preparation and supervision.

10.     The key indicator as derived from the above MOD project objective was the amount of
ODS reduced by subproject in metric tons and on aggregate terms. The GA objective is used as
the primary basis for ICR evaluation, and consequently ODS quantities phased out as the indicator.
Given that ODP is the official and key measure of impact under the MP (and consequently of a
country’s state of compliance), achievement of the GEO is also assessed through this metric.

1.3 Revised GEO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

11.    The GEO as worded did not specifically anticipate that reduction of ODS would go beyond
that used by enterprises in manufacturing (i.e. consumed) to also that (CFC) produced by


                                                2
enterprises. The GEO was however not revised through a formal restructuring. In 1999, the project
team adapted each of the MOD’s two-pronged, specific objectives to better contextualize the
project work in Argentina’s broader MP program and institutional framework for reducing and
eliminating ODS. GEO wording in Bank internal monitoring reports consequently became to: (a)
support Argentina's program to phase out ODS consumption through the provision of technical
and technological assistance; and (b) strengthen the institutional framework in Argentina to better
identify, prepare, evaluate, and administrate subprojects. In 2006, two intermediate indicators were
introduced in the Bank’s monitoring system only to measure this adaptation of the GEO and to
more explicitly link production to the GEO: (a) development of an institutional framework for MP
implementation in Argentina; and (b) number of projects financed to replace technologies that use
or produce ODS by ODS-free technologies.

12.     Neither the key GEO indicator of ODS reduction in Argentina, nor the original target were
changed. For the purpose of the ICR, the original GEO as stated in the GA will be used to evaluate
the project. “ODS use” from the GA GEO is understood to be ODS consumed. In that regard, the
MP legal definition that consumption is equal to imports plus ODS produced, minus that exported
is applied in evaluating GEO achievement. Progress towards the achievement of objectives
adapted from the MOD will be used as additional evidence to support the original objective.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

13.    The main project beneficiaries were the Argentine industry and public entities that received
funds for the introduction of appropriate knowledge, technology, and equipment to eliminate
consumption of CFCs and halon. The then-SI, as the executing agency, was to benefit primarily
from capacity-building and institutional strengthening related to administering resources for
subproject preparation and implementation, whereas the national ozone focal point in the
Secretariat of Environment and Sustainable Development (SAyDS) and the overall OPROZ
(Oficina Programa Ozono, i.e. national ozone unit) would benefit from the reduction in ODS
demand to assist it to enforce MP implementation. The global environment would be a primary
beneficiary due to the reduction of negative effects on the ozone layer.

1.5 Original Components

14.     Component A: Provision of Subgrants, or the investment component, entailed an
original pipeline of 20 subprojects for ODS phase-out, subject to review and individual approval
by the MLF. Seven of these had been approved by the MLF by October 1995; another 13 were at
various stages of preparation at project appraisal.

15.     Component B: Administration and Technical Assistance (TA) included provision of
TA for establishing and supporting a project administration unit within the executing agency (SI)
to prepare and supervise the execution of subprojects with the technical support of the National
Institute of Industrial Technology (INTI).

1.6 Revised Components

16.    The components were not revised but developed over time in a manner consistent with the
umbrella project modality. The cancellation of eight of the initial ODS phase-out subprojects under


                                                 3
  Component A, but addition of 11 new subprojects up through 2008 to compensate for the foregone
  phase-out targeted, brought the total of implemented subprojects to 23 by project’s end. This
  included subprojects in sectors aside from those first targeted. The scope and scale of Component
  A was thus increased leading to a larger grant, longer duration, and, ODS phase-out targeted and
  actually phased out.

  17.    Component B mirrored changes in Component A due to the need to administer delayed
  subprojects and manage new subprojects over an extended period. Due to budget constraints for
  administration and TA, it was agreed in 2001 to streamline technical support initially provided by
  INTI into the core function of the project coordination unit (PCU, or “UEPRO” in Spanish).

  1.7 Other significant changes

  18.     To accommodate the net grant increase from new MLF-approved subprojects and the
  corresponding time for implementation, the GA was amended/restructured six times. The overall
  ceiling of the GA of $25 million consequently increased to $31.2 million.

                   Component        No. of MLF       ODS to be
    Date
                  Cost (US$ M)      Subprojects      Phased Out                             Key Changes
Restructured
                   A       B        Approved*          (MT)*
                                                                       GA extension for delayed subprojects; 4 new subprojects
Oct. 1999          24       0.9        24 (-2)           748
                                                                       added to first 20.
Oct. 2001          24       0.9        24 (-3)             656         GA extension for ongoing subprojects; 2 subprojects added.
                                                                       CFC production subproject added with 3020 MT of CFC to
Mar. 2004          24       0.9        25 (-3)            3,685
                                                                       eliminate by 2010; 3 other new subprojects added.
                                                                       Ceiling raised to absorb full grant funding of CFC
Jun. 2008          27       1.8           23              3,787        production subproject ($10.6 M total). More funding
                                                                       provided for Comp. B; 1 new subproject added.
                                                                       Ceiling increase and extension (until Dec. 2014) for the
Nov. 2010         29.4      1.8           23              3,787
                                                                       final, MDI subproject; safeguard category changed to C.
Apr. 2014         29.2       2            23              3,787        Funding reallocation in favor of Component B.
  *Total of 31 subprojects approved up to Nov. 2008 but 8 gradually cancelled by Dec. 2003. This led to a net decrease in
  ODS to be phased out in the project during the 2nd restructuring period until new subprojects added.

  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

  2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

  19.      Soundness of the background analysis. The project had its underpinnings in the country’s
  first strategy and action plan for MP implementation, the 1994 CP. As such, the project design was
  based on knowledge at the time of the sectors known to consume ODS and have alternative
  technologies available. The CP was approved with only three years of experience under the MLF
  in enterprise conversions and information on cost, duration, and markets was limited. Hence, MP
  country programs, including Argentina’s, tended to be ambitious and did not fully anticipate time
  and funds needed nor the impact that the 1999-2010 MP compliance period would have on future
  MLF approvals and phase-out prioritization.

  20.   Assessment of project design. The project design was simple and clear-cut with only two
  components, conversion of industrial enterprises to technologies and substances less harmful to



                                                               4
the ozone layer, and administrative and technical support for effective implementation. It was
closely modeled after the first round of ongoing ODS projects in five Bank Regions using the
umbrella project modality where the GA indicated a notional amount of grant funding expected to
be released for subprojects rather than a defined value. There was consequently implicit intention
from the start to treat the project more like a program and develop and gradually add new
subprojects to support the country’s phase-out goals.

21.      Detailed policies, procedures and guidelines of the MLF ExCom on MP sectors, costs,
enterprise eligibility, safety, monitoring and completion, among others, lent structure and direction
to the design of Component A and the subprojects. A US$13.5 million pipeline of subprojects
identified in the CP was submitted to and approved by the MLF in parallel to project preparation.
This not only informed the project scope and operational framework (e.g. for determining
UEPRO’s responsibilities and the most appropriate procurement methods), but accelerated project
start, along with GA provision for retroactive financing of expenditures incurred by subprojects
between negotiations and effectiveness (more than a year apart).

22.      Attention was equally paid to the enabling environment with the requirement that the
institutional arrangements be formally in place at implementation start. Conditions of grant
effectiveness thus included the formal establishment (by decree) of OPROZ and establishment of
UEPRO. Component B was dedicated to funding UEPRO’s work with compensation pegged at
three percent of the value of signed subgrant agreements (the average level levied by country
executing agencies in other Bank ODS projects). Another 1.5 percent was provided on cancelled
subprojects.

23.     Government commitment. As the project objectives were linked to international treaty
obligations made by Argentina on ozone protection, there was strong Government commitment at
the start. GOA recognized that to best engage industry, which is the primary stakeholder in the
project, and for eventually meeting MP compliance targets, it needed to rely on an inter-ministerial
approach that at minimum included the entity responsible for industrial development. Not only
was SI represented in OPROZ, but it was agreed that it would house the UEPRO, and finance 20
percent of its costs.

24.     Risk assessment. At preparation, three risks were identified. One was the possibility of
delays from the MLF and Bank’s external subproject review process. This would be addressed by
streamlining Bank review. The second risk was efficiency in subproject execution given the many
actors involved (beneficiary enterprises, SI and INTI). The project implementation manual (PIM),
detailing administrative procedures and milestones, was to mitigate this risk. The third risk was
that enterprises would not want to participate if they perceived that the administrative burden
related to procurement outweighed the grant benefits. Procurement arrangements would therefore
include commercial practice and project staff would receive training to expedite project execution.

2.2 Implementation

25.    A total of 23 subprojects involving 26 private sector companies and two public institutions
was completed under the project. Project implementation can be considered to have taken place in
three phases as denoted by the period between effectiveness and the first extension in October
1999, the period between the second and third extensions, i.e. 2001 until 2010, and the final phase


                                                 5
taking the project to closure in December 2014 (described further in Annex 2). The 17-year overall
project length is not unusual for these early Bank MP umbrella projects (with an average 13-year
duration) given that continuity in program support to countries in meeting phased ODS reduction
targets in line with MP requirements starting in 1999 was paramount. Specific factors in
implementation affected outputs and duration of each of the three phases as described below.

26.     The 1998-2002 financial crisis severely disrupted implementation of the first-phase
subprojects that had been approved by the MLF between 1994 and 1999. Subprojects targeted
elimination of CFCs, the largest ODS group consumed in Argentina at the time, in GOA priority
sectors, primarily domestic refrigeration and mobile air-conditioning. An unfortunate convergence
of the crisis with rising global competitiveness of the refrigerator appliance market, left the
Argentinian industry vulnerable. The impact on the project was a delay of five to seven years in
subprojects as enterprises sought financing, restructured or eventually went bankrupt.

27.     These subprojects required close monitoring and reporting to the MLF ExCom which
initiated a cancellation procedure on several subprojects. UEPRO interacted closely with
enterprises with implementation challenges to modify action plans and identify ways to remove
obstacles. In parallel, the Bank team used in-house technical expertise to help develop replacement
subprojects in MP sectors that had not been as affected by the financial crisis. The 1999 two-year
GA extension was thus sought to give additional time to the delayed enterprises and to implement
subprojects in new sectors (solvents and halon).

28.    The 1999-2010 compliance period prompted changes in the MLF to more strategic
delivery of limited resources through sector and national plans, enabling countries to take better
ownership of ODS phase-out for compliance with MP time-bound reduction targets in return for
performance-based funding. The Bank, at the forefront of the move to sector-based phase-out
through its ODS production closure work in China, began to prepare with GOA in 1999,
Argentina’s first ODS sector phase-out plan. Following a two-year GOA delay in endorsement,
the US$8.3 million CFC Production Phase-out Plan was approved in 2002 by the ExCom to
gradually close CFC production before 2010 at Argentina’s sole producer, FIASA against tranched
payments.

29.     The production sector plan effectively linked national policy with investment to better
balance domestic CFC supply with demand over a more realistic timeframe (than Argentina’s early
pledge of total phase-out by 2006). This had been lacking and contributed to Argentina’s sole
incidence of non-compliance with the MP in 1999 whereby CFC production exceeded the baseline
level. Reliable and timely results provided impetus for approval of an additional US$2.3 million
to accelerate CFC production closure to 1 January 2008.

30.     Home-grown alternative technology to CFCs in an MP sector with critical socio-
economic importance – MDIs, i.e. inhalers, used to treat pulmonary-respiratory disease – required
a special window of time for research and development, testing and approval from the public health
authority. One manufacturer under the final sector-based subproject decided to follow its own
technology path based on isobutane, instead of the common, high global warming potential (GWP)
alternative propellant. This decision delayed MLF approval to November 2008 and was eventually
why the GOA sought a four-year extension in 2010, noting the time needed to fully foster and



                                                6
adopt this innovative technology. As the goal was sustainable CFC phase-out, extension was
granted.

31.     Although not used to justify extension, the 118 MT of CFCs addressed by the MDI
subproject allowed the GEO target of consumption phase-out to be neared given that in 2010 it
was only at 73 percent of the lower-end target of 880 MT if excluding production. This third and
final phase also presented ample opportunity for UEPRO to complete remaining work.

32.     Institutional and personnel changes as well as gaps in capacity were collectively a
factor affecting all project phases. Changes in Government most critically impacted the speed of
adopting ODS regulations needed to tie-in industry interventions to national-level phase-out
obligations. UEPRO was at times in search of a home within the Ministry of Industry as a result
of changes, and OPROZ, responsible for endorsing new subprojects among others, was revamped
in 2001. At least six people served as UEPRO coordinator during the project. On the Bank side,
Task Team Leaders changed seven times which likewise contributed to some interruptions in
implementation.

33.     Lack of technical capacity to deal with highly specific subprojects in different sectors
contributed to inefficiencies and a slow-down in momentum in the second, and notably third
project phase. A complex subproject approved in 2005 to replace chillers in return for a 20 percent
grant subsidy was cancelled by the ExCom in 2013 for lack of progress. Two subprojects with
public sector beneficiaries, recovering and reusing Halon 1301, and testing MeBr alternatives in
crop fumigation, took several years to begin and once completed, the former with very positive
results, were kept open as proponents explored ways to use grant savings. Development of a
communication strategy in the context of the MDI subproject and directly dependent on the
UEPRO, was by project’s end never fully pursued. It appears that UEPRO did not supervise
subprojects close enough to notice any breach of ExCom rules, for example on technology changes.

34.     The project was rated satisfactory for implementation progress (IP) and achieving the GEO
throughout project implementation with GEO downgrade to moderately satisfactory first in
December 2014 on the basis that cumulative delays impacted the degree of institutional capacity
strengthening. The consistent satisfactory rating for IP and GEO until 2013 and 2014 respectively
is not fully supported considering implementation events. Periods of no or little disbursement
(reason for a 2006 flag) also evidence that IP was overrated at times. There was no mid-term
review as stipulated in the GA. The six project restructurings offered periodic opportunity to
review progress and make course corrections but more vigorous assessment was not undertaken
and the results framework not formally adapted, despite the notable shift of the MLF to multi-year,
compliance-based sector plans, inclusion of ODS production phase-out, and need for use of better
metrics of ODS phased out to assess impact.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

35.     M&E design. Variations between the GEO in the GA and that of the project document as
well as discrepancies in the nomenclature used to set the ODS phase-out target laid the bedrock
for future inconsistencies in reporting and evaluation of outputs and results. In spite of this, the
overall progress towards meeting the main objective could be maintained because of the clear,
measurable GEO indicator on ODS phase-out. Other performance indicators, including time taken


                                                 7
to prepare and sign subgrant agreements (SGAs); disbursement; and timeliness of reporting were
listed in the MOD and were, per the 1998 PIM, to be included in reports of the UEPRO on a semi-
annual basis to the Bank as well as to OPROZ. A defined results framework was not required in
the Bank at the time of preparation and hence was not part of project design.

36.     M&E implementation. Implementation of the project’s M&E framework was largely
driven by MLF requirements which the Bank as an IA was obligated to meet on behalf of the
Recipient. Most of the project indicators of progress coincided with those of the MLF. The Bank
collected from UEPRO detailed progress and disbursement information annually on subprojects
for reporting to the MLF ExCom; however the semi-annual progress reports were not collected
regularly. Monitoring through actual site visits decreased in the last implementation phase.

37.    The CFC production subproject had additional reporting requirements based on the
performance-based, multi-year agreement with the ExCom. Before each release of annual tranche
funding, an independent verification of the production of CFCs in the previous year was required
along with an annual plan. This accountability framework gave Argentina and donors assurance
of compliance with the obligations.

38.     A final source of data on subprojects were project completion reports (PCRs), to be
finalized upon subproject completion by the beneficiaries and UEPRO and submitted to the
ExCom by the Bank. Details on project sustainability, alternative technology employed, and actual
costs and lessons learnt were included. The PIM and SGAs noted the beneficiary’s responsibility
to report upon completion. PCR delivery in practice lagged, with many only completed by UEPRO
and the Bank during the last two years of the project.

39.     M&E utilization. In early supervision missions, the Bank advised the country that reports
on progress of current projects would be used by the MLF to consider approving additional
resources. This drove implementation progress by the UEPRO while creating an appreciation of
the relevance of M&E. UEPRO reports from 2007 onwards that are with the Bank show that the
original set of indicators was not systematically applied to inform overall project management
needs and future work plans particularly where chronically delayed subprojects were concerned.
Cumulative data, gathered with some difficulty in the last project phase, was just sufficient to meet
minimum MLF reporting requirements and inform preparation of follow-on work on a new
operation (see Section 2.5).

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

40.    Safeguards. The project was classified as an environmental category B in August 1994
following a project environmental assessment in accordance with OP 4.01. Bank safeguards
supervision response in the project’s early years was appropriate and reflected a good
understanding of the technologies and possible risks. All subprojects were reviewed for safety and
environmental issues by the Bank’s Ozone Operations Resource Group while the ExCom provided
funds to mitigate any identified risks. No social risks were foreseen.

41.    When the methyl bromide (MeBr) subproject involving the testing of alternative pesticides
was approved by the MLF in 1999 for inclusion in the project, a safeguards review was warranted.
No such assessment was undertaken although the subproject was active until 2011, into the final


                                                 8
period of project extension. A potential social issue was the loss of jobs from CFC production
closure. The concern was addressed at the onset with compensation provided to FIASA by the
MLF for affected workers.

42.     The safeguards category was changed from B to C during the 2010 restructuring and final
grant extension, on the basis that the MDI subproject was not expected to pose risks nor have
adverse environmental or social impacts. Little evidence supported a change though considering
that the replacement substance was highly flammable hydrocarbon and that the MLF itself had
considered the risks substantial enough to provide additional grant funding for safety measures.
No adverse impacts as a result of changing the safeguards category or of overlooking a possible
triggering of OP 4.09 (pesticides) were observed by the ICR mission, which met with the MDI and
MeBr subproject beneficiaries.

43.     Fiduciary compliance. The project had satisfactory financial management (FM)
arrangements in general, in compliance with Bank requirements. However, moderate FM
shortcomings were identified during supervision such as: (i) discrepancies in the accounting
records related to the 2002 devaluation of the ARS; ii) significant delay in the submission of the
2003 audit report to the Bank; (iii) qualified auditors opinion on the 2012 project Financial
Statements and on the Statement of Expenditures because of minor non-eligible payments; and
(iv) an amount of US$549,912 reimbursed by FIASA incorrectly deposited in the Special Account
in 2013. Due to these findings, FM performance was downgraded to Moderately Satisfactory and
returned to Satisfactory once UEPRO effectively implemented the agreed action plan.

44.     Equipment procurement related to subprojects (Component A) with the private sector was
done by the beneficiary enterprises using commercial practice. Procurement was deemed
satisfactory following post review of a sample of subgrants. Procurement procedures were also
specified for goods and works carried out by public beneficiaries (INTI for the halon bank and
INTA for MeBr subproject).

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

45.      The institutional framework created by the GOA for MP implementation during the
preparation of the CP and the ODS reduction project has evolved into a well-established, mature
system with OPROZ firmly at the helm. With the 1991 National Chemical Compounds Law that
restricts the production and use of certain ODS as a basis, OPROZ is the mover of regulatory
change for MP compliance and is leading the country in tackling HCFCs, the next major group of
substances (Annex C) targeted for phase-out.

46.     The MLF ExCom approved Argentina’s Stage I HCFC Phase-out Management Plan
(HPMP) in April 2012, which covers industry conversions in air-conditioning and foam while
controlling HCFC consumption and production at the national level through quotas. The bulk of
the Argentina Stage I HPMP is under OPROZ’s direction with support from UNIDO (as the Lead
IA). The GOA requested some Bank support in the foam sector and in the area of its comparative
advantage, the production sector.

47.    Because of the overlap between the time of preparing for the first HCFC obligation, the
2013 freeze on consumption, and of the extended winding down of the ODS reduction project and


                                                9
UEPRO, transition to new work followed similar implementation arrangements. MOI agreed to
maintain UEPRO as the PCU for subprojects in the foam sector and to monitor FIASA’s HCFC-
22 production in a follow-on Bank project. It will also carry forward the chiller replacement work
that had been cancelled with other OTF funds in the new operation, the US$1.9 million HCFC
Phase-out Project (P129397), effective on January 30, 2015.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation – Rating: High

48.      The objectives of the project, as well as its results continue to be highly relevant to
Argentina’s international commitment to comply with and implement the Montreal Protocol.
Institutional and technical capacity is required to effectively address MP obligations on the last
major group of ODS to eliminate, HCFCs. ODS phase-out through interventions in industry, that
was key to project design, will again play a major role in meeting HCFC phase-out reductions in
the next decade. Because Argentina continues to be a consumer and producer of ODS with the
production of HCFC-22 at FIASA, sustained institutional capacity to bridge industrial
development and environmental protection goals in the next phase of MP implementation is
necessary, as is inter-ministerial cooperation.

49.     World Bank country assistance and country program strategies that have arisen since the
project’s inception all included calls for sustainable growth which for example mainstream brown
issues of air pollution and integrate climate considerations into sector planning. The FY15 Country
Program Strategy (CPS) points to the project to have helped reduce environmental risks and sees
future elimination of ODS as a means to continue to do so while safeguarding natural resources.
A link can also be made to the CPS’ aim for more competiveness of firms given that conversions
led to the use of advanced, more competitive technologies. In addition to the ozone benefits,
significant climate benefits were accrued (see Section 3.5), an outcome not planned in project
design but that is relevant to the Bank’s CPS and corporate climate protection goals. Relevance of
objectives and design is rated high.

3.2 Achievement of Global Environmental Objectives – Rating: Substantial

50.    The project substantially achieved the GEO objective of reducing and eliminating ODS
consumption in Argentina although not as originally planned given 1) individual delays of most
subprojects; and 2) that the bulk of the phase-out was achieved through closure of CFC production
(a subset of consumption). Main ODS phase-out results are compared below.

    Phase-out     Original Target      MLF Approved         Actual Phase-out      CFC Production
                                                                                                        Total Phase-out
     Value        20-40% of 1992         Phase-out           Consumption*           Eliminated
                                                                                                           (a) + (b)
                  Consumption*         Consumption**               (a)                  (b)

       MT          880 to 1,760              987                   767                  3,020                3,787


    ODP MT         590 to 1,179              929                   924                  3,020                3,944
*Original targets were set in metric tonnes (MT) only. Targets are converted to ODP MT here for comparative purposes. **Net of
cancelled subprojects that would have addressed 259 MT of CFCs and MCF.




                                                             10
51.     The original target was established using the quantity of ODS to be phased out rather than
the level of impact (MT versus ODP MT). If looking purely at consumption as captured in the
original GEO (i.e. separating CFC production phase-out), the project falls short of reaching the
original lower-end target of 880 MT by 13 percent. This is primarily due to the forfeit of 259 MT
of ODS from cancelled subprojects in the first project phase. However, in ODP terms consumption
phase-out is well within the range of the plan – actual ODP impact of the ODS eliminated is within
range due to the addition of the subproject in 1998 to eliminate 20 MT of halon 1301, an ODS ten
times as potent as CFC. Adding the production phase-out achieved, the project’s total phase-out
is more than twice the upper target value of ODS phase-out and three times the ODP.

52.     Also relevant for assessing GEO achievement is that more rapid subproject approval and
implementation would have avoided consumption of additional ODS before phase-out in a few
cases and might have avoided an instance of GOA non-compliance with the MP in 1999. Excluding
the multi-year, performance-based CFC production subproject, most subprojects were delayed an
average four years and had a longer duration than comparable subprojects in the Bank’s ODS
umbrella project portfolio. Any extra consumption however after 1999 at these enterprises was
contained within Argentina’ national level ODS import and production controls and did not lead
to non-compliance. Moreover, the MLF’s method of accounting does not deduct ODS consumed
due to delays from the phase-out achieved, hence phase-out is shown in the table above as achieved.

Achievements by Component

53.     The level of achievement of specific objectives of the GEO as stated in the MOD of: i)
financing subprojects for technology conversion to reduce or eliminate ODS use, and ii) to
strengthen institutional capacity for preparation and administration of subprojects are as follows:

54.     Component A: Subgrants. US$27.8 million in grant financing was disbursed for ODS
elimination through 22 of 23 subprojects (the MeBr subproject demonstrated technology and
therefore did not directly contribute to phase-out). Eight subprojects were cancelled (worth US$6.2
million in grant funding) but subproject enterprises that survived the crisis or were added with the
help of GA extensions eventually converted from CFCs or MCF, benefitting at the same time from
technology transfer and augmentation of technical capacity. In addition, the grant financing
leveraged an estimated US$18 million in private sector co-financing given that full costs were not
always covered by the MLF.

55.    Establishment of one of the world’s only functioning halon banks for tracking and
exchanging recycled halon 1301 for use in fire protection by INTI under the halon subproject has
eliminated demand for virgin halon, thereby ensuring compliance with GOA’s halon ban. The CFC
production subproject alone eliminated a total of 3,020 MT of CFCs and essentially closed the
loop between consumption (imports) and domestic CFC supply (production). By gradual
elimination of national CFC supply by 2008, users under this project as well as those that were
unfunded, or under other projects could more sustainably and quickly reduce and eliminate ODS
consumption in Argentina. See Annex 2 for detailed subproject outputs.

56.  Component B: Administration and TA. Capacity was created within MOI through
UEPRO to prepare, administer and monitor subprojects, and to more or less maintain some



                                                11
capacity over a significant time continuum encompassing periods of political uncertainty,
economic crisis and stagnation in subproject progress. This is seen by the 23 subprojects that went
from preparation to SGA signing to eventual completion (by ExCom decision in one case) under
UEPRO’s watch, as well as UEPRO’s role in preparing and executing the follow-on HCFC project
(which coincided with the ODS Reduction Project). Several factors in implementation such as
changes in MOI and UEPRO or the inability to source technical capacity to effectively implement
certain subprojects suggest that the capacity however is somewhat tenuous and dependent on
prevailing circumstances such as external and internal leadership, interpersonal relationships,
types of activities and beneficiaries, and financing.

57.      More broadly, the project can claim to have helped build institutional capacity in Argentina
insofar that MOI is one of three members in the country’s MP executing body, OPROZ. Project
advisory and technical support provided to OPROZ in its nascent stages (1994-1998) helped it take
root and grow, later through other support. During the strategic planning exercise for the
compliance period (1999-2002), the project was essential in strengthening coordination between
regulators in environment (SAyDS) and MOI so that Argentina could effectively manage CFC
production within its national quota system. The project cannot claim credit for strengthening the
institutional framework in Argentina alone (the objective that the Bank had monitored in practice)
as MOI through UEPRO is a small part of the larger framework involved in MP implementation.

3.3 Efficiency – Rating: Modest

58.     Efficiency of the operation is assessed by analyzing the two project components separately,
given their association with each specific objective of the GEO. Overall efficiency rating rests with
the component of greatest weight, Component A due to its value (in US$), impact (towards
meeting the GEO) and cost-effectiveness (CE).

59.     Component A – Subgrants. Subprojects were provided grants for technology conversion
from ODS use. In the case of MLF-funded subprojects, efficiency is determined by cost-
effectiveness of the planned ODP phase-out at approval. The CE of the majority of the subprojects
in the MP sectors addressed was the same or better than that approved. The actual CE values all
came under the MLF established CE norm with the exception of one for the refrigeration sector.
The average CE of the entire portfolio of subprojects was US$7.45/kg of ODP eliminated in
comparison to US$8.64/kg approved overall (see Annex 3).

60.     The CFC production subproject contributed significantly to overall CE of Component A at
a cost of only US$3.40/kg of CFC phased out. In general, production sector projects are the most
cost-effective under the MLF. Comparative analysis of Argentina’s production sector plan at
approval and after implementation with CFC production closure in China and India indicates that
it was even more cost-effective MLF-wide (10 percent more). Given the higher grant effectiveness
of the phase-out achieved than planned, the efficiency for this component is deemed Substantial.

61.    Component B – Administration and TA. In line with the standard fee levied by
executing agencies of ODS projects and as approved by the ExCom, UEPRO received three
percent of subproject funding disbursed to enterprises for preparing, administering, and
supervising subprojects. US$500,000, or five percent of the funding for the production sector
subproject, was approved in TA and project management and allocated to Component B. An


                                                 12
additional $290,000 was reallocated to Component B in 2014 because funding had been overdrawn.
In total, the actual cost of administration and TA as a percentage of funds disbursed is seven. A
major factor contributing to UEPRO’s higher cost are the long delays in individual subproject
implementation. In addition to the group of subprojects that suffered from external economic
factors, the two subprojects with public entities (INTI for halon and INTA for MeBr) were delayed
by more than a decade each. The majority of funds utilized under Component B after 2010 went
to sustain UEPRO at nearly full capacity up to the closing date despite the size and activity of the
remaining subproject portfolio. Efficiency is rated as Modest.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating – Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

62.   Justification for the overall outcome rating that combines relevance, achievement of the
GEO, and efficiency is based on the above analysis and takes into account the following:
     The high relevance of the project.
     The GEO’s main objective of ODS phase-out was substantially achieved due to the
      adaptive approach taken to deal with external factors and resulting delays, thereby
      replacing cancelled subprojects with new types of subprojects in new sectors.
     Specific objectives as per the MOD were largely achieved although institutional capacity
      for preparing and administering subprojects created by the project can only be partly
      claimed for the UEPRO in MOI. Wider capacity is attributed to the combined impact of
      this and other MP projects in Argentina over time.
     The costs and time taken to achieve results for individual subprojects (with the exception
      of the production sector).

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

63.    The project was entirely centered on environmental outcomes in following with applicable
requirements of the Montreal Protocol, the MLF, and OP/BP 10.21.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

64.     Argentina’s overall national framework for meeting international environmental treaty
obligations has coalesced, evolved and continues to be responsive to the MP. This is evident as
GOA has achieved three years of compliance with the new HCFC phase-out obligations, relying
on the same inter-agency and inter-ministerial structure for policy promulgation, implementation,
monitoring and enforcement. The combined effect of all MP support provided to GOA, including
that provided through the project can be attributed to said achievement. In addition, a cooperative
relationship was cultivated and continues with the private sector in almost all MP sectors over the
project’s life. This collaboration is needed in the current phase of MP implementation and perhaps
beyond, considering that high-GWP alternatives such as HFCs may someday be eliminated
through MP support.




                                                13
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

65.     The development of homegrown and innovative technology for propellant in MDIs was
not foreseen as ODS conversions usually involve commercially available alternative technologies.
As isobutane costs less and is more climate friendly, this new technology for MDIs may have
greater climate benefits once established and more widely adopted. Another significant and similar
additional benefit of the project was to reduce GHG emissions as a result of eliminating more than
3,700 MT of CFC consumption and production. CFC-12 and -11 have GWPs of 10,900 and 4,750
respectively, much higher than substitutes (in some cases HCFCs) introduced by the project. Thus,
more than a net 37 million tons of CO2 eq. emissions were avoided annually through the project.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

66.    No survey or stakeholder workshops took place. However, the final Implementation
Support Mission included eight meetings with a sample of representatives of subproject
beneficiaries and several site visits. Beneficiaries were on the most part satisfied with their
subprojects and the financial assistance received.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome – Rating: Negligible to Low

67.     GOA has continued to comply with the MP requirements of complete phase-out of Annex
A and B substances five years after the January 1, 2010 obligation. This is partly due to the
country’s now well-established regulatory and institutional framework through which the
consumption of these substances is illegal, the technological transformation of the sectors where
these substances were used, and the elimination of the global supply of CFCs, virgin halon and
MCF. GOA enforces its ODS rules and there has been no evidence of illegal importation. The
likelihood that industry will revert to the use of these substances is therefore extremely low.

5. Assessment of Bank and Recipient Performance

5.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry – Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

68.     The performance of the Bank in identifying, preparing and appraising the project is
assessed as satisfactory for having effectively incorporated required pieces needed to develop a
responsive intervention to support Argentina’s ODS phase-out goals while meeting Bank
operational requirements. The scope of the work was firmly founded on sector analysis of the CP,
the country’s specific requests for areas of Bank support, and the OP/BP on MP Operations. The
Bank was proactive in developing an MLF subproject pipeline in priority sectors and adequately
mobilized required technical expertise. The Bank anticipated the need for a functional institutional
framework not only for executing the project but to ensure that enabling regulations and policy
outside of the project would be put into place to foster sustainable outcomes. It also rightly
identified the possible risk to project efficiency from the many actors in subproject implementation.

69.     A caveat to the Bank’s otherwise satisfactory performance is the lax handling of the project
objective across documents and the key data upon which targets were based. The project
document’s objective statement embedded indicators and targets and was once removed from the


                                                14
GA’s more global angle. Metric tons of ODS (volume) and ODP (impact) were referred to
interchangeably and not all possible types of ODS that would be included in the project were
specified. These inconsistencies contributed to the future challenges in the M&E framework, such
as agreement on what target values to monitor.

(b) Quality of Supervision – Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

70.     The rating of Bank performance in supervision combines distinct phases of the project. The
team in place in 1997-2006 demonstrated good technical knowledge and understanding of MLF
rules through advice to the country on eligibility criteria, incremental cost reasoning, baseline
equipment disposal, and financial viability, among others. A strong drive to develop new
subprojects in close cooperation with UEPRO and OPROZ was consistently present and proved
essential to achieving the GEO after the large group of initial subprojects were cancelled. The
Bank MP Coordination team mirrored this drive by submitting and negotiating subprojects on
behalf of Argentina at ExCom meetings. In addition, the Bank provided policy support to GOA,
for example on implementing regulations for Law 24.040 on Controlling Halon and on controlling
CFC production to meet national consumption targets. But comprehensive supervision and
technical support came at a cost – annual Bank costs are nearly four times higher annually between
FY98-FY06 than most of the remaining years.

71.     By facilitating the last GA extension in 2010, the Bank ensured that the final subproject,
the conversion of MDIs had ample time to be completed given the innovation involved, the critical
role of the product, and regulatory approval requirements in Argentina. However the Bank’s
support to the project had already slipped. This is evidenced by the quality and dearth of
supervision and monitoring reports, no site visits, failure to formally realign project objectives,
targets or the results framework with evolving project needs (stemming from the inclusion of
production as part of consumption phase-out, and the MLF shift to compliance-based phase-out),
and to more effectively capture project impact with the proper metric), and the carryover of
unrealistic assessments of project status that had already begun in the project’s first phase. This
decrease in technical and policy support permitted inefficiencies in UEPRO to grow. The Bank
did not fully tap into its internal resources in terms of budget and cross-support (for MP technical
issues) as it had in previous years. Subprojects first identified as having delays in early 2000,
lingered into the final two years of the project. Safeguards treatment was “casual” at best, and there
was no mid-term review that could have brokered the needed restructuring of the GEO and
indicators, despite the opportunity before the last two project phases.

72.    Bank engagement with UEPRO as well as OPROZ began to increase again in 2011 in light
of the impending HCFC phase-out requirements and the need to ensure adequate transition
arrangements were in place. This entailed preparation in 2012 of a new ODS operation to support
Argentina’s Stage I HPMP.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance – Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

73.    The rating is based on the above-assessed Bank performance for Quality at Entry and of
Supervision, noting that the lower-quality support in supervision was not constantly evident but
dominates given the project’s trajectory in its last phases and persistent M&E issues.



                                                 15
5.2 Recipient
(a) Government Performance – Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

74.     GOA generally showed commitment to the overall objectives of the project during
implementation, despite periodic changes across the Government and gaps in coordination under
the tripartite arrangement, particularly with MOI as represented by UEPRO. That MOI covered
20% of salary costs during the entire 17-year life of UEPRO was an important sign of this
commitment. Nonetheless, there were delays at times in receiving clearances or endorsement of
subprojects due to frequent changes in Government or officials not familiar with the MP. For
example, two years were required until the CFC Production Sector Plan was endorsed for
submission to the MLF. Without the plan in place, a critical disconnect occurred between MOI,
which took responsibility for the production sector, and SAyDS, which focused on reporting of
overall consumption, leading to Argentina’s non-compliance with its first MP obligation in 1999.

75.    In the project’s last years, MOI’s interest for the project appeared to decline leaving
UEPRO as the sole interlocutor with the Bank on project policy and strategic matters. In addition,
UEPRO as MOI’s ozone representative was somewhat isolated from MP governance and the
country’s strategy for MP implementation as seen in the interactions with OPROZ/SAyDS, which
were limited primarily to reporting on the status of the project, when solicited.

76.      In spite, and possibly as a result of the early coordination challenges encountered in the
tripartite arrangement, GOA has a legal framework that is responsive to emerging regulatory and
policy needs of the MP and is complemented by inter-agency arrangements and enforcement
particularly between OPROZ, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Customs.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance – Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

77.     UEPRO, the project coordination unit created under the project and hosted by the MOI,
took lead responsibility for the project implementation. It was originally a two-person unit in
addition to INTI technical support to manage a subproject portfolio of up to US$24 million. It
entered into SGAs with beneficiaries and managed all elements of the subproject cycle. UEPRO
provided appropriate and timely support and led on related initiatives. For example it pursued a
tax exemption on imported equipment with the Ministry of Economy in line with the
recommendation of the MP Parties and ExCom. Another example is a study it undertook on how
the financial crisis was impacting project delivery and how early CFC production closure would
impact the local CFC market.

78.     Upon a series of changes in UEPRO leadership, removal of INTI’s technical contribution
to UEPRO and low periods of activity on the beneficiary side, UEPRO’s role and responsibilities
decreased. The CFC Production Phase-out Plan that required intensive reporting and monitoring
to ensure timely release of funding tranches to FIASA under the performance-based approach was
an exception. At that point, UEPRO was augmented to five full-time professional staff. However,
it continued with this configuration three years after the CFC production subproject closed in 2010.
With only the MDI subproject remaining and four more or less dormant subprojects, this period
was manifested by low disbursement rates, inability to supply or source technical know-how
needed to move forward remaining subprojects, and an overall decrease in initiative by UEPRO.



                                                16
79.     Throughout the up and downswings of the project, the PIM was not revisited and the
appropriate size and cost of the PCU in relation to the active subproject portfolio not observed as
it had been in the earlier phases of the project. Adherence to ExCom policies, which is also a shared
responsibility with the Bank, was not consistent in terms of reporting, changes in technology and
disbursement rules, as witnessed by the ICR mission.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Recipient Performance - Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

80.     The combined assessment of performance of the Government and Executing Agency
(UEPRO) is MS, based on Government performance in the satisfactory range and a modestly
satisfactory outcome.

6. Lessons Learned

81.      An adaptive approach was key to successful ODS phase-out outcomes. The umbrella
project modality, established through World Bank policy on Montreal Protocol operations
facilitated the substantial achievement of ODS phase-out when unforeseen events arose such as
the financial crisis and during the extended MP-mandated phase-down steps. As a result of the
flexibility and simple design, the project could respond to phase-out needs by incorporating new
subprojects to replace those cancelled.

82.    Donor requirements can play an instrumental role advancing implementation. The
decisions, policies and procedures of the MP and the MLF shaped the project and had a positive
influence on outcomes in terms of phase-out targets and prioritization, environmental and safety
requirements on alternative technologies, monitoring and reporting requirements, pressures for
cancellation of inactive projects, and sustainability measures. These guiding parameters drove
subproject implementation progress including in periods when supervision, MP technical capacity,
and monitoring and reporting by the Bank and UEPRO were lacking.

83.     Promoting synergies with global environmental goals is important to reinforce
Government buy-in. MOI, as the executing agency had a distinct role to play in obtaining
industry’s cooperation for the implementation of project requirements by balancing its primary
mandate of promoting industry with that of national environmental objectives. A notable example
is MOI’s advocacy for the development of alternative MDI technology with the potential to give
Argentine industry a competitive edge in the regional market due to low input cost and climate
impact, addition to achieving CFC phase-out.

84.     Grant financing is more effective when delivered through a sector plan approach.
Effecting industrial change towards ODS-alternative technologies was facilitated by grant
financing and the availability of alternative technologies in the market. However, a performance-
based sector-level approach that makes funding dependent on reaching national-level ODS phase-
out targets, is better able to create commitment to, and efficiencies in implementation. The CFC
Production Phase-out Plan subproject that combined policy with grants stood out among other
subprojects for its unique approach, impressive results and timely execution. It effectively brought
together stakeholders (regulator, executing agency and private sector) to reach shared objectives
through combined incentives and disincentives.



                                                 17
85.     Linking ODS supply and demand leads to sustained phase-out results. A universal lesson
observed, but particularly so in Argentina, is the need to control ODS consumption and production
while simultaneously converting industry (the users) from the beginning of the project. Knowledge
that CFCs would be in short supply and costs would rise could have accelerated subproject
implementation among slow-movers. Moreover, the temporary lapse in coordinating national
consumption with production targets that caused Argentina to exceed MP limits in 1999, may have
been avoided if addressed sooner. This lesson was reflected in the design of the follow-on HCFC
Phase-out Project (P129397).

86.    Positive outcomes may be put at risk when duration exceeds the point when the GEO has
been substantially reached. The majority of project disbursement and phase-out was achieved by
the 2010 MP phase-out target. The final restructuring made a good case for GA extension, but the
period of extension was not used to its full potential to close out remaining subproject balances
and to focus technical and administrative capacity on the MDI strategy and chiller replacement
subprojects. The final period of little outputs overshadowed the positive results achieved prior to
2010.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Recipient/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Recipient/implementing agencies

87.     The responsible GoA representatives were provided with the draft ICR and substantive and
editorial comments were received from UEPRO, the Ministry of Economy and the Chief of
Cabinet of Ministers. The Bank’s detailed responses to the comments were provided to the GoA
separately while the edits and some of the comments have been reflected in the final ICR. A
summary of the Recipient’s comments and the ICR (in Spanish) is found in Annex 7.

(b) Cofinanciers and other partners and stakeholders

88.    Not applicable.




                                                18
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)

                                                                Actual/Latest
                                      Appraisal Estimate                                Percentage of
           Components                                             Estimate
                                        (US$ millions)                                   Appraisal
                                                                (US$ millions)
Component A: Provision of
                                             24.00                    27.66                 115%
Subgrants
Component B: Administration and
                                              0.90                     1.99                 221%
TA
Unallocated                                    0.10                    0.00
               Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies
                Total Project Costs          25.00*                   29.65                 119%
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
Front-end fee IBRD
         Total Financing Required            25.00*                   29.65                 119%

* Original umbrella amount is shown given that MLF approvals were received primarily during the
life of the project. Counterpart funding provided by the enterprises was not envisioned and therefore
not formally included in the project.

(b) Financing
                                                            Appraisal       Actual/Latest
                                        Type of                                             Percentage of
        Source of Funds                                     Estimate           Estimate
                                      Cofinancing                                             Appraisal
                                                          (US$ millions)    (US$ millions)
Recipient                        N/A                     0.00              0.00            0.00
MONTREAL PROTOCOL                Grant                   25.00             29.65           119%




                                                    19
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component A – Subgrants

1.       Refrigeration and Foam. Ten subprojects were completed in the sector responsible for
the manufacturer of commercial (1) and domestic refrigeration (9). The majority of enterprises
first identified to take part in the conversion program were domestic, i.e. household refrigerator
producers. Sixteen subprojects were originally prepared by UEPRO, OPROZ and the Bank,
submitted, and approved by the MLF between 1994 and 2000 – worth a total US$16.8 million in
grant funding.

       However, the financial crisis experienced by Argentina between 1998 and 2002 had severe
consequences on the refrigeration subproject portfolio and was exacerbated by international
market trends as CFC controls began in 1999. These subprojects were delayed an average five to
seven years as enterprises with financial difficulties attempted to adjust to the market. One
subproject was delayed more than a decade and nearly cancelled several times as it struggled to
complete its two-part conversion through bankruptcy and ownership changes. Seven subprojects
with domestic refrigeration companies were cancelled. The result was not only the grant financing
of US$6.2 million foregone by the GoA to cease CFC use (a total of 195 ODP MT), but the
administrative costs to the project. The approved fees to the Bank and UEPRO (ten and three
percent respectively on the funding approved) of US$380,000 had to be returned in their entirety
by the Bank to the MLF (although UEPRO had the right to retain 1.5 percent on cancelled
subprojects per the original project document and PIM).

        Two companies were interviewed during the ICR mission to gauge their experiences and
determine the sustainability of the previous interventions in foam and refrigeration manufacturing.
One enterprise received grant financing to cease use of CFC-11 in the production of rigid
polyurethane foam in panels for thermal insulation. More than 12 years later, the enterprise is still
using the project funded equipment in its discontinuous panel production for commercial
refrigeration (display cases, cold-storage, etc.). In 2013, it installed a nearly fully automatic
continuous panel production line based on isobutane technology. The equipment purchased by the
project was a significant process improvement while allowing for CFC elimination because three
stand-alone machines were replaced with a foam injection system allowing for multiple injections.
The enterprise was able to select the supplier/equipment manufacturer that best fit into its overall
production process. Enterprise representatives expressed satisfaction with the project.

        Another enterprise visited, originally called Frimetal, used CFC-11 and -12 to manufacture
domestic refrigerators and received nearly US$2 million to convert to ozone and climate-friendly
alternatives (hydrocarbons). The company is, since 2011, a part of a multi-national group but was
able to confirm its experience with the subproject (executed between 1998 and 2004). It had
benefitted from technical support from INTI through UEPRO. What stood out most for the
company was the new technology and the bidding process, which led to a highly successful
outcome and was later replicated by its branch in Chile.




                                                 20
       The enterprise was highly satisfied with the project, which it considers to have been a door
opener to more sophisticated and quality manufacturing. It was the first step towards its corporate
greening approach. The greening programs of the global company has allowed it to continue
improving safety measures, e.g. the installation of sprinklers. During the plant tour, it was
confirmed that the enterprise had never started production nor currently produced with isobutane
(HC) in refrigeration and is instead using HFC-134a. The enterprise justified its decision not to
adopt the technology as planned for safety concerns, particularly in aftersales service. This
technology change in the subproject, however, should have been reported according to rules of the
ExCom given that the enterprise received funds to go to HC.

2.     Mobile Air-conditioning. Four subprojects were implemented at four companies in
Argentina responsible for mobile air-conditioning (MAC). As the enterprises were part of the value
chain and did not actually charge MAC systems in vehicles with the refrigerant, CFC-12, ODS
phase-out achieved is considered indirect.

        The market was divided into two groups of MAC manufactures. The first was integrated
by three companies. In this group, two produced the evaporators and condensers, and the third,
assembled the units. The group accounted for 75 percent of the national MAC market, about 180
indirect ODP tons and received subproject approvals in December 1994 in the group of the first
MLF approvals for Component A. The other group was made up by one large company, which
produced and assembled its own MAC systems. Its subproject was approved in 1995.

        A total of US$7.1 million was approved for the subprojects however due to ownership
changes (increase in developed country ownership), funding was adjusted downwards and US$4.9
million was disbursed; the balance was returned to the MLF. Including counterpart funding, the
total estimated cost of converting to non-CFC MACs for vehicles was US$12.4 million.

       Implementation duration was several years longer than planned primarily because the
automobile market continued to demand CFC-12 based MACs until 1997. When the industry was
ready as a whole to adopt the alternative systems (based on HFC-134a), conversion quickly
completed. A secondary cause of delay was the change in ownership. More than 240 ODP tons of
CFC-12 were eliminated from downstream use.

3.      National Halon Management Program helped eliminate the use of Halon-1301 in new
applications and manage recovered Halon-1301 in old applications. The subproject was
conceptualized at the inception of the project in order to support GOA’s then-recent Halon Law
from 1990. It was approved in November 1998 and included two modules, setting up of a halon
management program (including training and education to the fire protection industry) and transfer
of alternative fire protection technology and technical assistance for users and the establishment
of a national halon-1301 reclamation and recycling system, through a network of recovery stations,
three reclamation and storage facilities and a national clearing-house center.

      From the beginning, the implementation process for the establishment of the Halon Bank
encountered difficulties due to lack of experience at the national level, including which would be
the most appropriate laboratory equipment to procure and expedient mechanism to achieve the




                                                21
sought after results. The assistance provided by an international expert hired by the Bank (October
2000) helped to better define the components and build consensus in the sector.

        In January 2004, the Halon Bank started to work through an operator recognized by INTI.
INTI played the role of the Halon Bank administrator agent and also managed and assessed its
performance. Given that the market turned out to be smaller than initially expected, three firms out
of the five initially identified as interested eventually registered as Halon Bank operators.

        The Halon Bank was implemented at a lower cost than budgeted as it was determined that
it was not necessary to purchase all the planned laboratory equipment (i.e. analysis instruments)
or furnish as many facilities with technical equipment (i.e. deposit tanks). The Halon Bank works
in Argentina as a virtual bank, controlled by INTI, which is informed of each operation made in
the market by the operators and/or user.

        INTI provided a comprehensive overview of the subproject to the ICR mission and the
amounts of halon reclaimed. It was highly satisfied with the project while recognizing its duty to
perform this service given Argentina’s obligation to the MP and other multilateral environment
agreements. The Halon Bank, as implemented in Argentina, continues to be in use and operate,
one of the few among Article 5 recipients of halon bank funding.

4.      Testing Methyl Bromide Alternatives in Post-harvest Disinfestation for Cotton and
Citrus. The subproject was approved in 1999 as a demonstration activity with no associated phase-
out of the ODS involved, i.e. methyl bromide (MeBr), an “Annex E” substance with an ODP of
0.6. The subproject aimed to demonstrate the technical and economic feasibility of several
alternatives for extending post-harvest life of cotton and citrus: phosphine for citrus and cotton,
carbon bisulphide for cotton, cold treatment for citrus and integrated pest management systems as
alternative technologies to the use of MeBr.

        The subproject was to be executed by SENASA (National Phytosanitary Service) and
finding a contractor needed for research and test services would be done through a competitive
selection process. After a five-year period of institutional and administrative delays from changes
in GOA to trying to set up the subproject legal and administrative framework at SENASA,
including selecting a general coordinator, it was agreed between GoA and the Bank to transfer the
subproject to a new agency, INTA (National Institute of Agricultural Technology). INTA, a
research and extension institute capable of performing tests and implementing the demonstration
in house entered into agreement with UEPRO to be the executing agency.

        Further delays were encountered in implementation (testing) attributable to the growing
cycles of crops as well as the pests and climatic factors during the harvest season and a dengue
epidimic that occurred in the work zones. Trials were postponed several times until the subsequent
year's harvest season. Modifications in the technologies tested were considered late in the project
after results were found to be lacking, e.g. the use of heat with the cold treatment. However,
UEPRO decided to discontinue testing to prevent additional delays in 2011. Subproject closing
was done two years later as time was taken to determine how project savings could be utilized.




                                                22
        As per the final report completed by INTA, the conclusion from the tests done were 1) for
citrus that cold treatment works the best to kill pests but is commercially difficult, requiring cold
throughout distribution (i.e. also cold transport) as there is only a small window to market the
produce; 2) for cotton fiber, phosphine is effective but neither reasonable at a commercial level
due to high cost combined with the fact that the main growers are small farmers. Further, carbon
bisulphide only had a ten percent efficacy. In summary, cold treatment (requiring a cold chamber)
and phosphine are viable only for large companies that can afford the technology.

        In terms of subroject execution, INTA found that the administrative requirements
sometimes clashed with the “biological” time required to conduct experiments and tests (seasonal
aspects, pest life cycle, unintended developments in experiments, etc.). INTA would have also
preferred to have had the opportunity through the project to interact more with international experts.
In sum however, the project was a good opportunity to have exchanges with industry, seeing that
UEPRO sits in the MOI and INTA belongs to the Ministry of Agriculture, and to receive inputs
from a different sector to help solve challenges as they arose.

        Despite challenges with finding the right executing agency with testing capacity, as well
as other delays, the project eventually served its original intent to demonstrate the feasibility of
alternative treatments for citrus and cotton than MeBr. Subsequent to the approval of the
demonstration, Argentina continued with investment activities to phase out MeBr with other MLF
Implementing Agencies. MeBr consumption as per the MP definition has been phased out in
Article 5 countries since January 1, 2015. The demonstration subproject contributed to the
cumulative agronomic knowledge needed to shift from a highly effective and efficient treatment
to other alternatives.

5.      Technical Aerosols. Component A included two subprojects in the sector, specifically
aerosols used to propel cleaning, lubricating, and other similar agents, primarily in the automotive
industry. Servex S.R.L. received a grant to finance the incremental operating costs associated with
the replacement of two CFCs used as propellants and solvents by a mixture of HFC-134a and
HCFC-141b. In addition, 0.2 ODP MT of MCF were also phased out.

        Servex was visited by the ICR mission (nearly ten years after its conversion). The
enterprise reported that the project went well. The grant enabled sufficient testing of new
formulations to replace CFC-based formulations in a range of automotive and cleaning products.
Servex described how it established a working group to test formulations. It encountered
difficulties with the replacement substance, HCFC-22 due to a different pressure and had to work
hard on a technology that would provide sufficient pressure. Servex understood since the
subproject design stage through the Bank and the executing agency that HCFC is also an ODS and
only a transitional technology, that would also have to be phased out eventually.

       Electroquimica Delta was the second enterprise to receive a grant based on similar
conditions as that of Servex, namely to cover new operating costs from phasing out various CFCs
and MCF and phasing in HCFC-22, HFC-134a and others. In the early 1990s the company
converted, with its own resources, 40 percent of its production line to HAPs but continued
producing technical aerosols (non-flammable dusters and non-flammable contact cleaners) using
CFCs as propellants and solvents. The company received incremental operating costs associated



                                                 23
with the replacement of CFC propellant by a mixture of HCF-134a (60 percent) and HCFC-22 (40
percent), and CFC-113 as a solvent by a mixture of HCFCs, HC and others. The subproject phased
out 60 ODP tons of ODS without major inconveniences to the enterprise.

6.     Elimination of CFCs in Sterilization. The subproject objective was elimination of 20.69
MT of CFC-12 at Asisthos a company that provides sterilization services to laboratories,
pharmaceutical companies, hospitals, etc., by converting operations to a 100 percent ethylene
oxide process.

        Given that ethylene oxide is highly toxic and flammable, safety devices, ventilation and
air-conditioning were included in the subproject as well as TA, in part to certify the new facility
with the alternative process. After initial delays in the process of approval by the ExCom, the
subproject was executed successfully with full phase-out. No major problems were experienced
throughout implementation except that portable sensors with accurate sensitivity were difficult to
obtain in the market. The baseline (CFC-based) sterilization chamber was perforated and cut in
vital parts to permanently disable the equipment. The process was verified by OPROZ, INTI,
UEPRO, and the enterprise.

        According to the company, incremental operating savings of US$105,416 that were
deducted from the original approval were over-estimated, and operating costs were expected to be
higher in the future due to changes in prices of raw materials and possible consumption constraints
of the sterilization market in Argentina. In addition to the cut in incremental capital costs (from
the MLF), the company had to finance other costs with an extra US$241,365 to complete the
project.

7.      Solvents. Initially two subprojects were approved by the MLF in 1999 to phase-out ODS
used as cleaning agents in industrial production. The first was at a company that was not able to
prove its liquidity in the midst of the financial and economic crisis. The subproject was cancelled.

        The second solvents subproject was designed as an umbrella project to cover nine small
enterprises with limited consumption of MCF (ODP of 0.11). For each enterprise, similar
interventions were planned: replacement of existing cleaning equipment with an aqueous cleaning
unit, adaptation of wastewater treatment where necessary, training, and commissioning. In one
case, a retrofit of the baseline equipment was intended. The aqueous cleaning equipment was to
be supplied by one local manufacturer.

       Due to reported financial difficulties of the majority of the enterprises rooted in the
country’s overall economic and financial situation, seven dropped out of the project. This was
coupled with the fact that grant funding was not sufficient to cover all expenditures and significant
counterpart funding was required. The process of appraising and waiting for the SGA signing
delayed the subproject by more than three years. Two enterprises, Buffalo and Orbis, went forward
with their conversions, albeit at a slower pace than planned because of the difficulty of getting
needed components due to the same reason, national economic challenges.

      The subproject phased out 1.4 ODP MT of MCF at Orbis and 0.9 ODP MT at Buffalo.
Both Orbis and Buffalo were using aqueous solution in their production processes after conversion.



                                                 24
At completion, the conversions were deemed to be sustainable with little risk of returning to old
technology due to the benefits of the new technology and its implementation at the plants – in
particular, environmental and safety risks have been eliminated with the new production process.
Both companies had reported to have increased productivity.

8.      CFC Production Closure. The Argentina CFC Production Phase-out Plan was approved
at the 38th Meeting of the ExCom with in principle US$8.3 million in funding for the phased
reduction and closure of the entire CFC production capacity in Argentina. The subproject involved
a sole production facility at Frio Industrias Argentinas S.A. (FIASA) and permanent closure and
dismantling of all capacity for the production of Group I, Annex A and Group I, Annex B CFCs.
The project was Argentina’s first performance-based agreement under the MLF whereby it entered
into agreement to end CFC production in accordance with agreed overall and annual targets to
2010, as verified by an independent auditor, in exchange for the release of tranche funding. In
addition, the agreement included a penalty of US$1,000 per ODP tonnes of reductions not achieved
in any agreement year.

        In November 2007, the production sector agreement was amended in order to accelerate
the closure of production by two years. UEPRO led related inter-institutional negotiations and
participated in a related market study. Another US$2.3 million was approved for FIASA on the
condition that independent verifications of the plant were conducted by the Bank in 2008 and 2009
to confirm that production closure was sustained. The results of the subproject in comparison to
the agreed production phase-out timetable follow:

       Table A-2.1
                                           Accelerated Phase-                           Funding as
              Year     Agreement Target                         Actual Production
                                                  out                                Adjusted (US$ m)

              2002                3,020                3,020                3,015                 0.5
              2003                3,020                3,020                3,018                 3.5
              2004                3,020                3,020                3,016                   -
              2005                1,647                1,647                1,645                 0.3
              2006                1,647                1,647                1,645                 2.0
              2007                  686                  686                  443                 2.3
              2008                  686                    -                    -                 1.0
              2009                  686                    -                    -                 1.0
              2010                     0                    0                    0                    -
              TOTAL Production Eliminated/Funding Released                   3020                 10.6


       The production sector subproject met its primary objective of CFC elimination in the
agreed timeframe, including early phase-out. At the time of approval, the company decided it
would produce HCFC-22, the main alternative substance to CFC-12, using the same plant, and
therefore was designated as a “swing plant.” Hence in mid-2007 the plant retrofitted some
equipment (such as storage tanks to hold raw materials needed) but no components were destroyed.

       FIASA explained to the ICR mission that it was generally satisfied with the project,
acknowledging that closing down CFC production was a straightforward objective. It felt that
UEPRO was present for it throughout the subproject. In terms of drawbacks, the enterprise
reported that despite being initially informed that its grant was tax exempt, FIASA needed to pay
35 percent in taxes on the grant to the GOA.


                                                       25
        In regards to final subproject expenditures, there were savings for labor compensation
given that part of the labor was retained for HCFC production. FIASA retained US$9,550,000
instead of the US$10,100,000 planned.

               Table A-2.2
                        Production Sector Plan     Approved        Actual        Savings

                      TA                              500,000        704,976    (204,976)
                      FIASA                          7,000,000      7,000,000
                      FIASA Labor Compensation        800,000        250,000      550,000
                      Subtotal                       8,300,000      7,954,976     345,024
                      Accelerated Phaseout           2,300,000      2,300,000           -
                      Total                         10,600,000     10,254,976     345,024
               Note: TA was administered under Component B. Savings will be returned to the MLF ExCom.


        In late 2013, UEPRO requested that US$290,000 of the US$550,000 in savings be kept
and transferred to Component B for continued monitoring of FIASA and for project management,
to which the Bank agreed. This was because more than a year of the project implementation period
was still ahead and the new HCFC project that involves monitoring of FIASA had not become
effective.

        The subproject met its ultimate objectives but costs were not as planned and reporting to
the MLF ExCom on expenditures was not accurate, as reports by the Bank on behalf of GOA
indicated full disbursement by the end of 2010. In the end TA and project management cost was
US$704,976.

9.      Building Chiller Replacement. The subproject was approved by the MLF ExCom in
November 2005 at its 47th Meeting as one component of Argentina’s previously approved (2004)
National CFC Phase-out Plan (NCPP). With the assistance of the Lead Agency, UNIDO, the NCPP
aimed to address all remaining, unfunded CFC consumption – with the exception of that for
metered dose inhalers (see below) up to the 2010 CFC phase-out date. During implementation, the
GOA requested that a portion of the NCPP funds be allocated to a pilot replacement of CFC-based
centrifugal chillers. US$500,000 was agreed for said purpose and the Bank became part of the
NCPP agreement between GOA and the ExCom.

        The context for this request was a study led by the Bank on the barriers to replacing chillers
with more modern technology namely energy efficient, non-CFC chillers. Grant funding for
chillers was difficult because 1) chillers were imported as a product to most countries (hence
technically not ‘consumption’) and were topped up with CFCs as part of servicing, and 2) CFC-
based chillers were so energy inefficient, that there would be an incremental cost savings
(estimated return on investment of four years) hence no need for a grant. At the same ExCom
meeting, the Bank received funding for a Global Chiller Replacement Project, which included a
study on Argentina’s chiller sector and another allocation in principle of US$1 million.

        The NCPP-chiller replacement activity was postponed by the Bank team and UEPRO in
anticipation of additional funding that would make the intervention more meaningful. Based on
the Bank study on barriers to chiller replacement, it was estimated that 20-30 percent of the cost


                                                      26
of a new chiller would permit barriers to adoption of more energy efficient technology to be
removed. The grant also provided for the use of the funds for project management and TA for
developing tools or approaches to communicate the large energy savings potential from replacing
old (10-15 years) chillers.

        UEPRO hence reached out to prospective building chiller owners that had been initially
surveyed. The response rate was extremely low despite several attempts in writing. No progress
was made thus in 2009, UEPRO asked that the information on chiller owners be updated through
a survey. Data was hence updated and in 2009 UEPRO received a “short list” of interested
enterprises numbering about 15. Demand remained low as did outreach to explain and demonstrate
the merits of chiller replacement. In the end only five chillers could be replaced for three building
owners. In 2013, the ExCom took a unilateral decision to close some projects on CFC and other
ODS that had been technically phased out by 2010. Argentina’s chiller project under the NCPP
was included and the balance of the funds was returned in 2014. The additional $1 million
allocated under the Bank’s Global Chiller Replacement Project was carried over, untouched to the
new Argentina HCFC Phase-out Project (P129397).

        One of the three building owner beneficiaries, a five-star hotel, was visited by the ICR
mission in October 2014. It had one of its three chillers replaced with the 20 percent grant subsidy
provided by the subproject. The chiller was replaced with an HFC-134a chiller that has contributed
to energy savings that surpassed expectations of the hotel (20 percent energy savings and a 30
percent savings in the energy bill). Only one month after installation, energy consumption dropped.
The hotel belongs to a larger group that has seen the replacement of a total of 4 chillers through
the grant subsidy. The General Manager was highly satisfied with the project although he would
have liked a larger subsidy.

10.     Metered Dose Inhalers (MDIs). The last subproject that was approved and implemented
under the project was the Phase-out of CFC Consumption in the Manufacture of Aerosol MDIs.
The objective of the subproject was to eliminate CFCs used as a propellant in inhalers for medical
uses, specifically for treating asthma. At US$2.8 million it was designed as a sector-level project,
encompassing a group of laboratories to develop HFA-based formulations for their MDIs,
conversion of a major pharmaceutical company, Laboratorio Pablo Cassara, to the use of pharma-
grade isobutane and the conversion of another enterprise to HFA technology. It comprised a TA
component with flexibility in the use of funds to develop a strategy to assist the public and
healthcare providers to transition to CFC-free MDIs used to deliver salbutamol and budesonide.

       The TA component of the subproject, including the MDI transition strategy, and public
awareness was to be implemented under Component B through UEPRO. However, UEPRO
delegated the work to beneficiaries and in the end the work was not be completed as planned.

        The ICR mission visited Cassara which stated that the support of the project was important
and the development of a technology not used commercially anywhere else would not have
happened without it. The enterprise said the most difficult part of implementation was coming up
with the formulations with isobutane as an alternative to HFA. Another challenge was finding
explosion proof equipment. It had to work with a supplier of normal filling equipment to develop
a special explosion proof machine. Cassara also needed to develop a special testing area for the
pilots and had to find another location for MDI production, once the formulation/MDI receives


                                                 27
approval and is registered (the dossier was sent to authorities in January 2014). Cassara explained
that it is and has been using the new equipment to manufacturer HFA-based MDIs. It also uses the
old, CFC-based line for HFA production, as the original subproject proposal did not mandate its
destruction.

         In terms of subproject proponents, Cassara stated that it was very comfortable with the
support of MOI and UEPRO that Cassara felt, had strong buy-in in its objective. When Cassara
required something, it felt there was a good link to the WB through UEPRO. On costs, Cassara
stated that it covered 100 percent of salaries for R&D and 80 percent of the testing equipment and
trials and estimates its contribution to be about US$2-3 million. In retrospect, the company would
have liked the WB to use its convening power to help it build a network of universities/researchers
on this type of product. Cassara had felt a bit isolated (partly for the need for confidentiality) but
would have liked to share knowledge.

       Cassara has applied for a patent but does not expect to be able to market the isobutane MDI
before 2016 (two years for approval, another two to twelve months for controlled marketing
approvals). It is none the less confident and even went beyond subproject expectations by
developing more than ten additional formulations for drugs other than salbutamol.




                                                 28
                 Table A-2.3 summarizes key subproject data under Part A of the Project (Category 1) including phase-out achieved.


                                                                                                                                                              Consumption                  Production                                            MLF ExCom
                                                                                                                            O DS                                            C onsumption                  Production Date of MLF    Date                                      Grant           Grant
                                                                                                                                                                O DP to be                  O DP to be                                            Approve d Adjustme nt                                      C ounte rpart
No                                                    Subroje ct Title                                                     Phase d     Ne w Alte rnative                    O DP Phase d                  O DP Phase d ExC om    C omple te d                               Disburse d    Effe ctive ne ss
                                                                                                                                                               Phase d O ut                Phase d O ut                                           Funding      (US$)                                           Funding
                                                                                                                            O ut                                                 O ut                         O ut     Approval   (Actual)*                                   (US$)         (US$/kg)
                                                                                                                                                                 pe r Plan                   pe r Plan                                             (US$)



  1   Conversion to non-CFC technology in heat exchangers for mobile air conditioning at Interclima, S.A.                  CFC       HFC-134a                            0             0              0             0      Dec-94      Jun-99     1,983,430     (314,039)     1,669,391               n/a       2,400,000
  2   Conversion to non-CFC technology in condensers for mobile air conditioning at Simon Cachan, S.A.                     CFC       HFC-134a                            0             0              0             0      Dec-94      Jan-01     2,738,217     (459,396)     2,278,821               n/a         670,542
  3   Conversion to non-CFC technology in complete mobile air conditioning systems at Mirgor, S.A.                         CFC       HFC-134a                            0             0              0             0      Dec-94      Jun-99        35,632       (4,082)        31,550               n/a             -
  4   Elimination of CFC in manufacturing domestic refrigerators at Helametal S.A., and Helametal Catamarca S.A.           CFC       HFC-134a, c-pentane                62            62              0             0      Dec-94      Oct-03     2,959,085      (59,591)     2,899,494             46.77         373,493
  5   Elimination of CFC in the domestic refrigerator manufacturing plant of McLean                                        CFC       Isobutane, c-pentane               74            74              0             0      Dec-94      Jan-01     2,440,570   (1,567,990)       872,580             11.79       1,713,066
  6   Elimination of CFCs in domestic refrigerator production plant in Autosal, S.A.                                       CFC       Isobutane, c-pentane               22            22              0             0      Nov-95      Jun-03       797,390          -          797,390             36.25         234,200
  7   Elimination of CFCs in the manufacturing plant of domestic refrigerators of Briket, S.A.                             CFC       Isobutane, c-pentane               30            30              0             0      Nov-95      Oct-01       726,400          -          726,400             24.21         290,875
  8   Elimination of CFC in the manufacturing plant of domestic refrigerators of Neba, S.A.                                CFC       Isobutane, c-pentane               29            29              0             0      Nov-95      Aug-12       686,370          -          686,370             23.67
  9   Conversion to non-CFC technology in the production of mobile air conditioning systems at Sistemaire, S.A.            CFC       HFC-134a                            0             0              0             0      Nov-95      Sep-00     2,370,550   (1,400,728)       969,822               n/a       4,417,868
 10   Elimination of CFCs in the manufacturing plants of domestic refrigerators of Frimetal, Rosario                       CFC       Isobutane, c-pentane             89.7          89.7              0             0      May-96      Sep-04     1,855,000          -        1,855,000             20.68         493,200
 11   Elimination of CFCs in 1 manufacturing plant of domestic refrigerators of Whirlpool Argentina S.A.                   CFC       HFC-134a, HC                    90.55         90.55              0             0      Nov-97      Dec-99       863,879      (99,292)       764,587              8.44       3,503,686
 12   Substituting CFCs in manufacturing of domestic and commercial refrigerators at El Dorado, S.A.                       CFC       HFC-134a, HCFC-141b              12.8          12.8              0             0       Jul-98     Sep-00       176,000          -          176,000             13.75          30,050
 13   National halon management program to help eliminate halon-1301                                                       HAL       n/a                              200            200              0             0      Nov-98      Dec-10       290,620     (112,795)       177,825               n/a             -
 14   Elimination of CFCs in sterilization via ET O at Asisthos SRL                                                        CFC       Ethylene oxide                  20.69         20.69              0             0      Mar-99      Sep-00       395,095          -          395,095             19.10         241,365
 15   Phaseout of CFC-11 in the manufacture of rigid PU foam in panels for thermal insulation at Arneg Raffo               CFC       HCFC-141b                          67            67              0             0      Mar-99       Jul-02      177,960          -          177,960              2.66         415,240
 16   Conversion from MCF used as solvent to aqua based cleaning at 9 enterprises                                          T CA      H2O, Isopropyl alcohol            7.1           2.3              0             0       Jul-99     Mar-04       272,157     (183,607)        88,550             38.50          15,900
 17   Demonstration project for testing methyl bromide alternatives in post-harvest disinfestation for cotton and citrus   MB        Phosphine, Cold Store               0             0              0             0      Nov-99      Jun-13       375,000      (62,672)       312,328               n/a
 18   Replacement of CFC-11 in the manufacture of rigid PU foam for domestic refrigerators at MT H S.R.L.                  CFC       HCFC-141b                           8             8              0             0      Dec-00      Oct-02        82,695          -           82,695             10.34           3,327
 19   Conversion from CFC-11, CFC-12, CFC-113 and MCF into HCFC for technical aerosols at Electroquimica Delta             CFC       HFC-134a, HCFC-22                  60            60              0             0      Mar-02      Dec-04       264,000          -          264,000              4.40             -
 20   Conversion from CFC-11, CFC-12, CFC-113 and MCF into HCFC for technical aerosols at Servex S.R.L.                    CFC       HFC-134a, HCFC-141b              36.4          36.4              0             0      Nov-02      Feb-05       160,160          -          160,160              4.40             -
 21   CFC production closure plan**                                                                                        CFC       closure                             0             0           3020          3020      Nov-02      Dec-09    10,600,000          -       10,254,976              3.40             -
 22   National CFC phase-out plan: 2006 work programme - Chiller Replacement                                               CFC       HFC-134a                          1.5           1.5              0             0      Nov-05      Dec-13       500,000     (368,020)       131,980               n/a       1,141,187
 23   Phase-out of CFC consumption in the manufacture of aerosol MDIs                                                      CFC       HFC-134a, HC                    118.4         118.4              0             0      Nov-08      Dec-14     2,806,874          -        2,736,874             23.12       2,000,000
                                                                                                                TO TAL                                              929.14        924.34           3020          3020                            33,557,084   (4,632,212)    28,509,849              7.45      17,943,999



                 * “Date Completed (Actual)” is the date of physical completion, i.e. when no more ODS were in use, start-up of the use of alternatives and baseline equipment
                 destroyed (as applicable).
                 **The CFC Production Phase-out Plan was funded through the release of six annual tranches in exchange for not exceeding CFC production caps as
                 independently verified each year. A final tranche was also approved to advance total production closure to 2008. The grant disbursed above includes the TA and
                 project management amounts that are considered by the MLF ExCom as part of the entire subproject.




                                                                                                                                                                   29
Component B – Administration and TA

1.       Administration (UEPRO). Main results attributable to UEPRO was the continual
financial and administrative services provided to the project, entering into SGAs,
facilitating disbursement, monitoring implementation progress and reporting to the Bank
and OPROZ.

2.     Technical Assistance. In the first phase of project implementation technical
advisory services were provided by INTI to domestic refrigeration companies. TA
continued in the second phase of the project solely through UEPRO and primarily for
organizing stakeholder workshops and consultations and monitoring surrounding
implementation of the CFC Production Phase-out Plan.




                                          31
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

        The project design did not include an economic or financial analysis at baseline.
However, the MLF ExCom has a methodology for evaluating the efficiency of investment
subprojects through the calculation of cost-effectiveness (CE) ratios. CE is the amount of
the MLF grant per unit of ODS phased-out in ODP kg. CE threshold values across MP
subsectors have been used by the ExCom to vet projects and decide on funding levels since
their approval in 1995.

       Actual approved MLF funding for the Argentina subprojects was negotiated on a
case-by-case basis against the CE thresholds. For chiller replacement, methyl bromide, and
halon banking activities, CE was not used as a criterion. The production sector is assessed
for cost-effectiveness, however, because funding is based on foregone profit, no CE
threshold has been established.

          Table A3-1. CE Values Achieved Compared to MLF CE Threshold Values by Sector
                                                  APPROVED / ACTUAL
                                                                                                   MLF CE
                                No. of        Total Phase- MLF Approved            Actual
  Sector and Subsectors                                                                           Thresholds
                             Subprojects*         Out       Average CE           Average CE
                                                                                                   by Sector
                                               (ODP MT)    (US$/ODP kg)         (US$/ODP kg)
Refrigeration
Domestic refrigeration                   9            418             24.35              21.20          13.76
Mobile air-conditioning**                4              0               n/a                n/a            n/a
Foam
Rigid Polyurethane                       1              67              2.66              2.66           7.83
Aerosols
Technical aerosols                       2           96.4              4.40               4.40           4.40
MDIs                                     1          118.4             23.71              23.12            n/a
Solvents/Sterilants
TCA -Solvents                            1            2.3             38.33              38.50          38.53
CFC Sterilants                           1          20.69             19.10              19.10          19.73
Production
CFC Production Sector                   1           3,020               3.51              3.40            n/a
Overall CE***                          20           3,743               8.64              7.45            n/a
*Excludes halon, chiller and methyl bromide subprojects.
** Mobile air-conditioning subprojects have indirect ODS phase-out and hence no values here.
*** Overall cost, or grant effectiveness is calculated on total funds disbursed for 20 subprojects divided by
ODP phase-out under these subprojects in kg.

        The CE of the majority of the subprojects in the MP sectors addressed was the same
or better than that approved. The actual CE values all came under the MLF established CE
norm. The exception is the CE of the domestic refrigeration sector subprojects which
appear 65 percent less cost-effective than the norm. This is mainly due to one project that
was approved prior to the establishment of the CE thresholds in 1995, at 3.5 times more
than the CE value. The average CE of the entire portfolio of subprojects was US$7.45/kg
of ODP eliminated as compared to US$8.64/kg approved.




                                                     32
       The cost-effectiveness shown above is based on grant funding only as they are
compared to the established grant funding thresholds of the ExCom. If adding the
counterpart funding provided by the enterprises, including the amounts equivalent to
foreign ownership that was not funded, the CE values are much higher (cost-effectiveness
is lower). This is particularly the case for the refrigeration projects. Total counterpart
funding on top of the disbursed grant funding is estimated by the beneficiaries and UEPRO
to be US$17.9 M (See Table A2-3.)

       The cost-effectiveness of the CFC production sector plan in Argentina can be
assessed by comparative analysis of costs of other CFC production sector plans
implemented with World Bank support.

     Table A3-2. Comparison of Sector CE Values Achieved Compared to MLF CE Threshold Values
                            Total                                   Actual
                                       Capacity
               Country     Approval                    US$ / kg   Production   US$ / kg
                                        (MT)
                           (US$ M)                                  (MT)
              Argentina      10.6        8,658           1.22       3,020       3.51
              China          185        123,500          1.50       51,293      3.61
              India          82         50,617           1.62       22,588      3.63


         The table above indicates that closing CFC production capacity at production
facilities as well as actual CFC production at baseline was cheaper in Argentina to the MLF
than was the case in China and India.10 With the savings that were incurred under the
Argentina Production Sector Plan, the cost-effectiveness improves from the US$3.51/kg
approved to US$3.40/kg. As of writing this report, no savings were reported under the
China and India CFC production sector plans.




10
  China and India were approved CFC Production Sector Plans for the periods 1999-2010 and 1999-2011,
respectively with MLF financial assistance and support of the World Bank in its capacity as an MLF
Implementing Agency.



                                                  33
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                             Responsibility/
          Names                                Title                Unit
                                                                               Specialty
Lending
Laura Tlaiye                  Environmental Specialist             LA1ER          TTL
Fernando Batista              Consultant                                       Preparation

Supervision/ICR
Laura Tlaiye                  Advisor                               CMD           TTL
Juan Lopez-Silva              Environmental Specialist             LCSEN          TTL
Yewande Aramide Awe           Senior Environmental Engineer        GENDR          TTL
Horacio Terraza               E T Consultant                       LCSEN          TTL
Carter Brandon                Lead Environmental Economist         GENDR          TTL
Renan Poveda                  Senior Environmental Specialist      GENDR          TTL
Tuuli Bernardini              Environmental Specialist             GENDR          TTL
Natalia Cecilia Bavio         Finance Analyst                      CTRLN      Disbursement
Luz Maria Meyer               Financial Management Analyst         GGODR     Financial Mgmt
Antonio Leonardo Blasco       Sr Financial Management Specialist   GGODR     Financial Mgmt
                                                                   LCSEN -
Jose Ramon Gomez Guerrero E T Consultant                                       Operations
                                                                     HIS
Hernan M. Gonzalez                                                 LCSEN -
                              E T Consultant                                   Operations
Figueroa                                                             HIS
Ana Maria Grofsmacht          Senior Procurement Specialist        GGODR      Procurement
Andres Mac Gaul               Senior Procurement Specialist        GGODR      Procurement
                                                                   LCSEN -
Federico A. Scodelaro         Junior Professional Associate                    Operations
                                                                     HIS
Andrea Semaan                 Consultant                           OPSOR       Operations
Juan Pedro Cano               Junior Professional Associate                    Operations
Thanavat Junchaya             Senior Environmental Engineer        GCCIA       Technical
Dominique Kayser              Operations Specialist                GCCIA       Operations
Mary-Ellen Foley              Senior Environmental Specialist      GCCIA      ICR Author
Maria Emilia Sparks           Program Assistant                    LCC7C     Administration

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
     Stage of Project Cycle                                      US$ Thousands (including
                                         No. of staff weeks*
                                                                travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY93-FY97                                                                  548.62
                              Total:                                         548.62
Supervision/ICR
  FY97-98                                                                    253.45
  FY99                                                                       108.70


                                                34
   FY00                                                19                           136.59
   FY01                                                15                           199.68
   FY02                                                15                           137.05
   FY03                                                11                           125.64
   FY04                                                17                           115.33
   FY05                                                32                           171.09
   FY06                                                25                           161.26
   FY07                                                20                           108.8
   FY08                                                14                            92.37
   FY09                                                 7                            35.00
   FY10                                                14                            35.12
   FY11                                                13                            40.42
   FY12                                                 5                            40.19
   FY13                                                 2                            27.25
   FY14                                                 6                            18.85
   FY15                                                 9                            42.06
                                Total:                                             1848.78
*Staff weeks corresponding to costs prior to 2000 are no longer available in the World Bank’s accounting
systems.




                                                  35
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Selected site visits were undertaken during the ICR mission. A short synopsis of the visit
findings is included in Annex 2 in the sections addressing the refrigeration, halon, methyl
bromide, technical aerosols, production, chiller, and MDI sectors.




                                            36
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable.




                                     37
Annex 7. Summary of Recipient's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

UEPRO in the Ministry of Economy and the Chief of Cabinet of Ministers both provided
substantial and editorial comments directly inserted in the draft ICR. The edits and
clarifying comments e.g. regarding the project’s FM ratings and Government performance
were reflected in the final ICR. The number of changes of the TTL by the Bank was
included in the main text as a factor that impacted project implementation. Beyond
comments on the few changes that occurred in the project’s FM ratings during
implementation, there were no comments on the actual ICR ratings.
It is to be noted that compared with the Bank ICR, the summary below of the UEPRO ICR
that the Bank team helped draw together has overall a more positive tone in regards to the
project as a whole and on UEPRO and Bank performance and collaboration. The full
version of the UEPRO ICR summary is available through the Bank’s website for project
P005920.
The Bank team wants to acknowledge UEPRO’s valuable support for organizing the ICR
mission that included visits to enterprises whose subprojects had closed even more than a
decade ago and its availability to contribute to the ICR preparation, as well as the careful
GOA review of the draft ICR.
+++++
REPÚBLICA ARGENTINA, OTF 22013
Proyecto de Reducción de las Sustancias que Agotan la Capa de Ozono (PRESAO)
Resumen del Informe Final
ARREGLOS DEL MARCO REGULATORIO E INSTITUCIONAL
La República Argentina ratificó el Protocolo de Montreal (PM) relativo a las Sustancias
que Agotan la Capa de Ozono (SAO´s) el 18 de septiembre de 1990. En 1994 la Argentina
elaboró el Programa País (PP) en el cual establece su compromiso y propone un marco
institucional para el mismo. El PP es trianual y deja asentadas las políticas del país a futuro
en cada sector y enumera las acciones que implementará para dar cumplimiento a los
compromisos que contraerá. El PP es presentado al PM y, una vez aprobado, es para el país
un compromiso al cual se obliga.
En el año 1996, a los fines de facilitar la coordinación y efectividad del Plan de Acción del
Gobierno para el cumplimiento del PP, se creó mediante el Decreto 265/96 la Oficina
Programa Ozono (OPROZ), integrada por la Secretaria de Ambiente y Desarrollo
Sustentable (SAyDS), el Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto (la Cancillería) y
la Secretaria de Industria, con sede/Punto Focal en la SAyDS. La OPROZ/SAyDS
financia su actividad con los recursos para el Fortalecimiento Institucional que provengan
del Fondo Multilateral para la implementación del PM (MLF, por sus siglas en inglés).
La OPROZ tiene la facultad de contar con la asistencia de un cuerpo asesor, llamado
“Grupo Consultivo” (GRUCO), conformado por representantes de organismos públicos y
privados, empresas vinculadas a la temática a tratar, ONGs interesadas, especialistas, etc.,
que se invitan a opinar sobre temas específicos vinculados con la temática del ozono.


                                              38
GRUCO funciona ad-honorem y no tiene carácter permanente; se reúne con la frecuencia
que la temática exigiera y se disuelve una vez agotado el tema.
El 9 de Enero de 1997 se suscribió el Convenio de Donación de los fondos provenientes del
MLF, OTF Nº 22.013, entre la República Argentina y el Banco Internacional de
Reconstrucción y Fomento (BIRF; Banco), actuando este último como agente fiduciario para
financiar el costo del Proyecto de Reducción de las Sustancias que Agotan la Capa de
Ozono (PRESAO). El objetivo del PRESAO fue la reconversión industrial para la
sustitución y/o progresiva eliminación del uso de las SAO´s, en el marco de los
compromisos adquiridos por el Gobierno al suscribir el PM y para alcanzar los objetivos
del PP, presentado ante el PM por el Punto Focal/OPROZ. Dicho Convenio se ejecutaba a
través de la Secretaria de Industria (SI), dado que se trataba de sub-proyectos vinculados a la
problemática y reconversión industrial. El Coordinador del PRESAO es el representante del
SI en los temas operativos de la OPROZ.
En 1997, para ejecutar el PRESAO fue creada la Unidad Ejecutora de Proyectos
(UEPRO) por Resolución N° 75/97 de la entonces Secretaría de Industria, Comercio y
Minería del Ministerio de Economía, Obras y Servicios Públicos con dependencia directa
de la Unidad de Proyectos Especiales (UPE). Posteriormente, por Resolución N° 596/99 la
administración del PRESAO fue encomendada al Director Nacional de Industria. Después,
la UEPRO estuvo posicionada en la organización de la SI en varias dependencias.
MANUAL OPERATIVO (MO): El MO define el reglamento, las metodologías y los
procedimientos para ingresar y ejecutar los sub-proyectos, sobre la base de criterios
unificados para todas las empresas participantes que deseen obtener el financiamiento
disponible a través del MLF, para cubrir los costos elegibles en el marco del PRESAO. El
MO fue redactado y puesto en vigencia coincidiendo temporalmente con el inicio de la
actividad de la UEPRO, estableciendo las normas técnicas y los procedimientos
administrativos a ser seguidos por la UEPRO y por las empresas participantes. A medida
que los sub-proyectos comenzaron a ejecutarse, las diferentes situaciones generadas por
una variedad de sub-proyectos y empresas en muy diferentes sectores industriales y con
una dispersión de tecnologías nuevas que se incorporarían, se dieron circunstancias no
contempladas en el MO. En algunos casos se trataba de cuestiones administrativas, en otros
casos contables, técnicas o bien de establecer criterios prácticos para situaciones nuevas.
Cada una de las diferentes situaciones que se iban presentando fue oportunamente
planteada y conversada con el Gerente del PRESAO por el Banco, normalmente durante
las Misiones de Supervisión, e instrucciones adicionales o modificaciones específicas a la
pauta a ser aplicada por la UEPRO quedaban generalmente plasmadas en las Ayudas
Memoria (AM).
ASISTENCIA Y MISIONES DEL BANCO MUNDIAL: La asistencia del Banco se
canalizó principalmente por las misiones que el Banco realizaba entre una y dos veces al
año. Los resultados de cada misión se reflejaban en una AM, dejando constancia de los
hechos más importantes ocurridos en los sub-proyectos y los acuerdos logrados y pasos
principales a seguir entre las partes. El intercambio de opiniones sobre diferentes enfoques
de cada parte respecto a un asunto dado permitió enriquecer el desarrollo de las tareas de
la UEPRO y al Banco conocer las razones que llevaron a ejecutar determinadas acciones.
Durante el desarrollo de las misiones, el Asistente Técnico del Banco y el Asesor Técnico


                                              39
de la UEPRO concurrían a empresas con sub-proyectos en ejecución para tener una visión
directa de su desarrollo. Esta modalidad de trabajo permitió en muchas oportunidades que
el Banco respondiera solicitudes de cambios de orientación especialmente en la
reasignación de fondos, con un conocimiento directo de la causa que originara la solicitud.
Representantes del Banco tuvieron asimismo participación en la destrucción de equipos en
algunas empresas y una activa participación en el caso del Banco de Halones 1301. Se
puede destacar que a medida que el programa de reconversión de empresas tomaba impulso
y se fue haciendo evidente la necesidad de implementar modalidades de trabajo no
previstas en el MO, el Banco pudo ir autorizando actualizaciones dejando constancia en el
correspondiente AM. Durante el desarrollo del PRESAO, la UEPRO tuvo como principio
solicitar del Banco su no-objeción previa a la implementación de modalidades de trabajo.
Ello nunca fue una causa de demora en la implementación.
AUDITORÍAS DE SEGUIMIENTO Y CONTROL: El PRESAO recibió anualmente
una auditoria externa de los Estados Financieros y múltiples auditorias de la Unidad de
Auditoria Interna del Ministerio, como así también la auditoría financiera interna del
Banco. Los resultados de las auditorias anuales externas fueron enviados al Banco y
presentados a las autoridades del Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas Públicas.
EJECUCIÓN DE PROYECTOS

El PRESAO fue ejecutado mediante la firma de 29 Convenios de Sub-donación en los más
diversos sectores, de empresas usuarias de diversas sustancias controladas y la única
productora del país, distribuidas por todo el país, y por montos de obra variables en un
amplio espectro. Cada Sub-donación se vinculó específicamente con una firma en
particular, aun cuando hubo casos en el que varios sub-proyectos estuvieron vinculados
por sub-proyectos paraguas preparados y aprobados para un determinado sector. De esta
manera, se facilitaba el seguimiento y control del desarrollo de cada inversión.
Consecuentemente, la UEPRO:
1) Controló la reconversión de muy diversos sectores de industrias:
           o fabricación de heladeras y freezers domiciliarios,
           o fabricación de componentes de aire acondicionado para automotores,
           o cambio de formulados en aerosoles de uso técnico,
           o esterilización de instrumental médico y quirúrgico,
           o cambio de formulados en inhaladores de uso medicinal,
           o cambio de formulados en la etapa de desengrasado de piezas en la
                fabricación de autopartes, y
           o recambio de chillers;

2) También controló el desarrollo de tareas no convencionales tales como:
            o el desarrollo experimental de reemplazo del Bromuro de Metilo (BrMe) en
              el tratamiento pos cosecha de cítricos y algodón,
            o la organización y control del funcionamiento de un Banco de Halones, y
            o el cese gradual de producción de CFCs y el monitoreo y control de
              producción del HCFC-22;



                                            40
3) Por lo tanto estuvo directamente involucrada en el proceso de suplantar el uso de varias
SAO´s, a saber Metilcloroformo (MCF); Halones 1301; CFC-11 y CFC-12; y BrMe; y

4) Estuvo involucrada en gestiones vinculadas directamente o indirectamente, con varios
sectores en proceso de reconversión o en condiciones de analizar su posibilidad de hacerlo;
tales fueron los casos de:
            o Relevamiento del mercado de usuarios de solventes (más de 150 empresas
                 relevadas directamente por la UEPRO);
            o Relevamiento a través de una Consultora, de usuarios de chillers
                 predispuestos al recambio;
            o Relevamiento a través de una Consultora, de existencias de halones 1301
                 en el mercado;
            o Relevamiento del sector de inhaladores de uso medicinal (MDIs) en
                 Argentina (relevadas directamente por la UEPRO); y
            o Auditorías a procesos de fabricación y seguimiento de inventarios
                 (directamente por la UEPRO).

La larga implementación del PRESAO representó varios desafíos que, al haberlos
superado, se convierten en experiencias aprendidas. P.ej. no existían antecedentes en el
país de reconversiones globales por sectores, y tampoco se contaba con la seguridad de
cómo reaccionaría el sector empresario frente a las obligaciones asumidas por el país. Para
hacer posible cada sub-proyecto, fue necesario hacer una etapa de presentación ante las
empresas del sector respecto al desafío por delante, y de las ventajas que el PM brindaba
para ejecutar ese camino de reconversiones.
Un caso singular lo constituyó la ejecución del proyecto Banco de Halones (BH) 1301,
proyecto en el que el Instituto Nacional de Tecnología Industrial (INTI) debía organizar
una estructura que luego debía controlar y administrar sin contar con antecedentes que le
sirvieran de referencia para hacerlo en las circunstancias nacionales. La situación fue
superada cuando el Banco contrató un experto canadiense que concurrió al país para guiar
al INTI la manera de encararlo. El funcionamiento del BH sin inconvenientes desde su
puesta en marcha el año 2004 es un índice de haber interpretado bien tanto los objetivos
como los medios.
Otro desafío singular se presentó en el caso del cese gradual de producción de CFCs en
Frio Industrias Argentina (FIASA), dado que la primera auditoria de control realizada a la
planta puso de manifiesto la escasa organización de la planta en cuanto a documentación
registrada. Como resultado, la UEPRO diseñó para FIASA, y le impuso la obligatoriedad
de instrumentarlo, un sistema de registro diario de información de soporte que debía ser
puesta a disposición de las sucesivas auditorías. El sistema fue elogiado por las siguientes
auditorías y sigue vigente.
El recambio de chillers fue otra tarea compleja en razón de la falta de líneas de base
suficientes para establecer condiciones de trabajo. Como punto de partida sólo contó con
un relevamiento del mercado argentino de chillers que el Banco le encargó a una
consultora; de ahí la UEPRO debía fijar el camino a seguir. Para definirlo nuevamente, la
UEPRO analizó los antecedentes aplicados en otros mercados, encontrando que ninguno


                                            41
de los casos era directamente aplicable al mercado argentino. El bajo costo de la energía y
el buen estado de los equipos por el bajo uso que imponen las condiciones climáticas poco
extrema fueron las principales razones. Tuvo por lo tanto que diseñarse un sistema
diferente ajustado a las condiciones particulares del mercado nacional. Aprobada la
propuesta por el Banco, se difundieron dichas condiciones mediante presentaciones a 47
empresas sin lograr una sola respuesta positiva, dadas las circunstancias coincidentes
temporalmente con un período de crisis en el mercado. Mediante un incremento en el
esfuerzo de difusión de la oferta, finalmente se logró el recambio de cinco equipos.
Otro campo diferente pero no por ello menos complejo lo constituyó el manejo de los temas
administrativos, contables y legales asociados a cada sub-proyecto, dado que cada uno
llevaba aparejado un estudio previo de las condiciones particulares de la empresa
postulante (estatutos, conformación societaria, situación impositiva, etc.), análisis de
factores que llevan a conformar una mecánica adecuada particularmente a cada
circunstancia. Esta etapa, si bien se desarrollaba de manera paralela con los estudios
técnicos, servía de soporte previo y sustentaba a la conformación del sub-proyecto.
También imponían un seguimiento y control de medidas administrativas (adquisición,
solicitud de desembolsos, desembolsos, comprobantes, etc.).
Dado que el PM sólo aprueba proyectos por sectores y acuerda condiciones con las
autoridades nacionales, la UEPRO ha debido capacitarse en cuestiones asociadas al
desarrollo de sub-proyectos sectoriales, p.ej. los estudios de mercados (MDI´s) o de
sectores (espumas), evaluación de predisposición de las empresas a ciertos cambios
tecnológicos (chillers), auditorías de control de producción y monitoreo de stocks
(producción de HCFCs).
En el resumen completo del informe final de la UEPRO, disponible en el archivo del
proyecto (P005920) en la página web del Banco, se presentan los sectores de la industria y
los servicios atendidos por los 29 Sub-donaciones, incluyendo la fecha de firma del
(primer) Sub-convenio y del último desembolso que coincidía con la finalización de la
reconversión y la destrucción de equipos verificada, unas observaciones de caso y las
principales enseñanzas identificadas.
PLAN DE TRANSICIÓN: EXPERIENCIAS APRENDIDAS DEL PRESAO Y SU
APLICACIÓN AL PROYECTO DE ELIMINACIÓN DEL USO DE LOS HCFCs

El accionar de la UEPRO a lo largo de los 17 años de la implementación del PRESAO
permite asegurar la existencia del expertise tanto en el orden legal como administrativo y
técnico, necesario y suficiente como para ejecutar proyectos similares. La SI considera un
logro muy importante el haber podido superar las barreras de los recambios de las
tecnológicas existentes en los diversos sectores por otras más actualizadas. Dichos
recambios incorporaron para el país y para las empresas un salto tecnológico muy
significativo que las empresas tuvieron que ejecutar haciendo trabajos importantes en
líneas de producción sin interferirlas y sin interrupciones de producción y, con el agregado
adicional, de la necesaria capacitación del personal, en todos los niveles, en las nuevas
tecnologías que la mayoría de los sectores requirieron.




                                            42
El cambio tecnológico del sector de aire acondicionado de automotores fue el desafío más
complejo pero no el único ni tampoco el más simple; un desafío similar fue, como se ha
señalado anteriormente, el organizar un Banco de Halones; también lo fueron las
reconversiones de las fábricas de heladeras, dado que no hubo dos casos similares en
complejidad, en dimensiones de instalaciones y en las soluciones tecnológicas
seleccionadas por cada empresa; asimismo el recambio de chillers impuso una mecánica
de trabajo especial por una diversidad de factores.
En la próxima etapa de remplazo de usos de HCFC´s, la UEPRO deberá asumir la ejecución
de cuatro sub-proyectos: 1) Reconversión de uso de HCFC en Mabe S.A.; 2) Reconversión
de uso de CFC en chillers; 3) Monitoreo de reducción gradual de producción de HCFC-22;
4) y Reducción gradual de uso de HCFCs en el Sector Espumas. Solamente el último
presenta un tema nuevo, dada la diversidad de empresas implicadas, pero la UEPRO ya
conoce los antecedentes del sector e hizo el mismo trabajo para el MCF y los MDIs.




                                          43
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                      44
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

  (i)   Ozone Projects Trust Fund Grant Agreement, January 9, 1997 (OTF Grant
        Number 22013)
 (ii) Memorandum and Recommendation of the Director on a Proposed Ozone
      Projects Trust Fund Grant to the Argentine Republic, December 22, 1995
 (iii) World Bank Operational Policy 10.21, Investment Operations Financed by the
       Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the Montreal Protocol
 (iv) Aide Memoires, Implementation Status Reports
  (v) Recipient semi-annual progress reports
 (vi) Multilateral Fund Project Documents and progress reports to the ExCom
 (vii) Multilateral Fund Project Completion Reports (PCRs)
 (viii) Argentine Republic Country Programme
 (ix) Argentina - CFC Production Closure Plan and Annual Implementation Plans
  (x) Report of the Thirteenth Meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol on
      Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, UNEP/OzL.Pro.13/10, October 26,
      2001.




                                         45
MAP




      46
