 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14869

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 11/24/2015

               Country: Argentina
             Project ID: P005920                                                    Appraisal                Actual
         Project Name: Reduction Of Ozone            Project Costs (US$M):                      25.00                 29.65
                         Project (montreal
                         Protocol)
  L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):
      Sector Board:      Environment                   Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                              Board Approval Date :                                01/09/1997
                                                               Closing Date:          03/03/1999           12/30/2014
          Sector(s):       General industry and trade sector (96%); Central government administration (4%)
          Theme(s):        Pollution management and environmental health (100%)


Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                  Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Fernando Manibog           Peter Nigel Freeman     Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

According to the Grant Agreement dated January 9, 1997 (Schedule 2, page 14), the objective of the project is "to
reduce or eliminate ozone depleting substances (ODS) use in the Recipient’s territory," which is the ultimate objective
of Montreal Protocol (MP) projects in the Bank.

According to the Memorandum and Recommendation of the Director (MOD, page 2), which served as the equivalent
of the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), the project's specific objectives are to: (i) finance subprojects on a grant
basis for technology conversion in manufacturing or commercial entities leading to reduction or elimination of ODS
use; and, (ii) strengthen the institutional capacity at the Secretariat of Industry (SI) for administering resources for
approved subprojects and for preparation and supervision. As its key indicator, the project was expected to help in
reducing ODS consumption in Argentina by 20 to 40 percent compared to 1992 levels.

After 1998, as part of project monitoring and reporting, the specific objectives were restated to: (i) support Argentina's
program to phase out ODS consumption through the provision of technical and technological assistance; and (ii)
strengthen the institutional framework in Argentina to better identify, prepare, evaluate, and administrate subprojects.

This ICR Review is based on the GEO contained in the Grant Agreement--"to reduce or eliminate ozone depleting
substances (ODS) in the Recipient's territory"--while taking into account the specific objectives indicated in the MOD.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

Component A: Provision of Subgrants (US$24.00 million appraisal estimate; US$27.66 million actual cost)
This component originally included investments in a pipeline of 20 ODS phase-out subprojects, subject to review and
individual approval by the Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the Montreal Protocol (MLF). The MLF had
already approved 7 subprojects by October 1995. At appraisal, 13 subprojects were at various stages of preparation.

Component B: Administration and Technical Assistance (US$0.90 million appraisal estimate; US$1.99 million actual
cost)
This component provided technical assistance (TA) to establish and support a project administration unit within the
executing agency, the Industry Secretariat (SI). The unit was tasked to prepare and supervise the implementation of
subprojects with the technical support of the National Institute of Industrial Technology (INTI).

The components were modified in line with the MP's umbrella project modality. By 2008, 8 of the initial subprojects
had been cancelled and 11 new subprojects were added, including in new sectors not originally targeted. This led to
23 implemented subprojects by the project closing date. Component A became a larger grant over a longer project
implementation period, with ODS targets actually being phased out at the latter stages. Adjustments in Component B
were made in tandem with the changes in Component A, in order to administer delayed subprojects and manage the
new ones.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

At appraisal, the project cost estimate was US$25 million. Actual disbursement at closure was US$29.65 million. The
Montreal Protocol financed the entire costs. The project was approved on January 9, 1997 and completed 17 years
later on December 30, 2014. The project had 4 closing date extensions from the original closing date of March 3,
1999. The ICR team explained that across all ODS umbrella projects in the Bank – especially with the start of the
compliance period in 1999 and the strategic shift of the MLF – ODS reduction projects were and are more akin to
programs aligned with country and MP phase-out goals. Bank management consistently reinforced the unique nature
and purpose of umbrella ODS projects by extending Grant Agreements several times over for different countries. As
indicated in the ICR (para 25), the average duration of the CFC-focused projects was 13 years.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

High

At the time of MOD approval, the relevance of project objectives was high. Argentina ratified the MP on September
18. 1990, committing itself to control and ultimately eliminate consumption of ODS used in manufacturing and
commercial applications. The Government developed a country program (CP), including a policy and institutional and
policy framework to achieve the ODS phase-out goal. The CP was approved by the MLF Executive Committee in July
1994. The project objectives were also highly relevant to the World Bank country assistance and country program
strategies, which called for the mainstreaming of pollution issues and the integration of climate considerations into
economic planning.

At present, the relevance of project objectives remains high, given Argentina's continuing commitment to implement
and comply with the MP. Meeting the country's MP obligations requires the elimination of its last major group of ODS,
namely, hydroflourocarbons (HCFCs). Achievement of this goal will again require interventions in the industrial sector,
inter-ministerial cooperation, and strong technical and institutional technical capacity during the next decade. The
Bank's FY15 Country Program Strategy (CPS) points to future ODS elimination as a means to reducing environmental
risks, safeguarding natural resources, and increasing the competitiveness of Argentine firms as the conversions lead
to the use of advanced technologies.

b. Relevance of Design:

Substantial

During the CP preparation, the Government created the institutional framework for MP implementation; over time, it
has proven to be a mature system with led by a national ozone unit (Oficina Programa Ozono, or OPROZ) in the
Secretariat for Environment and Sustainable Development (SAyDS). The clear-cut and straightforward design had
only two components: conversion of industrial enterprises and technical support for implementation. The "umbrella
project modality" was used, whereby a notional amount of grant funds is allocated for subprojects, thus permitting
flexibility by operating more like a program where subprojects can be developed and added to support Argentina's
phase-out goals. There was a direct and logical causal chain between the activities supported by the project and its
objectives.
A defined results framework was not required in the Bank at the time of preparation and hence was not part of project
design. (ICR, page 8)


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

Substantial

The project's over-arching objective is to reduce or eliminate ozone depleting substances (ODS) use in the
Recipient’s territory, for which the specific objectives are to: (i) finance subprojects on a grant basis for technology
conversion in manufacturing or commercial entities leading to reduction or elimination of ODS use; and, (ii) strengthen
the institutional capacity for the preparation, administration and supervision of approved subprojects.


Outputs

    The project disbursed US$27.8 million in grant financing for ODS elimination through 22 of 23 subprojects. (The
     methyl bromide technology demonstration subproject did not contribute to phase-out). Although 8 subprojects
     were cancelled between 1999 and 2003, 11 additional subprojects were identified, prepared and implemented,
     requiring Grant Agreement extensions and increases in the funding ceiling. Each of the subprojects was
     endorsed by GOA prior to MLF funding approval.

    Since MLF does not always cover full costs, an estimated US$18 million in private sector co-financing was
     leveraged.

    A Project Coordination Unit (UEPRO) was created within MOI to prepare, administer and monitor subprojects.


Outcomes

    The original target of "reducing ODS consumption in Argentina by 20 to 40 percent compared to 1992 levels" was
     achieved. Argentina's ODS consumption at the time the MLF approved its CP approval was 4,400 metric tons
     (MT). Compared to the target values of 880 to1,760 MT , the actual value achieved was 3,787 MT. The upper
     target of 1,760 MT was exceeded because a subproject to close down 3,020 MT of CFC production was added to
     the project. The 3,787 MT converts to 3,944 ODP tons (or ozone depleting potential), which measures the impact
     on ozone layer protection.

    The CFC Production Phase-out Plan subproject, in particular, stood out in terms of its unique approach of
     leveraging grants with policy change, impressive results, and timely execution. The subproject effectively
     coalesced stakeholders (regulator, executing agency and private sector) to achieve shared goals through the
     combination of incentives and disincentives.

    Argentina established one of the world’s few halon banks that track and exchange recycled halon 1301. The
     halon subproject has resulted in the elimination of demand for virgin halon and compliance with the
     Government's ban on halon use.

    UEPRO has overseen 23 subprojects that went from preparation to the signing of Subgrant Agreements and final
     completion. UEPRO prepared and is executing the follow-on HCFC project.

    The building of institutional capacity for the implementation of Argentina's MP commitments was also achieved.
     The Ministry of Industry (MOI) is one of three members in the country’s MP executing body, OPROZ. The project
     helped in strengthening the coordination between SAyDS as environmental regulator and MOI, thus enabling
     Argentina to manage CFC production within its national quota system.

    An important project benefit was the avoidance of greenhouse gas emissions by more than 37 million tons
     equivalent of CO2 (net), which resulted from eliminating 3,700 MT of CFC consumption and production.


Important Clarification:

Although the project's achievement of its objectives is substantial, it did not materialize as originally planned because
there were many significant delays in most of the individual subprojects, and the bulk of the ODS phase-out was
through the closure of CFC production. Moreover, if looked purely from the consumption angle as embedded in the
original objective, the project is 13% short of the original lower-end target of 880 MT, because 259 MT were forfeited
due to cancelled subprojects. The original target was based on quantity of ODS to be phased out rather than the level
of impact (MT versus ODP MT, as indicated in the first outcome listed above). In ODP MT terms, however, the actual
ODP impact of the ODS eliminated is within range due to the addition of the subproject in 1998 to eliminate 20 MT of
halon 1301, which is an ODS ten times as potent as CFC. When the production phase-out is also added, the project’s
total phase-out is more than twice the upper target value of ODS phase-out and three times the ODP.


5. Efficiency:

Modest

Cost Effectiveness (CE) - Substantial. The CE of the most of the subprojects was the same or better than the ones at
approval. Except for one subproject in the refrigeration sector, the actual CE values were under the CE norm
established by the MLF. Compared to the approved US$8.64/kg of ODP eliminated, the average CE of the entire
portfolio of subprojects was US$7.45/kg of ODP eliminated. In particular, the CFC production subproject had a cost of
only US$3.40/kg of CFC phased out. (Production sector projects are generally the most cost-effective under the MLF).
Compared with CFC production closure in China and India, Argentina’s production sector plan at approval and after
implementation is even more cost-effective MLF-wide by 10 percent more.

Administrative and Implementation Efficiency - Modest. Subject to approval by the MLF Executive Committee,
executing agencies of ODS projects levy a standard fee. The MOI's project coordination unit UEPRO received three
percent of the value of subproject funding to cover its own costs for preparing, administering, and supervising
subprojects. However, the actual cost of administration and TA as a percentage of funds disbursed came out to seven
percent.

Long delays in the implementation of individual subprojects were a major factor in UEPRO’s higher costs. While part
of the delays was caused by the financial crisis, many other delays resulted from the slowness in receiving clearances
or endorsement of subprojects due to frequent changes in Government and other responsible officials who were not
familiar with the MP. Another source of delay is the setting-up of the legal and administrative framework for
subprojects; as an example, the methyl bromide subproject was delayed for five years due to this reason. Technical
aspects also caused delays: the growing cycles of crops, pests, climatic factors, and a dengue epidemic that occurred
in the work zone led to postponement of trials for methyl bromide alternatives until the next year's harvest season. At
times, just finding the right executing agency caused delays. There were also some initial delays in the process of
ExCom approval.

Most subprojects were delayed about four years, which was longer than comparable subprojects in the Bank’s ODS
umbrella project portfolio. Two subprojects with public entities were delayed by more than a decade each, namely, the
halon subproject with the National Institute for Industrial Technology (INTI) and the methyl bromide subproject with the
National Institute for Agricultural Technology (INTA). Finally, after 2010 and up to the closing date, most of the funds
under Component B continued to be used for UEPRO even though the remaining subproject portfolio had already
decreased in size and level of activity.

Consumption of additional ODS before final phase-out could have been avoided had there been more rapid approval
and implementation of subprojects; consequently, an instance of GOA non-compliance with the MP in 1999 may have
also been avoided.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        No
    ICR estimate                     No
                                       * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

The relevance of project objectives was high at the time of approval and remains so at present. The relevance of
project design is substantial. The achievement of project objectives is substantial. The project resulted in ozone
layer protection benefits that were higher than targeted, as well as significant climate benefits. Cost effectiveness is
substantial, but administrative and implementation efficiency is modest, leading to a modest overall efficiency.
Overall project outcome is moderately satisfactory .

 a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

Although some moderate institutional risks remain, it is highly unlikely that industry will revert to the use of ODS.
Argentina has succeeded in establishing the necessary regulatory and institutional framework to legally ban the
consumption of ODS, technologically transform the sectors that use ODS, and eliminate the global supply of
chloroflourocarbons (CFCs), virgin halon and methyl chloroform. The Government enforces the rules on ODS
phase-out and there has been no evidence of illegal importation. The Government has continued to comply with the
MP requirements five years after the January 1, 2010 obligation.

However, institutional capacity may be at moderate risk, given changes in MOI and UEPRO, and some evidence of its
inability to source the technical capacity required for certain subprojects. At times, UEPRO's performance may be
influenced by non-technical factors, such as changes in external and internal leadership, interpersonal relationships,
the nature of the activities, identity of the beneficiaries, and financing levels.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Negligible to Low

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:

The Bank's preparation and appraisal work demonstrated an effective integration of Argentina’s ODS phase-out
goals and the operational requirements of the Bank and Montreal Protocol operations. The evidence shows strong
analysis of Argentina's Country Program and its specific requests for areas of Bank support. The Bank mobilized
the necessary technical expertise and proactively helped in developing a subproject pipeline in priority sectors.
The Bank also adequately assessed the need for a functional institutional framework both for project execution as
well as regulatory and policy actions to achieve sustainable outcomes. The Bank's risk assessment was also
accurate, particularly with respect to the efficiency risks stemming from the large number of actors involved in
implementing the subprojects. However, there were inconsistencies in the project objective across documents and
the key data upon which targets were based. According to the ICR (page 16, para 69): "Metric tons of ODS
(volume) and ODP (impact) were referred to interchangeably and not all possible types of ODS that would be
included in the project were specified. These inconsistencies contributed to the future challenges in the M&E
framework, such as agreement on what target values to monitor."


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:

Three distinct phases characterize the Bank's supervision performance. From approval up to 2006, the Bank team
applied sound technical knowledge and good understanding of MLF rules while advising country counterparts on
eligibility criteria, incremental cost reasoning, baseline equipment disposal, and financial viability, among others.
There was close cooperation with UEPRO and OPROZ, and a strong, consistent drive to develop new subprojects
after initial subprojects were cancelled. The Bank's MP Coordination team supported this momentum by
submitting and negotiating subprojects on behalf of Argentina at ExCom meetings, and providing policy support to
the Government as well.

The second phase was post-2006, when the Bank’s support slipped, as shown by the inadequacy of supervision
and monitoring reports, absence of site visits, and the failure to formally realign project objectives and targets with
evolving project needs. This should have been carried out given of the inclusion of production as part of
consumption phase-out, the MLF shift to compliance-based phase-out, and also to better capture project impact
by using the proper metric. Unrealistic assessments of project status that had already begun earlier were carried
over. UEPRO inefficiences grew as the Bank team's technical and policy support diminished. Compared to
previous years, the Bank team did not adequately tap into internal budgetary and cross-support resources.
According to the ICR (page 15, para 71), safeguards treatment was “casual” at best, and there was no mid-term
review that could have brokered the needed restructuring of the GEO and indicators..."

The third phase started with the last Grant Agreement extension in 2010, during which the final subproject of
converting Metered Dose Inhalers had ample additional time to be completed given the innovation involved, the
critical role of the product, and regulatory approval requirements in Argentina. As from 2011, the Bank's
engagement with UEPRO and OPROZ began to increase again in view of the HCFC phase-out requirements and
the need to establish sufficient transition arrangements, leading to the preparation in 2012 of a new ODS
operation to support Argentina’s Stage I HPMP.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

GOA generally showed commitment to the project objectives. MOI, for example, covered 20% of salary costs
during the entire 17-year life of UEPRO. According to the ICR (page 16, para 76), GOA has a legal framework that
is responsive to emerging regulatory and policy needs of the MP and is complemented by inter-agency
arrangements and enforcement particularly between OPROZ, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Customs. However,
clearances or endorsement of subprojects were sometimes delayed due to frequent changes in Government
officials and lack of familiarity with the MP. It too two years, for example to endorse the CFC Production Sector
Plan for submission to the MLF. This resulted in a major disconnect between MOI, which was responsible for the
production sector, and SAyDS, which was charged with reporting on overall consumption, leading to Argentina’s
non-compliance with its first MP obligation in 1999. MOI’s interest for the project seemed to wane in the project's
final years, leaving UEPRO to act as the sole interlocutor with the Bank on project policy and strategic matters.
UEPRO as MOI’s ozone representative also became isolated from MP governance.


   Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

UEPRO, as the project coordination unit under MOI, was responsible for project implementation, including
entering into Subsidiary Grant Agreements with beneficiaries and managing all project aspects. It started as a
two-person unit to manage a subproject portfolio of up to US$24 million, with technical support from INTI. Initially,
UEPRO provided appropriate and timely support, pursuing tax exemptions on imported equipment from the
Ministry of Economy, and studying how early CFC production closure would impact the local CFC market.
However, UEPRO's role decreased over time due to changes in leadership, the removal of INTI’s technical
contribution, and periods of low beneficiary activity. The only exception would be the CFC Production Phase-out
Plan that required intensive reporting and monitoring to ensure timely release of funding tranches under the
performance-based approach, at which time UEPRO was expanded to five full-time staff. However, it still
continued with this configuration three years after the CFC production subproject closed in 2010. According to the
ICR (pages 16-17, paras 78-79): "With only the MDI subproject remaining and four more or less dormant
subprojects, this period was manifested by low disbursement rates, inability to supply or source technical
know-how needed to move forward remaining subprojects, and an overall decrease in initiative by UEPRO...the
Project Implementation Manual was not revisited and the appropriate size and cost of the PCU in relation to the
active subproject portfolio not observed as it had been in the earlier phases of the project. Adherence to ExCom
policies, which is also a shared responsibility with the Bank, was not consistent in terms of reporting, changes in
technology and disbursement rules, as witnessed by the ICR mission."


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory
10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

The GEO indicator on ODS phase-out was clear and measurable. However, there were differences between the GEO
statement in the Grant Agreement and the project document, and discrepancies in the nomenclature used to set the
ODS phase-out target. This led later to inconsistencies in the reporting and evaluation of outputs and outcomes.
Semiannual reports to the Bank and OPROZ reported on other performance indicators, such as time taken to prepare
and sign Subgrant Agreements, didbursements, and timeliness of reporting.

b. M&E Implementation:

The Bank collected annually from UEPRO detailed progress and disbursement information on subprojects for
reporting to the MLF Executive Committee (ExCom). Monitoring through actual site visits decreased in the project's
final years, and semi-annual reports were not provided regularly.

The CFC production subproject, which was based on performance following a multi-year agreement with ExCom, had
additional reporting requirements. An independent verification of CFC production in the previous year and an annual
plan were required before each annual tranche funding is released.. This accountability framework helped ensure
Argentina's compliance with its obligations.

Performance data also came from project completion reports (PCRs), which were to be finalized by beneficiaries and
UEPRO upon subproject completion and submitted to the ExCom by the Bank. The PCRs were required to provide
details on actual costs, alternative technology used, project sustainability, and lessons learnt. In actual practice,
however, the delivery of PCRs was slow, and many were completed by UEPRO and the Bank only during the project's
two final years.

c. M&E Utilization:

During the early stages of project supervision, UEPRO's M&E and reporting work was driven by the Bank's advice that
the MLF would be using reports on the progress of subprojects to consider approving additional resources. This early
momentum helped to create awareness on the relevance of conducting good M&E. However, the later stages of
supervision show that the original set of indicators was not systematically applied to inform overall project
management, as was evident from UEPRO reports from 2007 onwards. In particular, project needs and future work
plans where chronically delayed, making it difficult to gather data for the final project phases. The cumulative data
met just the minimum MLF reporting requirements, although it did help to prepare on a follow-up operation.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

In line with OP 4.01, the project was classified as an environmental category B in August 1994 following a project
environmental assessment. No social risks were identified. In the project's early years, the Bank team's supervision of
safeguards was adequate and based on a good understanding of the technologies and possible risks. The Bank’s
Ozone Operations Resource Group reviewed all subprojects for safety and environmental issues and the ExCom
funded the mitigation of any identified risks.

Weaknesses in complying with environmental safeguards was demonstrated in the case of the methyl bromide and
metered dose inhalers subprojects; however, no adverse impacts were found at project closing. According to the ICR
(pages 8-9, paras 41-42), a safeguards review was warranted when the methyl bromide (MeBr) subproject involving
the testing of alternative pesticides was approved by the MLF in 1999. However, no such assessment was undertaken
although the subproject was to remain active until 2011. Also, the safeguards category was changed from B to C
during the 2010 restructuring, on the grounds that the Metered Dose Inhalers (MDI) subproject was not expected to
pose risks nor have adverse environmental or social impacts. However, little evidence supported that change since
the replacement substance was highly flammable hydrocarbon; moreover, the MLF itself had considered the risks
substantial enough to provide additional grant funding for safety measures. The ICR states that: "No adverse impacts
as a result of changing the safeguards category or of overlooking a possible triggering of OP 4.09 (pesticides) were
observed by the ICR mission, which met with the MDI and MeBr subproject beneficiaries."

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

In general, financial management (FM) arrangements were satisfactory and in compliance with Bank requirements.
According to the ICR (page 9, paras 43-44), during supervision "moderate FM shortcomings were identified such as:
(i) discrepancies in the accounting records related to the 2002 devaluation of the Argentine Peso; ii) significant delay
in the submission of the 2003 audit report to the Bank; (iii) qualified auditors opinion on the 2012 project Financial
Statements and on the Statement of Expenditures because of minor non-eligible payments; and (iv) an amount of
US$549,912 reimbursed by the company FIASA incorrectly deposited in the Special Account in 2013." The ensuing
Moderately Satisfactory rating was upgraded to Satisfactory once UEPRO effectively implemented the agreed action
plan.

Procurement of equipment for the subprojects was done by the beneficiary private enterprises using commercial
practice. The ICR (page 9, para 44) indicates that procurement was satisfactory following post review of a sample of
subgrants. Procurement procedures were also specified for goods and works carried out by public beneficiaries (INTI
for the halon bank and INTA for MeBr subproject).

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

A local and innovative technology for isobutane propellant in MDIs developed, although it was not initially planned.
This new, more climate-friendly technology for MDIs could have significant climate change mitigation benefits once it
is firmly established and more widely used.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                  Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Negligible to Low             Negligible to Low
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Moderately                    Moderately          IEG guidelines indicate that when
                              Unsatisfactory                Satisfactory        ratings on two sub-criteria for a
                                                                                performance criterion go in the opposite
                                                                                directions of MS and MU, the overall
                                                                                rating for that criterion is assigned on
                                                                                the basis of the overall Outcome rating,
                                                                                which in this case is MS.
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
              Quality of ICR:                               Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

The ICR (pages 17-18) provides the following useful lessons, as abridged:

(1) An adaptive approach was key to successful ODS phase -out outcomes. The umbrella project modality
facilitated the substantial achievement of ODS phase-out when unforeseen events arose such as the financial crisis
and during the extended MP-mandated phase-down steps.

(2) Donor requirements can play an instrumental role advancing implementation . The MP and MLF decisions,
policies and procedures had a positive influence on project design and outcomes, phase-out targets and
prioritization, environmental and safety requirements on alternative technologies, monitoring and reporting,
pressures to cancel inactive projects, and sustainability measures.

(3) Promoting synergies with global environmental goals is important to reinforce Government buy -in. MOI, as the
executing agency had a distinct role to play in obtaining industry’s cooperation for project implementation by
balancing its mandate of promoting industry with that of achieving environmental objectives.

(4) Grant financing is more effective when delivered through a sector plan approach . Grant financing and the
availability of alternative technologies facilitated industrial change toward ODS-alternative technologies. However, a
performance-based approach at the sector level that links funding to reaching national-level phase-out targets, is
better able to achieve commitment and efficiencies in implementation.

(5) Linking ODS supply and demand leads to sustained phase -out results. The need to control ODS consumption
and production while simultaneously converting industry from project start-up is a universal lesson, but particularly
so in Argentina. Knowledge that CFCs would be in short supply and costs would rise could have accelerated
subproject implementation among slow-movers. The temporary lapse in coordinating national consumption with
production targets, which caused Argentina to exceed MP limits in 1999, may have been avoided if addressed
sooner. This lesson was reflected in the design of the follow-on HCFC Phase-out.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


The ICR is of satisfactory quality and well written. It has strong analytical rigor and is amply supported by quantitative
and qualitative evidence. The ICR is also candid, and as a result, it has yielded highly useful set of "lessons learned",
each of which is supported by evidence derived from the project's implementation experience. It complies with OPCS
guidelines for ICR preparation. Much effort went into this ICR's preparation, given the length of the project
implementation period and the distinct phases involved, the technical complexity of the project, and the large amount
of documentation involved, some of which were inconsistent or not readily available.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
