Report No. PID7147
Project Name                     Tunisia-Economic Competitiveness Adjustment...
Loan (ECAL II)
Region                           Middle East and North Africa
Sector                           Finance
Project ID                       TNPE53255
Borrower                         Republic of Tunisia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of International Cooperation and
Foreign Investment
Contact - Mr. K. Ben Rejeb, Director General
Ministry of International Cooperation
Tel: 011 216 1 798 522
Fax: 011 216 1 799 069
Initial PID Date                 December 4, 1998
Project Appraisal Date           November 19, 1998
Project Board Date               First quarter of 1999
Background
1.      Tunisia's adjustment efforts started in 1986 when a decline in oil export
earnings and an excessive level of public investment brought the country close
to a balance of payments crisis. Since then, prudent macroeconomic management
and cautious structural reforms have helped bring back internal and external
balance, as well as consistently positive rates of economic growth. At the
same time, Tunisia's emphasis on the social sectors has generated standards of
education and health that are above the average for countries in its income
group.
2.      Although the share of the private sector in the economy increased
somewhat after the introduction of the 1986 reform program, the economic size
of the public enterprise sector - a legacy of the pre-reform Government-led
development strategy - is still large. Private investment as a share of total
gross fixed investment is around 45 percent, far below the 60 percent average
for all developing countries. The development of a sound banking sector and
capital markets has also been limited as a result of the large public sector
presence; and foreign direct investment, which remains concentrated in the
energy sector, has not exceeded 1.5 percent of GDP.
3.      The main objectives being pursued by the Government of Tunisia (GOT)
under its Ninth Economic Development Plan (1997-2001) are to consolidate the
macroeconomic achievements and accelerate structural reforms in order to
increase economic competitiveness and prepare the country to confidently
integrate with Europe and enter the global economy in the twenty-first
century.
Recent Developments
4.      Real GDP growth averaged 4.6 percent over the period 1991-1997, with
large fluctuations from year to year that mainly traced variations in
agricultural performance (e.g., a decrease of 9.9 percent in 1994 and a growth
of 16.1 percent in 1996), which depends heavily on weather conditions.    In



1998, GDP growth is estimated at close to 5 percent, lower than the Ninth
Plan's target of 5.9 percent, due to late rains that will adversely affect
olive production, and to lower than expected tourism activity.
5.      Export performance during 1991-1997 has been characterized by the steady
growth of exports of manufactured goods and fluctuating agricultural exports.
A current account deficit of 5.3 percent of GDP, on average, has been largely
compensated for by inflows of capital - mainly medium and long term. As a
result, Tunisia has steadily increased its official reserves from the
equivalent of 1.8 months of imports of goods and services in 1991-1995 to 3.3
months in 1997. In 1998, the current account deficit is estimated at 4.2
percent of GDP as compared to 3.7 percent in 1997, as a result of the lower
value of energy exports - following the sharp decline in oil prices - and a
higher volume of imports of capital goods. The higher imports have been in
response to tariff reductions and fiscal incentives implemented in the context
of the partnership agreement with the European Union and the associated mise a
niveau program. As a result, Tunisia's ability to maintain its 1998 official
reserves at a level at least equivalent to 3 months of imports of goods and
services is critically dependent on continued access to private capital
markets - access to which has become significantly more difficult in the
aftermath of the East Asian and Russia crises.
6.      Inflation was at 5.2 percent on average during 1991-1997, and is
estimated at 3.5 percent in 1998. During the same period, the nominal
exchange rate of the Tunisian dinar to the dollar depreciated by 2.7 percent,
and the real effective exchange rate index gradually increased from 101 to
104. Thus, there is room for further reduction in inflation in order to
strengthen competitiveness - Tunisia's trading partners in the European Union
have reduced inflation to less than 3 percent.
7.      These positive economic results have been achieved as a result of prudent
fiscal and monetary policies. On the fiscal front, during 1991-1997 the
overall deficit was maintained at 4.1 percent of GDP, on average - a level
financed through a moderate increase in domestic and external debt.
Underlying developments have included a modest decline in tax revenues, as a
share of GDP, in part as a result of tariff reductions following the
partnership agreement with the European Union; and a rising public sector wage
bill. In 1998, the budget deficit is estimated to be less than 4 percent of
GDP, as a result of successful revenue collection and expenditure restraint
efforts. Moreover, the unanticipated TD 310 million (about US$ 281 million
equivalent) in additional privatization proceeds will reduce the Government's
financing needs.
The Proposed Loan
Project Objectives
8.      The main objective of the ECAL II is to increase the soundness,
efficiency, and competitiveness of the financial system and raise the
financial sector contribution to economic growth. In late 1996, the Government
of Tunisia created a banking commission on the modernization of the banking
system, the "Commission Tunisienne sur la Modernisation du SystOme
Bancaire." The World Bank and the IMF expressed the view that the
Commission's conclusions and recommendations constitute a solid foundation for
a banking sector reform agenda. The proposed financial sector reform program
includes the key recommendations presented in the Commission's report.
- 2 -



Project Description
9.      The Economic Competitiveness Adjustment Loan II (ECAL II) would support a
program of reforms in the financial sector to supplement ongoing reforms in
the real sector initiated under the ECAL I, which was the first of a series of
operations to improve the international competitiveness of the Tunisian
economy. In the context of implementation of the Free Trade Association (FTA)
with the European Union, signed in 1995 and expanded in November 1997, the
proposed financial sector reform program aims at upgrading the performance of
a critical segment of the service industry and increasing its contribution to
economic growth. The specific policy measures would consist of: (a)
increasing the financial soundness of the banking system through a large
settlement of non-performing bank loans to public and semi-public enterprises;
(b) improving the quality of loan collateral and foreclosure procedures; (c)
bank privatization, consolidation of the banking sector, and reform of the
governance regime for public sector banks; (d) modernizing the banking law and
upgrading bank prudential regulation; (e) raising the performance of the
payments system; (f) promoting indirect monetary control through a
comprehensive reform of the Government securities market; and (g) enhancing
the regulatory framework of non-bank financial intermediation performed by
mutual funds, securities firms, and insurance companies.
10.     For the most part, the cost to the Government of settling the non-
performing loans to public and semi-public enterprises will be considered as a
financing item as opposed to a budget expenditure, in a similar approach used
previously for the arrears of the Caisse Generale de Compensation (CGC) which
in the case of Office des Cereales and Office National de l'Huile were
amortized over a twelve year period.
Project Cost and Financing
11.     The proposed Bank financial assistance follows the completion of a policy
based loan, the ECAL I, and aims at providing a sustained support to a series
of reforms to meet the challenge of trade liberalization. The Project will
provide financial support to the Tunisian Government to meet its external
financial needs.
12.     The proposed Bank loan is tentatively placed at US$120 to US$150 million
and would contribute toward meeting projected external financing needs over
the next two years. There will be additional parallel financing from the
European Union and the African Development Bank.
13.     The total capital needed to finance the projected current account deficit
in 1999, while maintaining official reserves at a level equivalent to three
months of imports of goods and services, is estimated at US$2.0 billion for
1999. Private financing (of about US$1.0 billion) - a very significant amount
in light of the deteriorating conditions in international financial markets -
would still be necessary to finance external needs.
Project Implementation
14.     The borrower will be the Government of Tunisia, The loan will be made on
a two tranche basis. The overall responsibility for project implementation
would be delegated to a "Project Coordination Unit (PCU) within the Minister
of International Corporation. The Project concerns the Ministry of Finance,
-3 -



the Central Bank of Tunisia and the Ministry of Economic Development.
Program Objective Categories
15.     The Program Objective Category is financial sector development. The
proposed project, by enhancing the soundness, efficiency, and competitiveness
of the financial system and by raising the financial sector contribution to
the economic growth, directly addresses a wide array of financial sector
development issues.
Project Benefits
16.     The main benefits of the loan would be: (a) a more robust banking system;
(b) reduced Government presence in the banking sector and stronger market
discipline in the management of state-owned banks; (c) a more efficient and
market-based credit allocation; (d) more competitive and efficient provision
of bank services (e) enhanced capacity of the banking system to adjust to
external and internal shocks through improved monetary management instruments;
and (f) greater mobilization of domestic and foreign savings through non-bank
financial instruments.
Project Risks
17.     Continued trade liberalization may cause financial distress in the least
productive sectors of the economy which may hamper further improvement in the
financial performance of the banking system. A second and parallel risk is a
reversal in the government commitment to reduce its presence in the financial
sector in an effort to dampen transitional and sectoral declines in employment
through directed credit which could impair the banking system's soundness.
There are several counteractive measures to limit these risks: (a) promoting
neutral monetary management instruments as opposed to central bank refinancing
facilities dedicated to government determined economic sectors; (b) rigorous
enforcement of bank prudential regulation and raising minimum bank capital
adequacy ratios; (c) accelerating the privatization program to let the private
sector assume a larger part of the new investments needed to raise
productivity; and (d) intensifying government initiatives to increase labor
market flexibility. The proposed reform program contributes to the first
three risk mitigating factors. Also, satisfactory implementation of the
related macroeconomic framework should sustain and improve the overall
employment level.
Poverty Category
18.     Not applicable.
Environmental Aspects
19.     The loan is consistent with the Bank's environmental policies and will
follow accepted Bank procedures concerning the environment. The loan has been
classified in environmental category "C" (no significant environmental
impact).
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
- 4 -



Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Denis Chaput
Task Team Leader
The World Bank
1818 H Street, 20433
Telephone No.:(202) 473-2017
Facsimile No.: (202) 522-2151
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending December 11, 1998.
- 5 -



