Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23371-TUN
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-44610)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 138.MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
SECOND ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS ADJUSTMENT LOAN
March 5, 2002
Finance, Private Sector, and Infrastructure
Middle East and North Africa
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2001)
Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar (TD)
TD 1.00 = US$ .68027
US$ 1.00 = TD 1.47000
FISCAL YEAR
January I to  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAEU                 Association Agreement with the European Union
AfDB                 African Development Bank
BCT                  Banque Centrale de Tunisie (Central Bank of Tunisia)
BDET                 Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie
BNA                  Banque Nationale Agricole
BNDT                 Banque Nationale de Developpement Touristique
BT                   Banque de Tunisie
BTA                  Bons du Tresor Assimilables
BTC                  Bons du Tresor Cessibles
BTEI                 Banque de Tunisie et des Enirats d'Investissement
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CPI                  Consumer Price Index
ECAL (I)             Economic Competitiveness Adjustment Loan or First Economic Competitiveness Adjustment L,
(Loan Nos. 40690 and 40691 TUN)
ECAL II              Second Economic Competitiveness Adjustment Loan (Loan No. 44610 TUN)
ECAL IH              Proposed Third Economic Competitiveness Adjustment Loan (Loan No. 70940 TUN)
EU                   European Union
FDI                  Foreign Direct Investment
FTA                  Free Trade Association
GDP                  Gross Domestic Product
GNFS                 Goods and Non-Factor Services
GOT                  Government of Tunisia
IBRD                 Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR                  Implementation Completion Report
MOP                  Report and Recomnendation of the President dated March 26, 1999; Report No. P-7288-TUN
NPL                  Non-Performing Loans
PEs                  Public Enterprises
PSD                  Private Sector Development
PSR                  Project Status Report
QAG                  Quality Assurance Group
STB                  Societe Tunisienne de Banque
TD                   Tunisian Dinar
TOR                  Terms of Reference
UIB                  Union Intemationale de Banque
US$                  U.S. Dollars
Vice President:  Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:   Christian Delvoie
Sector Director:  Emmanuel Forestier
Acting Sector Manager:   Deane Jordan
Task Team Leader:    Stephanie Gober



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
SECOND ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS ADJUSTMENT LOAN
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 10
6. Sustainability                                                                     11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    12
9. Partner Comments                                                                   13
10. Additional Information                                                           13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  15
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  16
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  17
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  18
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     19
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perforrnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P053255                                     Project Name: TN-ECAL II
Team Leader: Stephanie Gober                            TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                      Report Date: March 5, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: TN-ECAL II                                   L/C/TF Number: SCL-44610
Country/Department: TUNISIA                                           Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector: FS - Financial Sector Development
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:                                         Effective: 08/10/99          06/15/99
Appraisal:  11/19/98                                MTR:
Approval:  04/20/99                              Closing: 06/30/2001         06/30/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  Republic of Tunisia/Ministry of International Cooperation and Foreign
Investment, Ministry of Economic Development, Ministry of Finance, Central
Bank of Tunisia
Other Partners:  African Development Bank, European Union
STAFF               Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Jean-Louis Sarbib                        Kemal Dervis
Country Manager:    Christian Delvoie                        Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager:      Deane Jordan (Acting)                   Deane Jordan (Acting)
Team Leader at ICR:  Stephanie Gober                         Denis Lionel Chaput
ICR Primary Author:  Stephanie Gober
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Republic of Tunisia Second Economic Competitiveness Adjustment Loan (ECAL II) was
designed to support a program of reforms in the financial sector to supplement ongoing reforms in the real
sector which were initiated by the first Economic Competitiveness Adjustment Loan (ECAL I; Loan Nos.
40690 and 40691). The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), discussed by the Board on June 13,
1996, stressed the timely implementation of policies to promote economic integration, and in the context of
the Free Trade Association (FTA) with the European Union (EU), signed in 1995 and expanded in
November 1997, the ECAL II aimed to upgrade the performance of the financial sector, a critical segment
of the service industry, and increase the sector's contribution to economic growth. The main benefits of the
loan were expected to be: (a) a more robust banking system; (b) reduced Government presence in the
banking sector and stronger market discipline in the management of state-owned banks, (c) more efficient
market-based credit allocation; (d) more competitive provision of bank services; (e) better capacity of the
banking system to adjust to extemal and internal shocks through improved monetary management
instruments; and (f) greater mobilization of domestic and foreign savings through non-bank financial
intermediaries. (Report and Recommendation of the President dated March 26, 1999, Report No.
P-7288-TUN ["MOP"], pp. i-ii.)
ECAL II objectives were well-targeted, building on the achievements and the lessons of ECAL I.
Under ECAL I, the Government of Tunisia's (GOT's) disengagement program resulted in the sale of about
60 firms. The post-evaluations of that operation highlighted the need for more focused adjustment lending,
complemented by technical assistance and grounded in solid economic and sector work, as well as the need
to collaborate more closely with other key development partners. ECAL II reinforced some of the prior
operation's achievements in privatization, supporting not only the settlement of some public and
semi-public enterprises' non-perforning loans (NPLs) in conjunction with the liquidation, privatization, or
restructuring of these companies, but also the privatization of certain public banks. In addition, ECAL II
focused on reforms in the financial sector, which was in need of modernization in order to be able to meet
the direct challenge of future foreign competition under the FTA as well as the Tunisian economy's need for
more efficient financing in an open trade environment. The loan's objectives are therefore considered to
have been appropriate.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable.
3.3 Original Components:
The EUR 138 million loan was disbursed in two equal tranches. Parallel financing for this
operation was provided by the EU in the form of a grant of EUR 80 million and by the African
Development Bank (AfDB) with a loan of about US$140 million equivalent.
The specific policy measures targeted under this operation consisted of: (a) increasing the financial
soundness of the banking system through a large settlement of non-performing bank loans to public and
semi-public enterprises; (b) improving the quality of loan collateral and foreclosure procedures; (c)
privatizing banks, consolidating the banking sector, and improving the governance of public sector banks;
(d) modernizing the banking law and upgrading bank prudential regulations; (e) improving the payments
system; (f) promoting indirect monetary control through a comprehensive reform of the Government
securities market; and (g) enhancing the regulatory framework of non-bank financial intermediation
performed by mutual funds, securities firms, and insurance companies. The following is a list of key
conditions for the release of the first tranche of the IBRD loan. The actions were completed before the loan
- 2 -



was presented to the Board of Directors for approval.
*   Economic performance: maintained satisfactory macroeconomic and fiscal framework.
*   Settlement of non-performing bank loans: settled TD 279 million of NPLs to public and semi-public
enterprises.
* Related public enterprise reform: (i) initiated liquidation or privatization of 24 public enterprises
related to the above loan settlement; (ii) implemented restrictions on access to bank credit by
noncommercial govemment entities; (iii) introduced a legal amendment limiting the liquidation process
for public enterprises to a period not exceeding three years.
*   Bank payments system: issued terms of reference (TOR) and recruited consulting fimn for the
implementation of payments system modernization.
*   Bank taxation and accounting framework: (i) allowed tax deductions for losses on loan sales to
private loan resolution companies; (ii) increased tax deductible loan provisions from 50 to 75 percent
of pre-provision net income; (iii) allowed tax deductible loan write-offs; and (iv) introduced new bank
accounting framework including consolidated financial statements, in line with international standards.
*   Bank prudential regulation: raised minimum capital adequacy ratio from 5 percent to 8 percent, in
accordance with intemational standards.
*   Banking legislative reform: completed draft outline on the revision of the banking law on key issues
such as eliminating the development bank category, defining the duties of Boards of Directors, and
establishing settlement procedures for banks in financial distress and bank liquidation.
*   Bank mergers and privatization: (i) TOR issued and valid bids accepted by the Commission des
Marches for the recruitment of a financial advisory firm to determine terms and conditions for the
merger of Union Intemationale de Banque (UIIB) and Banque de Tunisie et des Emirats
d'Investissement (BTEI); and (ii) Government decision taken to launch a feasibility study on the
merger of Societe Tunisienne de Banque (STB) with Banque Nationale de Developpement Touristique
(BNDT) and Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET).
*   Government securities market and monetary management instruments:      defined licensing
requirements and issued licenses to primary dealers in government securities.
The second tranche was projected to be released about 12 months after loan effectiveness, upon
satisfactory completion of the following conditions:
*   Economic performance: continued satisfactory macro-economic performance in line with agreed
indicators.
*   Settlement of non-performing bank loans: settlement of at least TD 400 million of bank loans in
arrears to a group of 20 public and semi-public enterprises.
*   Related public enterprise reform: launch of the liquidation, privatization, offering for sale, or
restructuring of enterprises concerned by above loan settlement.
*   Bank loan recovery: submission to the House of Representatives of draft amendments to the Code of
Civil and Commercial Procedure to facilitate the judicial recovery of bank loans and credits.
*   Banking legislative reform: submission to the House of Representatives of a new draft banking law.
* Bank merger and privatization: launch of an international competitive bidding process accessible to
international suitors on the privatization of the merged bank lIB-BTEI.
*   Public sector bank governance: (i) submission to the House of Representatives of a legislative
amendment removing the 34 percent state ownership threshold which, if exceeded, brings banks under
government administrative control as public sector banks; and (ii) revision of the government
administrative control of public sector banks in order to increase management and fiduciary
responsibilities of public sector banks' Board of Directors.
*   Government securities market and monetary management instruments: (i) launch issues of new
benchmark government securities (Bons du Tresor Assimilables or BTA) and (ii) implement program
- 3 -



to replace old government securities (Bons du Tresor Cessibles or BTC) by new securities.
*   Non-bank financial intermediation reforms: (i) submission to the House of Representatives of a
revised law on the regulation of mutual funds; (ii) adoption of decree on the status and mandate of
securities frms; and (iii) financial restructuring of insurance company Lloyds Tunisien in line with
regulatory solvency standards. (MOP pp. 20-22)
The actual disbursement of the second tranche took place on March 6, 2001, about seven months
after originally projected, following delays in implementing certain refonns. The most notable delay
concerned the merger and privatization of UIB and BTEI. BTEI is a development bank which is jointly
owned by the GOT and another government. Although there was general agreement by all parties during
loan appraisal for the concept of the merger, once the merger conditions were actually defined (after ECAL
II Board approval), the Tunisian authorities reported that the other government did not agree with the
conditions, making it impossible for this condition to be completed as described in the ECAL II Loan
Agreement. The release of the second tranche was thus delayed.
During loan preparation, the Bank, the co-financiers, and the GOT agreed that the NPLs of public
and semi-public enterprises could be settled by the GOT in a number of different ways, depending on the
condition of the enterprises involved. A few enterprises which were considered to be financially and
operationally sound were kept active, and the Government issued explicit debt service guarantees, reducing
to zero banks' assumed repayment risk on these loans. In a small number of cases the enterprises were
privatized, and their bank loans were repaid outright. In most cases, a decision was made to liquidate the
enterprises, with the GOT buying back the loans. The GOT signed agreements with the banks involved to
pay back the loans (generally including interest accrued up to the date of the agreement) over 25 years at
zero percent interest. During loan appraisal and negotiations, it was recognized that these settlement terms
carried a significant cost to the banking sector, but the terms seemed to represent the best compromise
between limiting the cost to the Government budget while still cleaning up the bad debts of public
enterprises.
3.4 Revised Components:
Most of the second tranche release conditions were completely met, but three of the conditions were
defined as only "substantially met". For two of these conditions, the reasons for which they were not
considered completely met were essentially technical in nature, while the reasons for which the third
condition was defined as "substantially met" were more substantive.
The first "substantially met" condition concerned the settlement of public and semi-public
enterprises' NPLs. The Loan Agreement required that: "The Borrower shall have converted into current
loans or otherwise cancelled the non-performing public indebtedness of at least twenty (20) Public
Enterprises amounting in aggregate to at least four hundred million Dinars (TD 400,000,000) excluding
late interest charges and equity investments, all in accordance with a methodology and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank." The amount to be settled by the GOT was initially determined to be TD 409
million but was later decreased to TD 321 million because: (i) TD 59 million was repaid directly to banks
by the enterprises concerned, subsequent to the signing of the Loan Agreement; (ii) TD 11 million
concerned a company which no longer qualified as a public enterprise; and (iii) TD 17 million was
off-balance sheet items which were cleared. The Bank therefore considered this condition to be
substantially met.
The second "substantially met" condition was related to the legal measures to improve banks' loan
recovery. According to the Loan Agreement, the Borrower was to present "an amended Civil and
Commercial Procedures Code to the Chamber of Deputies including procedures to facilitate the judicial
- 4 -



recovery of bank loans and credits." The spirit of this condition was to improve and streamline the judicial
process, allowing banks to recover credits and repossess collateral, thereby having an indirect positive
impact on the ability of banks to extend credit to borrowers. Experts preparing the text for the amended
Code realized that it affects not only bank-borrower relationships but also areas covered by the Company
Law, the Commercial Code, and the Civil Code. The process of drafting amendments therefore took longer
than anticipated, delaying presentation of the draft amended Code to the Chamber of Deputies. At the time
of the second tranche release, the draft of the revised Code had been approved by the Conseil
Inter-Ministeriel Restreint, and the Bank accepted this approval as an irreversible step to ensure the draft
would be presented to the Chamber of Deputies soon after. This condition was therefore considered to be
substantially met. Subsequently, relevant amendments to the Civil and Commercial Procedures Code were
approved, and additional revisions to the judicial procedures related to collateral foreclosure are included in
the recently approved Third Economic Competitiveness Adjustment Loan (ECAL III, Loan No. 70940).
The reasons for defining a third condition as "substantially met" were more substantive. The Loan
Agreement required that: "The Borrower shall have solicited international competitive bids with terms of
reference providing for the complete divestiture of state ownership in the banking entity formed pursuant to
the merger of UIB and BTEI, all in accordance with a methodology and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank." As mentioned above, the GOT reported that the sovereign government which owns BTEI jointly
with the GOT did not find the merger conditions acceptable and refused to agree to the merger. The
Borrower therefore had to pursue a different strategy and decided to sell its stake in UIB through a
transparent process. In December 2000, the GOT formally issued a decision to privatize UIB, and in
February 2001, the GOT launched a call for bids to retain an investment bank as advisor in the
privatization process. Because the Borrower could not control the actions of the other sovereign
government, the Bank accepted the launching of actions to privatize UIB on a stand-alone basis as an
acceptable alternative to the original loan condition and approved the second tranche release. (President's
Second Tranche Release Memo, SecM2001-0171, dated March 13, 2001.) As a condition of the ECAL
III, the GOT must offer for sale its ownership in UIB.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) did not evaluate this operation for quality at entry. This
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) would rate the ECAL II's quality at entry as satisfactory. The
operation's development objectives supported the goals of the CAS, were well-targeted, and built on the
achievements and lessons of previous loans. The conditions for tranche release were generally
well-designed, with the exception of the condition for the merger and privatization of UIB and BTEI. This
condition was considered only "substantially met" for reasons not fully within the Borrower's control.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The primary objective of this operation was to upgrade the performance of the financial sector and
increase its contribution to economic growth. The Tunisian authorities completed the implementation of
most of the ECAL 11 reform program, with significant improvements in financial sector performance. The
overall soundness of banks in Tunisia increased during the life of this operation. For example, the average
capital adequacy ratio of commercial banks rose from 6.3 percent in 1997 to 13.3 percent in 2000. In
addition, although the level of NPLs remains high, it improved substantially as a result of the settlement of
public enterprise NPLs under ECAL II: total adversely classified assets (broadly defined as loans past-due
by 90 days or more) fell from about 30 percent of banks' total assets in 1997 to just under 26 percent by
the end of 1999. Despite increased capital levels and decreased average nominal interest spreads,
commercial banks' return on equity rose from 11.8 percent in 1997 to 13.7 percent in 2000, indicating more
- 5 -



efficient financial intermediation in the banking sector. The activity of non-bank financial intermediaries
also increased during the life of ECAL II. For example, the volume of public issues on the stock market
quadrupled as a percent of national savings, from 10.6 percent in 1997 to 45.1 percent in 2000, and the
volume of new leases granted by leasing companies almost doubled during the same period. Because of the
overall improvement in the performance of the financial sector and Tunisia's strong economic growth
during this operation, the overall outcome of the ECAL II is rated as satisfactory.
Table 1 shows the indicators which were to be monitored under the ECAL II, with the targets
defined in the MOP (Annex II, p. 4), as well as the ratios actually achieved. It should be noted that
although the overall performance of the banking sector was discussed in ECAL II supervision reports, most
of the specific information below was not collected during the operation's on-going supervision.
Table 1. ECALL II Monitoring Indicators
1997     1998   1998    1999    1999    2000    2000
Actual   Actual Target Actual Target Actual Target
Money Supply (M2)/GDP (1)            48.6%   47.50/  5J *30%  51.5%  51.30  55.3%   51.3%
(49.2%)*
NPL Net of Provisions/Total Loans    18.4%   14.30/   23o    14.2%    180   13.30     140/
(23%)*
Aggregate Capital Adequacy Ratio of   6.30/  11.70/   6. 70c  11.6%   7.50  13.3%      80
Conumercial Banks                   (6.2%)*
Provision Shortfall (TD million)      365.8   123.3    356    55.5     315     4.4    16
(365)   _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _  _ _ _
Assets of Private Sector Banks/Total  46.4%  47.5/    5001   48.0%    550R  45.9%     58%
Bank Assets                         (48%)*
BTA Outstanding/Total Treasury          0%     0°/     00    18.3%    100   53.3%    2500
Securities Outstanding
BTA Secondary Market Volume/BTA         0%     00/     00 Insignific   Sow Insignifi  10%
Outstanding                               I_ant                             cant
Source: Central Bank of Tunisia, except (1) from World Bank.
*For certain figures, there is a discrepancy between the 1997 actuals now available, shown above as the first
number in the cells, and the 1997 actuals shown in the MOP (shown above as the second number in the box, in
parentheses).
4.2 Outputs by components:
Macroeconomic Framework
Overall, the macroeconomic framework was sound and consistent with loan objectives. The results
for GDP growth, current account deficit, and foreign reserves were strong, and inflation was on target.
However, the growth of manufacturing exports, the budget deficit, and the ratio of external debt did not
meet the targets set in the Loan Agreement (see Table 2). The deficit was only slightly higher than target,
at 3.5% rather than the projected 3.4%. Manufacturing exports grew more slowly than projected, in part
due to slower growth in Europe and the war in the Balkans. Finally, the strength of the U.S. dollar caused
the debt to GDP ratio to be higher than expected. The macroeconomic framework condition of the loan
was considered to be met because performance on many of the ECAL I1 macroeconomic targets was quite
strong and exogenous factors were partly to blame for other goals not being met. The outcome of the
macroeconomic component is considered satisfactory.
- 6 -



Table 2. Macroeconomic Indicators
1199711998119991 ECAL II Targets for 1999
Percentage Change
Growth of Real GDP                                5.4  5.0  6.2           5.5
Growth of Real Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services 10.5 3.7  5.1     5.0
o/w: manufacturing exports                      -5.4 2.5  6.5           11.0
Inflation (CPI)                                   3.7  3.1 2.7            3.0
In % of GDP
Budget Deficit                                    -4.2 -2.8 -3.5         -3.4
Current Account Deficit                           -3.3 -3.3   -2.1       -3.9
Outstanding Foreign Debt                                   55.4          50.7
In Months of Imports
Gross Foreign Reserves                           | 2.7 | 2.4  2.9 |       2.8
Settlement of Non-Performning Bank Loans and Privatization. Liquidation, and Restructuring of Public and
Semi-public Enterprises
As discussed in Section 3.4 above, the conditions regarding the settlement of public and
semi-public enterprises' NPLs were substantially met, although the final amount of loans settled under the
second tranche was slightly different than the amount specified in the Loan Agreement. These NPLs were
settled by the GOT in a number of different ways, based on the condition of the enterprises involved. A
few enterprises which were considered to be financially and operationally sound were kept active, and the
Govemrnent issued explicit debt service guarantees for them. One enterprise was privatized, and its bank
loans were repaid outright. The debts of the enterprises which were or will be liquidated were transferred
to the govemment. As described in Section 3.3 above, the GOT signed agreements with the banks involved
to pay back the loans (generally including interest accrued up to the date of the agreement) over 25 years at
zero percent interest.
As shown in Table 1 above, the banking sector met or exceeded the monitoring indicators set under
the ECAL II (Net NPL/Total Loans, Capital Adequacy Ratio, and Provision Shortfall). With explicit debt
service guarantees or repayment agreements from the GOT, the assumed repayment risk on the (formerly
non-performing) loans to public and semi-public enterprises became zero, and according to the regulations
of the Central Bank of Tunisia (BCT), banks were allowed to remove these assets from the non-performing
category, with a cumulative, positive effect on the banks' financial condition. First, with the removal of
these loans from the non-performing category, the ratio of total NPLs to total commitments dropped from
23 percent in 1997 to 19 percent in 1999 for commercial banks. At the same time, the requirement to
provision for these loans was removed. The effect of this, combined with the provisions that banks made
for other NPLs, reduced the shortfalls in loan loss provisions from about TD 365 million in 1997 to only
TD 4.4 million at the end of 2000. Finally, because provision shortfalls must be deducted from bank
capital in the calculation of the capital adequacy ratio, the reduction in provision shortfalls in turn helped
improve the banks' capital adequacy ratios.
It is important to note, however, that in return for the assurance of principal repayment on these
public and semi-public enterprise loans, banks are foregoing interest income on these assets for 25 years.
A very rough estimate of the net present value of the settlement shows that the net present cost to the banks
will be over TD 300 million. Over three-fourths of the NPLs were held by publicly-owned banks,
-7 -



particularly Banque Nationale Agricole (BNA) and STB, so they are most affected by these costs. These
settlement arrangements seem to have been the best feasible compromise between minimizing the budgetary
impact for the GOT while reducing the banks' loan portfolio risk, but the repayment terms carried a
significant cost to the banking sector. For this reason, it was especially important that public and
semi-public enterprises be restructured in order to prevent a recurrence of these credit problems. A key
second tranche condition was to address the issue of public enterprise NPLs at its source by launching the
liquidation, privatization, or restructuring of some of these companies. The GOT made conclusive
decisions, in accordance with the Loan Agreement, to liquidate three enterprises, restructure seven, and
privatize ten. This condition was therefore considered to be met.
Overall, the outcome of these conditions is considered marginally satisfactory. Although the
short-term objectives of settlement of public enterprise NPLs and restructuring of public enterprises were
achieved, the Tunisian banking sector will bear a significant long-term cost in return for the immediate
improvement in the quality of loan portfolios.
Bank Privatization and the Merger of Development Banks
As described in Section 3.4, the Tunisian authorities informed the Bank that BTEI's foreign owner
did not agree to the terms of the merger agreement, making it impossible for this condition to be fulfilled as
originally drafted. Instead, the GOT decided to privatize UIB alone and took clear steps to move forward
with that process. As a condition of the ECAL III, the Government's ownership in ULB will be offered for
sale. Table 1 shows that the objectives set for increasing the share of private bank assets in the total assets
of the banking sector were not met, with the proportion of private bank assets actually decreasing in 2000.
The failure to privatize UIB during the life of the ECAL II is one of the primary reasons that these
objectives were not met.
The intention of this loan condition was not only to increase private ownership of banks in Tunisia
but also to address the question of the future of development banks in general. Development banks in
Tunisia have extremely high levels of non-performing loans and are facing increased competition as
commercial banks gain better access to medium- and long-term resources. In addition, the new Banking
Law (see below) would remove the distinction between commercial and development banks, effectively
eliminating development banks' niche in the sector. As part of the ECAL II program (although not as a
tranche release condition), the GOT evaluated the possibility of merging the two public development banks,
Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET) and Banque Nationale de Developpement
Touristique (BNDT), with STB. The merger was completed in December 2000. STB absorbed the two
development banks and is now the largest bank in Tunisia, with a very high level of NPLs. Management
has established an ambitious action plan to clean up the loan portfolio and improve STB's competitiveness
within the next few years. The remaining six development banks in Tunisia are all joint ventures between
the GOT and other Arab states; BCT and the management of these banks have been working together to
develop a strategy for their future, possibly including other mergers with commercial banks.
The achievement of this component's objectives, to increase private sector participation in the
Tunisian banking sector, is considered unsatisfactory. Because the completion of the UIB-BTEI merger
was not fully within the Borrower's control, the privatization of UIB was delayed and not completed during
this operation. Although it is recognized that the privatization is ongoing and UIB will be offered for sale
under the ECAL HI, the continued high level of public participation in the banking system indicates that
one important objective of this operation was not achieved.
The Borrower disagrees with this rating and provided the following comment: "If the privatization
of UIB was not completed during the ECAL II, the desired objective of this operation, the reduction of the
- 8 -



share of public ownership in bank assets, was achieved in March 2001, i.e. before the effectiveness of
ECAL III. In fact, the modification of the law on participations and public enterprises allowed the number
of public banks to be decreased from six to four, because UIB and BFT are no longer part of the public
sector, and to bring the share of public bank assets in total assets from 54.1 percent to 46.7 percent;
knowing that the government has also decided to sell its ownership in the capital of Banque du Sud." It
should be noted, however, that the recategorization of these banks from public to private resulted in part
from the increased ownership threshold for the definition of a public bank. As discussed below, this
threshold was increased from 34 percent to 50 percent, meaning that fewer banks will now be legally
defined as being public.
Financial Sector Legislative and Regulatory Reform
A revised Banking Law was presented to the Chamber of Deputies. The law would: (i) increase
the accountability of the Board of Directors, including the duty to establish an audit committee; (ii) allow
banks to create subsidiaries for providing financial services; (iii) strengthen the control and restrictions on
bank transactions with related parties; and (iv) introduce parameters to trigger corrective action by the
BCT for banks in financial distress. Overall, the law complies with international standards and represents
important progress in ensuring an adequate legal framework for the sector. A new regulatory framework
for mutual funds was also submitted to the Chamber of Deputies.
As mentioned under Section 3.4, the GOT took actions which substantially met the requirement to
submit to the Chamber of Deputies an amended Civil and Commercial Procedures Code to facilitate the
judicial process for recovering bank loans and credits. Under the ECAL III, these amendments are being
reinforced through regulatory measures to accelerate the recovery of loans by credit institutions and
foreclosure of real estate collateral by credit institutions. The BCT is hopeful that procedural changes will
make it easier for banks to foreclose on collateral, thereby reducing the level of NPLs.
The GOT presented an amendment to the Public Enterprise Law to the Chamber of Deputies to
reduce government administrative control of banks and insurance companies which are partially owned by
public entities. Under the old law, banks and insurance companies which were 34 percent or more owned
by public entities were considered public enterprises and subject to administrative control by the
Government. By removing the 34 percent threshold, only banks and insurance companies with more than
50 percent Government ownership will be considered public enterprises.
Based on the above, the financial sector legislative reform component of this operation is rated
satisfactory.
Reform of the Government Securities Market
This condition was met. The GOT launched new benchmark government securities, implementing
a program to replace the old securities. As shown in Table 1, the launch of the BTA has been successful,
with the proportion outstanding significantly exceeding the ECAL II monitoring targets. However,
although the new securities should be more conducive to the development of the secondary market for
Treasury bonds, as of the end of 2000, the secondary market for the BTA remained insignificant. Under
this component, the Government also took a series of actions to reform the institutional and regulatory
framework for the government securities market. The outcome of actions related to the government
securities market and monetary management instruments is rated satisfactory.
Improving Insurance Company Solvency
The Tunisian Lloyds Company was restructured in accordance with the Loan Agreement. In
addition, the GOT went even further, issuing a decision to privatize the company, with the requirement that
-9-



the buyer should float 30 percent of the capital of the new company on the Tunisian stock market. The
outcome of this component is therefore considered highly satisfactory.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable for adjustment operations.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable for adjustment operations.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
As discussed above, the broad objectives of the ECAL II were to improve the overall performance
and competitiveness of the financial sector, with specific indicators set to measure improvements in the
financial condition of the banking sector and other areas. Although this operation did not include specific
objectives for the development of individual institutions, the legislative and regulatory reforms implemented
under this loan are expected to improve the financial sector's ability to make effective use of its resources.
The institutional development imnpact is therefore considered to be modest. [The Borrower commented that
this rating is not in line with the preceding explanation.]
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Factors outside the Government's control affected the outcome of two loan conditions: 1) Some of
the targets for the macroeconomic framework were not fully met due to exogenous factors: slower growth
in Europe and the war in the Balkans slowed the growth of manufacturing exports, and the strength of the
U.S. dollar caused the debt to GDP ratio to be higher than expected. 2) The merger of UIB and BTEI
could not be completed because BTEI's foreign owner was reportedly unwilling to accept the terms of the
merger. In response to this obstacle, the GOT proposed to privatize UIB on a stand-alone basis. The MOP
identified one of the principal risks of this operation as being "a reversal in the government commitment to
reduce its presence in the financial sector" (p. ii). However, the delay in privatizing UIB did not reflect a
lack of commitment on the part of the Government and is expected to be completed under the ECAL III,
along with the offer for sale of Banque du Sud.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Due in part to high wage increases negotiated for 1999-2002, the Government's actual budget
deficit (3.5% of GDP) at end-1999 was slightly higher than the macroeconomic framework target of 3.4%.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Because of delays while experts prepared related amendments to other codes, the amended Civil
and Commercial Procedures Code was not presented to the Chamber of Deputies before the second tranche
release. Although this expanded amendment process meant that the loan condition was not completed
precisely as specified in the Loan Agreement, it actually reinforced the intent of the condition by ensuring
that the judicial procedures related to collateral foreclosure were updated in a coherent manner throughout
in all the relevant legislation. The delay is therefore considered to have been warranted.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The IBRD loan totaled EUR 138 million loan, disbursed in two equal tranches; parallel financing
was provided by the EU with a grant of EUR 80 million and by the AfDB with a loan of about US$140
million equivalent. Total financing for this operation was therefore roughly EUR 370 million equivalent.
As is generally the case with adjustment operations, it is not possible to make a direct comparison between
the total amount of financing provided under the ECAL II and the total budgetary costs of the associated
- 10-



reform measures. Some of the components of this operation, such as increasing the tax deductions for loan
loss provisions, had budgetary costs which are difficult to track. In other cases, reforns may have
generated revenues which offset costs.
The major component of this operation having direct costs which were tracked during the life of the
loan was the settlement of a nominal total of approximately TD 600 million of NPLs to public and
semi-public enterprises. The GOT settled TD 86.5 million of this amount by providing debt service
guarantees but no actual cash outlay. One enterprise was privatized, with the cash settlement of its TD 48
million in debt coming primarily from the privatization proceeds. The GOT settled the remaining nominal
TD 465.5 million in NPLs by assuming the loans and setting a repayment period of twenty-five years at
zero percent interest, thus implicitly transferring a significant armount of the cost for this settlement to the
banks, who are foregoing interest income. The net present value of the Governments cash settlement,
discounted at the current interest rate for Treasury bonds, is estimated be about TD 130 million.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of this operation is considered to be likely. Specific actions taken, such as the
settlement of public enterprise NPLs, were supported by other appropriate reforms, such as the liquidation
or restructuring of the non-perforning debtor enterprises as well as strengthened legal and regulatory
requirements such as increasing the required capital adequacy ratio for banks. This unified approach to
sectoral reform should help ensure that actions taken under ECAL II were not merely "spot fixes" but
rather deeper and lasting restructuring of the financial sector.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Revisions made to the financial sector legal and regulatory framework under the ECAL II ensure
that the reforms will be on-going. In addition, the achievements of this operation are being continued and
expanded upon by the recently approved ECAL III. For example, while ECAL II focused primarily on
reforms in the banking sector, with only one action (restructuring of Lloyds Tunisian) touching on the
insurance sector, the ECAL IH includes several conditions to reform the legal and regulatory framework of
the insurance sector as well as components focusing on the private investment climate and the information
and communication technology sector in Tunisia.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during lending preparation is considered satisfactory. ECAL Il's
objectives were appropriate and in line with the CAS. The operation was generally well-designed, with
specific restructuring actions supported by appropriate regulatory reform measures. However, the Bank
should have realized that the UIB-BTEI merger was not fully within the Borrower's control and either
structured the loan condition to include only actions which were solely within the Borrower's power to
complete or ensured that there was a firm, binding commitment from BTEI's foreign owner to complete the
merger.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision is rated marginally satisfactory. The first full supervision mission did not
take place until June 2000, a year after loan effectiveness. However, at the end of 2000, when it became
clear that the UIB-BTEI merger, one of the major conditions for the second tranche release, could not be
completed, the Bank responded appropriately and showed flexibility in accepting an alternative measure as
- 11 -



a reasonable substitute to accomplish the intent of this condition. Although the Bank did not regularly
monitor all the performance indicators originally defined in the MOP, the overall condition of the banking
system and the financial sector as a whole was reviewed during each supervision mission.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Based on the above, overall Bank performance for the ECAL II is rated satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance during the preparation of this loan was satisfactory. The Government
identified crucial areas of the financial sector in need of reform and worked with the co-financiers to define
the appropriate measures to be taken. In addition, before ECAL II loan preparation began, the GOT had
put in place a program to begin restructuring and modernizing the banking sector, and this program
facilitated the identification and elaboration of reform measures included in ECAL IH.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The GOT's implementation performance is satisfactory. The vast majority of loan conditions were
implemented completely and with good results. For the one loan condition in which a substantive element
could not be implemented, the UIB-BTEI merger, the Government did attempt to negotiate with BTEI's
foreign owner and then proposed a reasonable alternative action to the co-financiers when the merger was
blocked.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the various ministries involved in the implementation of the ECAL II, as well
as the performance of the BCT, is rated satisfactory. These agencies completed the loan conditions as
required, and in certain cases, such as the opening of the capital of Lloyds Tunisian and the amendment of
additional codes related to foreclosure procedures, took additional steps beyond those required in the Loan
Agreement
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
For the reasons noted above, overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
ECAL II incorporated the lessons of the ECAL I by focusing more narrowly on upgrading the
performance of the financial sector and of the banking sector in particular. Given the importance of the
banking system in the Tunisian financial sector, it was correctly chosen as the principal target of reforms
under this operation. On the other hand, an extensive reform package for the insurance sector was not
included under this loan because although necessary, the reforms could not have been effectively
implemented during the ECAL II time frame. Instead, preparatory work for insurance sector reforms was
done during ECAL II, and the reform measures have been included as one component of the new
multi-sector ECAL III operation. The series of ECAL adjustment operations in Tunisia has demonstrated
the value of appropriately targeted and sequenced reform measures in the long-term development of a
country's economy.
One particular weakness in the ECAL II also provides an important lesson: it is crucial to obtain a
firm, binding commitment from all parties having decision authority over actions targeted by the operation.
During preparation for the ECAL II, the GOT committed to the UIB-BTEI merger and in principle, it was
believed that the foreign owner would also agree to the merger. The privatization of the merged bank was
therefore included as a condition for the release of the second tranche. When BTEI's foreign owner would
- 12 -



not accept the merger conditions, the measure was blocked, causing a siglificant delay in the second
tranche. Given that the Borrower did not have exclusive control of the merger decision, such a measure
should only have been included if the merger process had been more advanced, with a firm, binding
commitment from all parties to complete the merger. Otherwise, since true intent of this loan condition was
to encourage the further disengagement of the GOT from the banking sector, it would have been better to
limit the action required under the Loan Agreement to the GOT's withdrawal from specific banks, rather
than including actions which the Borrower did not have exclusive authority to implement fully.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comments received from the Borrower have been incorporated into the above text.
(b) Cofinanciers.
The EU stated that they had no comments on this report. No comments were received from the
AfDB.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector).
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
- 13-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
ECAL II Outcome Indicators
1997     1998   1998     1999    1999   2000    2000
Actual   Actual Target Actual Target Actual Target
Money Supply (M2)/GDP (1)             48.6%  47.50/  51.30%   51.5%  51.3%   55.30/  51.3%
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   (49.2% )*
NPL Net of Provisions/Total Loans     18.40/  14.30/   230c   14.2%    180   13.30/    14%
(23%) *
Aggregate Capital Adequacy Ratio of    6.3%   11.70/  6.70c   11.60/  7.5%   13.30/     8%
Comrnercial Banks                   (6.2%)*
Provision Shortfall (TD mnillion)     365.8   123.3     35     55.      315     4.     165
(365)*
Assets of Private Sector Banks/Total  46.4%  47.50     500c  48.0%     550   45.90     58%
Bank Assets                          (48%) *                                       I
BTA Outstanding/Total Treasury          0%      00/     00    18.30/   10%   53.30/    25%
Securities Outstanding                                      _             _
BTA Secondary Market Volume/BTA         00/     00/     00 Insignific   0% Insignifi   10%
Outstanding                                                   ant            cant
Source: Central Bank of Tunisia, except (1) from World Bank.
*For certain figures, there is a discrepancy between the 1997 actuals now available, shown above as the first
number in the cells, and the 1997 actuals shown in the MOP (shown above as the second number in the box, in
parentheses).
Macroeconomic Indicators for ECAL II
1997 1998 1999 ECAL II Targets for 1999
Percentage ChangeC
Growth of Real GDP                                   5.4  5.0  6.2           5.5
Growth of Real Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services  10.5 3.7  5.1       5.0
o/w: manufacturing exports                         -5.4 2.5  6.5           11.0
Inflation (CPI)                                      3.7  3.1  2.7           3.0
In % of GDP
Budget Deficit                                      -4.2 -2.8 -3.5          -3.4
Current Account Deficit                             -3.3 -3.4 -2.1          -3.9
Outstanding Foreign Debt                            59.9 55.5 55.4           50.7
In Months of Imports                                        1    T
Gross Foreign Reserves                             l 2.71 2.4  2.9           2.8
- 14 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs and Financing are not generally applicable to adjustment operations. Some of the
components of this operation, such as increasing the tax deductions for loan loss provisions, had budgetary
costs which are difficult to track. In other cases, reforms may have generated revenues which offset the
costs. The major component of this operation having direct costs which were tracked was the settlement of
a nominal total of approximately TD 600 million of NPLs to public and semi-public enterprises, with a
total net present cost to the GOT estimated at about TD 130 million.
-15 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic and financial rates of return can not be calculated for adjustment operations.
- 16-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Perfonnance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count          Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
3/98                        2    1 Financial Specialist, 1
Economist
Appraisal/Negotiation
6/98                        6    3 Financial Specialists, 3
Consultants
11/98                       7    2 Financial Specialists, 2
Economists, 2 Operations
Analysts, I Consultant
2/99                         7   3 Financial Specialists, I
Economist, I PSD Specialist, 1
Legal Counselor, 1 Disbursement
Officer
Supervision
6/00                         2   1 Financial Specialist, I          S             S
Economist
10/00                        5   5 Financial Specialists            S             S
ICR
*Note: ICR mission planned for 9/01 was cancelled due to travel restrictions following the terrorist attacks
of September 11, 2001, in the United States.
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               NA
Appraisal/Negotiation                    NA                         357.7
Supervision                              NA                         115.0
ICR                                      NA                          *8.0
Total                                     NA                        480.7
*Estimate
- 17 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OI Macro policies                     O H  *SUOM      O N O NA
O Sector Policies                     O H  *SUOM      O N O NA
El Physical                           O H  OSUOM      O N * NA
El Financial                          O H  *SUOM O N O NA
CI Institutional Development          O H O SU 0 M O N 0 NA
O Environmental                       O H  OSUOM O N       * NA
Social
Ol Poverty Reduction            O H OSUOM       O N  * NA
E Gender                        O H OSUOM ON *NA
OI Other (Please specify)       O H  OSUOM O N       * NA
O Private sector development          0 H O SU *M     0 N  0 NA
OI Public sector management           0 H O SU O M 0 N     0 NA
l Other (Please specify)              O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
-18-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                              Rating
L Lending                                          OHSOS       OU    OHU
L Supervision                                      OHS OS      O U    O HU
OI Overall                                         OIHS*S      O U    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                           Rating
L Preparation                                     OHS OS       O U    O HU
fI Government implementation performance           0 HS O S    0 U    0 HU
L Implementation agencyperformance                 O HS O S    O U    0 HU
L Overall                                          OHS OS      0 U    O HU
- 19-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. President's Report and Recommendation for the Second Economic Competitiveness Adjustment Loan
(Report No. P-7288-TUN), March 26, 1999.
2. Complete loan docurmentation on file.
- 20 -



