                                       Documentof
                                  THE WORLD BANK



                                                          ReportNo. 31017




               PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT



                                REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA



            ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS ADJUSTMENT LOAN
                                 (Loan No. 4069 TUN)

       SECOND ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS ADJUSTMENT LOAN
                                 (LoanNo. 4461 TUN)

        THIRD ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS ADJUSTMENT LOAN
                                 (Loan No. 7094 TUN)




                                      December 27,2004




Country Evaluation and Regional Relations Group
Operations Evaluation Department

                                    CurrencyEquivalents
                          (Annual Average; TunisianDinar per US$)
                      (Source: IMF, International Financial Statistics)

   Year            TunisianDinar (TD)                    Year   TunisianDinar (TD)
   1988                     0.86                         1996            0.97
   1989                     0.95                         1997             1.11
   1990                     0.88                         1998             1.14
   1991                     0.92                         1999             1.19
   1992                     0.88                         2000             1.37
   1993                     1.oo                         2001             1.44
   1994                     1.01                         2002             1.42
   1995                     0.95                         2003             1.29




                          Abbreviationsand Acronyms


AfDB            African Development Bank             GSM         Global System for Mobile
BCT             Central Bank o f Tunisia                         Communications
BDET            Economic Development                 ICR         Implementation Completion Report
                Bank o f Tunisia                     ICOR        Incremental Capital OutputRatio
BNA             NationalAgncultural Bank             IMF         International Monetary Fund
BNTD            National Tourist Bank o f            ITPAL       IndustryandTrade Policy
                Tunisia                                          Adjustmentloan
BTEI            Banque de Tunisie et des             MFN         Most FavoredNations
                Emirates d'lnvestissement            N P L S     Non Performing Loans
                (The Tunisian-Emirates               ODESYPANO OfJice deDkveloppement Sylvo-
                Investment Bank)                                 Pastoral du Nord-Ouest
CGA             General Insurance Council            PPAR        Project Performance
CPI             Consumer Price Index                             Assessment Report
ECAL            Economic Competitiveness             REER        Real Effective ExchangeRate
                Adjustment Loan                      RER         Real Exchange Rate
EFRSL           Enterprise and Financial             S A L       Structural Adjustment Loan
                Reform Support Loan                  SNDP        Sociktk Nationale de
EUAA            EuropeanUnion                                    Distribution de Pktrole
                Association Agreement                STB         Socie'tt! Tunisienne de Banque
EU              EuropeanUnion                        TD          Tunisian Dinar
FDI             Foreign Direct Investment            TTN         Tunisia Trade Net
FTA             Free Trade Agreement                 VAT         Value Added Tax
GATT            General Agreement on                 UIB         Union International des Banque
                Tariffs and Trade                    WTO         World Trade Organization
GDP             Gross Domestic Product



Director-General7Operations Evaluation                        : Mr.GregoryK.Ingram
Director, Operations EvaluationDepartment                     : Mr.Ajay Cfibber
Senior Manager, Country Evaluation and Regional Relations      : Mr.R. Kyle Peters
Task Manager                                                   : Mr.Fareed M.A. Hassan
Primary Author                                                 : Mr.RichardM.Westebbe

   OED Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.


 About this Report
      The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassessesthe programsand activities of the World Bank for two
 purposes:first, to ensurethe integrityof the Bank's self-evaluationprocessand to verifythat the Bank's work is
 producingthe expected results,and second,to helpdevelop improved directions, policies,and proceduresthrough
 the dissemination of lessons drawnfrom experience.As part of this work, OED annuallyassesses about 25 percentof
 the Bank's lendingoperations.Inselectingoperationsfor assessment, preference is givento those that are
 innovative,large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or countryevaluations;those for which
 ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank management have requestedassessments;andthose that are likelyto generate
 important lessons.The projects,topics, and analyticalapproachesselectedfor assessmentsupport largerevaluation
 studies.
      A Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) is basedon a review of the ImplementationCompletion
 Report (a self-evaluation by the responsibleBank department)and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
 PPARs, OED staff examine projectfiles and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
 the borrowing country for onsite discussionswith project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
 validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interestto broader
 OED studies.
      Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED managementapproval. Once cleared internally, the
 PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
 sent to the borrowerfor review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
 Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


About the OED Rating System
      The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank'swork.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Followingis
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
 http://worldbank.orgloed/eta-main page.html).
      Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistentwith the country's current
development prioritiesand with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals
(expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, CountryAssistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible.This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
      Susfainability: The resilience to risk of net benefitsflows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      lnstitufional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or regionto
make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate,which derives from these
institutional arrangements. lnstitutionalDevelopment Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementationthrough appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibilityto ensure
quality of preparationand implementation,and compliedwith covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of developmentobjectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


Contents

RatingsandResponsibilities                    ............................................................................................
Preface ...............................................................................................................................     ...i
                                                                                                                                            111
Summary    .............................................................................................................................    v

1 .    Introduction
             Competitiveness: Phase I..................................................................................
                           . .                                                                                                               1
             Competitiveness: Phase11-A Bold Step Forward.............................................                                       2

2 .    Policiesand StructuralReformsAddressed by the ECALsand Progress
      Achieved        ..................................................................................................................     4
            Macroeconomic Stabilization and Growth ........................................................                                  5
            Trade Liberalization...........................................................................................                  7
            The EnablingEnvironment................................................................................                          8
            Privatization.......................................................................................................             9
            The Financial Sector ........................................................................................                   11
            SummaryofProgressAchieved.......................................................................                                14

3.    PerformanceRatings
            Outcome...........................................................................................................              16
           Sustainability....................................................................................................
                     . . .                                                                                                                  18
           Institutional Development................................................................................
                  . .                                                                                                                       18
           BankPerformance............................................................................................ 18
           Borrower Performance ..................................................................................... 19

4.    Agenda for FutureReformandLessons
           Agenda for Future Reforms.............................................................................                           19
           Lessons Leamed...............................................................................................                   20

Boxes
2.1: Tunisia's Comparative Competitiveness inthe Arab World.................................                                                15

Figures
1.1: .Tunisia-Real Exchange Rate Indicators. 1990-2001 ..............................................                                       3

Tablesin Text
2.1: Tunisia's MainMacroeconomic Indicators .............................................................                                   5


Annexes
Annex A: Economic Competitiveness Adjustment Loans ...............................................                                         23
Annex B: Basic Data Sheets............................................................................................. 33

Annex D: List o f Organizations and Individuals Met ......................................................
Annex C: Statistical Tables .............................................................................................. 39
                                                                                                                                           49


                                           1




Ratingsand Responsibilities

Economic CompetitivenessAdjustment Loan (Loan No. 4096)
                                    ICR Review                PPAR
Outcome                             Satisfactory              Satisfactory
Sustainability                      Likely                    Likely
Institutional Development           Not rated                 Modest
Bank Performance                    Satisfactory              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                Satisfactory              Satisfactory




Second Economic CompetitivenessAdjustment Loan (Loan No. 4461)
                                   ICR Review                 PPAR
Outcome                             Satisfactory              Satisfactory
Sustainability                     Likely                     Likely
Institutional Development          Modest                     Modest
Bank Performance                   Satisfactory               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance               Satisfactory               Satisfactory




Third Economic CompetitivenessAdjustment Loan (Loan No. 7094)
                                   ICR Review                 PPAR
Outcome                            Satisfactory               Satisfactory
Sustainability                     Likely                     Likely
Institutional Development          Substantial                Modest
Bank Performance                   Satisfactory               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance               Satisfactory               Satisfactory

                                           ..
                                           11




K e y Project Responsibilities

   Project                 staff                  Appraisal             Completion

ECAL I          Task Manager            Maria Pigato             Linda Likar

                Division Chiemirector   Christian Delvoie        John Page

                Country Director        Daniel Ritchie           ChristianDelvoie

ICR prepared byAuguste Kouame.




ECAL 11         Task Manager            Denis Lionel Chaput      Stephanie Gober

                Sector Director         Deane Jordan (Acting)    Deane Jordan (Acting)

                Country Manager         ChristianDelvoie         ChristianDelvoie

ICR preparedby Stephanie Gobier.



ECALIII        Task Manager            Hamid Alavi               Hamid Alavi

               Sector Director         EmmanuelForestier         EmmanuelForestier

               Country Manager         ChristianDelvoie          Theodore 0.Ahlers

ICRprepared by Jean Pesme.

                                                 ...
                                                 111


 Preface

          This i s a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) o f the three economic
 competitiveness adjustment loan projects (ECALs) inTunisia:

   0      The Economic Competitiveness Adjustment Loan (L4096) inthe amount of
          US$75 millionequivalent, comprising a US$37.5 million tranche and a FrenchFranc
           193.9 milliontranche was approved on July 25, 1996. Final disbursementtook place
          by June 30, 1998, andthe loanwas closed on June 30, 1998, six months after the
          original closing date. Parallel coordinated financing was providedby the European
          Unioninthe amount o fUS$150million.

   0      The Second Economic Competitiveness Adjustment Loan (L4461) inthe amount o f
          US$159 million equivalent was approved on April 20, 1999. The disbursement o f the
          second tranche took place on March 6, 2001, six months after originally projected.
          The loanwas closed on schedule on June 30,2001. Parallel financing was provided
          by the EUinthe form of a Euro 80 million equivalent grant andbythe Ahcan
          Development Bank (AfDB)with a loan o fUS$140 million equivalent.

   0      The ThirdEconomic Competitiveness Adjustment Loan (L7094) inthe amount of
          US$282.5 million equivalent was approved on December 20,2001 when a first
          tranche o fUS$130millionwas disbursed. The floating tranche concerning the
          strengtheningofthe financial sector inthe amount o fUS$45 millionequivalent was
          released inSeptember 2003, and the floating tranche supporting the private investment
          climate inthe amount o fUS$45 million equivalent was released inDecember 2003.
          The Bank allowed the third floating tranche to lapse and the loan closing date was
          revisedfrom June 30,2003 to December 31,2003. The AfDB and European Union
          (EU) co-financed this loanwithEuro 216millionandEuro 80 million, respectively.

          The PPAR is basedon the findings o f a missionby the Operations Evaluation
Department (OED) that visited Tunisia between 14 to 29 September, 2003, inparallelwith the
OED Country Assistance Evaluationmission. The findings draw on interviews with
beneficiaries, staff incharge o f implementingthe three operations, other officials o fthe
Government o f Tunisia and Bank and InternationalMonetary Fund(IMF) staff. The mission
also met with representatives o f the co-financiers-the   AfDB and EU. Annex Dcontains a
list o f the people interviewed. The collaboration o f these persons contributed importantly to
this report. Inaddition, the PPARmade use o f appraisal documents, implementation
completionreports, IMF reports and other background documents and data.

          The three ECALs were selected for review as they provide a coherent framework for
assessingprogress inbuildingcompetitiveness through targeting the real exchange rate, as
influenced mainly by structural domestic reforms to provide incentives and an enabling
environment for factors of productionto shift insupport o f export-led growth. Also, this
cluster o fprojects was selected to provide inputs to the OED's FY04 Country Assistance
Evaluation for Tunisia.

          Comments from the Bank's Regional Management have been taken into account. A
draft report was sent to the Government of Tunisia and no comments were received.

                                         iv

      This report was preparedbyRichardM.Westebbe (Consultant), with FareedM.A.
Hassanas Task Manager. Gonzalo Salinas and Janice Joshi provided statistical information
and administrative support.

                                                V


  Summary

  1.     This i s a Project Performance Assessment Report prepared on the three Economic
  Competitiveness Adjustment Loans (ECALs) inTunisia. ECAL I(US$75 million) was
  approved on July 25, 1996 andwas closed on June 30, 1998, six months after the original
  closing date. E C A L I1(US$159 million) was approved on April 29, 1999 andwas closed on
  schedule on June 30,2001. E C A L 111(US$283 million) was approved on December 20,
 2001 and the closing date was extended by six months to December 31,2003. Although the
 Government issued a second Global System for Mobile Communications license (GSM-
 wireless telecommunications), the E C A L I11associated tranche (US$45 million) was not
 disbursed because the Bank didnot receive the documentation required to demonstrate that
 the G S M license was tendered following a competitive andtransparent process.

 2.      The three ECALs constitute a continuum o f operations with the basic objective o f
 increasing growth andimprovingthe competitiveness o f the economy through a series o f
 macro and structural reforms, following the bold decision o f the authorities to sign in 1995
 an association agreement with the EuropeanUnion (EUAA). The EUAAprovides for a
 phased establishment o f a fiee trade zone inmanufacturing over a 12-yearperiod. By
 exposing the economy to the hllforce o f EUcompetition, the aim was to induce an
 adjustment inTunisia's productive sectors as a basis for achieving a highand sustainable
 increase inthe growth rate, with substantial poverty reduction impacts.

 3.      Maintaining sound macroeconomic and fiscal fiameworks and adopting intemational
 trade and investment procedures would accelerate the implementation o f the EUAA. In
 addition, the ECALs sought to enhance the soundness, efficiency and competitivenesso fthe
bankingsystem, andpromote the development o fcapital and insurance marketsby
modemizing the legislative and institutional framework for the financial sector. Finally, the
 loans sought to improve opportunities for the private sector through privatization and
improved regulations. The ECALs' objectives conformed to Tunisia's development
objectives outlined inits NinthDevelopment Plan(1997-01) as well as the Tenth
Development Plan (2002-2006), andthe Bank's country assistance strategy.

4.       With timely andeffective support o fthe Bank and other donors, Tunisia maintained a
solid record o fmacroeconomic stability and remarkable economic progress. The ECAL
programs successhlly promoted policy reforms. Substantial financial sector reforms were
achieved, as well as the removal o f some o fthe disincentives for investment andthe
privatization o fpublic enterprises and banks. The implementationo f the EUAA ledto an
economy considerably more open to the outside world.

5.      At the macro levelreal GDP growth exceeded ECALtargets, although some
slowdown occurred inexports due to slower European growth. The management o f the real
exchange rate together with well targeted policy and structural reforms were the basis for the
5.2 percent real growth rate between 1997-2001 and its resumption in2003. With sustained
growth, the poverty rate declined from 8 percent in 1995 to 4 percent in2000. Other
indicators o f social and economic well-being improved significantly. The main areas o f
structural reform supported by the ECALs contributed critically to the longrun
competitiveness o f the Tunisian economy. Liberalization ledto productivity growth and
diversification, particularly inthe offshore industries based on the EUmarket. Export o f

                                                  vi

manufacturedproducts was the real engine o f growth, risingby 8 percent annually. It i s a
modelthat stresses deliberate progress over speed, based on security and stability, as the
Tunisian authoritiesput it. OED's ICRReview for ECAL IandI1ratedoutcome as
satisfactory, sustainability as likely, institutional development impact as modest and Bank
andborrower performance as satisfactory. The PPAR largely agrees with the ICR review
ratings andrates E C A L I11similarly.

6.      The main lessons are:

        a       Tunisia's successful economic performance has beendue to three attributes:
                ownership andbroadpolitical consensus, a well-developed humanresource
                base, and a stable macroeconomic environment.

        a       Experience inprivatization and the financial sector shows the need for the
                Bank and the development partners to stay the course and show flexibility in
                their support, provided there is evidence o f genuine and sustained reform
                efforts. For example, by accepting partial reforms insome areas, and
               buildingonpartial successesto deepen them insubsequent operations, the
                support from the Bank andother partners was ultimately effective. Patience,
               perseverance and flexibility paidoff.

        a      An important lesson for other small emerging countries seelung to lay the
               foundations for sustainable growth andpoverty reduction is the success o f
               Tunisia increating a competitive economy by the coordinated use o f macro
               and structural policies and reforms.




                                        Gregory K. Ingram
                                         Director-General
                                     Operations Evaluation

                                               1


  1.     Introduction

  1.1    The three competitiveness ECALswere selected for evaluation as they represent a
 continuous series o fkey operations inthe Government's strategy to create a fully
 competitive economy ina liberalizingworld through a coordinated use o f macro and
 structural policies and reforms. As such the Tunisia experience will holdimportant
 lessons for other emergingcountries attempting to lay the foundations for sustainable
 growth andpoverty reduction. The ECALswere a major part o f the Bank's assistance
 program duringthe period evaluatedbythe Country Assistance Evaluation.

 1.2     Tunisia has had one o fthe fastest growing economies inNorthAfhca and the
 MiddleEast since the mid-1980s. Ithasprogressed from beinga lower to amiddle-
 income country with a per capita income o fUS$2240 (World BankAtlas Method, 2002).
 Since independence in 1956, realper capita incomes have grown two and a halftimes,
 while social andeconomic well-beinghas improved significantly. The incidence o f
 poverty has dropped from 40 percent in 1970 to 13 percent by 1985, to 7 percent by
 1990, and further to 4 percent by 2000. Almost all children attend primary school and
 life expectancy has grown from 50 to 70 years. Women now comprise a third o f the
 labor force.

Competitiveness: PhaseI

 1.3    Since 1986, following a decline inexport eamings and excessive public
investment spending, the Government has pursueda program o fmacro stabilization and
adjustment, supportedby the Bank and IMF. The reforms aimed at liberalizing the
tightly controlled economy, removingtax and subsidy distortions, improving resource
allocations, and reducing the role o fthe public sector. Inspite o f drought, the Gulfwar
andthe slow growth inEurope, real GDP growth increased from a 3 percent annual rate
during1980-86to more than 4 percent during1987-94. Efficiencywas increasedby
comprehensive structural reforms with particular benefitto the private sector. Despite a
sharp reductioninpublic investment, the rapid growth inoutput and improvements in
productivity brought the incremental capital-output ratio (ICOR) down from 12.4 in1980-
86 to 6.6 in1987-94. The share o fprivate non-financial enterprises invalue added rose.
The share o fprivate investment intotal investment rose from 48 percent in 1990 to 51
percent in 1998 (2000 Private Sector Assessment, p.3).

1.4     Monetary and fiscal policies contributed to restoringmacro stability. A positive
real interest rate and a reductioninthe fiscal deficit contributed to a rise ingross
domestic savings from 19.5 percent in1986to 21.9 percent in1994. These policies were
supported by adjustments inthe exchange rate; the real effective exchange rate
depreciated by a total o f 30 percent in 1986-89, appreciated through 1992 and then
leveledoffuntilit depreciated modestly after the mid 1990s. Tunisia follows a constant
real exchange rate rule by which the authorities periodically adjust the nominal exchange
rate to maintainthe real exchange rate constant. This policy requires prudentmonetary
andfiscalpolicies, managed capital flows, and structural reforms.

                                                2


 1.5     Growth inthis first period o freform was export-led. The volume o f
 manufactured exports increased on average by more than 8 percent per year and total
 exports by 5 percent annually inreal terms between 1989 and 1994. Export growth
 financed the rise inimports o f capital andintermediate goods, which were the basis o f
 investment and income growth. Exports o f goods and services rose from 30 percent o f
 GDP in1986to 43 percent in1994. The structure o fexports shiftedremarkably; primary
 products exports fell from 17percent in1980to 4 percent o f the total in 1994 and
 manufactured exports rose from 10 percent to 15 percent. Duringthis period textile
 exports rose from 47 percent to 55 percent o f manufactured exports. Europe absorbed 75
 percent o f exports. This market andproduct concentration increasedthe vulnerability o f
 the economy to shocks. The 1990-92 decline inthe European market contributed to
 almost all o f the 50 percent fall inthe growthrate o f exports.

 1.6     Despite the progress, much remained to be done inareas such as inefficient public
 enterprises, protected highcost domestically oriented firms, hightransport costs,
 inefficient port and customs facilities, and incomplete trade liberalization.

 Competitiveness: Phase11-A BoldStep Forward

 1.7     In1995Tunisia decidedto embark onadramatic newphaseofdevelopment inthe
 realization that its small market could never provide the basis for long-term sustained
 growth with improved standards o f living for the bulk o f its population. Tunisia became
the first country inthe region to sign an association agreement with the EuropeanUnion
 (EUAA), which complemented agreements under GATT. The objectives o fEUAAwere
to conduct a phased integration o f the Tunisian and EUeconomies through the free
movement o f goods and legislative, social and financial cooperation. Under the EUAA,
tariffs on EU's imports (excluding agricultural goods) would be progressively eliminated
over a 12-year period, starting with capital and intermediate goods and ending with
consumer goods. ECALs Ithrough I11were designed to support Phase I1o f the
competitiveness strategy.

 1.8     The ratification o f the EUAAwas requiredbefore July 1997, but the Government
started implementing the trade liberalization program inthe 1996 Finance Law, which
included reductions intariffs on equipment. The 1997 Finance Law included the tariff
reductions scheduled for the second year o f application o f the EUAA.A phasedreduction
intariffsurcharges also beganin1996.

1.9      The opening o f the Tunisian economy to the highly competitive European
markets was a bold move, even though phasedover a period o f years. The private sector
received a clear signal that protection would no longer shelter them. Firmswould be
forced to increase efficiency and allocate resources inrelation to Tunisia's comparative
advantage. The improvedregulatory environment would attract foreign investors. Trade
diversion would be minimal as Europe already absorbed three quarters o f Tunisia's
foreign trade. While total liberalization would come later (with the full implementation o f
the 12-year EUAA), the Government aimed at providing a credible anchor for economic
reforms, including product standards, a legal framework, anti-dumping agreements, and
the promise o f substantial financial and technical assistance.

                                                    3


  1.10   The cost o f the EUAAwould not be negligible. One third o f enterprises were
 estimatednot to be able to sustain competition with Europe andwould have to be
 restructured. The fear o f increasedunemployment, estimated at 16 percent o f the labor
 force at the beginningo f the period, was the mainreason for the gradual tariff reduction
 under the EUAA. The benefits o f the EUAAwere also estimated to be considerable. It
 would allow five or six years for private firms to adjust to the new competitive
 environment. It would eliminate the dualistic structure o fthe economy, with protected
 firms producing at highcost for the domestic market (onshore) and exporting firms
 producing under subcontracting agreements inlow-wage garment industries (offshore).
 With the phasing-out o fthe Multifiber Agreement, these firms would needto compete
 with EastemEuropeanand Asian producers inany event.

 1.11    The main issue for development strategy i s to pursue policies to raise productivity
 andreform structural rigidities. Tunisia is too small.to grow within closed borders and
 must therefore adopt policies to liberalize internal markets and access to extemal trade.
 Hence, the strategy must be based on export-led growth. This was essentially the goal o f
 targeting the real exchange rate.

 ThePolicy Framework Targets the Real Exchange Rate




 1.13    Changes inthe RER are                             Figure 1.1: Tunisia-Real Exchange Rate Indicators, 1990-2001
                                                                                    (Index, 1990=100)
commonly measured by the real                  110 -
effective exchange rate (REER),
which is based on consumer prices,             105 -
GDP deflators, and the relative prices                                                     ------//            -.-.e---\--.-\
                                                                                                                       - -      \

o f non-tradable to tradable goods.            100 -

Tunisia's exchange rate policies have
managed to maintain overall stability           95 -

since 1996 (Figure 1.1).

1.14    The following part o fthis         I   90  7
                                                       1990  1991      1992    1993 1994 1995   1996  1997   1998    1999   2000   2001
                                                     I-          REER (GDP defl)     ---REER       (CPI)  - - - - - REER ("free" CPI)
report contains a discussion o f the          Source: IMF Selected Issues (2002)

main policies and structural          Note: A nominal effective exchange rate index represents the ratio (expressed on base 1990=100)
reforms addressed by the              o f an index of the period average exchange rate of the currency in question to a weighted
ECALs, and progress achieved in       geometric average o f exchange rates for the currencies of selected countries. A real effective
                                      exchange rate index i s defined as anominal effective exchange rate index adjusted for relative
the macro framework (including        movements innational price or cost indicators o f the home country and selected countries. The
growth and exports), trade            national price indicators include, GDP deflation and CPI. REERcan be calculated on 3 different
                                      price indices, including GDP deflation and consumer prices.
liberalization, the enabling
environment, privatization, and the financial sector.

                                                       4


  2.       Policiesand StructuralReformsAddressedby the ECALs
           and ProgressAchieved

 2.1       Thethree ECALs constitute a continuum of operations withthe basic objective of
 increasing growth andimproving the competitiveness o fthe economy through a series o f
 macro and structural policy measures andinstitutional reforms following the bold decision
 ofthe authorities to sign in 1995 an association agreementwith the EuropeanUnion
 (EUAA). The EUAAprovides for aphasedestablishmentofa free trade zone in
 manufacturing over a 12 year period. Byexposing the economy to the full force o fEUAA
 competition, the aim was to induce an adjustment inTunisia's productivesectors as abasis
 for achieving a highand sustainableincreaseinthe growth rate, with substantial poverty
 reduction impacts. ECAL Iintroducedwide-rangingmeasures, including first generation
 actions aimed at promotingprivate sector development. ECAL I1supported
 improvements inthe soundness, efficiency and competitiveness o f the bankingsystem.
 ECAL I11introduceda broadrange o f second-generation measuresto enhancethe
 international competitiveness o fthe economy: further promotingprivate investment,
 strengtheningthe financial sector, and liberalizingthe information and communications
 technology sector, while maintaininga stable macroeconomic framework. A full
 discussion o fthe objectives o fthe three ECALs may be found inannex A, anda complete
 list o f conditionality and outcomes inannex Cytable 8.

 2.2       The ECALs' objectives were relevant to andalignedwithbothTunisia's 5-year
 development planandthe Bank's country assistancestrategy.' The gthDevelopmentPlan
 (1997-2001) was aimed at opening up the economy to competition while maintaining
macroeconomic stability and strengthening the social agenda and environmental
management. The lothDevelopmentPlano f2002 to 2006 also aims to strengthen
 competitiveness, embrace the knowledge economy andmeet the jobs challenge.

2.3       TheECALs were the keyinstruments usedbythe Bankto support Tunisia's policy
ofintemationallyintegrating its economy through the uniqueopportunityprovidedbythe
EUAA. Inessence, the operations aimedat accelerating thepace of structural reforms,
particularlyinthe areas o ftrade liberalization, enhancing the enabling environment for
investment,opening investment activities to the privatesector, andreformingthe financial
sector. They also supported the Tunisianpolicy o fredefiningthe role o fthe State inthe
economy by strengthening its actions inthe provisiono fpublic goods andthe management
of scarce resources, while shifting emphasisto a hgher level o fboth domestic and foreign
investment. The Bank's strategy aimed at the timelyimplementation ofeconomic
integration whle maintainingsocial stabilityby focusing on key areas suitable for
immediatepolicy actions (1996 and 2000 country assistance strategies).


'A t the 2000 Country Assistance Strategy design, it was expected that ECAL I11would either advance
financial sector reformor support measures to enhance private sector development and participationinthe
provision o f infrastructure, depending on the readiness o f the Government. As approved, E C A L I11was an
ambitious program, covering three broad sectors with the following aims: strengthen the financial sector,
promote a business environment conducive to private investments, and liberalize the telecommunication
sector, while maintaining a stable macroeconomic framework.

                                                              5


 Macroeconomic Stabilization and Growth

 2.4        All o fthe ECALs as well as earlier policy-based loans-the1987                Industry and
 Trade Policy Adjustment Loan (ITPAL), the 1988 Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL),
 and 1991 Enterprise and Financial Reform Support Loan (EFRSL)-have                        included the
 maintenance o f a stable macroeconomic environment as a primary component and,
 therefore, have supported underlying fiscal, monetary and exchange rate policies that
 have been successfully implemented. As discussed below, they have also supported
 structural reforms inthe external, financial, and private sectors. Tunisia's prudent
 macroeconomic management and cautious yet determined structural reforms have led to
 improving economic performance, essentially across the entire spectrum o f standard
 indicators: sustained economic growth; declining inflation; a stable real exchange rate; a
 sound and stable fiscal position; controlled monetary aggregates; and a stable and
 manageable balance o f payments position. Table 2.1 reflects progress inmacroeconomic
 performance, while annex Cytables 6 and 7 show more details.

 Table 2.1: Tunisia's M a i n Macroeconomic Indicators
                   Indicators                         1986-90     1991-95   1996-00 2001  2002     2003
 GDP growth ("?p.a., real GDP at market                     2.9        3.9      5.6  4.9   1.7      5.5
 Inflation (%, CPIIndex)                                    7.1        5.8      3.4  2.7   2.3      2.1
REER Index (1990= 100)                                   107.9        102.6   104.2 100.9 99.7       -_
BudgetDeficit (% GDP)                                       3.8        3.7      3.7  3.5   3.5      3.1
CurrentAccount Deficit ("?GDP)                              3.9        5.8      3.1  4.7   3.5      3.1
ForeignDirect Investment("36 GDP)                           0.8         1.6     2.6  2.2   3.8      2.1
Total Public Debt (% GDP)                                 62.0        60.7     59.4 60.2  64.3     60.2
Gross ForeignReserves(months ofimportsc.i.0                 1.9         1.8     2.9  2.5   2.9      2.9
REERrefers to real effective exchangerate.
Source: Calculations based on data from the World Bank and IMFreports.


2.5        Prudent macro policies were reflected inthe fiscal deficit, which was reduced
from an average 4 percent o f GDP in 1991-95 to 3 percent in2003, despite tariff
reduction under EUAA. Tax revenues were boosted by strong import growth, rising
economic activity and better collection procedures. The growth o f monetary aggregates
was brought into line with nominal GDP growth. Inflation continued to decline from an
average 6 percent during1991-95 to 2 percent in2003. The Central Bank shifted
financing o f the banks to the emerging money market. By using the flexible management
o f the exchange rate and capital controls the authorities were able to prevent a significant
appreciation o f the real exchange rate. With rising total factor productivity, and no major
terms o f trade shock, Tunisia should be able to maintain a competitive real exchange rate
for the foreseeable future.

2.6        This successful performance was based on sound macro and structural policies
aimed at export-led growth with prudent monetary and fiscal policies supporting the
targeting o f a constant real exchange rate while restricting capital mobility. The
sustainable and highgrowth was coupled with remarkable poverty reduction; the
incidence o f poverty fell from 13 percent in1980-85 to 4 percent in2000. Nevertheless, a
characteristic o f this generally favorable performance was the intractability o f the
unemployment rate, which hovered around 15 percent.

                                                       6


 2.7      Exports are one o f the best measures o f the success o f the competitiveness
 campaign. Real export growth averaged 4.9 percent annually from 1990-1994, became
 negative in1996 and then averaged 8 percent annually through 2001, exceeding E C A L
 targets inmost years (annex Cytable 7). Exports fell by 2.3 percent in2002 and
 reboundedby an estimated4 percent in2003 (annex Cytable 7). Total exports rose from
 28.5 percent o f GDP in1990to 33 percent in2001. Manufactured exports to Tunisia's
 maintrading partners, France, Germany and Italy, rose as a share o f total manufactured
 exports from 67 percent in 1990-91to 78 percent in 1996-2000.

 2.8      The manufactured export base has also diversified. The mainmanufactures
 consist o f apparel/clothing, electrical equipment, textiles and footwear. The main
 increases inexport shares were intextiles and mechanical and electrical equipment,
 which grew by 12 and 14percent respectively during2000-2001. Although exports were
 the principal engine o f growth, domestic demand grew at 5.2 percent in2001. Import
 growth closely paralleled that o f exports, reflecting tariff reductions andprivate
 investment growth. The external current account deficit remainedvirtually unchanged,
 hovering around 3-4 percent o f GDP. Extemalreserves fell to an average o f 2.5 months
 o f imports during 2001 but rose to nearly 3 months by the end o f the year with the
 disbursement o f the US$130 millionfirst tranche o f E C A L 111.

 2.9      A significant feature o fthe Tunisian export economy was the establishment o fthe
 offshore sector designed to offset the anti-export bias o f the protected domestic economy.
 Offshore enterprises consisted o f some 1900 enterprises in1998 according to the 2000
 Private Sector Assessment. They export 80 percent o f their production, accounting for 80
percent o f manufactured exports. More than 60 percent o f manufactured exports are
textiles and garments, halfo fwhich are produced by offshore enterprises through
 subcontracting by foreign investors. The offshore firms operate under specific incentives
 and rules and are exposed to much more external competition than other enterprises inthe
onshore sector.2 The offshore sector i s not well integratedinthe domestic economy and
thus has not acted as a catalyst for raising domestic efficiency and competitiveness. The
low level o f FDIinthe economy, despite its key role inthe offshore sector, reflects the
constraints on domestic private investment includingthe investment code, foreign
exchange restrictions and administrative interference (detailed analysis is provided inthe
enabling environment subsectionbelow). With the progressive application o f the EUAA,
onshore firms will be at a disadvantage to offshore producers as they are subject to more
restrictions and an inefficient duty drawback and customs clearing system amongst other
impediments. The introduction o f the Tunisia Trade Net system3 will substantially



  A strategic objective ofthe 2004 CAS is to improve the incentives framework and transparency and
predictability o f the regulatory framework. Key options would include fbrther reforming the incentives
systemwith the aim of leveling the playing field between onshore and offshore fm as o f 2007, revising
the investment code, and reducing restrictions to majority capital ownership by foreign investors. The
strategy proposes to assist the Government through analytical work and follow-up adjustment loans such as
ECAL IV and ECAL V.
3In2000 asemipublic agency, Tunisie Trade Net (T"), established to operate avalue addednetwork
                                                           was
that provides electronic data interchange (for stakeholders) and to expedite flows and processing o f trade
documents.

                                                     7


 improve the efficiency o fthe clearance process. Itwill be important to level the playing
 field for onshore firms by applying a common regimeto all exporter^.^

 2.10    The economy successfully weathered the shocks o f September 11,2001, a
 terrorist attack at Djerba, and a fourth year o f drought. GDP growth slowed sharply from
 4.9 percent in2001 to 1.7percent in2002 mainly because o f an 11percent decline in
 agriculture, particularly inthe production o f olive oil and cereals, and the slow growth in
 Europe, which absorbs 80 percent o f Tunisia's exports. Growthrecovered to about 5.5
 percent in2003. Non-manufacturingmainly inenergy and communications rose by 3.4
 percent in2002 versus 5.9 percent a year earlier. Manufacturingfell to a 1.9 percent
 growth rate in2002 compared with 6.9 percent in2001 due to lower growth intextiles,
 shoes andmechanical and electricalindustries.

 2.11 Private direct foreign investmentcontinued to rise in2002 due to privatizationsin
 telecommunications and banks. Private investment accounts for 53 percent o ftotal
 investment. Despiteslow growth, unemployment continued its gradual downward trend
 and was reported to have declined to 14.9 percent from 16percent in2000.5 Tunisian
 Government officials explain the apparent contradictiono f falling unemployment and
output as due to the impact o f the subsidized apprenticeship program inindustry,
vocational training programs, and solidarity fund financing for the unemployedstarting
up small enterprises.

Trade Liberalization

2.12     Withregardto trade with the EU, the EUAA agreementrequiredTunisiato
dismantleitsprotective regime, whch shieldedimport competing firms andgavetax
advantagesto enterprises producingexclusively for export under subcontracting
agreementsinlow skill activities such as garment assembly. These arrangementsputthe
country at a disadvantagewith competitors. The association agreementwith the EUinJuly
 1995 included phasedcreation o f a free trade zone inmanufactures. The financing
providedbythe ECAL Ihelpedacceleratethe implementation o fthe EUAAby
incorporating the phasedtariffreduction inthe 1997budget, whch conformedto ECAL I
conditionality. The implementation o fthe EUAAbegantwo and ahalfyears prior to its
ratificationinall EUcountries.

2.13    The implementationo fthe EUAAi s on track. These trade measureshave
contributed substantially to the adjustment o f industryto competitive opportunities inthe
EUandhave providedTunisian firms with access to lower cost imports. Theprospect is
good for the full adjustment o ftariffs by 2008, as provided inthe EUAA. The
dismantlingofimport monopoliesis beingstudiedexcept for tobacco andalcohol, which
will be excluded inview ofthe large revenues they produce. The studyhas already
provided initial analysis and will further examine each import monopoly separately. The
Bankandthe authorities have agreedto continue the analysis andto take upthe issue in
the context ofECAL IV.


4As indicated earlier, proposed follow-up operations (ECALIV-V) are expected to address these issues.
 This decline occurred despite the growthofthe labor force.

                                                  8


 2.14     The trade reform agenda, however successful, i s not complete, as trade protection
 remains high even with the liberalization takingplace under EUAA, because o f highmost
 favored nation (MFN)tariffs. MFNtariffs averaged 34.5 percent in2002 comparedwith
 EUpreferential tariffs o f24.3 percent. Inthe meantime, effective protection remains
 highinmanufacturing, as tariffs were cut sharply on intermediate goods, butwere
 maintained o n manufactured consumer goods. It would have beenpreferable for Tunisia
 to move more forcefully to lower protection andbarriers to free trade. However, inview
 o f the importance o f the EUAA, it was understandable for the Bank to go along with the
 requirements o f that agreement while pointing out the need for Tunisia to take other
 measures to enhance competitiveness, such as reducing the cost o f production. Such
 complementary measures have been slow incoming. Inaddition, the Bank could have
 helped design programs to lower the discrimination against non-EU trade inparallel with
 the implementation o f the EUAA.

 The EnablingEnvironment

 2.15     The enabling environment reform contained inECALIincludes the improvement
 o f the regulatory and administrative environment inwhich enterprises work, adopting
measures to reduce transport costs, to facilitate the passage o f goods through ports and
 customs, andto improve the legislative framework (a list o f conditionality and outcomes
may be found inannex Cytable 8).

2.16      E C A L I11drew on the 2000 Private Sector Assessment, which noted the complex
investment regime, taxation and other administrative constraints particularly affecting
small and medium enterprises. Government involvement intelecommunications,
transport, and bankingloans was also cited as an impediment to private investment.

2.17      To facilitate the passage o f goods through ports, the aim was to reduce the cost
andincrease the speed o f shipping. A 1998 survey notedthat the cost o fmoving a
container from Tunisia to France or Germany was almost equal to transport costs from
China and India. A law was approved abolishing the privileges granted to Tunisian ship-
owners inchartering. The intention was to introduce full competition inthe ports. EU
policies on liftingthe restrictions on liner shipping were adopted. By E C A L I11
significant progress was made instreamlining and improving customs procedures. The
customs computer systemwas modemized and a simplified documentation system
replaced a complex multiplicity o f documents. The implementation o f the electronic data
interchange (TTN) was supported by the Bank and the EUand is already beingused by
80 enterprises. A new law is being drafted to make it mandatory for importers and
exporters to use the new system, which should result inimportant cost and time savings.

2.18     The port bottleneck was addressed inboth ECALs Iand I11and involvedreducing
the time needed for goods to clear the port due inpart to inefficient service and restrictive
labor practices. The dockers' monopoly was addressed inthe Transport Sector Project.
Cargo handling was being reorganized and new conditions for access to the market will
facilitate creation o f private enterprises to invest inport equipment. While the reforms
are still under way, substantial progress has been reported. The delay inclearing goods

                                               9


 has beenreduced from up to 18 days to an average o f 4 days. Customs clearance time
 has also beenreduced from 2-3 days to 15 minutes.

 2.19    The regulatory framework hasbeen improvedwith the "guichet unique" (one stop
 window) to facilitate business registrationand start ups inmanufacturing. However,
 delays still occur when a new project requires authorizations. Prior authorizations
 relating to environment, labor and sectoral regulations are still relatively numerous and
 hamper manufacturingstart-ups. A December 1997 decree simplifieddocumentationand
 port procedures and brought the customs code up to conformity with the EUCode.
 Revisions inthe laws governingproperty rightswere recommended. A competition law
 was enactedin1990 and amended in1995 and 1999. The law abolished margins on retail
 prices and created a Competition Council. The implementationo fthe law i s still
 imperfect and the Council needs to be strengthened to deal with competition issues. On
 the other hand, the CompanyLaw was amended inresponseto comments receivedfrom
 practitioners after the law was enacted, meetingECAL I11conditionality. Also, the
 authorities adopted accounting standards, satisfactory insubstance to ECAL I11
 conditionality, setting forth the rules andmethodologies govemingthe consolidation o f
 financial statements and the treatment o f corporate conglomerates.

 2.20    Tax procedures constitute an administrative burden. The VAT reimbursement
 procedures are cumbersome and reimbursement can take up to 6 months. Prior to the
 ECAL 111, 15 percent advance on amounts owed firms were not sufficient to offset the
 liquidityproblem facing firms waiting for payment. The ECALI11conditionto "reduce
to a maximum o f 30 days VAT reimbursement" was mainly met by reimbursing75
percent o f the VAT within 30 days (annex C, table 8). Import exemptions are subject to
long delays and tax administrators are arbitrary inlevyingtaxes andpenalties. Part o f the
problem lies with the multiplicity o f tax regimes andprocedures and frequent changes in
the tax regimes.

2.21     Reforms were introducedto increase the flexibility o fthe labor market and reduce
labor costs. A numbero f agreed actions were taken regardingsubmission o f a draft law to
the Chamber o f Deputies to create a limitedseverance scheme to cover severance
packages to workers laid off for economic reasons (annex C, table 8). This law has since
beenpassed, although the dismissal ofworkers for economic reasonsremains heavily
regulated. Measures were taken to reduce the burdeno f social security contribution for
employers.

Privatization

2.22     A keyelement inTunisia's competitiveness policieswas to address the role o fthe
State inthe economy. Following independence, the political leadership opted initially for
a state-led model of development. Bythe mid-l980s, public enterprises (PES)accounted
for 30 percent o ftotal value added and employment, as well as 40 percent o ftotal
investment. Dueto poor management andweak performance some o fthe largest
enterprises became highlyindebted. In1987a program o frestructuringand privatization
was announced and by 1989 the legal framework was established, and a Commission for

                                                      10


 Restructuring o fPEs was set up chaired by the Prime Minister with authority over
 divestiture.

 2.23    Privatizationhasproceeded slowly due to the fear o f excessive social costs and
 the lack o f an adequateregulatory and institutional framework (annex Cytables 1-3). The
 processbegan with small-and medium-scale enterprises for which buyers could be found.
 By 1994, fifty transactions hadbeenundertaken withproceeds equivalent to 1percent of
 GDP. A program o f restructuring o f unprofitable enterprises reduced budgetarytransfers
 from 7 percent o f GDP in1990to 4 percent in1994. The Government's pricing policies
 incereals ledsuch large PESas the GrainOffice andEdibleOilOffice to runstructural
 deficits financed with bank credit, which were refinanced bythe Central Bank. These
 overdrafts were consolidated and future losseswere shiftedto the budget. In 1993
 responsibility for privatization strategy was transferred to the Ministryo f Economic
 Development with a view to accelerating the process. The Stock Exchange was
 privatized in 1994 and a new regulatoryagency was set up to update prudential regulation
 and enforce compliance.

 2.24    The three ECALs addressed the issue o fprivatization, as discussed below. The
 definition o f a PE is an enterprise inwhich Government or a local entity (public sector
 commercial entity) owns more than 50 percent (34 percent for the financial sector). The
 numberofPEswas 232, ofwhich 98 were public entities with no commercial activity
 andwhich are, ineffect, extensions ofthepublic administration. The remaining 134
 include 15 financial institutions, which in 1994produced 11percent o ftotal wages and
 13.7 percent o fnational value added.

2.25     The Government presentedfor ECAL Ia list o f 63 enterprises representingabout
60 percent of those producinggoods and services and having a net asset value o f TD
 1,413 billion. The implementationcompletion report cited slow progress incarrying out
the program. Some small companies were removed from the list o f 63 due to political or
strategic reasons. Other firms were substituted inorder to meet the ECAL Icondition o f
"bring to point o f sale 50 percent o fagreedPE assets".6 This allowedthe two large
cement companies to be sold for US$430 million, exceeding the total privatization
receipts ofUS$400 million since 1987. The sale was made under intemationally
competitive conditions and the results were publishedinthe localnewspapers. The sales
o f these two companies were the first large-scale privatizations inTunisia and more than
compensated for the smaller firms removed from the initial list.

2.26     The process ofprivatizationcontinued under ECALs I1and111.UnderECAL I1
the settlement o fnon-performing bank loans to public and semi-public enterprises
amounted to TD321 million (US$255 million) and involved 20 enterprises. Three o f
these enterprises were liquidatedand the rest restructured. A 2001 Bank report
concluded that government didnot have the resources to monitor privatized enterprises
activities', an issue which will become critical when concessions inthe infrastructure


6 More information i s needed on the relative importance of the privatized enterprises interms o f their size
inthe PEsector andtheir contributionto employment to assessthe overall impact o fthe program.
7 Monitoringcould include regulatory systems and commissions.

                                              11


 sector are awarded. The EUwas supporting a program to strengthenthe Directorate
 General o f Privatization.

 2.27    ECAL I11targeted the liberalization o f the telecom sector. Important reforms
 were implementedand a comprehensive timetable to accelerateand deepenliberalization
 was submitted to the Bank. The sector has beenopened up to private participationand
prices have beenreducedby some 10percent, while the number o f customers grew by
 242 percent between2002 and2003. Nevertheless, the Borrower was unable to
 document the transparency and competitiveness o f the process for issuingthe second
 GSMlicense and, as aresult, the associatedfloating tranche was not disbursed (see
paragraph 3.12 for more details).

 The Financial Sector

2.28     ECAL I1was narrowly targeted on the financial sector andinparticular the banks.
Reforms inthe financial sector started in 1987 and deepened over time (1991 EFRSLand
 1996-2001ECALs). Liberalizationmeasures included eliminatingthe prior authorization
o f the Central Bank for makingbanking loans, most controls on interest rates, and
commercial banks obligation to finance the budget. Between 1991and 1993 prudential
regulations were revised and Central Bank inspectionwas reinforced. In1994the new
Banking Law amended the conditions and qualifications for the ownership and operation
o fbanks. These measures strengthened the portfolios o fbanks althoughthe financial
markets remained dominated bypublic institutions.

2.29     ECAL I1aimed at upgrading the performance o fthe financial sector, following the
1995EUAA. Specific polices were as follows: (a) increasing the financial soundness o f
thebanlungsystemthrough a largesettlement ofnon-performingloans to public andsemi-
public enterprises, (b) improving the quality o f loancollateral foreclosure procedures, (c)
privatizingbanksand consolidating the sector, (d) modernizingthe bankinglaw and
upgrading prudential regulations, (e) promotingindirect monetary control througha reform
o fthe securities market, and (0enhancing the regulatory fi-amework on non-bank financial
intermediation bymutualhds, securities firms, and insurance companies. A specific
provisioncalled for settling321 million TD o fnonperformingbank loans to 24 public and
semi-public enterprises, o fwhich 4 remainpublic.

2.30    Progresswas made inprivatizingandrestructuring public financial institutions. An
insurance company (Tunisian Lloyds) was privatizedinconjunctionwith ECAL I1and
another large insurance company (Ellttihad)was restructured inconjunctionwith ECAL
111. The UnionInternationaldesBanque (UIB)privatizationhasbeencompletedafter the
original mergerwithBanque de Tunisieet des Emirates d'lnvestissement(BTEI) failed, as the
foreign sovereign country that co-owned this institutiondidnot accept the merger
conditions. The Bank acceptedthe subsequentprivatizationas substantially meetingthe
secondtranche conditiono fECAL 11, as Government couldnot control the outcome o fthe
merger. InSeptember2002, theFrenchbankSocie'te' Ge'ne'ralebought for US$72million
the Government's 52 percent stakeinUIB. Sharesinthe Banque du Sudhavebeenoffered
for sale as o fDecember 7,2003, andthe privatizingprocess is proceeding at apace that i s
slower than originally envisaged. However, the outcome ofthe biddingprocesswas

                                                           12


 unsatisfactory. By2002, assets inprivatebanks were 55 percent o ftotal bankassets,
 falling below the 2000 CAS andECAL I1target o f 60 percent. Elevenprivate leasing
 companies are now operating inthe country andtheir share o f financingprivate investment
 hasrisen from 8 percent in1996to 12percent. The authorities notedthat whenthese
 private leasing companies are combined with the privatebanks, the share o f assets o f all
 private credit institutions out o fthe total i s about 62 percent, exceeding the target.

 2.3 1 At present, four commercialbanksremaininthe public domain (with combined
 assets that represent 45 percent o f the entire banking system) to serve "strategic" sectors
 (i.e., agriculture, housing, tourism and micro-credit). The quality o ftheir portfolios was
 greatly improvedby moving bad loans to recovery companies. The bad loanratio fell
 from 54.6 percent in2000 to 26.3 percent in2002. The 4-year drought inagriculture led
 to a cessation o fpayments by many borrowers inthis sector leadingto the Government
 support o f the BNA (National Agricultural Bank) through a guaranteed rescheduling o f
 its credits.

 2.32      Thereforms under ECAL I1substantially improved financial sector performance,
 meetingthe monitoringindicators underECAL 11. The overall soundnessofthe banking
 system improved significantly, inaccordance with a number o f prudentialratios. Banks
becamemore sound andtheir capital adequacy ratios improved; non-performing loans to
public enterprise decreased, though they remained high; andreturns on equity increased,
 indicating an increase inthe efficiency o f financial intermediation. For example, the
 average capital adequacy o f the commercialbanks increased from 6.3 percent in 1997 to
 13.3 percent in2000. Although the capital adequacy ratio declined to an estimated 9.8
percent in2002, it was higher than the ECAL I1target o f 8 percent (annex Cytable 5).
Bankreturnon equityrose from nearly 12percent in 1997to 14percent in2001. The
activity o fnon-bank financial intermediaries also increased. The volume o fpublic issues
on the stock market quadrupled as a proportiono f national savings, from 10.6 percent in
 1997 to 45.1 percent in2001, and the volume o fnew leasesby leasing companies almost
doubled duringthe same period.

2.33      Non-performing loans. Conditionsregarding the settlement o fpublic and semi-
public enterprise N P L s were substantially met. These loans were settled ina variety o f
ways. A few viable enterprises were offered Government guarantees. Enterprises were
privatized and debt o f liquidated firms was assumedby Government with 25 year
payback periods to the banks at no interest. However, the outcome regardingpublic
enterprise NPLs i s not considered fully satisfactory inview o fthe highlevel o f NPLs and
the significant long-term cost to the bankingsector (see annex C, table 4 for the setups
anddistribution ofnonperforming loans). AlthoughNPLs fell from about 36 percent in
1993 to about 19percent in2001, they remained high.* Classified or past due assets fell
from 30 percent o fbank's total assets in 1997 to under 26 percent between 1997 and
1999 and bank returns on equityrose slightly. By 2002 the Central Bank reported
classified bank assets at 20.9 percent and 12.9 percent after provisioning (annex C, table
5). Banks' provisions cover only some 44 percent o fnon-performing loans, which


* They are believed to have increased to 20.9 percent in2002 and 23.9 percent in 2003 due to difficult economic
conditions, particularlyin the tourism sector.

                                                13


 reflects their heavy dependence on real estate collateral, the value o f which can be
 deducted from provisionrequirements. This collateral currently reflects rising real estate
 values but inthe event o f a real estate crisis the banks would be severely under
 provisioned. Further, the legal process for foreclosure is long and difficult, thus, making
 the case for effectivejudicial reform. The public enterprise N P L s were consolidated at
 25 years at no interest but with a government guarantee. This solution provides the banks
 with an annual flow o f funds, but does little for their profitability.

 2.34    The tourism sector banks have provisioned for less than halfo f their NPLs, and
 they carry a significant risk inthe form o f financing for an overbuilt tourism hotel sector.
 Banks that finance services including tourism accounted in2002 for TD 2.4 billion out o f
 a total o f TD 4.6 billionclassified loans (annex Cytable 4). Two other development
 banks, the BNA and the housingbank, may not be privatized as they are considered
 socially highlyimportant and the Government feels there is adequate competition since
 private banks are not prevented from operating inthese sectors. Settlement o fNPLs was
 achieved partly through Government guarantees o fprincipal repayments over 25 years o f
 impaired loans o fpublic enterprises deemed viable, and the debts o f the others were
 transferred to the Government. The Government beganaddressingthe NPLs root causes
 within the public enterprise sector, liquidating three enterprises, restructuring seven, and
 privatizing ten.

 2.35    Financial sector legislation and regulatory reform. A revisedbankinglaw was
presented to the Chamber o f Deputies, which would increase accountability o f directors,
 allow banks to create financial service subsidiaries, strengthen control on bank
transactions, and introduce parameters for Central Bank corrective actions for banks in
distress. An amended Civic and Commercial Procedures Code to facilitate thejudicial
process for recovering bank loans and credit took longer than planned but was finally
approved by the Chamber o f Deputies after the release o f the second tranche o f E C A L 11.
The Bank accepted the approval by the Conseil Ministkriel Restreint as an irreversible
step to ensure that the draft would bepresent to the Chamber o f Deputies. Inconjunction
with ECAL111,these amendments were reinforced to facilitate loanrecovery andreal
estate foreclosures. An amendment to the public enterprise law was presented to the
Chamber o f Deputies to require more than 50 percent instead o f 34 percent Government
ownership to be defined as a public enterprise (before the effectiveness o f ECAL 111).
The purpose was to revise government administrative control o fpublic sector banks in
order to increase management and fiduciary responsibilities o fpublic sector banks
Boards o fDirectors.

2.36     Reform of Government Securities Market. The Central Bank law was amendedto
promote market-based Central Bankintervention. Non-bank intermediation increased
with the volume o fpublic stock market issues quadrupling between 1997 and 2001.
E C A L I11floating tranche (EU44.5 million) concerning strengthening o fthe financial
sector was released at the end o f September 2003. ECAL I11conditions, which were met,
included a dual board management structure for the STB and BNAbanks and the
submission o f a draft amendment to the Code o f Civil and Commercial Procedures,
relating to loan recoveries (Code des Procedures Civiles et Commereciales) to the
Chamber o f Deputies.

                                              14


 2.37    The Government has completed and incorporated Bank comments on a series o f
 studies aimed at assessingthe impact o freforms under the first tranche o f ECAL I11on
 collateralrecovery. The studies contain detailed baseline date on non-performingloans
 o fthe bankingsector including their age andrealizationo freal estate collateral. While
 theNPLsproblempersists for the financial sector, no newregulatorymeasuresto
 accelerate loan recovery are recommended for the time beingpendingthe assessment o f
 provisions o fthe Code des Procedures Civiles et Commereciales.

 2.38   Insurance company solvency. The insurance industrysuffered from basic
 structural weaknesses with chronic deficits incompulsory lines o f automobile and group
 insurance and the continuing operation o f capital-deficient companies. Automobile
 insurance accounted for 39 percent o ftotal premiums; and healthinsurance 21 percent in
 1996. ECAL I11had conditionality on restructuring, privatization, supervision, opening
 the market, introducingprudentialnorms, raising auto premiums andpromoting life
 insurance.

 2.39   A restructuring planwas preparedthat contains an actionplanto ensurethe
viability o f the automobile sub sector. Insurance supervision has been substantially
improvedby CGA (Comite Generale desAssurances) with AfDB's help. The authorities
pointedout that they were ten years behindinthis sector because the Bankhadremoved
insurance reform from its earlier structural adjustment program. The Tunisian Lloyd
Companywas restructured and a decision taken to privatizeit. At least 30 percent o f the
capital hadto be floated on the Tunisian stock market.

2.40    Underthe ECAL I11floating tranche, the CGA hasbeensignificantly improved.
It cannow track the weaknesses ofundercapitalized companies andnegotiate
restructuringplans. In auto insurance, premiums have beenraised by 3 percent following
an earlier 8 percent rise, which helpedto eliminate the deficit o f this branchina manner
satisfactory to the Bank. A new legal fiamework satisfactory to the Bank has been
presented to the Chamber o fDeputies, which complies with internationalbest practice
and standards. The restructuring plano fEl Ittihad hasbeen completed and an
implementationplanto set up a new fully capitalizedmutual company (I'Assurance
Mutuelle Ittiahad) has been established. The restructuringplanso fthree insurance
companies have been adopted inorder to meet Insurance Code solvency constraints.

Summary of ProgressAchieved

2.41    Inconclusion, significantreformshavebeenimplementedinconjunctionwith
ECAL 1-111, and most o f the conditions have been met (see annex C, table 8 and the
following section for more details). A successful stabilizationprogram and economic
growth were maintained. The Government o f Tunisia's adjustment program supported
bythe Bank, successfully promotedpolicyreforms intrade, financial, andprivate sectors.
This compares favorably to other Arab countries (Box 2.1). Tariffs were reduced andthe
economy is now more open to the outside world. Financialsector reform, inparticular,
hasproceeded quite well. The soundness o f the banking systemhas improved and its
regulatory environment has beentightened considerably. The role o f the private sector in
finance hasbeenon the rise, with some public banks and insurance companies recently

                                                        15


privatized. Privatization o f public enterprises also took place. Progress was made on
enhancing the enabling environment for private sector development. However, because
o fthe time needed for the privatization o f SNDP, a major petroleum distribution
company, a waiver was requested before the private sector development floating tranche
o f E C A L I11was disbursed. Accordingly, a request was submitted to postpone the June
2003 closing date for the operation untilthe end o f 2003. Inview o f the substantial
progress made, the Bank granted the extension. Although the Government issued the
GSMlicense andprices havebeenreduced, the Bank decided to allow the associated
floating tranche to lapse. Basically, the Bank maintained that it had not received adequate
information to verify Government's position on the process o f granting the license.

   Box 2.1: Tunisia's Comparative Competitivenessinthe Arab World

             The Arab World Competitiveness Report (2002-3) assessed the region's ability to achieve
   sustained economic growth over the mediumto long term. This ability i s severely impeded by a wide
  range o f structural factors that explain the region's perfonnance relative to others over the last few
   decades relative to other regions. The trend inthe last ten years shows a decline inreal incomes per
   capita inmost Arab states. Between 1975 and 1999 economic growth averaged 3.5 percent per year,
  which was basically the world average. Due to highpopulation growth rates, per capita incomes inthe
  Arab region under performed all other regions. Some 15 percent o f the region's labor force was
  unemployed. Tunisia acheved growthrates o f close to 4 percent per year inthe 1978-88 period, and
  4.8 percent in 1988-98. Since then growth has been o fthe order o f 5 to 6 percent per year.

             Necessary conditions for eliminating structural impediments to moving to a steeper growth
  trajectory according to a UNDP Report would require removing the deficits inhuman rights, the
  empowerment o f women and the consolidation o fthe acquisition and use o f knowledge. The
  Competitiveness Report also cites the central role o fknowledge, innovation and technology in
  competitiveness and growth. The Arab world suffers not only from low enrollments inschools but
  mainly from the low quality of education, which is unconnected to the needs o fproductive fm.
  Stress i s placed on macro policy, the business environment, a liberal trade regime, functioning
  financial markets, adequate infrastructure and an appropriate foreign exchange regime. The Report
  also distinguished between the necessary conditions for growth and development and the true engines
  o f development. Too much emphasis inthe Arab world was placed on a one dimensional growth
  strategy malung it far too reliant on capital accumulation. High investment inthe region has not been
  accompaniedby hghgrowth. The quality o f such investment has been low, which i s a reflection o f
  inadequate and inefficient private investment.

             Tunisia has been one o f the few exceptions. An analysis o f total factor productivity between
  1975 and 2000, w h c h measures the impact o f investment efficiency versus capital and labor in
  explaining growth, shows that Tunisia had close to a 20 percent rise inefficiency o f investment versus
  negative rates inthe rest o f the Arab world, excluding Egypt, whose perfonnance was halfthat o f
  Tunisia. Tunisia's performance was ascribed to its restructuring o fthe economy away from a
  parastatal model to one based on private enterprise, the EUAA with the EU, and the removal o f
  structural impediments. Itnot only maintained political stability but pursued an equality program for
  women and universal education amongst other supporting factors.

                                                        16


 3.       Performance Ratings9

 Outcome

 3.1      The outcomes o fthe three ECALs are ratedsatisfactory, inagreement with the ICR
 andOED's ICRreview for ECALI,I1andI11(see annex A andannex C, table 8 for details
 o fthe ratings for each project). The key indicators of GDP growth and exports largely met
 or exceeded targets and showed that the challenge o f adapting Tunisianindustry to the
 severe competitive conditions o f the association agreement with the EUwas being met. Of
 course, the real test will come in2008 when the EUAA comes fully inforce. In2002
 external shocks inthe form o fthe EUslowdown, the terrorist threat, andthe continued
 drought inagriculture combinedto reduce the GDP growth rate to 1.7 percent. The
 economy reactedrobustly in2003 andresumedthe targeted growth path. Fiscalpolicy was
 adjusted to compensate for revenue losses due to tariffreductions. The real exchange rate
 was inequilibrium and even depreciated duringthe implementation o fthe three ECALs,
 andprovided the basis for ensuring competitive relative prices for Tunisian export and
 import substitutes. Under E C A L Ithere were delays inimplementing maritime reforms
 andimprovement inthe business environment leadingto two technical waivers andone
 partial waiver. These shortfalls were made up inthe subsequent ECALs. Privatization o f
 enterprises andbanks was successfully carried out. The rapid and sustainable economic
 growth made possible a remarkable improvement ineconomic and social well-being
 indicators, and a decline inthe poverty rate from 8 percent in 1995 to 4 percent in2000.

 3.2      The Bank made an important contribution to the formulation and implementation
 o f the Govemment program" through its extensive and indepth economic and sector
work which laid the foundation o f the three ECALs. Inaddition the E C A L programs
were prepared incollaboration with the European Union and the African Development
Bankwho supportedthe Government's program onthe basis o fa common actionmatrix.
Finally, the macroeconomic framework andperformance indicators for the program were
defined inclose collaborationwith the International MonetaryFund(IMF).

3.3       Tunisia successfully implemented Bank supported stabilization and structural
reforms, leading to macro stability and economic growth. GDP grew by 5.2 percent per
year on average during 1997-2001, compared with 4 percent during 1987-96. Indicators
o f social and economic well-being have improved significantly. Liberalization resulted
inproductivity growthanddiversification. Exports were the engine o fgrowth, risingby
8 percent annually inreal terms. Manufacturing growth was robust: the mechanical
industries grew by 14percent and textiles by 12percent in2001. Domestic demand was
outpacing GDP growth leading to pressure on the balance o fpayments and foreign
exchange reserves as imports rose by 14 percent reflecting tariff reductions and
investment growth fueled by private credit expansion.




  Details on the ratings o feach project are presented inannex A and annex C, table 8 provides a list o f
ECALs' objectives and outcomes.
loAnalytical work included a 1994Private Sector Assessment, 1995 C E M and a 1996 report `Global
Integrationand Sustainable Development: Strategic Choices for 21St Century'.

                                                17


 3.4     Fiscalpolicy contributed little to demand compression as the budget deficit at 3.5
 percent o f GDP was close to the target for 2001. Higher tax revenues were offset by
 expenditures particularly for the counterpart o f foreign financed projects. The Central
 Bank tightened monetary conditions in2001 by cuttingrefinancingto the banks.
 However, significant repayment o f government debt permitteda large expansion o f
 private credit to take place.

 3.5     The Central Bank discontinued its policy o f financing the liquidity needs o f the
 commercial banks, thus encouraging them to use the inter-bank money market. The
 Central Bank targets credit growth with apredeterminedexchange rate inwhich
 fluctuations inbase money reflects balance o fpayments flows. Credit expansion and
 contraction are managedto offset the liquidity effects o f foreign exchange flows. Dueto
 the policy o fmaintaining a constant real effective exchange rate with fiscal consolidation,
 Tunisia has enjoyed balance o fpayments sustainability, monetary stability and low
 inflation. This policy supported by capital controls has preventeda significant real
 appreciation o f the exchange rate vis-a-vis trading partners.

 3.6     Inflation was kept under control as the CPIindex dropped by 1.9 percent in2001,
 lower thanprojected inECAL 111, due to higher imports financed with credit expansion,
 the fact that administered prices, which were not raised, represented 33 percent o f the
 CPI, and the reductionintariffs made imports cheaper.

 3.7     The flexible exchangerate policy ledto anaverageREER(index with 1990 at 100)
 depreciationby 0.6 percent in2000 andby 2.5 percent in2001 and 3.5 percent inthe
 following year. The dinar fell relative to the dollar due to the weakness o fthe Euro. The
reversal inthe value o fthe Euro this year will also likely leadto some appreciation inthe
REER. A sign ofthe solidity ofTunisia's macro policies andefforts to restore
competitiveness i s the access Tunisiahas enjoyed incapital marketswhere the ratings o f its
bonds hasrisen. The IMF estimates that the actual exchangerate o fthe dinar followed
closely the equilibriumexchange rate. Unit labor costs moved ina relatively favorable
directioncomparedwith competitors andforeign markets. The relative profit indicator
calculatedbythe IMFreflected the lower share o f labor costs invalue added, indicating a
gain incompetitiveness (IMFdata). Labor productivityinmanufacturing grew by 2.2
percent inthe late 1990s. The relative price o fnon-traded to traded goods has decreased
andTunisia increasedits market share inthe EU.

3.8     The extraordinary confluence o fexternal andinternal shocks ledto the reported
declines inthe real economy in2002 but didnot interruptthe pace o freforms nor lead to
public finance or balance o fpayments difficulties. One senior economic official said there
should have beenan absolute decline inreal output. The returno f agriculturaloutput and
the recovery o fdemandinEurope augur well the resumption o fTunisia's growthto a rate
inexcessof5.5 percent according to the Governor ofthe CentralBank. Tunisian
policymakers are aware o fthe vulnerabilities o f an increasingly open economy. The
ending ofthe multi-fiber agreement in2005 poses an important challenge for the textile and
clothmgindustry, which accounts for 60 percent o f exports. Yet there i s a goodprospect
that the textile and clothingindustrywill adjust as evidenced bythe plans to set up factories
byFrenchand Germanentrepreneurs to make highquality clothingwith which the Asian

                                                   18


 do not compete. Onthe other hand, the Tunisian Association of Enterprises complained
 about Asian dumpingo fbluejeans, for which they see no solution.

 Sustainability

 3.9     The sustainability of substantialparts ofthe reforms coveredbythe three ECALs
 ranges from likelyto highlylikely. The progress achieved inattaining and maintaining
 macroeconomic stability i s highly likely to be sustained as there i s abroad political
 consensusthat realizes the benefits o f economic stability. As Tunisia hasjoined WTO
 and signed an association agreement with the EU, trade andinvestment policy reforms
 are unlikelyto bereversed. Financial sector reforms have also taken root andthe
 privatizationprogramhas speeded up. The Government i s still heavily involved in
 energy, water, and telecommunication. It nevertheless is pursuingapolicy of gradually
 withdrawing whenthe private sector has demonstrated a capacity to take over. In
 strategic enterprises the Government plansto award concessions and will invite private
 firms to operate ina sector where one firm will remain in Government hands. The
 reform o fthe financial sector was largely carried out with regard to N P L s inpublic and
 semi-public enterprises. NPLs however, remaina problem inthe public banks. ECAL
 I11addedto the sustainability ofthe competitiveness programby further improvements in
 the investment climate andreinforcement o fthe bankingregulatory framework. The
management and finances o f the insurance company were put on a sound footing.
 Overall, sustainability o f the achievements under ECALs i s rated likely.

 InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact

3.10     The institutionaldevelopment impact o fthe three ECALs was modest.
Achievements includeda newtax and subsidy structure, a reformedfinancial system
regulatory framework and structural reforms inthe securities andinsurance sub-sectors.
Onthe other hand, there hasbeenpoor enforcement o fregulations concerning loan
recovery, and although a law that createdseverancescheme for laying offworkers hasbeen
passed, enterprises continue to face obstacles andvery complex procedures ifthey want to
dismissworkers for economic reasons(see paragraph2.21). For example, forceful
implementations o fthe bankingregulations, includingthe improved governance structure
o fthe state-ownedbanksandthe newrisk diversificationrequirements, would contribute to
reduce the stock o fnon-performingloans. However, inadditionto dealing with the stock
o fnon-performing loans, it is even more important to deal withpreventingnew non-
performing loans by addressingthe root causes within the public enterprise sector.

Bank Performance

3.11    Bank performance was satisfactory inthe ECALs. There were supervision
delays" inECAL 11,but ingeneral the Bank performed well inmaintaining a much
appreciated active dialogue and program o f forward looking studies. Unavoidabledelays
inimplementationinsome aspectsofthe reform(such as the privatizationprogram) were
incurred and the Bank staff showed flexibility inaccepting an alternative, which was

11For example, a planned supervision mission was cancelled due to travel restrictions following the
September 11,2001 event.

                                               19


 subsequently implemented. The Bank could have been more insistent that discrimination
 against non-EU trade should have been dealt with more effectively inparallel with the
 implementation o f EUAA. Close coordination was maintainedwith development
 partners. Staff of the EUdelegation inTunis feel that the cooperation with the Bank has
 been very good, especially during ECALs' preparations and appraisals. AfDB staff
 working on the ECALs commended the excellent working relationship with the Bank.

 Borrower Performance

 3.12     Borrower performance was satisfactory as it worked out boldreforms ina number o f
 sectors with skill, andbased on prior experience, while maintaining a political consensus. It
 resolved a complex problem o f a bank merger ina manner consistent with the objectives of
 the reform program. Telecommunications liberalization has been achieved, the G S M
 (wireless telecommunications) license has been issued, and outcomes include the
 introduction o f competition inthe wireless component o f the telecommunications sector,
 leading to greater access to mobile telephone, better services and lower prices. However,
 the telecom tranche o f E C A L I11was not disbursed because the Bank did not receive the
 documentation required to demonstrate that the G S M license was tendered following a
 transparent and competitive process.



 4.      Agenda for FutureReformand Lessons

Agenda for FutureReform

4.1      Structural reforms, which are critical for the longer runcompetitiveness and
growth o f the economy, contributed importantly inthe financial and insurance sectors
andthe telecom privatizations. However, banking system reformis not yet complete as
problems remain with non-performing loans, and state ownership o f banks need to be
reduced and the obstacles to foreign ownership removed. Although two insurance
companies have been privatized, the largest one, with a 34 percent share o f the entire
market is likely to remain inthe public sector for some time. The enforcement o f
judgments i s likely to play a major role inestablishing confidence inthe system.

4.2      Rigidities remain inthe economy, which will inhibit the maintenance o f an
equilibrium exchange rate over time. The wage bill o f govemment at 12percent o f GDP
is still heavy. New recruits are o f higher caliber but more needs to be done to improve
the efficiency o f the public service. After initially mentioning civil service reform, the
later ECALs have not incorporated it intheir programs. Price liberalization remains a
highpriorityas the extent o fcontrols are inconsistentwith a liberalized economy based
on export led growth. In2002, average (unweighted) TunisianMFNtariffs were 34.5
percent, marginally down from 35.9 percent in2001 and the gap applied to imports from
the EUand the rest o fthe world has widened. The Bank should continue to support
Tunisia's efforts to implement the EUAA and pursue trade openness beyond the EU.
Progress should also be made intrade inservices, competition rules, and treatment o f
state monopolies engaged incommercial activities.

                                                       20


 4.3      As domestic savings are unlikelyto be able to finance the requirements ofhigher
 investment, capital market liberalization i s the next likely reform initiative. This will
 require opening up the economy to intemational investors and direct investmentcapital
 flows. The higher volatility that such capitalmovements can create will call for even
 more sophisticated monetary and exchange rate policies. The acceleration o f structural
 reforms as advocated by ECAL I11will senda strong signal to investors as it will improve
 the investment climate and reduce costs so that Tunisia will retain its competitive edge.

 4.4      Theprivate sector is akey factor insustaining competitiveness and thereby the
 maintenance o fhighgrowth rates with significant impacts onunemployment. Tunisia's
 private investment has increased as a share o fboth total investment and GDP, rising from
 46 percent (12 percent o f GDP) in 1995 to 53 percent (13.5 percent o f GDP) in2002, but
 does not compare favorably with other highgrowth countries (Chile, Korea, Malaysia,
 Mauritius, and Thailand). The private investment ratio to GDP inthese countries was
 about 25 percent. Further increasing the share o fprivate investmentinthe Tunisian
 economy will require accelerating trade liberalization andprivatization efforts and
 improvingthe overallpolicy environment and incentive framework. Inthe future the
 Bank should continue to support Tunisia's efforts to improve the regulatory climate for
 private enterprises, to strengthenthe court systemto enforce business laws and
 regulations (related to NPLs in articular), and to continue progress on enterprise and
 financial sector privatizations.    ,P

 4.5      Despite high growth o f GDP and exports, unemployment remains high, particularly
 among the youth. With the persistence o fhighunemployment the competitiveness
program needs to be assessedwith a view to developing complementary programs that
would facilitate the shift o f labor to the modemizing sectors andprovide the youth with the
 assets to participate ingrowth.

Lessons Learned

4.6      The main lesson are:

         e        Tunisia's successful economic performance hasbeendue to three attributes:
                  ownership andbroadpolitical consensus, awell-developed humanresource
              .   base, and a stable macroeconomic environment.

         e        Experience inprivatization andthe financial sector shows the need for the
                  Bankandthe development partnersto staythe course andshow flexibility
                  intheir support, providedthere is evidenceofgenuine andsustainedreform
                  efforts. For example, by acceptingpartialreforms insome areas, and


l2 The prior authorizations of investment are numerous and ihbit startups. Inefficient operations and the
lack of competition and the dockers' monopoly are amongst the issues cited inthe Bank's 2000 Private
Sector Assessment Update. Since then, under E C A L 111, 60 percent o f all prior authorization for start-ups
were removed. Customs documentation has been simplifiedbut the ports still constitute a major
bottleneck, leading to hghcosts and delays. Goods untilrecently spent up to 18 days instorage inport
because traders usedit as a substitute for inland storage. Recent reforms are reportedto have greatly
reduced clearance times for goods to 4 days.

                                21


   buildingonpartial successesto deepenthem insubsequent operations, the
   support fkom the Bank andother partners was ultimately effective.
   Patience, perseverance and flexibility paidoff.

a  An important lessonfor other small emerging countries seekingto laythe
   foundations for sustainable growth andpoverty reduction i s the success o f
   Tunisia increating a competitive economy by the coordinated use o fmacro
   andstructuralpolicies andreforms.


                                               23                                       Annex A


 EconomicCompetitiveness Adjustment Loans

 EconomicCompetitivenessAdjustment LoanI(ECAL IL-4069)

 Objectives

 1.      The mainobjective o f the first Economic Competitive Adjustment Loan (ECAL I)
 was to improve international competitiveness o f the Tunisian economy following the
 signing o f the EUAAwith the EU, with the aim o f achieving a sustainable increase inthe
 economic growth rate. The focus was to be on key areas suitable for immediate policy
 actions and to leave other issues for the subsequent competitiveness operations. Specific
 policy measures inthe first program concern: (a) a sound macroeconomic and fiscal
 framework, includingmeasures to replace revenues lost from the expected cut intariffs
 and tariff surcharges, (b) the acceleration o f the implementation o f EUAA, (c) the
 accelerationo f the privatization program incompetitive sectors, (d) the improvement in
 theregulatory and administrative environment inwhich enterprises work (i.e., actions to
 reduce transport costs, facilitate the passage o f goods through ports and customs and to
 improve the legislative framework), and (e) greater flexibility inthe labor market, while
protecting dismissed workers and containing labor costs.

2.       E C A L 1-111were successive policy loans with the same objective: to enhance the
country's competitiveness and increase economic growth. The ECALs' objectives
conformed to Tunisia's development goals and the Bank's country assistance strategy.
The 1996 country assistance strategy argued for a Bank program inTunisia over the
coming few years that would support the country's effort to promote economic
integration within the world economy, and particularly that o f the EU, while maintaining
social and environmental sustainability.

Outcome

3.       The outcome o fthe first E C A Lwas satisfactory, as the first three o f the above
objectives fared well and are assigned heavier weight, while some progress was made in
the last two. At the macro level, developments were to be monitored concerning GDP
growth, gross domestic investment, the external accounts andreal export growth. The
growth targets were met. In1996 after two years o f decline a growth rate o f 7 percent was
recorded supported by a 29 percent rise inagricultural output based on abundant rainfall.
Aggregate real growth was on target in1997 and 1998 at 5.4 percent and 5.0 percent,
respectively, supported by rising investment. Exports grew rapidly in 1997 leading to a rise
inreserves, whichalso reflectedTunisia's ability to raise h d s onthe internationalmarket.

4.      The fiscal deficit exceeded the program target although there was improvement in
1997 over 1996. The drop inrevenues duringthe first year o f EUAA,rigidities inthe
wage bill and lower than expected impact o f compensating tax measures were
responsible. The value added tax (VAT) was increased to compensate for lost tariff
revenues, but additional expenditure cuts were also required. Other compensatory
measures included increasing the prices o f administered food products and making
transparent public subsidies to the agencies commercializing oil and cereals. The

 Annex A (continued)                              24


 inflation rate was on target in1996but rose to 4.5 percent in1997, above the programmed
 3.7 percent and higher than amongst European partners. Government implementednew
 expenditure restraint measures.

 5.        Thephased introductionofEUAAwas accelerated roughly two and a halfyears
 prior to its ratification inthe EU. Tunisian firms benefitedfrom less costly access to
 intermediate goods, and a larger market for their goods. As noted above (Competitiveness
 Phase11)ECAL Iaccelerated EUAA implementationbypermittingtariffreductions to be
 included inthe 1996 budget thereby supporting ratification.

 6.       Prior to 1998 privatizationhadproceeded slowly. In that year there was a great leap
 forward. Foreign direct investment rose. Problems were encountered inadhering to the
 list o f enterprises to be privatized due to political and strategic reasons. Government
 substitutedother enterprises inorder to meet the target o fbringingto point o f sale at least
 51percent o f the capital o f a number o f enterprises. This allowed the two large cement
 companies to be sold under internationallytransparent conditions, which causedthe
program to exceed target.

 7.       The improvedregulatoryframework ledto reforms inmaritime transport, which
were aimedat cutting costs andincreasingthe speed o f shipping. Government abolished
privileges to Tunisiancharterers but was slow to adopt other maritimereform legislation
and to promote competition indock labor working conditions. A technical waiver was
granted as draft law was presented to the Chamber but not yet approved at the time o f the
releaseo f the second tranche. The second tranche release was delayed by six months.
Whenthe tranche was releasedthe implementationcompletionreport notedthat the
deregulation o f dock labor, the adoption o f a new company code andthe restructuringo f
STAM (port) were lagging. In short, there were two technical waivers and one partial
waiver. These technical waivers recognized the substantial progress made inother
program areas.

8.        Some progress was made inintroducingincreased labor flexibility with the draft
law submitted to the Chamber o fDeputiescreating a limited severance scheme for laid off
workers. Measures were also taken to deduct the burdeno f social security contributions
for non-agriculturalprivate employers.

9.        Insummary, the overallECALIprogramoutcome was ratedsatisfactory. The
macroeconomic monitoringindicators were met, and stabilization maintained. The recently
signed EUAA was beingimplemented rapidly, faster thanhadbeen anticipated. Two large
cement plantswere privatizedin 1997 and 1998 for US$430 million, exceeding the total
privatizationreceipts o f US$400millionbetween 1987 and 1996. As for enhancing the
enabling environment, a numbero f agreed actions were taken, including the submission o f
a draft law to the Chamber o fDeputies to create a limitedseverance scheme to cover
separation packages to workers laid-off for economic reasons. This law has since been
passed, althoughthe dismissal o fworkers for economic reasonsremains heavily regulated.
Since then, a 2004 report by the Bank, entitled, Employment Strategy, provided an in-depth
analysis o f the employment and labor market situation and made a number o f
recommendations for improvement. These have been discussed with Tunisian authorities.

                                                25                     Annex A (continued)

 Sustainability

 10.      The sustainability ofkeyprogramcomponents such as trade liberalizationand
 privatizationi s highly likely and i s reflectedinthe movement o ffactors o fproduction
 toward the export sectors. Reforms outside the program citedbythe implementation
 completionreport were the intentiono f Government to reform the civil service with the
 objective o f cutting the public sector wage bill and enabling the public sector to better
 support private sector competitiveness. Government has sustained macro stability and i s
 likely to continue to do so. Overall sustainability is rated likely.

 11.     However, there are fiscal stability risks associatedwith the wage bill and
 contingent liabilities o fenterprises and banks, which could adversely affect their
 competitiveness inEurope. It should benotedthat ECAL I1addressedthe reform o f the
 financial sector (see below). Structural problems also exist because o fthe inability o f the
 private sector to absorb new universitygraduates makingGovernment the employer o f
 first resort.

 12.     External factors can also impact sustainability such as the possibilityo f a
 slowdown inEurope, which absorbs the bulk o f Tunisia's exports. Uncompetitivepublic
 enterprises and private enterprises, which are only able to survive inthe protected
 domestic market, also increase the vulnerability o f the economy and therebythe
 sustainability o f growth. However, the progress achieved inattaining andmaintaining
macroeconomic stability i s likely to be sustained. A broadpolitical consensus has
evolvedthat realizes the benefits andunderstands the importance of economic stability.
Similarly, the structural reforms that have beenaccomplished have beenbased on a
consensus among the key actors inthe economy and are likely to be sustained.
Sustainabilityis ratedlikely.

InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact

 13.     Theproject demonstrated the capacity o f Government to make efficient and
sustainable use o fhuman and financial resources in support o fpolicies and actions to
promote competition. The policies and measures to promote institutional development
were commendable. Specific features are discussed below.

14.      Implementinganew tax structure and reductioninconsumer subsidiesto replace
lost revenues due to tariff disarmament ECAL Imerits a substantial rating.

15.      Accelerating steps to implementthe EUAA ECAL Iexceeded targets and
warrants a highrating.

16.      Withrespectto the privatizationprogramprogress was slow. Nevertheless, two
major divestitures took place showingboth resolve and flexibility on behalf o f the
authorities. A rating o f modest seems appropriate.

17.      Inthemaritimesector some important measureswere adoptedbutthe objective o f
substantially cutting costs and promotingdockworker competition was below
expectations. The rating for this component i s negligible. The overall rating o f
InstitutionalDevelopment impact i s modest.

 Annex A (continued)                           26


 BankPerformance

 18.      The Bankmaintainedan active dialogue with the authorities duringprogram
 design and implementation. Bank flexibility was shown when it agreed to postpone
 financial sector reform, initially envisaged inECAL Ias a component, a change which
 ledto cuttingthe loanamount byhalf. The conditionalitywas both detailed and
 substantive andthe indicators provided an appropriate standard tojudge progress.

 19.      Timingprovedto beproblem as some component timetables were tight. The
 Bank accommodated Tunisia's gradual and cautious implementation o f reforms while
 encouraging fast and vigorous reforms where appropriate. Inthis respect large-scale
 privatizationwas successfully undertaken for the first time inTunisia. The Bank also
 persuaded the authorities to makemore transparent the privatizationprogram, which was
 critical to maintainingpublic acceptance. Coordinationtook place with the EU, which
 providedparallel financing, andthe Bank worked closely with the IMF on the design and
 monitoring o f the macro framework. The performance o f the Bank i s rated as
satisfactory.

BorrowerPerformance

20.      Tunisian officials assumedhllownership o f the program and were actively
involved inits design. They managed the process o fobtainingpolitical consensus for the
program including getting legislationthroughthe Chamber o f Deputies. The delays
involvedwere offset by the wide acceptance the programhas enjoyed. Insome areas o f
macro management andprivatizationactions exceededprogram targets. There was a
positiveresponseto Bank requests for improved dissemination o f information on
privatization. Borrowerperformance was satisfactoly.

SecondEconomicCompetitivenessAdjustment Loan(ECAL 11,L-4461)

Objectives

21.      The operation was designedto support a programo freforms inthe financial
sector, buildingon the intimateknowledge o f that sector developed inthe context o f the
FY94Private InvestmentCredit Project, and inline with the assistancestrategy outlined
in1996. Besides maintainingan adequatemacro-economic setting, specificpolicy goals
included: (a) increasing the financial soundness o f the banking systemthrough a large
settlement o f non-performing loans to public and semi-public enterprises, (b) improving
the quality o f loan collateral and foreclosure procedures, (c) privatizing banks and
consolidating the sector, (d) modernizingthe bankinglaw; andupgrading prudential
regulations, (e) improving the payments system, (0promoting indirect monetary control
through a reformo f the securities market, and (g) enhancing the regulatory fiamework on
non-bank financial intermediationby mutual fimds, securities firms and insurance
companies. The loan was intwo equal tranches with parallel financing from the EUand
AfDB.

                                                  27                     Annex A (continued)


 Outcome

 22.     The overall outcome o f E C A L I1was satisfactory. At the macro level the same
 monitoring criteria were retained as inE C A L I.In 1999 growth o f between 5 percent and
 6 percent was targeted and 6.1 percent was achieved. The rise inper capita incomes
 created a strong middle class, who, coupled with expanded social programs, insulatedthe
 economy from adverse social and political development inthe region. The challenge to
 competitiveness was seen as increasing due to the slowdown inEuropean growth. The
macro framework was considered satisfactory with respect to GDP growth, the current
 account deficit and reserves, andwith inflation on target. Real exports rose bythe
 targeted 5.1 percent but manufactured exports rose by only 5.7 percent compared with the
 11.O percent targeted inpart due to slower European growth.

 23.     Due inpart to Government granted wage increases for 1999-2002, the Government's
 actual budget deficit was 3.5 percent at the end o f 1999 versus the target o f 3.4 percent.

24.     Non-performing loans (1vPLs). Conditions regardingthe settlement o fpublic and
semi-public enterprise non-performing loans were substantially met. These loans were
settled ina variety o f ways. A few viable enterprises were offered Government
guarantees. One enterprise was privatized and the debt o f 24 liquidated firms was
assumed by Government with 25 year payback periods to the banks at no interest.

25.     However, despite a significant decrease intheir volume inrecent years, NPLs still
represent a significant proportion o fthe overall portfolio o f the commercial banking
system, reaching 21 percent in2002 (see annex Cytable 5). The E C A L I1called for
substantial settlement o f NPLs (TD 279 million or US$l90 millionby Boardpresentation
and another TD 400 millionby second tranche), which did take place.

26.     Bankprivatization and the merger of development banks. Bank privatization was
not achieved under E C A L I.BTEI's other sovereign owner backed out o f the merger
withUIB. The Government
informedthe Bank that it          Tunisia-Financial Performance Indicators inECAL I1(YO)
                                                         1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002
was impossib1eto
with the loan's condition.        NPLNet ofProvisioning/  18,4 14,3  14.2   13,3
                                  Total Loans                                      12  12.9
Government decided to             ECAL I1Target                  23    18    14
privatize its share inUIB as      Aggregate Capital       6.3  11.7  11.6   13.3 10.6  10.1
a condition o f E C A L 111,      Adequacyratio actual
                                  ECAL I1target                 6.7   7.5      8
which didtake place. Two          Source: Bank data.
development banks BDET andBNDT were merged with STB inDecember 2000 leading
to highNPLs. Provisioning is adequate inthe banks lending to the service sector, but the
real estate collateral they hold is overvalued and will be difficult to realize.

27.     Financial sector legislation and regulatory reform. A revisedbanking law was
presented to the Chamber o f Deputies that would increase accountability o f directors,
allow banks to create financial service subsidiaries, strengthen control on bank
transactions, and introduce parameters for B C T (Central Bank) corrective actions for
banks indistress. An amended Civil and Commercial Procedures Code to facilitate the

 Annex A (continued)                             28


 judicial process for recoveringbank loans and credits was submitted to the Chamber o f
 Deputies. Under E C A L I11these amendments were undertaken to facilitate loan recovery
 and real estate foreclosures. An amendment to the public enterprise law was presented to
 the Chamber o f Deputies to require more than 50 percent instead o f 34 percent
 Government ownership to be defined as a public enterprise, which reduces the number o f
 banks defined as public.

 28.    Reform of Government securities market. The Central Bank law was amended to
 promote market based Central Bank intervention. Non-bank intermediation increased
 with the volume o fpublic stock market issues quadrupling between 1997 and 2001in
 conjunction with E C A L 11. E C A L I1required licensingprimary dealers by Board
 presentation and marketing new issues by second tranche.

 29.    Insurance sector. The Tunisian Lloyd Company was restructured and a decision
 taken to privatize it. At least 30 percent o f the capital hadto be floated on the Tunisian
 stock market.

 30.    Improving the bankpayments system. A phased development o f new electronic
 interbank payments scheme was introduced as a condition for the release o f first tranche.
 The government adopted proper safeguards against payments system risks and dedication
procedures for large value payments. The government also revised Banking Law, which
 strengthened the control andrestrictions on bank transactions andthe revisedjudicial
process for recovering loans.

 Sustainability

31.     The actions taken insettlingpublic enterpriseNPLs supportedby such reforms as
the liquidation o fnon-performing debtor enterprises together with strengthened legal and
regulatory requirements augur well for the long-term sustainability o fthe reforms. The
reforms o f the financial sector with respect to the legal and regulatory framework will be
continued inECAL 111,which will expand from the banking to the insurance sector as
well as the private investment climate. Sustainability is rated is as likely.

InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact

32.     The financial sector reformunder ECALI1increasedthe efficient use o f resources
inthe banking sector andimprovedinstitutional stability, butonly aratingo fmodest is
warranted. More detailed aspects o f this performance are discussed below.

33.     The program to eliminate non-performing loans succeeded inputtingthe public
enterprise sector on sounder basis but at a long-term heavy cost to the banks. The decline
inNPLswas the result ofGovernment taking over or guaranteeingbaddebt rather than
evidence o f better lending. The rating i s modest.

34.     The privatization and merger o f development banks is considered unsuccessfulby
the implementation completion report due to disagreements with a foreign partner over
the merger o f UIB and BTEI. Government disagreed (see paragraph 37 below on PPAR's
view). Government couldnot control the outcome and in fact important longer-term

                                                29                         Annex A (continued)


 institutional progress seems likely. The rating i s modest.

 35.     The provisions for legislation and regulatory framework reforms were met with
 probable lasting structural benefits. Civil Code revisions to improve loanrecovery took
 longer thanexpected. A major problem is that the judicial system i s very slow in
 implementing procedures related to loan recovery. For example, whenever the seizure o f
 property used as collateral i s possible, inprinciple the procedure i s so cumbersome and
 lengthy that it is effectively not an option that i s used. The rate o f real estate recovery i s
 found to be very low by international standards, reflecting the inefficiency o f thejudicial
 process. The rating is modest.

 36.     Finally, important structural measures were introduced concerning the securities
 market and insurance company solvency. Ratingon balance is modest.

 Bank Performance

 37.     The performance o f the Bank was satisfactory inmeeting the objectives contained
 inECAL11. The operation was well designed andincluded appropriate regulatory reform
 measures. The Bank should have realized that the UIB-BTEImerger was not inthe
 borrower's control and should have restructured the loan or ensured that BTEI's foreign
 owner hadmade a bindingcommitment

 38.     Bank supervision was ratedmarginally satisfactory bythe implementation
 completion report and the PPAR concurs; the first full supervision took place a year after
 effectiveness. When by the end o f 2000 it became clear that the UIB-BTEImerger could
 not be completed, thus compromising second tranche release, the Bank showed flexibility
inaccepting analternativemeasure. The overall Bankperformance ratingissatisfactory.

BorrowerPerformance

 39.     Government performance was satisfactory as it implemented financial sector
reforms with co-financiers based on its own program o f restructuring and modernizing
the financial system. Government made a best effort to resolve the UBI-BTEIproblem
and thenproposed a reasonable alternative. Implementing agencies ingeneral performed
well incompleting loan conditions.

Third Economic CompetitivenessAdjustment Loan(ECAL 111)

Objectives

40.      E C A L I11consists o f a broad range o f second-generation measures aimed at
enhancing private sector development (see annex Cytable 8 for a list o f target and
conditions). The loan supports actions to: (a) promote private investment climate,
(b) strengthen the financial sector, inparticular the insurance sub-sector, and (c) liberalize
the telecommunications sector, while (d) maintaining a macroeconomic framework. It
aimed at efficiency gains inthe public, and private sector, and a more transparent
investment climate. The State would continue its disengagement from the economy.

Annex A (continued)                             30

The soundness andtransparency o f the financial sector will bepromoted and the
telecommunication sector openedto private sector participation.

Outcome

41.     At the macro levelECAL I11was launchedagainst the backdrop ofadjustment to
adverse conditions, which ledto a 4.7 percent real GDP growth rate in2000 versus the
average o f 5.2 percent for the previous five years. Agricultural value added contracted, and
services growth slowed. Despite the challenge o f liberalized imports from the EUand some
Arab world partners, manufacturingcontinued to grow at a healthypace. Unemployment fell
slightlydue to a sizable increaseinnon-agriculturaljob creation, andprograms to retrain and
finance activities o f the unemployed.

42.     The current account deficit widened to 4.2 percent o f GDP, higher than its 1999 level.
Low rainfall caused a drop infood output and high-energyprices, and the appreciation o f the
dollar raised import and debt service costs. A favorable indicationwas the rise inequipment
goods and raw materials by investingfirms, which will favor growth o f exports. Overall,
however, the Government's prudent macroeconomic management has preserved the country's
macroeconomic stability inthe face o f these unfavorable shocks.

43.     GDP growth in2001 moderated to 4.9 percent due to the slowdown inEurope and
drought conditions. The negative effect o f highoil prices, on the trade balance, and the level
o fbudgetary subsidies on petroleumprices, was offset byrisingtourism receipts and a sharp
increase o fmanufactured exports by 19percent, with exports o fmechanical and electrical
equipmentrisingby 33 percent. A strong increase intax receipts ledto a decline inthe
budgetdeficit. The first tranche was released at the endo fDecember 2001.

44.     In2002 the outlook was for a4.9 percent GDP growthrate versus 5.8 percent
projected before September 11,2001. Instead, growth was only 1.7 percent due to the full
effects o f the slowdown inEurope, lower tourism receipts, and the drought inagriculture.
Exports declined by 2.3 percent from a 12.1 percent growth in2001. Tourist receipts fell by
13.5 percent. Fiscalpolicy aimed at reducing the deficit by strict expenditurecontrols and
improvements inthe tax base. The March 2003 supervision report notes that the reform
program substantially accelerated after December 2002.

45.     Inthe June2003 supervisionreport the investmentclimate component was reportedto
be accelerating but would needmore time as the privatizationprocess o f a large enterprise,
SNDP, was just starting. The Bankteam recommended improving the draft actionplan for
private investment with regardto incentives and direct tax privileges, as recommendedby the
a 2002 FIASreport. Bank comments were sharedwith the EC team. The Bank was satisfied
with Tunisia's macroeconomic performance. The authorities prepared a study on investment
promotionand adopted an action plan satisfactory to the Bank.The authorities also adopted a
regulatory framework, satisfactory to the Bank governing the implementation o f the
"Company Law". More important, the Frenchbank Socie`te` Gkne`rale bought for US$72
millionthe Government's 52 percent stake in Union Internationale de Banques (UIB),
meeting the ECAL I11privatizationcondition. One the other handthe privatizationprocess
for Socie`te`Nationale de-Distributiondu Pe`trole (SNDP) started, but it was not completed
before the loan closingdate o f December 31,2003 given the neededenvironmentaland social
assessments. A waiver was therefore requested for this condition, which was granted andthe

                                                31                           Annex A (continued)

 investment climate floating tranche was released inDecember 2003.

 46.     Inthe telecom sector important reforms wereimplementedandcomprehensive
 timetables to accelerate and deepenliberalizationwere submittedto the Bank. There were
 concems about the transparency o fthe GSMbid awardprocess. The Bankwas not comfortable
 withtheprocess andallowedthe associatedfloatingtranche ofECALI11to lapse (see
 paragraph 3.12 above).

 47.     Government has completed and incorporated Bank comments on a series o f studies
 aimed at assessingthe impact o freforms under the first tranche on collateral recovery. The
 summary study contains the provisiono f detailed baseline data on non-performing loans o f
 the banking sector including their age and retaliation o freal estate collateral. While NPLs
 remain a problem for the financial sector, no regulatorymeasuresto accelerate loanrecovery
were undertakenfor the time beingpendingthe assessmento fprovisiono fthe Code des
Procedures Civiles et Commerciales.

 48.     Intheinsurancesectorthedatabaseandcontrolfunctions ofthe CGA(Socie'te'
 Ge'ne'raledes Assurances) has been significantly improved. I t can now track the weaknesses
 o fundercapitalized companies and negotiate restructuring plans. Inauto insurance, premiums
have beenraisedby 3 percent following an earlier 8 percent rise. These measures helped
reduce the deficit o fthis branchina manner satisfactory to the Bank. A new legal framework
satisfactory to the Bank has been presentedto the Chamber o fDeputies that complies with
intemationalbestpractice and standards. The restructuring plano fEl Ittihad has been
completed and an implementationplanto set up a new hlly capitalizedmutual company
(AssuranceMutuelle Ittiahad ) has beenestablished. The restructuringplans o fthree
insurance companies has been adopted inorder to meet Insurance Code solvency constraints.
The floating tranche conceming strengtheningo f the financial systemwas released at the end
o f September 2003.

49.     Inconclusion, macroperformancewas consideredsatisfactory inview ofprudent
management inthe face o f extemal shocks; although some o f Tunisia's macro indicators such
as growth and the budget deficit deviated from the projected path inECAL I11in2002.
Economic growth rebounded to about 5.5 percent in2003, and the economy i s expected to
meet the 2004 growthprojectiono f 6 percent. ECAL I11supported telecommunication
reforms have been implementedas the sector has been opened up to private participation and
prices have beenreduced by some 10percent. The Government adopted a regulatory
framework, satisfactory to the Bank governing the implementation o f the Code des
Procedures Civiles et Commerciales. The privatizationo f one public commercialbank,
Union Intemationale des Banques (UIB)was completed. A large insurance company (El
Ittihad) was restructured, and a new mutual fund company was created to take it over. One the
other hand the privatizationprocess for Socie'te'Nationale de Distribution du Pe'trole (SNDP)
started, but it was not completed before the loan closing date o f December 31,2003, requiring
a conditionwaiver, which was granted inview o f the substantial progress made.

50.     The overall outcome i s ratedsatisfactory.

 Annex A (continued)                            32


 Sustainability

 51.    The sustainability o f macro performance is well inhand inview o f the actions taken to
 date. The insurance sector reforms have established the basis for the sustainability o f the
 sound management and financial solvability o f this sector. On the other hand, the gradual
privatization approach has allowed the Government to buildthe necessary consensus and has
 served the overall objective o f reform well. Overall, sustainability is rated likely.

InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact

 52.    The institutional reform o f the insurance sector represents an important basic
improvement ininstitutions and regulatory control. Important progress was made in
improving the investment climate, which will have a lasting impact. A major weakness
became apparent inthe award process intelecommunications, which raises the issues o f
transparency inthe procurement process. Overall the institutional development impact is
rated as modest.

Bank Performance

53.     Close supervision was exercised duringthe supervision process. The role o fthe Bank
inthetelecom component is hllyjustified inview ofthe procurement policyissue at stake.
Relations with other donors were improved. Both the AfDB andthe EUadopted the same
tranche release conditionality as the Bank inaddition to their own conditionality. The
dialogue with development partners was strengthened particularly inthe telecom and
insurance sectors. Bank performance i s ratedsatisfactory.

BorrowerPerformance

54.     Government's role inimplementing the loan was largely positive. The Government
issued the G S M license and competition was introduced, leading to greater access to mobile
telephone, better services, and lower prices. However, the Bank didnot yet receive the
documentation required to demonstrate that the G S M license was tendered following a
transparent process. The legal and regulatory framework for the telecommunications sector
has been strengthened, implementing regulations for new telecomm code, and creating the
National Telecom Agency. The insurance sector was restructured. However, the
privatization o f SNDP i s progressing at a slower pace than expected. Borrower performance
is ratedsatisfactory.

                                               33                                Annex B


BasicData Sheets

TUNISIA: ECONOMICADJUSTMENT STRUCTURAL LOAN(LOAN NO. 4069 TUN)

Kev ProiectData famounts in US$million)
                                        Appraisal    Actual or current   Actual as %of
                                        estimate         estimate       appraisalestimate
Total project costs                      195              195                 100
Loan amount                               75               75                 100
Cofinancing
    EuropeanUnion                         120             120                 100



CumulativeEstimatedandActualDisbursements
                                                 FY97                    FY98
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)                        75                        75
Actual (US$M)                                   37.5                       75
Actual as a % o f Estimate                       50                       100
Date o f Final Disbursement                 12131/96                   6130198


ProjectDates
                                                  Planned                  Actual
Pre-appraisal                                     11/27/95               11/27/95
Appraisal                                          2/27/96                2/27/96
Negotiations                                        5/2/96                 5/2/96
Letter of developmentpolicy                        6112/96                6112/96
Boardpresentation                                  7/25/96                7/25/96
Signing                                             8/2/96                 8/2/96
Effectiveness                                      12/6/96                 2/2/97
Disbursement of first tranche                      8131/96               12131/96
Disbursement o f second tranche                    6130197                6130198
Closing date                                      12131/97                6130198



Staff Input
                                                                 Actual
                                                           Weeks          US$(Thousand)
Preparationto Appraisal                                     152.5                    578.4
Appraisal                                                    20.7                     70.8
Negotiation through BoardApproval                              6.0                    16.0
Supervision                                                  74.3                    248.5
Completion                                                     6.0                    29.0
Total                                                       259.5                    942.7
Source: World Bank intemal documents.

Annex B (continued)                                    34


ECAL 1Mission Data

Stage of Project                     No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating

  Monthh'ear           No. of      Days                                       Implementation Development
                       Persons       in                  Specialty              Progress       Objective
                                   Field
Pre-appraisal

         11/95             11        110   (3) Economists
                                           (1) PrivatizationSpecialist
                                           (2) Financial Sector Specialists
                                           (2) Maritime Transport Specialists
                                           (1) Labor Market Specialist
                                           (2) Legal ReformSpecialist

Appraisal

         02/96             8         56    (2) Economists
                                           (2) PrivatizationSpecialists
                                           (2) Financial Sector Specialists
                                           (1) Telecom Specialist
                                           (1) Maritime Transport Specialist

Supervision

         05/97             2         22    (2) Economists                           S              S
         11/97             4         20    (2) Economists
                                           (1) Financial Sector Specialist          S              S
                                           (1) Maritime Transport Specialist

         12/97             2         8     (1) Maritime Transport Specialist        S              S
                                           (1) PrivatizationSpecialist
         05/98             1         5     (1) Economist                            S              S

Source: World Bank intemal documents.

                                               35                      Annex B (continued)


 Basic Data Sheet

 TUNISIA: SECONDECONOMICADJUSTMENT STRUCTURAL LOAN(LOANNO.
               4461 TUN)

Key ProjectData (amounts in US$million)
                                        Appraisal     Actual or current   Actual as % of
                                        estimate         estimate        appraisal estimate
Total project costs                       399               399                 100
Loan amount                               159               I59                 IO0
Cofinancing
   European Union                         100               100                 100
   African Development Bank               140               140                 100



CumulativeEstimatedandActual Disbursements
                                                  FY99                       FYOl
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)                          159                         159
Actual (US$M)                                      159                         159
Actual as a % o f Estimate                         100                         100
Date of Final Disbursement                     04/20/99                     613101


ProjectDates
                                               Planned                      Actual
Appraisal                                      11/19/98                    11/19/98
Boardpresentation                              4120199                     4120199
Signing                                          8/2/96                     8/2/96
Effectiveness                                   8110199                    6/15/99
Disbursement o f first tranche                 6/15/99                     6115/99
Disbursement o f second tranche                  9/6/00                     316101
Closing date                                   6130101                     6130101



StaffInput
                                                               Actual
                                                  Weeks              US$(Thousand)
Identificatioflreparation                          NA                          NA
AppraisalINegotiation                              NA                        357.7
Supervision                                        NA                        115.0
Completion                                         NA                          8.0
Total                                              NA                        480.7
Source: World Bank intemal documents.

 Annex B (continued)                                            36


 ECAL I1MissionData

    Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty                              Performance Rating
           MontWYear                    Count                   Specialty                   Implementation            Development
                                                                                                  Progress               Objective
 Identificatioflreparation

             03/98                         2        (1) FinancialSpecialist
                                                    (1) Economist

 AppraisalINeaotiation

             06/98                        6         (3) Financial Specialists
                                                    ( 3 ) Consultants
              11/98                                 (2) Financial Specialist
                                                    (2) Economists
                                                    (2) Operations Analysts
                                                    (1) Consultant

             02/99                                  (3) Financial Specialists
                                                    (1) Economist,
                                          7         (1) PSD Specialist
                                                    (1) Legal Counselor
                                                    (1) Disbursement Officer

Supervision

            06/00                         2         (1) Financial Specialist                           S                     S
                                                   (1) Economist
             lO/OO                        5        (5) Financial Specialists                           S                     S

ICR*

*Note: ICR mission planned for 9101 was cancelled due to travel restrictions following the terrorist attacks of September 11,2001, in
the United States.
Source: World Bank intemal documents.

                                                         37                             Annex B (continued)


 Basic Data Sheets

 TUNISIA: THIRD ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT STRUCTURALLOAN(LOANNO.
               7094 TUN)

 Key ProjectData (amounts in US$million)
                                               Appraisal           Actual or current          Actual as % of
                                                estimate                estimate            appraisalestimate
 Total project costs                             518.4                    478.5                           92%
Loan amount                                        283                    252.5                           89%
 Cofinancing
   EuropeanUnion                                     72                     72                           100%
   African Development Bank                         194                     194                          100%



CumulativeEstimatedandActualDisbursements
                                                            FY02                                  FY04
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)                                   132.5                                    283
Actual (US$M)                                               132.5                                 252.5
Actual as a % o f Estimate                                  100%                                    89%
Date ofFinal Disbursement                            0613012003                             12131/2003


ProjectDates
                                                        Planned                                 Actual
Appraisal                                              041181200                            04/18/2001
Boardpresentation                                     1212012001                            12/20/2001
Signing                                               1212012001                            12/20/2001
Effectiveness                                         1212712001                            1212712001
Disbursement offirst tranche                         12/31/2001                             12/27/2001
Disbursement of secondtranche                        0613012003                             09130/2003
Closing.date                                         0613012003                             1213112003



Staff Input
                                                                             Actual
                                                            Weeks                  US$ (Thousand)
Identificatioflreparation                                                                           675'
AppraisaVNegotiation
Supervision                                                                                         273
ICR                                                                                                   25
Total                                                                                               9732
 This covers the combined expenses from identification o f Board approval.
 This i s Bank budget direct cost. Supervision amount does not included CTF expenses totaling about $32,000.

Source: World Bankintemaldocuments

 Annex B (continued)                                38


 ECALI11Mission Data

    Stage of ProjectCycle           No. of Personsand Specialty           Performance Rating

         MonthA'ear                Count            Specialty        Implementation   Development
                                                                       Prowess         Objective
 Identificatioflreuaration

           10/15/2000               10     (1) PSD SpecialisdTTL           S               S
                                           (1) Financial Specialist

AupraisabWerrotiation

           412312001                       (1) PSD SpecialistiTTL          S               S


 Supervision

           03l1412002               3      (1) PSD SpecialisdTTL           S               S
                                           (1) Insurance
                                           (1) Financial Specialist




          07126l2002                2      (1) PSD SpecialisdTTL
                                           (1) Insurance                   S               S




           1212712003                      (1) PSD SpecialisdTTL
                                           (1) Sector Manager I            S               S
                                           MissionLeader




          05/15/2003                3      (1) PSD SpecialisdTTL
                                          (1) TeamLeader                  S                S



                                    1     (1) PSD Specialist              S                S

-
ICR

0311612004                          1     PSDIFinancial Specialist


Source: World Bankintemaldocuments.

                                                           39                                      Annex C



StatisticalTables
Annex Table 1: Tunisia-Privatization and Restructuring by Sector (1987 to August
2003)
                                                                          Volume        No. of Enterprises
                             Sector
                                                                in Million TD    in %    No.       in %

Agriculture, Fisheries, and Agro-industry                                   72.0     3.2  18.0          10.7
Industry                                                                  952.0     40.6  56.0         33.3
     Construction Materials                                                825.0    35.1   18.0         10.7
     Mechanical, Electrical and Chemical Industries                        108.0     4.6  30.0          17.9
     Textiles                                                               19.0     0.8    8.0         4.8
Services                                                                  1318.0    56.2  94.0         56.0

     Tourism and Handicrafts                                              277.0     11.8  37.0         22.0
     Commerce                                                              137.0     5.8  21.0          12.5
     Transport                                                              69.0     3.0   16.0          9.5
     Others                                                               835.0    35.6   20.0          11.9
Total                                                                    2346.0   100.0  168.0        100.0
Source: Directorateof Privatization,Government of Tunisia




Annex Table 2: Privatization and Restructuringby Sector (October 1998 to August
2003)
                       Sector                            Receipts in Million TD          % of Total
Agriculture, fishing & food                                        24                          1
Industries                                                        855                          45
     Construction materials                                       798                          42
     Chemical & mechanical industries                              51                          3
    Textiles                                                       6                           0
Services                                                          205                          11
    Tourism & Handicrafts                                          143                         8
    Transport                                                      0                           0
    Trade                                                          62                          3
                       Others                                     806                         43
Total                                                            1891                         100
Source: Ministry of Economic Development, Tunisia.

 Annex C (continued)                                   40


 Annex Table 3: Tunisia-Foreign Investment inPrivatization (million TD) (1987 to
 August 31,2003)
                    Sector                    Receiptsfromforeign investors          % of Total
 Agriculture, fishing & food                                0                            0
 Industries                                                782                         44.6
     Construction materials                                771                         43.9
     Chemical & mechanical industries                       6                          0.3
     Textiles                                               5                          0.3
 Services                                                  974                         55.5
     Tourism & Handicrafts                                 93                          5.3
     Transport                                             17                           1.o
     Trade                                                 76                          4.3
     Others                                                788                         44.9
Total                                                     1755                         100
Source: Ministryof EconomicDevelopment, Tunisia.



  Annex Table 4: Sectoral Distribution of Non-Performing Loans (million TD)
                                                           2000                  2001              2002
Aariculture
Deposit Banks                                          298 (7%)             302 (7%)           335 (7%)
Private                                                 44 (1%)              62 (2%)            21 (1%)
Public                                                 254 (6%)              241 (5%)          264 (6%)


Industrv
Deposit Banks                                        1587 (37%)            1705 (42%)        1913(42%)
Private                                               646 (15%)            942 (23%)         1112(24%)
Public                                                941 (22%)            258 (19%)          802 (18%)


Services
Deposit Banks                                       2359 (56%)            2056 (51%)         2356 (51%)
Private                                               623 (16%)            821 (21%)          997 (22%)
Public                                               1685 (40%)            1235 (30%)        1358(29%)


-1
Deposit Banks                                      4244 (100%)           4063 (100%)       4604 (100%)
Private                                             1363 (32%)             1529(45%)         2150 (47%)
Public                                              2580 (68%)            2234 (55%)         2424 (53%)

Source: Tunisian Govemment.

                                                    41                                        Annex C (continued)




Annex Table 5: Tunisia:BankingSystemIndicators
                                       1995       1996      1997      1998      I999       2000    2001   2002
Cover Ratio Average Risk(%)                                        (percentage)
Commercial Banks                        4.6         5.1       6.3      11.7      11.6        13.3   10.6    9.8
Private                                10.5         9.4       6.8       8.9      10.3        11.5   10.4     10
Public                                  2.2         3.4       5.9      14.6      12.8         15     11     9.4
Development Banks                      32.6        30.8      33.3      36.3     39.1        74.6    63.9   54.6

                                                            (percentage of total credits)
Non-Performing Credits (% o f total    34.8        31.5      29.9     26.4      25.9        23.6     21    21.4
credits)
Commercial Banks                       30.8        25.1        23      19.5     18.8        21.6    19.2   20.9
Private                                18.2         17       19.4      19.4       18         15.3   16.1   18.1
Public                                 36.8        29.3      25.8      19.6     19.5        26.8    22.8   24.3
Development Banks                      56.7        64.2        67     64.3      65.8        54.6    50.3   30.5

                                                   (percentage of total credits net ofprovisions)
Non-Performing Credits After           26.1        20.4      18.4      14.3     14.2         13.3    12    12.9
Provisions and Reserves
Commercial Banks                       23.2        15.2      12.4       8.9      8.8         12.3   11.1   12.9
Private                                 9.6         7.3       9.6       9.1      8.3         7.6     9.1   10.8
Public                                 29.8        19.3      14.6       8.8      9.2         16.3   13.5   15.5
Development Banks                      44.6        52.4      54.6     50.3      52.2        34.2    30.7   11.8

                                                      (inpercentage of non-performing loans)
Provisions and Reserves                33.6         44         47     53.7      52.7        50.3    48.7   45.6
Commercial Banks                        32        46.7       50.4     59.7      58.5        49.2    47.4   43.9
Private                                52.2       61.9       55.3     58.3      58.8        54.7    47.7   44.9
Public                                 27.3       42.1       47.5     60.7      58.3        46.6    47.1   42.9
Development Banks                      38.5. ..---.
                                                  38.6       40.6     43.7      43.3        56.7    56.3   69.5

ReturnonEquity
Commercial Banks                       11.4        12.3      11.8     12.8      12.8        13.7     14       8
Development Banks                      4.1         4.2        4.1      4.7       6.1         4.8    3.8     n.a.
Source: Tunisian Government.

Annex C (continued)                                                 42


  Annex Table 6: Tunisia-Economic Indicators

             Indicator                         I994 1995 1996           I997 1998 I999 2000                   2001  2002 2003

  RealGoods,Import Growth(%)                                  -2.5                  5.4     5.8           6.5        -2.4.___.__.___._
                                                                                                                             3.8
  .....___..____.____
              ^........._____._.._
                            ............"_.__.._I_____..___.."
                                                       .__.._._........_.._..__.__........
                                                                           8.7......-.....___._.______.__. 13.6
                                                                                                "....-..I."


  RealEffectiveExchangeRate                                               -0.1      0.1     1.0         -'0.6  -2.5  -3.5

  Exch.Rateper US$ (IMF)                                                   1.1      1.1     1.2           1.4   1.4

  GDPDeflator                                                             4.0       3.0     3.1           3.3   2.7   2.6   2.1

  CPI(IMF)                                                                 3.3      3.1     2.7           3.0   1.9   2.8   2.5



  GrossDomestic Fixed                            27.0  24.0   23.0       25.0     25.0     26.0       27.0     27.0  27.0
  Investment(% of GDP, CAS)
   Government                                    4.0    4.0    5.0        5.0       6.0     7.0           7.0   7.0   7.0
   Private                                       23.0  20.0   18.0       20.0     21.0     22.0       22.0     22.0  22.0

  Foreign DirectInvestment(US$mill.INIT)                     299.0     492.0 485.0 357.0 731.0                420.0 945.0
  Source: World Bank intemal data.

                                                          43                            Annex C (continued)


Annex Table 7: ECAL I-11-Macroeconomic Monitoring Indicators, Outcomes, and Projections
                                 I994  I995     I996  I997     I998    I999  2000  2001 2002     2003  fDroi,)
                                                                                                        2004


GDP growth (%)                     3.3    2.6     7.1  5.5        5     6.2   4.7   4.9    1.7    5.5     5.7

Real Exports growth (%)           14.9    1.3    -2.4  6.8      7.0     5.1   6.6  12.1   -2.3    4.0     6.0

Real Manuf. Exports               23.2    5.5    4.4   8.2      8.4     5.7   4.6
growth (%)

ECAL Iprojections

GDP                                              7.1   5.5      4.9

Real Exports                                     4.7   7.3      7.2

Manuf. Real Exports                              4.4   8.2      8.4
....... ........ -.-                          - .           _ _                                  _..___..
                                                                                                     .__.__._.__
                                 l_ll  . .._.
                                            .. ...             __......       ....     ^.._...._


ECAL I1projections

GDP growth (%).                                                 5.1     5.5      5

Real Exports growth (%)                                         3.2       5      6

Manuf. Real Exports                                            13.1      11  11.1
growth (%)

ECALI11projections

GDP growth (%)                                                                      5.2   4.9     5.7      6

Real Exports growth (%)                                                             9.3   5.4     6.8    7.1

Manuf. Real Exports                                                                15.5   3.5     7.0    7.2
growth (%)
Source: World Bank internal data.

Annex C (continued)                                     44



      Annex Table 8: Tunisia ECALsI,I1and 111-PrincipalObjectivesandOutcomes

                 ECAL I                  Targets and Conditionalties                        Outcomes

      Objectives
      Improve macro balances       Adopt mediumterm macro framework         GDP growth between 5 and 7% 1996-
      competitiveness and          including reserves, external debt,        1998. Inflations 2.7 to 3.3%.
      accelerate growth to 5 6 %   export, growth, and fiscal deficit.
      per annum.

      Fiscal
      Ensuresustainable fiscal     Fiscal measure to compensate loss        Increase invalue added taxes and repay
      framework.                   revenues due to tariff cuts.             arrears o f cereals and edible oil offices.


      Trade
      Greater integrationinworld   Submit draft EUAA law to Chamber.        Law passed June 1996, progressive
      economy.                                                              removal o f tariffs achieved as well as
                                                                            WTO negotiation to eliminate QRs.


      Disenaaaement ofState
      Increase role o fprivate    Bringto point o fsale at least 51% of     Met criteria by including privatization
      sector.                     capital o f enterprises corresponding to  o f two large cement plants; exceeded
                                  50% o f assets for agreed public          targets.
                                  enterprises.

   Dereaulation
   Improve competitiveness o f    Submit law eliminating charter            Law passed.
   maritime transport.            privileges.
                                  Submit law to eliminate monopoly.         Law not passed.


      Trade facilitation
   Ensure rapid and cheap         Decree introducing unique document        FacilitationCommittee produced single
   transit o f cargo.             for customs.                              trade document envisaged by the
                                                                            Association Agreement with the EU
                                                                            and inaccordance with the EUcode.
   Harmonize custom               Draft law to Council o f Ministers.       Decree signed.
   regulation with EU.

   L-1
   Legal framework to support     Draft law to Chamber.                    New company law discussed by
   competitiveness.                                                         Ministers.

   Social
   Decrease cost o f labor and    Draft law submitted to Chamber o f       Draft law adopted.
   improve protection.            Deputies to create a severance scheme
                                  for laid off workers.

                                                     45                                     Annex C (continued)

           ECAL I1                      Targets and Conditionalties                            Outcomes

 Macro                                                                         ~                  ~~




 Growth o f at least 6% per     Satisfactory mediumterm framework                ECALIIgrowthtarget exceeded, real
 annum.                         including targets for external debt, fiscal      exports target o f 5.1% met, debt to
                                deficit, current account balance and             GDP targeted at 50.1% but reached
                                inflation.                                       55.4% in1999. Current account
                                                                                 deficit at 2.1% in 1999 versus target
                                                                                 o f 3.9%. Fiscal deficit slightly above
                                                                                 3.4% target.

 Bankina Sector
 Settlement o f arrears to      Settle NF'L's to 24 enterprises.                 Settlement was achieved.
public enterprise.
Upgrade prudential              Revise capital adequacy rations from 5%          The capital adequacy ratio rose from
regulations on capital          to 8%.                                           7% in1997 to 13.3% in2000 and
 adequacy.                                                                       declined to 9.6 in2002.

Privatizationand bank           UIBBTEImergerproposed.                          UIBmerger declined byoutside
mergers.                                                                         owners. Government later privatized.

PE reform.                      Liquidate 24 enterprises.                       Condition satisfied.
Government securities           Promote marketbased Central Bank                Central Bank law amended to meet
market.                         intervention.                                   objective.


          ECAL111

Macro
Stable macro framework         Meet performance indicators (growth,             Conditions met. Growth declined in
Strengthen debt management     exports, inflation, gross fixed investment,      2002, following the drought and
and fiscal sustainability.     budget deficit, current account deficit and      slowdown inEurope, but rebounded
                               foreign debt)                                    in2003.
                               Computerized debt database for domestic          Satisfactory action plan for public
                               and foreign debt.                                debt was put inplace.

Trade facilitation             Develop an electronic data interface             Automation has decreased the
                               between all agencies involved in                 average time taken to clear goods
                               intemationaltrade procedures to expedite         once unloaded from anywhere
                               trade document flows.                            between 8 and 18 days to between2
                                                                                and 5 days, and customs clearance
                                                                                time hasbeenreducedfrom 2-3 days
                                                                                to 15 minutes.

Private Investment
Improve relations between      Finalize study and adopt actionplan              Study finalized and action plan
fiscal authorities and private Submit code o f fiscal right to Chamber.         implemented.
enterprises.
Simplify procedures for start  Reduce to a maximum o f 30 days VAT              Ths was mainlymet byreimbursing
up and operation ofprivate     reimbursement.                                   75% of the VAT withm 30 days for
enterprise; simplify customs                                                    fmsubjecttotheindustrial
procedures.                                                                     modernizationprogram. Ongoing
                                                                                changes will take place inthe context
                                                                                o f the Investment Code reforms.

Annex C (continued)                                      46




       ECAL I11(cont.)                   Targets and Measures                               Outcomes


Financial Sector
 Strengthen governance o f    Adopt at STB and BNA dual-board            Adopted.
public banks.                 management structure.

Measure to clean up            Submit to Chamber draft amendment         Draft submitted.
portfolios o f credit         relatingto loan recoveries to the code o f
 institutions.                Civil and Commercialprocedures.

                              Carry out study to evaluate effects o fnew  Study completed incorporating Bank
                              legislative environment.                   comments. It concluded that N P L s are
                                                                         a problem for financial sector but no
                                                                         new measures are proposeduntilthe
                                                                         Code has been assessed.


 Strengthen insurance sector. Submit to Chamber a draft law amending     Law submitted.
                              the insurance code.
Strengthen legal framework    Agree ontime bound action planto           Action plan implemented. Supervision
and regulatory supervision.   strengthenDGA.                             authorized by law and qualified staff
                                                                         recruited.

Reducing automobile sector    Increase premiumby 3% with MT plan to      Auto insurance premiums have been
deficit.                      eliminate deficit.                         raised by 3% following an earlier 8%
                                                                         rise, w h c h helped to eliminate the
                                                                         deficit o f t h s sector ina manner
                                                                         satisfactory to the Bank.


Restructure insurance sector. Modify tax treatment and social charges.   New law adopted.
                              Present restructuring scenarios.           N e w mutual company established and
                                                                         3 companies restructured.


Informationand                Improve the legal and regulatory           The legal and regulatory framework for
communications.               framework.                                 the sector has been strengthened (i.e.,
                                                                         implementationregulations for new
                                                                         telecommunications code adopted, and
                                                                         creation o f the National Telecom
                                                                         Agency).


Electronic data interchange.  Prepare terms and conditions for provider  The implementationo fthe electronic
                              o f electronic certification               data interchange (TTN) was supported
                                                                         bythe Bank and the EUand is already
                                                                         being usedby 80 enterprises. A new
                                                                         law concerning exchanges and
                                                                         electronic commerce was adopted.

                                                     47                            Annex C (continued)


     ECAL I11(cont.)                 Targets and Measures                          Outcomes


Liberalize the              Launch international biddingfor 2"dGSM The Telecommunications liberalization
telecommunications sector.  license and introduce effective        have been achieved, the GSM license
                            competition.                           (wireless telecom) has been issued, and
                                                                   outcomes include: competitionhas
                                                                   beenintroduced inthe wireless
                                                                   component o f the telecommunications
                                                                   sector leading to greater access to
                                                                   mobile telephone, better services and
                                                                   lower prices. However, the telecom
                                                                   tranche o f E C A L I11was not disbursed
                                                                   because the Bank didnot receive the
                                                                   documentation requiredto demonstrate
                                                                   that the GSM license was tendered
                                                                   following a transparent and competitive
                                                                   process.


                                                    49                                      Annex D


                       List of OrganizationsandIndividualsMet

Ministryof Development& International                      IslamicDevelopmentBank
Cooperation                                                Djelloula Saci, Head o f OEO
Kamel BenRejeb, Direcor General                            Mohmud Yahya, OEO
Monir Boumessouer, Director General, Infrastructure        Abdelfattah Ouadrhiri
FouadElShrafi, Director
LutfiFrad, Director
MohamedNaceur Braham, Counsellor o fPublic                 -
                                                           EU
  Services, Director o f Agriculture and Agro- Industries  Bernard Brunet, Premier Secretaire
Foued Charfi, Director General, Productive Sectors         Manfred0 Fanti, Premier Secretaire
Borgi Kacem, Director General o fRegionalDevelopment       Paul Matheu, Economist
Abel HamidTrilu, Director                                  Phlippe Massin, Rural Development Expert
Moncef Youzbachi                                           Amparo Gonzalez Diez, Section Chief, Rural
                                                              Development and the Environment
Ministryof Finance                                         Jose-Maria Bellostas, Rural Development Expert
Belhadji Jameleddine, Director General

NationalStatisticalInstitute                               AfDB
Khalifa BenFaqih, Director General                         0.Ojo, ChiefEvaluationOfficer
Abdel majdEl-Wislati                                       K.Diallo, PrincipalEconomist

Ministrv of Transport
Salem Miladi, Director General                             World Bankand IMF
                                                           Theodore 0.Ahlers (Country Director)
MinistrvofIndustrvandEnergy                                Christian Delvoie (then CountryDirector)
Hamdi Guezguez, Principal Engineer                         DimmitriVittas (Senior Adviser, OPD)
Ridha BenMosbah, Dir-Gen., De mise a niveaG                Aristomene Varoudakis (Country Economist)
Mohamed ElKamel, Project Manager, ISIUP                    Pedro Alba (Sector Manager, MNSED)
                                                           MustaphaNabli (Chef Economist and Director, MNSED)
Tunisia Leasing                                            HamidAlavi (Senior Private Sector, MNSHD)
Fethi Mestri, Director General                             Development Specialist, MNSIF)
                                                           Domenico Fanizza (Deputy Division C h e f IMF)
NationalAgriculturalBank
Berraies Mohamed, Directeur

Exports PromotionApencv (FAMEX)
Slim Chaker, Director for Coordination

Tunisia CentralBank
Habib ElMontacer, Managing Director
Badreddine Barkia, Director General, Supervision
Samir Brahimi, Director General, Services & Audit

PrivateSector
Noureddine Ferchiou, Advocat, Ferchio Assoices
AhmedBenghazi, Associe-Gerant, Axis
Ahmed Smaoui
Prof. Marouanne ElAbassi
Faycal Lakhoua, Counsellor, IACE
Jurgen Blanken, Water sector Economist, Private
   Consultant

